Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

Y 2011 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Adrian Gore , Group Chief Executive Officer
Anton Ossip, Chief Executive Officer, Discovery Insure
Corporate Participant

Other Participants
Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Corporate Participant
Looks like, it's only standing room only, but it's great, it's wonderful. Mr. Adrian Gore,
Members of the Board and the Executives of Discovery, once again the Investment
Analyst Society would like to thank you for inviting us this morning to come and share the
results for the year ended 30 of June 2011. Discovery is in its 20th year. It was formed and
established in the early 90s and was listed in 1999 with the market capitalisation of less
than 2 billion. Today, it is one of the top 50 companies in the South Africa with market
capitalisation approaching 23 billion.
It's a company that is built on the foundation of creativity of product, innovation, and the
result is, as we can all see, and what we're going to showing today is the sustainability of
value and return for all its stakeholders. So, Mr. Adrian Gore, thank you so much once
again for this opportunity to gain insight into the year that has passed. And no doubt you'll
give us even greater insight as to what we can expect in the year that lies ahead. Thank
you very much.

Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Peter, thanks for that kind introduction. You did such a good job, I actually don't want to
stop you. You do better than I do I guess and thanks for the introduction. And ladies and
gentlemen, thank you very much for the time. It has been a, for us a very, very complex
year, quite a tremendous year. It's been a year of great, great, as I think you know well
volatility and challenge. European sovereign crisis, the U.S. downgrade and the NHI policy
debates. Just massive amounts of political, economic, and in every sense volatility. Having
said that though, for Discovery, it has been quite a remarkable year. To the large extent, I
think certainly to my mind, it's been seminal year in every respect.
And what I would like to say is four distinct kind of things we be focused on; growth,
critical innovation, our focus on quality throughout the businesses, and then importantly on

Page 1 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

our business model particularly our focus on discipline. Now, I am going to say a lot here,
our because is getting bigger and bigger with all different pieces that you can see. But I
thought, at the outset what I would like to do is talk about five distinct themes or five
distinct achievements that hopefully you will see through the presentation of... The first I
think is simple financial. A very strong financial performance. We strengthened our capital
base and we are in a position now going forward to continue to grow to exploit
opportunities without recourse to additional capital.
The second, it's a year of tremendous, tremendous corporate activity. We acquired
Standard Life Healthcare in the UK. We injected that into our JV, opting our shareholding
from 50% to 75%. We took delivery of Ping An Health, shareholding of Ping An Health
from China. We did a JV with Humana through HumanaVitality in the U.S and we rolled out
Discovery Insure in the South African market. So, a year of great, great activity. If you look
at our genogram, that's how we looked essentially at the start of the year. During the
year, we added Discovery Insure. We changed the JV from 50 to 75%. Vitality Group grew
with the addition of HumanaVitality in the U.S. And with Ping An Health was there and in
fact we took delivery of, really starting to operate the business with the management.
So, from a corporate activity prospect, it was a very, very complex year, very active year
and I think a very successful one. Now, what you all see throughout this presentation, kind
of our presence, is into three key components, Discovery's businesses, Discovery Health,
Discovery Life Vitality and DiscoveryCard. Our emerging businesses that are I think really
care PruHealth, PruProtect, Discovery Invest and there are new businesses Ping An Health,
Discovery Insure and the Vitality Group in the U.S. And I'd like to talk about kind of essence
throughout in that kind of category. So, the third thing or the third piece, I'd like to say to
you is established businesses performed remarkably well. Very strong performance, very
robust performance. And I think great focus on quality that has come through the
embedded value and positive experience variances and in the margins, you can see that
quite clearly.
The emerging businesses to me have been the star of the show for the year PruHealth,
PruProtect and Discovery Invest, all are now profitable, strongly profitable and strongly in
the markets. And I think offer fantastic opportunity to drive new business to grow
profitability throughout different parts of the world and different parts of our organization.
And then the fourth point, the developing businesses Ping An Health, HumanaVitality, and
Discovery Insure affirmative and embryonic, but the performances has been remarkable.
Very good section in China 300,000 covered in the U.S. that is 700,000 members that
we've done with HumanaVitality and Discovery Insure had remarkable literally 12 weeks
since the business really started to operate. We do already about the 1 million or 1.2
million, I think per day at new business.
So, the kind of traction of the developing business has been very, very strong. So,
throughout the presentation, I hope it becomes clear that these are the five kind of things
that portraying the results certainly into my mind. Let me touch on one other issue, before
I dive into the actual observations and start talking about the businesses. The focus of
Discovery has been around is very simple, but we all convinced they are making people
healthier. And the manifestation of that has been a business model that providence
getting people engaged in health and wellness in the foundation of what we do. And then
Page 2 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

FINAL

on the back of that building, health insurance, life insurance, financial service and other
kind of things that fit into that model. Of course Discovery Insure I touch on later, fits very
nicely and you will see that.
But I think over the period under review, there has been a much more disciplined focus on
understanding how that business model works? How to scale it? How to repeat it? How to
export it? And we built essentially that business model with Vitality as the base into the
health insurance kind of construct in the left. And on the right hand side, the Discovery Life
along with taking Vitality, plugging it as a base to Discovery Life. And they are doing the
same thing very much in the UK. And to a large extent, I think we're understanding more
and more the science of this business model. In the health insurance context that brings
unhealthy costs and improves the persistency which is critical and fundamental in health
insurance fund.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the life insurance side, the effect is dramatic, it allows to dynamically price risk, it
allows us far better vitality experience and critically as well. On the lapsation side, you can
see that coming through far better persistency and like conduct persistency. So, during
the period, there was already a disciplined focus on creating in the sense a repeatable
model that we could roll out. And I think you'll see throughout all the businesses I talk to,
it's really, this construct that is kind of being repeated all the time, replicated and the
results coming out of it I think are particularly compelling and successful. So, let me talk
about the businesses starting at the top of Discovery overall, let me go down with each of
it.
Firstly, Discovery itself, a very strong period, operating, earnings up 32%. Strong new
business and you'll see that throughout the entire Group, I think that is very, very strong
and diverse new business. Embedded value reflecting I think growth and quality up 19%,
and very strong positive experience variances reflecting the quality of the business, the
margin of the business, in fact outperforming the assumptions made.
The established businesses Discovery Health, Discovery Life, Vitality and DiscoveryCard, I
think all performed remarkably well and you'll see that throughout the presentation. I am
not going to talk about Vitality much or DiscoveryCard, there is isn't sufficient time. But
health itself, Discovery Health had a very, very good performance, operating profit of 14%,
a very strong growth in the membership base. In total, a focus on investing into the
healthcare system, I am going to take you through some of those ideas later in the
presentation. Discovery Life had a tremendous period, operating profit of 16%, very
strong new business. But the protection market itself, as you may now from the latest
statistics and in fact by shrunk by 11% due to the difficult climate.
In reality our core risk business has grown by 10%, but I think what's important is we have
been focused on quality or lapses of mortality experience on new business margin et
cetera and throughout all of that I think we've done remarkably well. As I said I am not
going to talk much about Viability in isolation, all the DiscoveryCard, the performance has
been very, very strong, Vitality really as I've just shown you is a foundation of a lot of what
we do. And I think we are understanding and investing more in the technology, in the
science of vitality and getting great results out of that. The DiscoveryCard had a

Page 3 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

FINAL

tremendous, tremendous performance. It's now close to 9% of the entire credit card
market.
The book exceeds about 2 billion and the performance from a credit perspective is
excellent. The profitability emerging out of that between us and JV has been quite
exceptional. So, it really has been the very successful roll-out. Having said that the
DiscoveryCard is kind of the foundation for what we do. We're using Discovery Insure. In a
sense, Discovery's payment system in a way. So, there is a lot of opportunity embedded
in the DiscoveryCard. So, Discovery within I think are very, very strong. The emerging
businesses as I said I think if all performed well PruHealth seminal year in the UK for both
PruHealth and PruProtect.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operating profit up 61 million from a loss of 300 million in the previous period. So, lot of
work is going there, and then I will take you through what we focused on in the context of
PruHealth. I think a very successful acquisition Standard Life Healthcare performing better
than we expected. And I'm very pleased with how that business books. PruProtect to a
large extent I think is start of the show. We are building a great life insure in the UK that's
captured about 8% we estimate of the pure life insurance market in the UK. It is now
profitable. And across every single dimension of the business, there has been a great,
great success, strong new business, quality new business, high average premiums, lapses
better than expected, mortality better. So, you can see that coming through.
And then Discovery Invest, also I think testing period. Profit up to over 100 million, basically
breakeven in the previous period. Assets under management growing dramatically to
over 17 billion and great traction throughout the business. And again, I think the critical
thing is the actual dynamics of the business have exceeded on our expectation. And then I
think we're building really great exciting powerful businesses in the context of our new
embryonic business, I will call developing businesses. Ping An Health early traction has
been good. HumanaVitality is a very existing initiative in the U.S. There is lot capital, our
peers are fantastic, - translation of taking that repeatable model and kind of bearing it
into the U.S.
And then Discovery Insure, the point I made, fantastic roll-out, great launch. I think hope
we get across to you. I think the intellectual concept behind Discovery Insure really is a
manifestation of the Discovery business model in a different way you will see that come
through.
So, let me start with the performance. Operating profits up 32%, just two things really I've touched on it. Discovery have the robust performance of 14%, just under 1.4 billion.
Discovery Life up 16%, you can see that coming through just under 1.6 billion. Vitality had a
strong growth, but I keeping making point the Vitality will wax in vain that's not something
that we actually focused on in terms of driving its earnings. It's about a foundational piece
of Discovery. Discovery Invest itself has grown dramatically, really a breakeven in the
previous period. And then a strong growth in this period and I think it's going to grow
dramatically going forward.

Page 4 of 29



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

Now, before I get to the prudential businesses in the UK, at the interim stage, we did
make the comment that there is a lot of complexity in the transaction from accounting
standpoint with Standard Life Healthcare, effectively what we did is we disposed about
50% in the JV, we then acquired Standard Life Healthcare, step two. And then we took
Standard Life Healthcare and put it into the JV for 75% of equity, that was really the
accounting steps. That creates all kinds of accounting complexities, you go to mark-tomarket, the value of the business, when you dispose it and then it is comparing 50% to
75% in this period. So, what we've done in the accounts with the interim period is focus on
normalized earnings, you compare life with life, you can see that flow through.
But - and I go through the presentation. So, PruHealth up to 61 million, operating profit
that's 50% in the previous period, so close to 300 million of the business, our share was
148 million. PruProtect in fact is profitable in the second half of year, we have seen
operating loss there, but it was in fact part of PruProtect's model, utilise its tax efficiency
inside the prudential. So, the tax value only comes right at the bottom of the income
statement, but effectively profitable, I'll take you through that a bit later. Just going back
to bring that altogether, what you see is operating profit up 32%. I think what is exciting
for us is if you add together the emerging business as you can see, that we pull them
around quite significantly over that period.
The profitability, I think in this year has been strong, but it is really, really embryonic. Our
expectation of those emerging business going forward is they are likely to grow very, very
strongly into the future. And then finally right at the bottom, we spent typically about 7 to
10% on developing new businesses, new markets. We spent the similar amount this year
in fact slightly less than in the previous years down 5%, or up 5% from a positive
perspective to 206 million, a bulk of that was around Ping An Health and the development
and launch of Discovery Insure. So, adding it all up, you get operating profit right at the
top, up by 32% to just under 2,84 billion.
Now, I'm not going to go through the technical details of this, I will go right the way down
the income statement. I will do at the interim phase time to explain the complexity of
Standard Life Healthcare acquisition in fact it hasn't make kinds of, all kinds of swings.... But
starting with operating profit right at the top of 32%, if you take these distortions into
account, you get your profit before tax, third from the bottom up 38%, that is a bloated
number, it's not compared like-with-like. And therefore, we normalised that, it get
normalised headline earnings at 31% to just down the 2 billion. So, there is a lot in there.
And question you want to ask, hopefully it should went through those and explained the
rational.
Headline earnings per share, up 31%, and graphically you can see that I think the growth is
very, very strong. In fact I think the growth is the strongest that's been for the last five
years. And what is gratifying is that the growth now is coming from a wider range of
different businesses and I think that bodes well for the future. I am pleased to say that we
have declared a final dividend of R0.48 a share and we added to the interim dividend, we
have a R0.90 a share in total up 30% year-on-year. So, I think a strong financial
performance. Let me go to new business, I made the point that I think new business
growth is strong, you can see it's slightly down at 2%, but that's 2% down from the 5
billion, but the bulk of it, and in fact entirely all of that is due to Discovery Health. Discovery
Page 5 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Health had a massive previous year, that's lumpy corporate business, I will share that in
the moment, the Discovery Health went down 13%.
That's interesting, if you look at Discovery Health, it's a massive business offer very, very
big base and to grow that base is of course very difficult. Despite that, over the years
we've managed to grow up by strongly 5, 6, 11%, but last year it was a massive growth.
There were three large corporate schemes Remedi, Altron, Life Healthcare they joined
Discovery Health. So, you have this huge jump of close to 50%. Now, obviously that is not
repeatable, big corporates are lumpy that come on with three locked in one kind of,
altogether I don't think that we're going to repeat it that easily. But what you will see is the
production although down, in fact if you look at the trend line is strongly up. And one of
the features I think of Discovery Health, you'll see in the Discovery Health Medical Scheme
is the growth of membership is actually, if anything is accelerating, despite the very large
basic we have.
So, this is very gratifying and I think very important going forward. Certainly Discovery Life,
new business up 5% to 3.6 billion, but that includes Automatic Contribution Increases,
which are the automotive premiums that reflect inflation, inflation is really flat. If you look
at the core risk business, it was up 10%. So, that's we think a very strong growth, specially
in the market that to an extent as we understand shrunk by 10 or 11%. So, we're very
pleased with that. Discovery Vitality will reflect kind of the health growth to large extent.
So, that again will wax in vain. And if you look at the emerging businesses, Discovery
Invest, a very strong performance, up 12%, but in fact Discovery Invest, those right at the
bottom, I hope you can see that, guaranteed bonds if that we kind of, depending on what
capacity we have in the year under review. We spoke that down a bit from 1,7 billion to 1
billion, it's part of our capital funding plan.
So, we slowed that down quite a bit, if you look at the actual production inside Discovery
Invest, the single premium production the recurrent premium production up 30% and 25%
respectively. So, very, very strong performance inside Discovery Invest. PruProtect up
nearly 30% new business and PruHealth had a fantastic period, up nearly 50%. Now, we
give you the Standard Life Health acquisition, well in fact the bulk of that business was
sitting inside PruHealth. So, very strong new business production in the UK. Well, I think it's
important to go back and just emphasize, when you add that together you get the top
new business line certainly up to R7.5 billion. Again, I don't want to talk to the emerging
businesses, I would just like to point about the diverse, I think it has been a year of
focusing on new businesses and focus on getting real scale. What is exciting is Discovery
Life is of course for us a very pivotal important and that's kind of an example we'd like to
keep replicating and emulating. So, if you look at the Discovery Life new business and you
treat that as a horizontal line of 100% is exciting. If you look at, all the business is coming
on-stream.
All are doing significant new business and the embryonic they are growing very, very
quickly. But if you add them up together on streamlining side, you'll find that some of it is
now like 150 to 160% of the Discovery Life business. So, the quantum of business being
done, I think substantial, the quality is substantial. And I think diversity, which is very
important, because the opportunity keep out strongly into the future. Turning to
embedded value, I think this is a very important measurement, illustration from actuarial
Page 6 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

FINAL

perspective the kind of the progress of the organization from one peer to the next. And
re-reflect issues of new business margin, issues of quality in the business. We had a very
strong growth in the embedded value, up 19%, you can see to 26.8 billion. On embedded
value per share basis up to R47.86.
What is interesting, if you breakdown kind of the growth in the embedded value from
previous period, all the way to this period about 19% growth. What you'll find, it is made
up of certain controllable events and others are not controllable. The economy change in
the tax basis et cetera. What is gratifying is that most of the growth, by virtue all of it, is on
the controllable side. We've been very successful in terms of new business. You can see
we added 1.5 billion of new business value to the embedded value. Over 600 million of
positive experience variances reflecting that the organization is outperforming an effect
on the actuarial assumptions made inside. So, when you bring these big numbers
together, you will find that the growth is largely on the back of controllable events.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me talk a bit about the experience variances, I think they're very important, they
reflect how the organization is performing against expectation. I made the point on the
left hand side, that there is over 600 million of positive experience variances, made up of
a whole range of different causes as you can see. On extreme right hand side, very
important is our lapse performance, as you see rates retention significantly. So, the
performance has been good both in Discovery Health and in Discovery Life. The business
is more persistent, it's come down inline with expectation, in fact better than expectation.
Third from the right, mortality and mobility has outperformed the expectation. And in fact
across the board it's interesting that the second six months of the year, - in the first. So,
we kind of, we are doing well and doing better as we go along. So, if you look at for
example policy alterations, servicing people buying additional parts to an existing policy.
You can see we are slightly below expectation in the first six months of the year, if you
explode that out into the second six months, in fact we are better than expected.
Premium income in terms of automatic premium increase, as you can see was better in
second six months of the year.
And then importantly on left side, a very strong positive performance. You can see on the
second six months of the year an excellent performance, both are positive, but getting
better over the time. So, the embedded value has been, I think very strong and reflects
how the organization has tend to perform from one period to the other. So, let me go
down and start drilling into the actual businesses. I keep making the point that I am not
going to talk much about Discovery Vitality or Discovery Code, I will established
businesses, Discovery Health and the Discovery Life. Discovery Health I think had a
fantastic performance. I have shown you some of the numbers, operating profit up 14%.
The number of members has grown, of a very big base of over a million families at the
previous period climbing by 8%.
We are doing a lot of new business and in fact the lapse rate is remarkably low, focus, and
in fact drifting sides ways and downwards to 4.07%. You see that I hope clearly on the
chart. I don't know if any health insure or medical scheme that has lapse rates at that level,
most to be 10 to 20%. So, sitting at 4% and growing the new business has kind of added
to the fact, when you see the total membership growing very, very strongly. The focus in
Page 7 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

FINAL

Discovery Health, I think it's been a relatively very complex business, it deals with
complex, clinical, actuarial, technological regulatory change, that's kind of the nature of
the health and funding healthcare. The strategy in fact was quite focused and clear. The
first issue is an issue of size, importance of growth, importance of scale, the importance
of sophistication that is fundamental in healthcare system. We continue to focus on that.
The second is making sure that our members get value from money, the option that the
Discovery Health Medical scheme offers per unit of premium, per unit of contribution is
cheaper, more appropriate than our competitors. We focused toward quality of risk
management, clinical management capabilities. And then fundamentally, we are working
more and more, investing more into the medical, into the healthcare system to make sure
that experience our members get and doctors provide is definitely more appropriate,
more efficient. So, there is a very multifaceted focus in the context of Discovery Health.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of growth, you can see it's interesting that Discovery Health and the medical
scheme and the other stuff that we do, is growing quicker than before, despite the very
deep base. You can see graphically, has accelerated over the last two years. The
resurgence side, the Discovery Health Medical Scheme have grown strongly, it's over 7
billion now. From an actuarial perspective, from the risk base capital perspective, the
Discovery Health Medical Scheme is significantly over capitalised and very, very strong.
The law is require to sit at 25%, we are fluctuating between 24 and 25. So, if we keep
investing in the solvency resource through contribution. So, that process will continue,
which you can see tremendous growth in both the scheme and in terms of the total.
Now, it's worthwhile saying and I thought I will chase the examples of, it's a complexity of
managing healthcare cannot be overstated. It's complex and you need scale and for a
number of clinical and actuarial and selection issues, we have this massive disease growth
that we have to keep managing. Across the board incidence of cancers is up, if you look
at, this is an example chronic rheumatoid arthritis, if you look at the actual increase in
incidence claims per 1000 lives is up like 15 to 20%. The cost per claim, it is up 30 to 40%,
in may of these conditions, particularly cancer. The new biological drugs that are hugely
effective, but prohibitively expensive. So, when you cross multiply, incidence going up, by
the cost going up, you get the total cost per life, per month going up at 50% or more. So,
these little kind of forces that having to deal with.
Amazingly, we have also seen the path of false selection, I mean the comprehensive
claims, where you typically found sick people for migrating. It's interesting that in 2000,
the number of people, number of claims per 10,000 that we cover, clearly more that 0.5
million in year is about 12, that's gone to 36. So, pretty more actual turn, that was kind of
one, kind of two per mole, that's now three from six per mole. So, the actual, the kind of
skewing of distribution of people claiming more is more and more complex as we go
along. So, there is complexity there and how we are able to deal with this is in terms of
scale and sophistication.
This is a fascinating analysis just to give us a sense of importance of scale. If you take
Discovery Health Medical Scheme's top 1,000 claiming family, right and you impose them
on all of that comparisons, which you can do there right. What you will find is, expect the
larger, what I'm showing you in the chart is the percentage of reduction in their reserves,
Page 8 of 29



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

due to the claims of these top 1,000 families, right. What you will see is, out of about 30
of them, only three will survive the claims of that top 1,000 families, the rest will be wiped
out completely. The reserve completely depleted. In fact the second large, as you can
see the first on the left, - results taking out by about I think 40%, as you can see from the
chart. So, healthcare is very skewed, distributions are very skewed and the very heavy
claims come in huge amount. And the antidote to this of course is scale and
sophistication, we spent a lot of time and doing is building, the infrastructure to make sure
we can manage that. We segmented and stratified the population that become very from
a healthy through to the very sick.
And we make sure that we understand this skewness, so you can see at the top of the
permit, about 5% of our members of sick is claiming nearly 20% of the spend, it's quiet
remarkable. But as you add the top two, you get 2% of the members claim half the
entire... makes life very complex, it means if you cannot in anyway in terms of investment,
in terms of managing care, I think we built a very complex, integrated care model, that's
strange from vitality at the bottom. All that due to a very intrusive integrated care model
right at the top of that the integrations are appropriate and we keep the entire risk base
carefully managed. I think Discovery Health is doing a good job, if you look at core medical
inflation, this is a fantastic analysis, looking at the actual cost of goods and services in
healthcare system. So, if you take very common basket in the sense of interventions from
a - release, tonsillectomy, cataracts, all the way down to GP consult.
And you check the cost of that over time, what you will find in the middle in the Discovery
Health Medical Scheme that's going up about just over 8%, our competitors is going up to
11 to 12%. So, we're managing to keep medical inflation under control. If you look at the
cumulative effect of that over time, you can see as the gap gets bigger, so over a four
year accumulative period, the difference in cost between us and our competitors on the
goods and services and effect that we buy is about 30 or 40%. That provides a very
powerful ability to offer differentiated value to our customers. I would say to you that the
Discovery Health Medical Scheme is keeping the core inflation of goods and services, it
buys in healthcare system to see CPR plus whereas the industry is about CPR plus...
This is purely the goods and services that doesn't deal with demographics, it doesn't deal
with selection, it doesn't deal with utilisation. So, there is a lot of complexity in this. But I
think our team is doing a good job on the core aspects of the medical inflation. And in the
manifestation of that, through all of managing, is the fact that if you look across all the
options that we offer from recoveries all the way through to our executives plans and you
compare us in the dark blue to the industry in the light blue, you'll find that across virtually
every option, the units of benefit you are less expensive. And we keep saying and I said
this many times is the ability to offer a premium product at a discount. And I think that is
why, one of the fundamental reasons, why the Discovery Health Medical Scheme and the
other schemes we administer are growing indeed very successful. And that gap is getting
bigger, bigger over time, if we can continue to sustain a low rate of medical inflation than
our competitors can.
So, the performance I think has been really, really good. I want to touch on briefly, just the
investment made in the healthcare system and in the tools and services around what we
do. I have on the previous occasion showed you the Discovery Health integrated model
Page 9 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

that's working remarkably well. It's a huge investment in doctor networks, DPI as a part of
arrangements and a whole range of things. And it's a very, very pervasive capability across
the entire healthcare system. The last few columns are I think very important, the last year,
this year under review, we spent a huge amount of time and effort building infrastructure
tools for our members, tool called massive guides and industry doctors are part of our
DPI arrangements. For the first time, electronic health patient vehicles are available online
for our members and that's a critical development.
And then on the services side, we developed some amazingly powerful services.
Discovery medical - is something that we've been targeting from about six months or so.
It's been remarkably successful. There is a Discovery Member and in fact what you can
you do is once you have the prescription from the doctor, you simply phone Discovery
gets the script across, fax it across and through a network of pharmacies, we get it deliver
to you for acute conditions within six hours, for chronic in 72 hours. So, we are building kind
of capability across the country that you simply do it by phone, and it's a little bit through
working with the various community pharmacies around the country.
The growth has been staggering on the right hand side, just showing you name of those
research that people find it particularly appealing, compelling, and they like it. So, in the
process they are may be ubiquitous and rolling it out in a very big sense. Now one of the
things that we have done and I wanted to demo for you today that, I hope I get this right,
but this is very important. One of the big initiatives, we're busy with on the complete
lunatic, we are trying to demo this plan, I am going to do this. One of the big things that
we're doing, that we develop, it's taken about two years of work, a massive amount of
the work over last year, has been trying to get technology out into an environment that
really makes the deliberate healthcare build up for our members and for the doctors that
treat them. You may know that wholly growing healthcare is the idea of electronic patient
records. The idea that the doctor at the point of service has the entire record in a sense
of the patient they are seeing, the moment they don't and coordinated that notes in the
file, they haven't spoken to specialists, they have no access to tests. It's a very
uncoordinated system. If you can bring that to the doctors desktop in the sense, you can
bring down costs, you can drive up efficiency and obviously drive up quality.
So giving that scope, it's a very big trust, as part of your Obama healthcare reform. We
could not scale in South Africa. We have a much stronger ability to kind of bang that in
quicker, to do it move in a much more ubiquitous way and importantly add functionality to
it. So we developed the tool called PracticeXpress, there is a very powerful piece of
technology that's been piloted now with about 100 doctors and specialist over last
number of months. The reviews have been absolutely staggering. What it really does it
brings together the entire healthcare system, doctors and specialists it bring together
pharmacies, it brings together archived database on to the doctors desktop.
And therefore what I will do is actually earmark for you. Now this is a -- as I said it's a
stupid thing to do. Okay, every doctor gets this [Technical Difficulty].
Not this one. Okay, this is targeted. Okay, and on this -- that's a good start. And I will just
show you here. So here you go. So you can see in the top left hand corner, we are going
to the software and then again -- I hope this works. I'm a doctor in this particular, this
Page 10 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

FINAL

particular example. I am waiting for indication. I mean that is a real life, as you can see, this
is a real life case. The data is in fact live and real. But always for confidentiality reasons the
names are different.
So I am a doctor treating John Doe. He is one of Discovery patients in that I'm -membership numbers. I'm tackling John Doe and that given the whole range of
functionality on the left hand side. I can see benefit details of this particular member. I can
shift -- I can see the entire health record. I can apply the -- almost benefits entirely online. I
can look at the pathology, radiology, I can refer to specialist, all of it online.
So forget his first health record, what you see is I have the whole range of things, I can
remember as a doctor, kind of health measurables, PMI, the various things that I think are
clear, are clinical chronic indication. I am just touching there, you see that, in the right hand
side I have the day-to-day medication. I can look at doctor visits that this individual
previously had. Let's say 27th of August he saw a general practitioner I can touch the net,
go down, I can see the diagnosis, the code, all the various issues. I can see the entire
record and manage it from there.

Bloomberg Transcript

What I'll do in this case though just for the sake of time is I'll actually go -- I'm seeing this
patient and he or she is sitting across the desk for me. And I'm going actually do a
medicine script to that. Now I'll just explain to you our medicine express way in effect may
be expressed way, that's entirely through the system. Now watch this, sitting with the
patient, I hope, I get this right. I'm going to prescribe some medication. I've wanted to do
this. I'm going to prescribe --, sure. Okay. Here you go.
So now what I do is I've a whole range of medication means individual, I think in fact I
should have shown you actually suffers from hypertension. And I prescribe Lipitor, gives
me potential alternatives and -- codes. I go in and I actually go through the process of
diagnosis, hypertension can you see there? I look at repeating twice, okay, the two that
means. The quantity I'm going to give two tablets. This actually -- this is good fun.
Frequency, say twice a day. Now I am working just through the menu there, as you can
see, -- application. Okay. And now I think I am done, right? I have done with -- and now
what I am going to do is simply send it all, right.
So what I do, this email express comes up, that's our system, I hope may be express. I
sign it and I sign the script, right? There is a script as you can see, at the bottom left hand
corner is my signature. And I send it, boom. The -- promise just in six hours in the house,
it's quite remarkable. So that is one of the functions of the PracticeXpress but in reality
what it's going to do we believe is give the doctor at the point of care the ability to raise
at the whole healthcare system of a real powerful functionality, maybe even improve
quality to our members.
So I think that, if you look, I think Discovery Health is very well positioned in number of
different areas to continue to grow. The other thing I think is obviously quite important is
the National Health Insurance, Green Paper that was issued a few weeks ago. This is a
fundamental piece of potential registration and the massive development in healthcare
system. I need to say to you that from the outset we've been quite clear that we are

Page 11 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

FINAL

supportive of healthcare reform, the current structure of two tier system with the public
system is not really functioning, it's not really sustainable.
And with the healthcare reform in the right ways something that -- reach the support very,
very strongly. Having said that I do need to show that this Green Paper to us is a very
responsible that's reforming the healthcare system. And we look forward to engage in
constructive in order to help in order to executive on this. Let's just -- in terms of this time
frame of a long space of time and in terms of recognizing the role of the private system
and the public system, recognizing importantly the role of medical schemes that people
will have the ability to opt out or stay in the medical scheme. The focus in a lot of things,
that human resource development, including the public system, private system into that.
But is now very vague, the funding, the taxation medical schemes. There is a long way to
go on this thing but we are very positive about the impact. I guess the quiz question for us
from the Discovery Health perspective is what will this do to our business?

Bloomberg Transcript

I think at our core membership base I do not believe that people opt out of medical
schemes in the main. We are -- the margin and we're getting the low income side, the NHI
is a success and I hope it is, will crowd out some of that market. So I think that will have
that kind of impact. On the other hand I think it's going to whole range of opportunities
and change of, I think Discovery Health is driven very clearly and of course the ability to
advantage of that miracle and add value to our members in society. So this is a very, very
important development. It does take a long time to we are excited and positive about
what we can do within these contracts.
Then we move onto Discovery Life. I really hope you survive through that demo. Let me
just tell you Discovery Life. It's been a remarkable year for Discovery Life. I'll show you
some of the numbers. The core new business up 10%, gross revenue up nearly 20%
which is over 5.2 billion. Operating profit at 16%. This is very important to understand and I
think I've made this point in previous presentations that how we are managing carefully
inside the Group has negative results from inside Discovery Life. Part of then utilizes in
asset to back Discovery Invest, in terms of guaranteed capital bonds.
So in effect from the accounting perspective Discovery Life keeps taking part of the new
reserves and transferring it out of the business. The extent is getting a bit smaller. So if
you compare Life with Life you need to reverse that back in. If you look at the actual core
profits, are up profits have gone up 16%. That doesn't really take into account that fact
that we keep chipping away at it in the sense.
So to compare Life with Life, you look at the core operating profits, in fact up 20% to
nearly 1.8 billion, as you can see. So very, very strong performance. And I think the quality
of Discovery Life, you see coming through in the growth in the value of the imports up
25% to nearly 11.8 billion, a very, very strong performance. So I must say a robust
performance from Discovery Life.
If you look at the strategies, I think they were fairly simple but difficult to achieve. We
focused a lot on quality, unless it's focusing a lot on mortality, mobility, making sure we
Page 12 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

FINAL

keep up with new expectation, distribution efficiency and then very -- continue focus
innovation.
It's a fundamental thing to add value to our customers and our clients, but important to
maintain margin and create differentiation to keep the process of innovation, because we
have very, very strong focus across the Board. This -- has been a fundamental one, I think
in the last number of presentations and across the entire industry. One of the big issue
has been during this financial crisis, has been the elevation of -- way above the
expectation and the embedded value assumptions, how we respond to that is I think we
told you in a previous presentation.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the blue line we expected kind of a short lapse experience in our embedded value a
negative result calculation. We are trying to short lapse assumptions. Climbing up in 2009,
in the blue strongly coming down into 2011 and dropping further down in 2012. What
actually happened you can see the five-year assumption, prior to 2008, we will try and
bring those -- down and you can see in fact we've undercut those short lapse
assumptions in our substantially, inline with the long-term lapse assumption going to 2012.
So I think we've worked down our lapses in very successful and brought lapse rates down.
It is very interesting though we have done a lot of analysis and statistical work in trying to
understand what it is that drives up lapse rates. And as we generalize the new modeling, - the ability to predict what type of policy is likely to lapse. So if you look at that model,
use the ability and now what factors are kind of really causing lapses we done the analysis
across the whole range of things from duration to gender to rating factor to province to
every single issue. What is amazing you can see quite clearly is the one fundamental
predictor is credit scope, affordability. If people are thing to pay off debt you can rest
assured they are having difficulty financially and their lapse probability is very, very high.
So that of course for us is a very, very important issue. Having said that though, all of the
analysis did show, and you look at our integrated policies, you look at the ones that use
Vitality along the model that I showed you, is that only antidote to that is in fact the
integration of Vitality in the rest of the Discovery world.
So if you look at the effective Vitality, healthy foods, wellness benefits, those kind of
things on the GLM model we found that in fact it's positive impact more than offsets the
effective credit score. So that has kind of given us, what can I say impetus and focus on
making sure we get people integrated driving in returns through the Vitality world,
through the statuses, make sure they understand the value for money embedded in that.
And I think it's part of the reason why we managed to bring the lapse rates down.
If you look at the lapse rates by status, I think you have seen they are dramatically down
stopping some people, as people moved up in Vitality status the probability of lapsing
goes down quite dramatically. And you can see on the right hand side the number of
people in each state is in fact moving to the right. So the bronze status, number of people
in bronze have grown by like 30, 40%. The number of people in gold and diamond has
grown by more than double. So we are, I think been very successful in getting across the

Page 13 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

FINAL

value of Vitality, getting the integration in place and making sure that people are in fact
moving across in statuses in getting much more stickiness a fundamental issue.
So that I think is one of the core strategies in bringing lapses down. The other important
focus in terms of quality has been on the issue of mortality, across the morbidity. It's a
fundamental issue from the onset of Discovery Life. I think the performance in mortality
side has been actually quite phenomenal. But the models of this is I think quite special.
Normal life insurance works in a very simple basis. You fill out the underwriting and fall in it
for the next 50 years, you have the same rate.
In the context of Discovery Life, how the model works is dynamic pricing. If you engage
your vitality, your prices tend to come down. If you don't, the prices over time tend to go
up. So what you'll expect intellectually is if you are engaging, the prices come down, you
get healthier people the people you are engaging becoming more sticky and the people
you aren't engaging in effect prices are going up and becoming more loose and maybe
less sick.

Bloomberg Transcript

So what you expect other time is a positive selection process. We would normally -expect quite the opposite. People are paying the same rate, healthy people potentially.
So our model show on the left side that our expectation of time to mortality would come
down versus a expectation in the blue line, versus a static tradition model where in fact
mortality goes up.
On the right hand side you can in fact see what's really happening. We're getting a very
similar curve to what we expect. We are experiencing very strong positive selection,
positive lapsation and the mortality experience is getting, in a sense it doesn't move
down quickly, but it's very stable and continuous to outperform expectations in both -reverse and the embedded value calculations. So both lapses and mortality I think have
performed remarkably well.
We pushed harder on the product development side. We are an organization that
believes very strongly innovation and I think before this thing largely went down during the
under review, all of that I think was very, very exciting. I thought I would just talk about
excess kind of very briefly. It's a fascinating idea and one that has been very, very well
received by the market. The inspiration behind this was in fact the access bond in the
banking space. During the old you had this kind of static bond. We paid interest and
capital to the bank in a monthly repayment there was no flexibility. You do what you were
told and that was it. With our access to additional credit there is a -- of credit et cetera.
Our kind of inspiration is could you take this in the sense and do this to life insurance?
Could you make life insurance more flexible or tangible. And it was really the idea behind
AccessCover. Concept is a very simple one. We have life cover. You typically have severe,
almost coverage capital visibility with it. If you have one of those life changing events in
the old sense you get paid out of proportion of your life cover.
What Access kind of does is it allows you to in fact -- additional life cover for cash. So
assuming you got a 1 million of cover and you get a -- of 0.5 million, you can take that 0.5
Page 14 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

FINAL

million, but in fact you can take more if you want trading life cover for cash. And that
conversion fact is anything from R0.20 cents to R0.70 cents depending on the severity of
the event. So it changes to a large extent the dynamic of life insurance from a very static
contractual one to the point of claim depending on the customers needs you can find the
people life cover is tangible. And this is embedded in all of Discovery Life plans. It really
does change, I think the focus of life insurance. And again offers a whole pathway for
more development.
So bringing this all together I will try to make the point, is to talk, about, try to kind of go in
the -- degree, trying to give you the sense of the focus on quality. The effect on the right
hand side of the chart is new business margins have gone up quite significantly by about
10% from 9 percentage points to about 10 percentage points. And then the combination
of the volume of new business and the new business margins you can see on the left
hand side, the value of new business is quite significantly by 21%. In fact the highest
growth rate over the last numbers of years to maybe just over 1 billion. So a significant
performance I think from Discovery Life.
So coming to our established businesses all together. I think they have done remarkably
well. The new business combined is about 5.7 billion, operating profit just under 3 billion
and unique members of our unique customers up about 3 billion. So very strong
performance.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning now to the emerging businesses. And as I said to you at the presentation our
emerging businesses to a large extend at the start of the show are Discovery Invest,
PruHealth and PruProtect. This really was a pretty seminal year.
Starting with Discovery Invest, I think the metrics are very strong, gross inflows up 28%.
You can see the core new business I -- earlier 30% to 25% respectively. Funds under
management, assets under management, rising by 75% to over 70 billion. And the
operating profit really reflecting the growth efficiency. And I think the quality of the
business from a kind of breakeven in the previous period to a very strong over a 100
million. And we expect that to grow strongly going forward.
If you look graphically at the assets under management the growth has been quite
staggering. So really I think the new traction, I think the value proposition of the offering is
being well received by intermediaries and investors. And a very important purposes
behind the formation of Discovery Invest was could we get that entire focus of Discovery
Investors, could we offered daily open architecture investment environment.
People can come on our platforms and buy any plan from anywhere but the fundamental
thing we try to achieve was to offer value add and make sure that people buy essentially
in the majority, Discovery Funds. And what you see in the right hand side in fact is exactly
what's happening. Only 12% you can see the -- in the green, only 12% of investors in fact
are choosing investment destinations outside of the Discovery offering. That's important
in terms of the value proposition. It's very important in terms of product margin.

Page 15 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

FINAL

In fact if anything it's going in a sense that -- what you would expect unless you hope . If
you actually look at it graphically overtime people are choosing more and more of our
funds. We would expect the opposite. As we get bigger we would expect people to go
outside of the Discovery choices.
On the left hand side, if you look at the percentage of Discovery funds it was about 60 or
so this Invest platform to close to 90%. If you look at the amount of non money market
funds it was about 60% two years ago it's now close to 90% as well. And the margin
coming out of these substantial new business margins have improved from 2.8% up 3.1%.
And I think importantly we do offer value proposition in Discovery Invest around the simple
idea that we offer you access to the markets through an open architecture environment.
But we record out of value the plans to protect you against poor investment
performance, volatile markets and bad investment choices.

Bloomberg Transcript

And since Discovery Invest started, that is 2007 it's been incredibly volatile investment
markets. It's a fantastic counter test, is the our focus is really coming through. So this is a
very simple test and I am not talking about investment performance. I'm simply taking
these all of the Discovery funds we've rated them by the -- allocations of what people
choose in investments. We've chosen an appropriate benchmark in gold. Our -- tended to
outperform, as you can see in the green I mean let's show then effect, and drive at the
top the protectors and various integrations added a further 5% to turnover in that period.
So if you compare how the cumulative affect of this Discovery Invest versus the
benchmark, we are at kind of 12% over that period.
Now that of course just as an example, to make the point that I think we are comfortable,
that we are purposes and value proposition declines, in effect is coming through and that
is driving the growth of Discovery Invest.
We continue to innovate in the organization, rolled out two I think fantastic products. The
Guaranteed Escalator Annuity, that really uses equity linked annuities, that provides you
guarantee underpin and protects people against longevity, living too long. And that's
been remarkably well received. We all have the classic tricks with investment plan and just
a few months ago but larger on a list platform to chose anything you like. It give you a
whole range of protection against poor investment performance, against efficiency from
asset management charges et cetera.
And the recent activity I think has been a strong, if you look at the new business on the
right hand side they are being very, very well received with just a couple of months in to
really driving enough. But I think it bodes very well for the future. And a point I think I must
make is that brokers more and more investing with the clients, with Discovery Invest, will
run the -- shift for the best long-term recurring savings business. And you can see the
broker, kind of support climbing very, very strongly. So the total number of brokers now
supporting Discovery Invest has now climbed to over 4,000.
Cumulatively and obviously you can very clearly is a turnaround in the start-up losses to
profit last year. And than a very strong growth this year that I showed you before. So we
Page 16 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

are very pleased with the performance of the Discovery Invest.

FINAL

Let me take to the other two emerging businesses. And they all are very strong and I think
in the UK for us this last year has been absolutely decisive and to a large extent absolutely
seminal. It really has created for us a very powerful beachhead in the UK.
It's important to say that I think that we have done well. Over this year there has been a
focus on discipline, making sure that the business model of the Discovery's injected into
this business carefully and we are following a very discipline way the repeatable scalable
model of what we have at Discovery. So in the case of PruHealth, Vitality at the base, so
that being kind of as a foundation with our peer market products of PruHealth, racking
along the NHS. In the case of PruProtect, a very, very clear focus on making sure what we
did at Discovery Life is repeated.

Bloomberg Transcript

Vitality at the base, dynamic pricing and efficient capital model and then on the right hand
side, a franchise distribution channel where you get the right color, variable costs that you
get the right kind of behavior in the distribution channel. We're focused very hard on
making sure we repeat that. I think the results have been very strong. Dealing with
PruHealth firstly, that's important to say that the UK is going through very difficult
economic times. You know that very well. But what you may not know is the effect on
private medical insurances is quite devastating.
As you'll appreciate the UK has a very comprehensive National Health Service. And when
times get tough, people tend to drop their private medical insurance. So why don't you
purchase around the NHS. But of course the people who drop it tend to be healthy, sick
people don't drop health insurance.
So once you get in difficult times, you get a reduction in the market. You see -- you can
see the marketing practice come down by 10% in total terms. And lost ratios claims levels
have tended to escalate. They are coming down a bit, but they are way elevated to
where there were before. So this is the market in very difficult times. Having said that
we've always taken a view that in a difficult times, that's the time to build your business,
because when things don't ease up you're in a very, very strong position to capitalize in
the sense of virtue both and I think PruHealth has done well.
I've shown you the figures the new business up 30%. The membership, reflecting the
acquisition very strongly. But the operating profit now turning strongly to profit from a
large loss, and I think the business is very well positioned going forward. And also the
team has done a great job. We're focusing on a few things and doing them well. Number
one, manage PruHealth to profitability, focus hard on the loss ratio, the expense levels
and bring those into acceptable levels.
Secondly, bed down the Standard Life acquisition and make sure that our performance
better than expected, that we expect from the due diligence. Thirdly -- the very
sophisticated products that reflects the best of both of these organizations. And then
finally make sure we integrate Vitality in to virtually every single part, every single part of
the membership including the Standard Life base.
Page 17 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

FINAL

So four very clear focal points, and I think all of them are successful. In the case of
PruHealth, the core PruHealth business just look at this graph on the left, we have brought
the loss ratio, the claims levels down by 10% over the period. So we've been brutal and
focus. You can see how we've done that on the right hand side a very strong growth in
premiums and on the bottom of it we've kept claim very much under control. So resulting
gap between premiums and claims obviously drives the loss ratio down.
On the Standard Life side I'm pleased to tell you that virtually every aspect of the
business is outperforming what we assumed in the acquisition, from the loss ratio to the
scale, to the lapse rates, everything to the profitability of the business, has been better
than we thought. When you bring the two together I think you get very good results.
On the expense base and the PruHealth standalone business that we focus on we have
got expenses down by -- I am not seeing a graph there, I'm not sure why. In the PruHealth
Standard Life business we've brought expenses down by close to 50% as a percentage
of premium. And then you lump it all together we've managed to bring expenses down
for the compound business by 11% and expect further 6% next year. I think the
combination of all of them together provides a very, very profitable base for growth going
forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

It's very important to look at this and I hope this is clear. If you go back to 2009 we've just
to show these loss ratio, vis--vis the claims levels, we had a business in 2009 of 235,000
lives in the blue on the left hand side with a loss ratio that was about 11% higher than the
industry.
So to a large extent we had a structural disadvantage with small scale. That's difficult to
kind of trade out of. You don't have the ability to negotiate hospital discounts, vitality
networks et cetera. What's happened now, that work that's been done is quite the
opposite. We have over 635,000 lives, about 10%, 8 to 10% of the market. But our loss
ratio is dramatically lower than the rest of industry. So today we've the structural
advantage with scale. And I think that provides great opportunity for the business going
forward.
We've rolled out a very sophisticated product range, that really brings the best of both
the kind of the Vitality and of PruHealth, to the flexibility of the Standard Life range. It's
been well received, very well taken up. On the right hand side I wanted to show you the
modularity of the product that people can buy our, cancer cover, -- cover, all kinds of
things they can buy if they want. And you can see in the main the take up levels are very,
very high.
So I think we've been very successfully getting the product out that reflects the best of
both. So I think modularity that people can choose from, I think that's been very
successful. And again if you look at the performance, in terms of profit I've made the
point many times, I believe we have turned it around very strongly and I'm very expectant
of strong growth going forward.

Page 18 of 29



FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

And then coming to PruProtect, I hope you are following me because I'm going at a quite
a rate, I am also confused, can you slow down a bit. Turning to PruProtect, PruProtect had
an absolutely marvelous period. I really as a -- asset of holding a very special Life
Insurance Company in the U.K., the metrics are all incredibly positive, strong new business
growth, policies in force nearly doubling out from -- to 70,000. And I made the point
about the tax efficiency of PruProtect. You can see that return to profit, just a small profit in
the second half of the year. It's not the quantum that is important, it's the fact that it's now
profitable and that's likely to evolve very strongly going forward.
There's been a very strong focus on AVS but I keep making the point of the Discovery Life
business model getting the Vitality chassis bedded down, like we should have done in the
passing, our focus on innovative risks benefits, of people buying more than one benefit
from us, that adds value to them and adds value to us. Clearly our franchise distribution
channel and then very importantly using the prudential life -- creates a very capital efficient
model. And we are focusing very hard in these kind of four dynamics we ought to have
very, very strong business.

Bloomberg Transcript

If you look at the growth in policy accounts, you can see it's quite exceptional. So very,
very rapid rate of growth. In turning that I think we're proud of it. If you look at the
application count per day, the comparative Discovery Life, that's on the right hand side,
we put Discovery Life we are doing about 280 to 300 cases a day in Discovery Life. The -at the top you look at case count of PruProtect, you can see its quite quickly catching
Discovery Life. And as most parents want to see, we hope the child outperforms the
parent and are waiting for the time when PruProtect then crosses the Discovery Life in
terms of applications.
In terms of distribution, I think the distribution strategy is correct. We focus hard on the
franchise model. We have it now around the UK. It's doing remarkably well. And it's
amazing the difference a year makes to the distribution. A year ago we had 12 franchises
across the UK. You can see that only three of them, in fact were exceeding the target
production. A year later you can see that has changed quite dramatically. We have 12
franchises, it's been a lot of change in investment but effectively nine out of the 12 are
comfortably meeting their target and three of them are now in the embryonic phase.
We're going roll out more of them.
So in a year the kind of the distribution scale, the penetration has changed quite
dramatically. Of course the quality of that is driving the quality of PruProtect. From an actual
perspective the claim levels tend to be lower than expected. So mortality is
outperforming the expectation. You can see there on the left hand side, cumulative claims
paid out were dramatically lower than we would expect. And then on the right hand side
on the per policy expenses are coming down nicely, as the business gets scale bringing it
down and as we focus on efficiencies we're getting great results. Of course the
combination of the two drives up profitability.
And then one other point I thought I would mention to you that very important in the
context of the Discovery Life model is making sure that people link their policies to
inflation. That provides value to the customer. They have a real benefit over time but to us
it means if we are looking to a revenue stream that increases over time. You will see again
Page 19 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

FINAL

the difference a year makes a year ago only 6% of the policies were linked to inflation
index linked. So that is close to 20%, in fact greater then 20%. We will continue to drive
that up over time adding value both to customers and to ourselves.
And also just as well that PruProtect is focusing strongly on the innovation. The UK market
is highly commoditized, very low levels of margin. If you want to -- out you can use the
sale. So I believe -- our fundamental belief Discovery Life as well as PruProtect is about
developing different products that have good range and that offer value. So we continue
to innovate and roll out a slew products on a continuous basis. There was a fantastic
launch in March of a suite of new products. The recent activity has been absolutely
tremendous.
You can see on the -- in the middle chart of the new business a large proportion of new
business are using these new products and the company continues to launch the best
protection asset, the best companies almost et cetera, et cetera. So it really has done
remarkably well and therefore you get this very strong change from operating losses due
to operating profits in the second half of the year. And again I would make the point to
you that adds -- to very strongly.

Bloomberg Transcript

Going forward you can see the return on capital in new business is about 41%, reflecting
the efficiencies of the capital model and the value of new business for the 12 months,
which is close to R150 million. So the business has done remarkably well. I think one of the
stars of the show.
So emerging businesses, to summarize again, all of them are profitable. Our new
business there is a nearly a third of the total new business of Discovery. Unique customers
in those emerging business is 750,000, fantastic foundation again for future growth.
Let me now turn then now for the developing business, that are largely embryonic, that
are very exciting and getting very, very good traction; the Vitality Group of Humana, Ping
An Health in China and in Discovery Insure.
Turning firstly to the Vitality group. I headlight the point of previous presentations. We've
got a kind of embryonic company in the U.S., called the Vitality group. The idea behind it
being, could we take the Vitality capability in that repeatable model and add it to big
employer health plans, work with health insurers like we've done with Discovery Health,
and build very powerful capability.
We built in the U.S. I think a very very strong capability, probably more sophisticated of the
Vitality chassis in a way. And to an extent what you've done now is worked out how to plug
it under employer sponsored health plan that's what the Vitality group is doing. And the -of Humana was about Humana Vitality taking vitality in the right hand side underneath
Humana as the insurer.
So essentially following the same kind of the business model, one in the employers
space, the other in the health insurance space. But -- if you follow this, Humana is the
fourth largest health insurer in the U.S., covers about 80 million lives, remarkably strong
Page 20 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

FINAL

company. A company that is focusing very much on shifting to the Discovery models, that
of focusing on that kind of long term well be. And so we're trying to build this Vitality
chassis in everything they do. The drill is very simple. We sold 25% of Vitality due to them
and we required 20% of HumanaVitality from them. So two different businesses, one
focused in the pure kind of we call it the space. The other focused in insurance market. All
of it is with Humana capital. We're providing the systems and structures and have divested
-- cross stock about $70 million.
So we have built a very, very powerful, very powerful chassis. And also one of the things
that is important is we have developed Vitality into a repeatable model. So from the get
go I think it was January, this is the time when -- at HumanaVitality really bought the
business, got it in place, launched it within six months. So at 1 July, 2011 that's just at the
end of this financial year, we rolled out HumanaVitality into the marketplace. The results
have been in fact staggering as you can see. We have kind of been drifting along in the
U.S. with a lot of business that are owned through the Vitality Group, I think I've mentioned
this to about a 100,000 lives by January six months ago. You can see how quickly the
HumanaVitality business is growing.

Bloomberg Transcript

We really have about 700,000 lives committed together with the Vitality Group and
HumanaVitality. And I think what's most gratifying for us is just we're starting to take, I think
a very strong leadership position in terms of the weights surround wellness in the U.S.
We have remarkable data in South Africa. We published a number of papers in U.S.
journals but I can tell you now that Q2 it's very difficult to get American companies to take
South African data seriously. So one of the big steps, one of the very exciting things that
happened this year is one of our clients, Alcon Labs which is a very prestigious
pharmaceutical company, about 7,000 employees has done remarkably well with Vitality,
brilliant, brilliant engagement, that was fantastic effect on health. In fact together with
them we've just won the Koop award, which is a prestigious --Everett Koop himself was
the Sergeant General of the U.S. and it's a prestigious award.
You can see at the bottom of the chart, previous winners, Johnson & Johnson, PepsiCo,
Pfizer. Vitality has won that with Alcon Labs, provided a fantastic foundation for us now to
illustrate the power of Vitality to other potential clients. So Alcon Labs itself is a
remarkable sign of what can be done. On the left hand side you can see the engagement
levels, 11 activities and more than 30 activities on order, staff of Alcon Labs are heavily
engaged and Vitality on the right hand side, that you can see the effect of population
growth bringing it down across the whole number of different measures, Vitality has been
remarkably successful.
This is an extract of the paper that was submitted for the Koop award. And so I think it's a
very important of us, appropriate to illustrate the power of Vitality in the U.S. So most of
you are excited about business. We know that capital risk, the potential to grow is
substantially seen -- really come through.
Turning to China, Ping An Health remarkably exciting environment. We were very clear that
this is a market that is obviously growing to grow very, very quickly as China becomes

Page 21 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

FINAL

more prosperous and people go more to private healthcare the opportunities are
dramatic. In a sense, had our team on the ground about a year ago. We began working
really hard on the business, about six to seven months ago. So we have at the start of this
calendar year. And the loyalty state of our own mind, China was like a complex, vial of
complexity. We know the market intellectually will grow, but how do you, how do you -and how do you deal with it.
I think that the team that's on the road is just focused on block and tackle. We exactly
know how to do. So we are building a health insurer together with Ping An. We do all of
the basic steps, three distinct things, building the product, getting that right. There were
products inside Ping An Health. We reworked those product into a few different markets,
focusing on the Group, what I call the Group high end, focusing on the individual side. We
rolled at few products in that just basically starting to build the Vitality chassis that we
hope to be really by Q1, Q2 2012.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the distribution side, Ping An has a massive distribution capability. We both have very
strong network to try and call on that distribution to branch out Ping An Heath and is
focused on that. And we are together focusing on getting our system in Ping An Health,
getting an IP transfer, getting the capability transfer. So really block and tackle stuff. I think
it's been remarkably successful. It really is early days but really the products are starting to
manifest and get out in to the market.
And importantly we have some of the branches, Beijing, Shanghai and Guangdong. They
are not new branches out there, four new branches, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, -- and
Xiamen, you can see them right cross the country. And there are three more kind of
waiting for approvals. So we are focusing hard on getting the distribution to efficiency and
to effect.
And than on the RT side and the system side in a very short space of time we're
transferring 74 systems and processes into Ping An Health very quickly. We expect that to
be done by Q2, 2012. So hopefully by about middle of next year this business is strong,
sophisticated has vitality, has all of the stuff worth -- despite that the traction is very strong
as you can see.
So if you have a look you can see on the left hand side the new business revenues are
coming in very strongly. And on the right hand side just in the last six months the life cover
has grown from a 190,000 to about 300,000. So the growth is very, very strong. If we go
into the -- I have lost all, okay.
Let me then turn to the last thing I would like to mention, which is obviously the work. So
remarkably the stuff you think won't work, the demo worked beautifully. And PowerPoint
which -- doesn't work, okay. So ending up then with Discovery Insure, which is really to me
one of the really great highlights of the year. It's been a fantastic business. I believe we
wrote. Short-term insurance has been on the radar screen of Discovery for probably a
decade. We have been thinking about how best to tackle it.

Page 22 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

FINAL

Discovery is not trying to build a broad-based financial services group -- market. We
believe we can make a difference. We are going to market where we believe we can
really add value to society in some special way. And to a large extend we're trying our
models over many years, to how can we take this model of ours, where you kind of
change people's behavior and apply that to short-term insurance, particular to motor
insurance.
And over the last year or so it became clearly opportunities for us, that really became the
emphasis behind Discovery Insure. Let me say too, four distinct strategic things that drive
our launch in terms formation of the company. This is not working. I am having some
difficulties. This was the really exciting part of the presentation, I was hoping to show you.
So let me show you four distinct things that we focused on, that really gave us a sense of
potential for the business. The first was I'm going to talk anyway.

Bloomberg Transcript

The first was the fact that we felt there is a passing -- opportunity, while the market has
moved quickly to kind of the DTC model, it hasn't moved like the UK, where prices have
come down. In fact quite the opposite. We've seen, if you look at the DTC, the cost of
marketing are almost equal to the cost of marketing through our broker channel. In fact
the wording of policies in the DTC market is very one sided and very difficult for the client.
So step number one on the -- side, we believe very strongly, we had the opportunity to
offer a product that fairer, more better, so work with our distribution channel.
The second important point, I think we are starting to point is the behavioral issue. We
have learned in the health side and the loss side, -- you can always in how intense to
people health. People are irrational about their healthcare. They have both -- problems
with over optimism. I believe they'll always wait, they will stop smoking, but then don't?
And hence what Vitality does, it changes the incentives. The breakthrough Discovery show
which we found the -- pickability to driving, people have the same issue when it come to
driving, they are overly optimistic.
Most people believe they are good drivers. And somewhere in those slides that are
floating around, just follow me, I'll just go through it verbally. 80% of people believe they
are good drivers. Research shows only 30% in fact are. So people have the same over
optimism about driving as they do about health. And the same with health, that driving
badly is deadly. In fact, I think we showed 60% of accidents occurred through bad driving.
That can be avoided.
So our answer to this, could you take the Vitality science and apply to driving, could we
incentivize people to become better drivers. And I answer, yes we think we can. The third
piece of that puzzle which I've now lost completely, the third piece of that puzzle, which is
very, very important is the fact that in South Africa this is this telematics madness, tracking
vehicles because the project et cetera, this technology uptick that can be used and
therefore our view is if you could use our technology we would really grow this Vitality
platform.
And then finally the cost of fuel and the volatility of the fuel price. So that's an obvious
target of how do incentivize people. So you put those four factors together, we've quite

Page 23 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

FINAL

quickly realized we could mold in a sense, Discovery show on a very similar business
model to what we've done on the health side.
Instead of Vitality in the base, Vitality drive and incentivizing people to better drivers. And
that's really the impetus behind Discovery Insure. What we have done is in effect created
a piece of technology called DQ Track. Every single car we cover has it put into it. And in
effect you get a DQ score. So instead of vitality points you get a DQ score that checks
how you drive, your awareness, your vehicle safety and DQ is kind of drive quotient, but
IQ is intelligent quotient.
We trying to get people from bad drivers to become good drivers. And the fundamental
incentive is you get 40% discount of fuel in our partnership with BP. So the real idea
behind this is to get you to drive and more fuel discounted for us. And we believe that
very strong kind of reaffirming process is going to change behavior. And I think it will. If you
look at the actual product, that we have rolled out it's pretty extensive, around obtaining
about the collar of the business, we've rolled out a very broad personalized insurance
business. It covers households. householders, homeowners et cetera in addition to motor
insurance and the risk activity has been absolutely superb.

Bloomberg Transcript

But you will see if we get that is the -- has been tremendous over the first 12 weeks, you
can see the rate of new businesses has grown dramatic and the left hand side is about 1.2
million with the new business per day. In effect I think it's very gratifying on the right hand
side that people buying our products, are people who like Discovery products.
So the percentage of people who have Discovery Health, Discovery Life et cetera, kind of
piling up and that provides a very persistent quality client base. So to a large extent I think
in every respect Discovery Insure has kind of outperformed what we assumed. And when I
call out to another which looks almost impossible to work, when I call out to it to just give
you a sense of how this looks the technology of how it's operating, just to get a sense of - how many cars are out there and they're driving around. And we're checking them very
carefully.
Now I've also said this to you before you -- there we go. So we're now in looking at kind of
peak out of FY10, those are Discovery Insure clients moving around, some doing good
things some doing bad things. But it's important to maybe make the point and this is a
critical figure. I think we've actually done quite well. This is not about checking people. It's
about incentivizing better behavior like in the health side. It's not big brother trying to stop
you doing things. We're simply saying if you do the right thing you're going to get more
and more incentives.
What we did do, I think is on the -- is we got one of our staff to agree that we just check
him through a journey that he did. And he did pretty badly. You can see him moving
around. And all of the stuff is feeding, every single vehicle is feeding to us, acceleration
braking force, every singly piece of telematics is coming. So we consider those points.
He's going too fast. He's braking too hard, he's accelerating too much. So the DQ score is
sort of telematics is telling us in every single vehicle, what is going on. And this individual

Page 24 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

FINAL

had a good DQ score prior to yesterday. And his -- for the sake of this presentation he
sacrificed that we should appreciate.
But -- being that we built a very powerful capability that I think is complex from our
perspective but very, very intuitive to our clients. We're looking at one of the Chief
Engineers from Ferrari, from the Formula 1 team, a South African who is helping us work
through the telematics of understanding actually how you interpret these driving
telematics into better driving. So this really is for us, it's a start of a fantastic journey but
the -- I think is, has quite remained the same.
Let me end up then with the developing business as you see, a very strong new business.
I think early the traction is very, very strong. So I am wrapping up by saying that it has been
a great year. Our service business as you can see has grown in a very strong, rather
emerging businesses all profitable well-positioned for the future. And I am very [Technical
Difficulty] business. It's great potential there [Technical Difficulty]. And I think that has set
us up for strong growth and the exciting growth rate.
Thank you for listening. I have long winded. Thank you. Thank you.
So I will ask Ricky Farber, our CFO to come up and our executive team is here to take
questions. So will everyone ask please all kind of questions?

Bloomberg Transcript

Questions And Answers
Q - Analyst
Thank you, Mr. Gore. Mr. Gore, I am looking at the annexures, two tables in particular, at
the top respectively on page 14 and 15. The first one is new business annualized premium
income. And on page 15, profit from operations. Now I understand, they are not directly
linked, but there are also interesting analysis from the two of these tables.
I'm referring now to Discovery Health. We see that there is a 14% decrease in annualized
premium income. Therefore, all of that there was a 14% increase in group profits. This
therefore, suggests that each year as you do down in premium income, you'll make more
profits?
Secondly, -- yeah now. But there must be reason for it.

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Analyst
Secondly the last division is PruProtect. We see that premium income went up 28% from
the previous year, that group profit -- forgive me group loss, group loss increased 24%.
So the question there is why was then increased loss with a substantial 28% premium
increase. I have another question afterward please.
Page 25 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Sure, sure. Hi, this is Johnny, CEO of Discovery Health. He can just deal with the first one.

A - Corporate Participant

FINAL

[Inaudible].
The PruProtect components of it is also comparing different percentage ownership. As
Adrian said the previous year we owned 50% of the company. Now we own 25 -- 75% of
the company. So it's not comparing 100% like with like. The other component that Adrian
went through explaining is that the asset, we got a deferred tax asset which is shown
below the line. So adding the two together showed quite a good improvement in
PruProtect profits.

Q - Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. And Mr. Gore I will now turn to your balance sheet, or what used to be called
the balance sheet. On the page seven under assets, the heading the line financial assets
I've taken the total of the four items immediately below that, equity securities, equity
linked notes securities inflation and securities and total them up. Immediately beneath
that is the amount you've got in money market. I expressed one the money market as a
percentage of the total of the other four. And I noticed that for the last year the
percentage was 22.3 and it is now 27.1, suggesting that your investment team seems to
have some concern about putting more money into equities and other investments. Is this
a fair assessment of that -- of the increase in your money market valuation?

A - Corporate Participant
I'll answer that. Your analysis is one partially correct. The confusion is thus created for the
wrong reason. But because the numbers you are comparing include -- the numbers are
including policyholder and shareholder assets. So the policyholders make their own
selection and the numbers Adrian showed in the presentation were the policyholders. The
policyholders have over the period selected and it's not our investment to assume that's
the policyholders that's the policy have selected more and more equity as is shown on
the slide.
From a shareholder point of view the opposite is the case. You are quite correct as it
ultimately my team's decision and we have reduced the equity exposure over the year
and gone more in to money markets. Some of it's deliberate, the majority is a
consequence of acquisitions of Standard Life HealthCare.
And as we announced in the interim results six months ago, we sold off some of our
equities, about 800 million of them. And we took that money and used it in part to pay for
Standard Life Healthcare. In Standard Life Healthcare the reserves of that business are
sitting in cash. As with many insurers and particularly in the UK that's sitting in the money
market bracket. So that's the consequence.

Q - Analyst
Page 26 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

FINAL

Thank you. Just to clarify one thing, Johnny on these issues. I think it's was quite health
business, I think, the general reason check is -- you mentioned growth by 8% plus inflation
from the financial prospective. So the sum of the two, is to check you guys profit growth. I
hope it's clear.
I've lost these, Mr. Gore. Turning to page 18, there are two little tables. One headed post
acquisition revenue and profit, for the full year and also for the period during which you
had full ownership. The conclusion is that since you took over the profit has increased
under UK health from 60 to 84 million and the UK Life the loss has decreased from 32 to
21. Can I conclude that, that is a consequence of measures you brought in to right the
situation?

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Yes, you can. I'll be very grateful if you do it. That is correct. To be fair I think that our entire
-- I cannot say entire focus, I hope you know this over last 18 months on righting PruHealth,
and getting it right has been intense. So to my understanding I can say. yes.

Q - Analyst
Thank you.

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. Any other?

Q - Analyst
Hi, It's Mike Astetis from UBS. Just two questions if I can. Firstly, you deliberately didn't
mention sort of policy rate take up in Discovery Insure. Can you give us an indication of
what sort of monthly take-up rate or may be just the number of policies you got on the
books at the moment? Firstly.
And then the second one, in your commentary you mentioned sort of strict expense
controls in the life business and how that's had an impact on your margins and the unit
cost rate. In the EV, I don't see any significant assumption changes or particular expense
there and this is coming through yet. Can you just sort of clarify what you mean by that
expense at the moment?

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Sure. I think Anton Ossip, our CEO of Insure. Maybe he can give a sense of the new
business and this scale that you are achieving.

A - Anton Ossip

{BIO 6995541 <GO>}

So in the first 12 weeks we have taken on just over 2,500 of the new policies. And we're
significantly ahead of our business plan, instead of growing of our daily run rate every
single day.

Page 27 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

The initial expense... now as Adrian mentioned, the expense, particularly the renewal
expense assumption has been favorable. But we haven't taken that through into
assumptions in to the EV. So hopefully it will transpire into the future.

Q - Analyst

FINAL

Okay. Thank you.
Hi. Adrian, it's Richard Hirsch from Standard Bank. Now you seem to be -- about the UK
protection business and the accounting profits are good. But I see with the current
acquisition cost and admin cost, as sort of running at about three times the premiums you
collect every year. And that gap of about R$0.5 billion is funded by negative reserves from
prudential. Can you actually get that paid in cash to you so you can fund commissions next
year? Or do you have to continuously put money in that subsidiary?

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

No. We do get cash from Prudential in that process in this following model. I'll get Ricky to
elaborate on that. I think it's very important.

A - Corporate Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

I mean that commission as a matter of interest in the UK is pretty high. It's about two
times the premium. So that's why obviously that amount that you mention is about three
times the premium acquisition cost.
But that amount of acquisition cost is funded by Prudential. It's funded by some of the
positive reserves which match the negative reserves generated from selling those
protection policies. So there is no cash that we have to put in for that.

Q - Analyst
And have they put in these limitations on how much you can write new business?

A - Corporate Participant
No, they haven't. Because, I mean essentially we matching it against their annuity portfolio
which is an extremely large portfolio. So hopefully we do hit that cap.

Q - Analyst
Just following up on that, the South African write-offs, what's the current level cash
profitability across those two businesses?

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

You mean the generation of cash in Discovery Life?

Q - Analyst
Page 28 of 29



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-01

Yeah. And annuity based.

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

FINAL

Together with the capital bonds which are a central part of it, it's almost -- without
referring to almost cash breakeven. And we are kind of raising sufficient to not require
significant capital to be injected into those two.
And I was going to come back and tell you about the about the UK business, it's a very
strong world. I think we're excited that we have got through very quickly. I think there is a
lot of work to be done to get expenses levels down and to really get to maturity and
scale. And I think its performance has been quite remarkable. I think the quality we see is
remarkable. So I think we're excited about it.
I think in the case of -- I think you sound if you're still slightly negative that we are -- I think
the capital bond raising which we might accelerate should take care of that. Let me
remind as well that the capital impairment we spend a lot of time on that, ultimately
manifested in the -- item in the correction shares. The collective view of that is that we
recognized capital outlay where we can kind of grow rapidly, to see all these
opportunities, without recourse to other to outside capital. So were going to both of
those the capital bonds and the raising of that to continue to fund the business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Any other? I'm going to show that -- I think we're dragging out the time for everybody.
One more question we feel comfortable. Is there any?
Okay. I think we are done. We are all here for questions and all at any time. Let me just
once again just thank you very much for the time. I am sorry for the very long presentation.
We greatly appreciate. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 29 of 29

