Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

S1 2011 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

André Zeeman, Chief Actuary
Corporate Participant
Johan van Zyl, Chairman and Group Chief Executive
Kobus Möller, Finance Director

Other Participants
Analyst
Brian Mushonga
Michael Christelis
Mike Brown

Presentation
Mike Brown

{BIO 4704847 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Right. So ladies and gentlemen, I think we're all in the room. So we can get started.
I am Mike Brown from Investment Analyst Society. And we've been hosting today by the
Sanlam Group. This is their Interim Results for the Six Months Period Ended 30th of June.
And Sanlam as a Group I think we all know well. It's started in 1918, in fact was a mutual
society for most of the early years of its -- resistance at demutualized and list in the JSE in
1998.
Interesting, see just looking at the website that 2 million shareholders. In 1998, this is now
down to about 530,000 shareholders. But even so with that shareholders plus the
indirect shareholders holding securities in companies that Sanlam manages or was a
major shareholder in -- for instance even like Satrix, which has got 90,000 shareholders
and Sanlam is the major shareholder in Satrix. I think this Group probably has more
individual shareholders than any other company in South Africa.
But that's -- by. We had to hear about the results. And can I, on behalf of the society and I
think any other people to hear, I thank Sanlam for hosting us this morning and introduce
the Group Chief Executive, Johan van Zyl to address us. Thank you.

Johan van Zyl

{BIO 4080290 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Mike.
Page 1 of 26



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

FINAL

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It's a pleasure to announce our results for the six
months of the year. Thank you for being here and supporting us.
I'd like to introduce a few people and just welcome them in particular. We have some of
our Board members here. Our Chairman, Desmond Smith; our new Chairman of the Audit
Committee, Flip Rademeyer, who -- after an absence of a few years, I think four years
Flip, independent. So welcome and Ian Plenderleith, one of our key Directors and also
evolved in the UK business.
Then some of our extra members, Kobus Moller, Yvonne Muthien, André Zeeman and Ian
Kirk, the Santam share. They're all here to help with the questions. I think Ian also wants to
hear what we say about Santam. They've had very good results, ladies and gentlemen.
If -- the agenda today is, I'll start-up with the highlights and talk a bit about the macro
environment, talk a bit about the strategy that's delivered the results that we will share
with you. Kobus Moller then will give the financial review as -- and then we will -- I'll end of
with the outlook, a few priorities that we -- and issues that we would like to address. And
then we'll have sometime for questions where André Zeeman, our Chief Actuary will join
Kobus and myself here to see what we can do.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's start off with the highlights of the results. And I really -- if you really look at the results
I think -- we think we have done pretty well in the first six months of the year. And the
strategies are really working for us. And in spite of the tough conditions, I think we've
delivered a pretty strong performance. And looking forward, we have a very solid base, I
think from where to grow on and grow from.
The highlights in terms of the financial performance in the first half of 2011, certainly in
terms of earnings per share, net operating profit up 22%. As I've said in tough conditions,
with normalized headline earnings per share up 35%, which is a big number for us, given
the size of the business.
On a comparable business, our business volumes are up in total 11% to R55 billion of new
business for the six months. Net fund inflows up 72% to 11 billion, mainly on the back of
returning more money in the life business as in particular. But also doing well in the
investment business on the retail side.
Our net life value of new business up 18% to 333 million. Our value of new business
margin fairly flat from the previous year at very similar levels, 2.36%. As we've said earlier
this is what we think we can do in terms of margins going forward.
A Group equity value per share at the end of June R28.77 per share. It gives us a return on
Group embedded value per share on an annualized basis for the first six months of 12.8%
and on adjusted basis taking out the effect of the market. And one or two one-offs
particularly the issue on the STC that we will come and share with you later on. It gives us
a return from 12.6%, which is above the hurdle rate that we've set ourselves. The cost of
capital plus 100 basis points that we would like to outperform and we've done that if we
don't take them marked into effect.
Page 2 of 26



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

FINAL

I think one of the big things of the past six months and certainly looking forward to the
rest of the year is the macroeconomic environment. The business environment in which
we operate is not an easy one at this moment in time and particularly global we see
strong headwinds and have seen it.
We're in the midst of a sovereign debt crisis in Europe. We've seen natural disasters in
Japan and in the U.S. and elsewhere. We've seen high oil prices and growth slowing all
over in the developing areas, in the developed areas and also touching on what is
happening in developing markets. And all of this goes hand-in-hand with increased
volatility and uncertainty and more and more intervention and regulation playing a role in
our business. We think that is there to stay for the -- certainly for the next five or 10 years.
And this impacts on the key performance drivers of our business. The things that drive our
business is really the way particularly the South African economy behaves; how equity
markets behaves in South Africa in particular, but also elsewhere. What happens to
interest rates and what happens to currencies. And just to show you to feel this effect. If
we look at the economy, we've seen a little bit of growth in South Africa. But it's come
without employment and we need people to have employment, new consumers, new
users of our products to really move forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

Household debt still remains high in the middle income market and despite of low
income, low interest rates; the middle market is struggling. This is where we have the
majority in the bulk of our business here. And that's impacted negatively on us.
If you really look in the growth in retail sales, we've seen a little bit of growth. But as I've
said, the downturn that we see possess a risk for us for the rest of the year.
If we look at the equity market, I think this is positive. If we compare period-on-period to
the similar period last year, simply because the equity market is at much higher level.
Throughout this period the first six months of course, the equity market has been fairly
flat. You can see the numbers there slightly down in fact. But on average comparing 2011,
the first six months to the first six months of 2010, the equity market is 17, they all see up
17%.
And this provides a higher base from which we collect fees, which is an important source
of income. And where we make money within the Group. So this is positive for us. And
negative for us is the low interest rates in two ways. The one is if the return that people
get on their investment, the short-term interest rate is low. They do less of it. So there is
less savings. And we've just had savings month really looking at the low savings levels of
the South African economy and a big chunk and reason for this is the relatively low
interest rate that we see.
The second impacts directly also on the profits that we make in the business. We run
large technical reserves, operational reserves that we have in both Sanlam also in a
business like Santam, where we make money by investing these technical reserves and
giving the return on it from the interest rate.

Page 3 of 26



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

FINAL

The interest rate drops from 7.5% in the first half on average of last year to just about 6%
this year. It's a massive decrease. It's close to 20%. And we therefore earn 20% less
money of these reserves that we carry. And this is on the net investment returns. This is a
quite tough on us.
The third issue that is impacted on us is the exchange rate. Now, there are two effects
there. The one is the exchange rate effect from 2010 in the similar period what has
happened there, if we look at that period to now, the exchange rate change in that
period, the Rand has strengthened in several of the economies in which we operate on a
relative basis. So we had to run harder to just produce the same level of profit in these
areas. However, if we look at the valuation of the businesses, we have to look at what has
been happening in the last six months in that and there the Rand has weakened. So, this
has been a positive for us.

Bloomberg Transcript

But, by and large the exchange rate has been a negative on the earning side when we do
the comparative basis. Because an increasing part of our business is offshore, this has
been negative for us. I think, if we really look overall therefore and the environment has
been a tough one. And only the level of the markets actually been positive for us. But,
within this our strategy was really to still continue to maximize shareholder value and at
the same time gearing for growth. That's why we've keep on pushing into the emerging
markets of Africa and India as part of the future options for the Group and the lower end
of the South African market.
There is no change in this strategic focus on returns and really driving returns rather than
size or market share or these kinds of things. It is all about profitability and its the profit
and the growth in earnings that we achieve relative to the capital that we employed to
get it. And that is what we drive and this is how we are as a group is also incentivized to
perform.
Shown on the one hand, it is about growth, it is about the profit, it is about doing driving
efficiencies, diversification in more that same time base. On the other hand it's the
continuous drive in getting and becoming more capital efficient, optimal application
thereof, strategic investments which we will address later on and really using the excess
of the lazy capital in the business by applying at productively either to share buybacks or
other ways.
If we really look at this whole issue of diversification and the growth part, I think one of the
main stories there is if we just look at the value of new business how that is increased
quite substantially over a period of time and you can also see that how the contribution of
Africa and the other international sources, the UK and India in particularly is contributing
towards that. The South African market has grown by 12 to 13, 14%. The African market has
grown quite by well over 30%. And if we look at the combined rates, we've been able to
get a growth rate of close to 16, 17% on an annualized basis in new business.
The margins also increasing showing as we shift more business into Africa where we have
higher margins, the overall margin has been pushed up. This is in spite of the trend of

Page 4 of 26



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

FINAL

people to really do less things through insurance rep as in South Africa to be much more
flexible and where we've seen close growth in our business as in Glacier and so forth.
And you really look at the picture what we've been able and what we're driving on the
business is when we started in 2003 with this strategy, you can see we made a -- since
then we've more than doubled the profit and the size of the pie, but also the composition
of that pie changed quite considerably. It's much more diversified now and it's much more
resilient even with in SPF, where we have different focuses on different markets and that
sort of thing where its life insurance really creating much more resilience in tough times
like what we have now.
So this is a very pleasing picture but it does really describes the strategy that we've
embarked on and going forward there will be of course more of this.
If we look at growth and diversification, a new thing as you move along, you have to
change your management structures to really focus as we say structure follows strategy
and if your strategy is to do more in the areas where there is potential, you have to get
focus on those areas.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we've aligned our management structure and we're in the process of rolling that out,
and we've done the announcements and changed the reporting lines and things like that
and over the next two, three years we'll find and maximize the opportunity that we think is
being created through these new structures of ours.
Firstly in South African retail, we have one business. We've taken the SCM market
activities, Sanlam Sky Solutions, which used to be part of SDM and we've merged that with
SPF. First is a separate business and then over the next year or two, we'll look at the
synergies that can be derived by looking and doing -- looking at those business jointly.
There is really a time-centric approach there to have a journey for life experience, is a big
push towards getting rid of all these funny names and strange names as we bought and
invested in businesses towards the Sanlam brand in that area. And it's really about
effective management of the clients solution as needs in disposable income change. Its
also as the treaty of clients fairly regime in South Africa comes to play much more
important role in the regulatory part of things that we will all set in order to address that.
The second big change is this focus on the emerging markets outside of South Africa,
where Heinie Werth will take the responsibility for the emerging markets. With the rest of
South Africa and India will be managed in the separate cluster, really focusing on this.
Sanlam Namibia becomes part of it. And within this cluster we'll have much more of a
country approach, then similarly a functional approach. So Heinie will look at the broader
financial services, he will also look at credit, investments and range of financial services
that we provide. Because many of our partners here are composites. They haven't split
their businesses into life insurance, short-term insurance, credit and things like that. They
run their businesses as a composite and when we engage with them, it is hugely, it
creates a huge track and the relationship if they have to deal with three-four people on
what is often relatively small business in our terms. So this is really key for us.
Page 5 of 26



FINAL

Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

And we see this thing as a strategic future growth accelerator and therefore the renewed
focus and not putting it together with something else. But really as we get to size now to
bulk it up and to keep it separate. In developed markets really to have this much more of
an investment focus, so we provide investment solutions to the South African client base,
also offshore to augment what we -- our own clients and what we offer them with a niche
local footprint and to get scaled for efficiency that investment focus, so we've made that
part of our institutional trust of businesses. So we've moved Sanlam UK away from being
managed by SPF into the institutional trust. And we think this creates for us a new growth
platform from which to move forward, as we changed these structures and so we get
new ideas and new approaches that can take us to the next level.
One thing in the business and we're not driving and I've said this many times, we're not
driving things like market share and so forth. We really look at the bottom-line. And then
insurance in particular, a key driver of the bottom-line is quality of business, persistency.
Business that you write has to stay on the books until at least you can recover the initial
upfront cost and way beyond when you start making profit.
So this is a number that we've been monitoring very slowly. We've been giving you these
results in SPF in the middle and the higher end of the market. We've given you the value
of lapses, surrender fully paid-up.

Bloomberg Transcript

On a total base, remember the book also grew on this -- during this time. So this should
be on a percentage basis; it's actually I think even better. But if you look at the absolute
numbers, you can see how the persistency is still intact.
With the worsening economic conditions of the crisis in 2007, the persistency as you
would expect, deteriorated a little bit with value of lapses and surrenders and fully paidup, going up. And then since then with a massive focus on managing that how it's been
coming down. So we're very proud of that and I think at the core of experience variations
and things like that plus the persistency that we have.
A different way of looking at persistency is the successful retention of business as policies
mature. What do people do with it? Many do the reinvested and policies and so forth. Just
for interest sake, the average for the South African insurance industries about 20% of
maturing policies being reinvested. We now close to half of that being reinvested. And it
tells you a lot about clients being happy with the products willing to continue after policies
mature to have it. And a big function as of course management information system that
they allows you before policies to mature to really interact with clients but the other one
has also on the advice doing the right thing for the client, so the policy stays.
Of course, we should remember that people safe to use the money. So there should be
leakage and a lot of the money has been used elsewhere in the business. Summary at the
lower end of the market, Sanlam Sky Solutions in South Africa, the number of non-takenup policies, the lapses and surrenders as a percentage of in-force, you can see how that
pattern, how that number is dropping consistently meaning that the quality of the
business that we write is on the increase every time.

Page 6 of 26



FINAL

Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

There is only one way of increasing the average and that is consistently doing better than
the average. And if this is what we can see in the business. We didn't write as much
business in Sanlam Sky Solutions in the first six months of the year, simply because of this
massive drive in terms of quality creating additional hurdles for people to put business
with us and to make sure that the business stays on the books. And you can see the
negative effects of those if you don't do it. In 2007, we had a different way of selling it
and we saw that was the new solution going forward outbound call centers, I'm pretty
sure all of you would have received calls and somebody wanted to sell -- insurance or
something to you call there was a phone. And many people don't put down the phone,
they take the policy but you never get the first premium. We get it once and then the
thing lapses.

Bloomberg Transcript

And you can see what has happened there in 2007. That's when a massive effort went to
outbound call centers. When it didn't work and with the lapses increased of course we
immediately turned it down and managed those things out of the business and someone
else took it over and that business was taken over by someone else since then. But, it is a
key for us to really drive the issue of persistency. That drives the profit and that's why a
big reason not the only reason, but about of... I think a third of our profit increase in
Sanlam Sky Solutions in South Africa actually came from better quality business so and so
forth.
Okay. If we look at investment performance if you're on contractual saving of course you
have to perform investment-wise, you can see there of the rolling one year basis over the
last number of periods. We've in terms of more than 90% of the 300 billion or so that we
have in Sanlam Investment Management, the assets under management, the insurance
funds being part of this, where we've outperformed the benchmark. This is of course a
fixed benchmark, where we performed very well. We're not as good on some clear
running and open race where there is a variable benchmark, but we've done pretty well.
And if you extended to longer period, also the vast majority of that money we've
outperformed the benchmark. And that helps of course.
And we've seen big inflows of monies into particularly from the retail sector, when the
markets are tough, there is a return to the established brands and names and we have
been able to, I think benefit quite substantially from that. And there is a lot of market
recognitions, several awards; I'm not going to say too much about it, but sometime really
still the market leader by far, our contact centers where people phoning. These things
that we love to hate; the machines that we talk to and then eventually, getting through to
people. We got the Best Time Contact Centre award in South Africa; the best business
processing centre in the country, not any in financial services, but across the Board.
Kokkie Kooyman for the second year running, got the Financial Fund Manager of the Year
Award in the UK. Simeka got several awards on reports and whole range of other things.
Employee benefits business, I think has performed particularly well. Although we're not
happy with the level of service in that business yet and we keep on driving and lifting the
bar. The three major awards in that industry is all in one by our business lead with the last
award being awarded just recently in the week, the Umbrella Fund that the brokers and
also the principal officers awarding our business the best. Clearly for us, there is a lot of
work to do, but these awards and accolades really come.
Page 7 of 26



FINAL

Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

On the discretionary capital side which is the other side of the equation, a lot of it is on
the growth side of what we're driving. In terms of discretionary capital, we had a balance
of about 4 billion at the beginning of the year, we spend about 900 million or so, 944
million on share buybacks. On other corporate activities, net and so 17 million. Net
investment returns and added about 161 to that amount, which leaves us at -- with about
3.2 to use. Of this 3.2 we've committed to a whole range of projects, 2.4, which leaves us
uncommitted money now in terms of discretionary capital of around about 800 million,
which is the level we think we should run that in a business of our size. You should always
have a little bit of fair power and the way with that, we would like to use the money. We've
committed 1.9 billion to an investment in Shriram, we've agreed terms with them.
And over the next few months, we'll work on the regulatory issues to get the deal
implemented. That will give us a substantial chunk of not only the insurance businesses
within Shriram, but also in the other financial services that have in consumer and in
financing of small enterprise. So overall, a big chunk. And really looking forward the growth
in this amount of money will have to come from additional amounts, that we free up from
the life business.

Bloomberg Transcript

As I've already said, with the same process looking at capital allocated to insurers, and
banks, and the whole range of other financial services in South Africa. It would be
premature of us to just spin out a whole lot of additional capital here. So we don't expect
too much movement. Although we'll keep you informed of what's happening here on this
front.
If we look at the Shriram acquisition, just a few words on that. It's a big amount of money
that we're spending there, we don't think it is outside of the range of what we're bidding,
we're creating a big chunk of the future of the Group, we really impressed with the
growth potential of India, relative to the other areas that we play. So it's an investment in
the future. We... the conditional agreement has reached to acquire 26% of Shriram Capital
as a whole at the holding level. It is of course subject to regulatory in South African
Reserve Bank approvals and we'll work towards getting that. The transaction value is in
cash investment and we roll up our 26% interest in Shriram Life and Shriram General into
that.
On completion of the transaction, Shriram Capital will consist of about 21% of Shriram
Transport Finance Company, it's the biggest non-bank listed financial institution in India. So
we'll have a chunk of that. Shriram City Union Finance and the two insurance... the two
insurance businesses will be part of that together with the big part of the distribution. The
real rationale for this is broadening our financial service exposure in the growth market, it
is this investment in the future. And I think it's sharing in synergies close the corporation.
I must say, we've been working with the Shriram Group now for five years. And we've
been impressed by the way they do business. Culturally it's been an easy fit to work with
them, we've been in start-ups of an tough. They've consistently delivered on the
promises and mainly outperformed and mostly outperformed in terms of the agreements
that we've had and often on a handshake. And I must say we look forward to partner
them in their business financial services business going forward. We happy with the plans
and we would like to share. We think we can add some value particularly unlock in
Page 8 of 26



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

synergies between the two insurance companies and these -- the credit providers that
they have there in terms of insurance products and in terms of credit life things that can
be introduced over there.

FINAL

Having said that ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Kobus Moller, our Financial
Director at Sanlam to come and give us the financial overview. Thanks, Kobus.

Kobus Möller
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.
It's once again pleasure to share with you some of the detail of our results for the six
months. To start off, just a few comments just on the presentation, change in presentation
and some of the assumptions. You on refer to the change in the management structures,
we still present our results on the old structure and we will -- as of the end of the year for
the annual results started presented results in the new structure but in the back of the
book we actually gave you some indication or some of the key numbers respect on the
new structures or just for information.

Bloomberg Transcript

There were no accounting -- policy changes had an impact on the operating results and
they actually know real restatements as well that any material impact on the six months
results.
The one major change if you will see in the valuation is actually the elimination of the C
provisions in the value of their in-force in particular. It's R1.2 billion and it added to value of
in-force and the new withholidng tax would actually be in place before we pay the next
some of dividends. So therefore we felt its correct time now to exclude the provision. It
also added about R23 million to the value of new business written in the six months.
In the rest of this contract, we had a small increase in the rates since December. So that
added margin of negative impact on our valuations. But relative to last year in June, the
rates were actually down by 30 basis points. So that is going to have slightly positive
impact on value of your business and the margins that we show.
The overall results just in summary through equity value of 28 and 77, but it was a return
on an adjusted basis of 12.6%, relative to a target rate of 12.4. So we're comfortable that
we've achieved that. CAR cover remains strong at 3.2 times. And net operating profit up
by 22%, headline earnings by 30% on a normalized basis, headline earnings up 35%.
Our new business volumes, if we exclude the White Label business by 10%. And then net
front flows of R11 billion. And I'll come back with some detail on that.
And next few slides will cover some of the individual business in detail, some of the
highlights of individual business. And starting the Sanlam Personal Finance. New business
flows up by 7% relative to last year. It's combination of 12% increase in life business and
3% increase in investment business.
Page 9 of 26



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

On the Life side, we had a particular strong performance from the Glacier side of the
business. The MS affluent market business particular also we started the international
product that had a good sales for the six months period.

FINAL

On the investment side, you also will see that Glacier did very well, 15% increase inflows
on to the platform there. The Namibia deduction came from a very high base. Lot of that
is actually money market, low margin type of business.
Net flows increased to R2.2 billion, positive first both on the life side and the investment
side. And then the value of new business up 32%. But if you exclude the benefit of the
STC release. And on a comparable basis, the increase was 25% in very few business. So a
very good performance.

Bloomberg Transcript

Profit wise 18% increase from the businesses in some of those requirements on a gross
basis and 15% net. As you can see on the slide although components in that business
contributed to that result. On individual life side with positive risk, experience that offset
the negative impact of the lower interest rates on the flat income. Glacier that evolved on
the back of a higher book 17% increase of personal loans business and relative to June
last year that book increased from 1.5 billion to about 2 billion. So you can see the impact
of that coming through in the results whether at the same time, we had about a 30%
reduction in our provision for bad debts and the quality of the book is still very good. And
that was a help in the year, performance of -- quote year.
Namibia 22%, again very good trust performance that they've achieved. And then overall,
the equity value of the personal finance 25 billion, which is a 21.7% return on annualized
basis for the six months.
Sanlam developing markets, new life business, overall 25% increase, a very good
performance. On the South African business, you already referred to the fact that we've
actually sold somewhat less on the Sanlam Sky Solutions side, driving the quality of the
business there. We had a reduction of about 20% in the sales force in the process and
driving a better quality of the business, but the underlying business has performed very
well. Botswana, a good increase of 57%, a lot of that from single premium business,
annuity business and the rest of Africa also performing very well.
Net Life flows increased to R1.8 billion and this is the business that we actually look at
future growth performance and if you see the margin that we achieved amounted to 5%
in the summer of the last year, the 12 increase in value of new business.
Profit rise also good, six months period for SDM. 62% increase overall. You will see in
South Africa in particular substantial turnaround from the slow start last year for the fist
half, a medical that we had some negative bench experience in one or two of the
products there, that has turnaround and we see actually a few very good performance in
all the businesses in the South African side and this year that more than 300% increase.
The rest of Africa is more or less inline with last year, the few factors impact on the
performance of the rest of Africa, obviously we had the impact of the exchange rate
Page 10 of 26



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

FINAL

working against us and in terms of Rands. We are showing strong growth, so the new
business trend also impact on our results there. And then we have started businesses in
some new countries Uganda, Nigeria where we still incur some losses. So that is also
reflected in that number, so -- but overall we're satisfied with that performance all the rest
of Africa.
The Group equity value of these R5 billion and the return 27.9% on an annualized basis.
We exclude the SEC impact, it still a growth of about 25% out of our SDM businesses.
It's additional cluster flows, net business flows in the investment side more than doubled.
You can see in particular on the retail side, we had some good inflows and also in the
businesses out of Africa we've turned around the negative outflows that we had a year
ago, more still breakeven position on the life business team and in any business, the
employee benefit side, 37% increase in volumes both on the risk side and on the -business, single premium business.

Bloomberg Transcript

And pleasing on the net life business, EV although its still negative. We are turning around
the outflows and the money is -- the losses are getting smaller. Value of new business
relatively small but of our 44% at slightly higher margin than last year. Profit wise 18%
increase on a gross basis from the cluster and employee benefits being very well 50%
increase particular on the risk side, risk experience and it's good for the six months
period. Capital management -- results and it's more volatile the numbers there. So it's
more chunky. So we wouldn't expect that type of an increase every reporting period, but
they have done very well for the period.
On the Sanlam investment is a bit of disappointment to 9% on face value. They had some
lower performance fees during the period, if we exclude that from the numbers the
underlying business perform is actually inline with the growth in the average asset under
management. So also we're comfortable with also -- recorded. And Group equity value
return on an annualized basis 10%.
The short-term insurance, you have seen the Santam results. This include the -- results for
2010, so it's maybe slightly different from the numbers that you've seen from Santam.
Underwriting surplus, a very good performance 30% up at 8.5% margins. And you can see
the impact of this lower interest rates during the working capital where that is done by
13%, but a very good performance from Santam and the short-term insurance cluster.
So in summary all the business flows, 10% up and you can see that all the businesses is
contributed at 16% increase in the life insurance side, and also good performances from
investment. But in particular on the net flows, on stabling in our net flows to R11 billion and
all businesses is actually contributing to that with having positive net flows for the period
to value of the new covered business and the life insurance business. Net of minorities up
26%, again if we exclude the impact of the STC benefits up 18% and the margin inline with
what we've achieved last year.
Certainly operating profit up 21% with all the major businesses contributing to that, we
have seen the detail of that already. And if you look at the full income statement on the
Page 11 of 26



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

FINAL

cent per share basis, the operating profit of 22%, our investments returns of 54% and the
big contributor is actually the investment surpluses the mark-to-market of the capitals are
putting the large businesses and it will be benefit there from the exchange rate and as
some of our international investments in particular. The normalized headline earnings then
up 33% and on a cents per share basis 35%.
Our Group equity value R28.77 at the end of June or just lower than R58 billion. As you can
see in the slide personal finance is still by far the biggest business and institutional cluster
there are R12 billion. We show you the growth, return on the Group equity value of about
R3.8 billion and again you can see all businesses contributed to that on a cent per share
basis, return is 12.8% and on adjusted basis 12.6%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Just as look at the buildup of our Group equity value earnings, we have added the net
value of new business, the life business of R356 million. Our existing life businesses with
another R1.5 billion of which 230 million was positive experience variances, most of that
on the mortality claims risk -- experience and then we had a positive small positive of net
operating assumption change of R38 million, investment variance because of the lower
market and our assumptions is in minus 67 of in-force book with 1.2 billion positive impact
of the tax adjustment. And then because of the slightly higher risk discount rate a small
reduction as a results of economic assumption changes in the value. R2.8 billion, 2.76.
Return on net worth is 394 million.
So on the EV earnings, the life business we had a R3.1 billion return that's up by 21% return
on the non-life side just below 600 million return adding to the 3.8 billion. And then last
column we just give you an indication if we deduct or remove the impact of the markets
of the economic changes and also of the STC change the return is R3.7 billion, which is
more or less in lined with the actual return for the period.
In summary, we've added shareholder value of 12.6% for the period which is in line with
our target or slightly ahead of our target. We have shown some positive growth both in
the value of new business but also net flows and our operating profit. We keep on seeing
the increasing contribution made by the different growth markets in which we invest. Then
on the capital management side, while we've utilized R1.2 billion as you on set we now at
the point with the bulk of our surplus is actually allocated. And we will run a small float
going forward for those smaller part of transactions.
The last slide I want to share and that's the one that we like to show you every now and
again as we our performance over the longer term relative to our hurdle of the long one
trade by 400 basis points this is on accumulative basis since our listing in 1998. The
consumer rate line that we're outperforming that target quite handsomely. Then I want to
sent it back to you Johan.

Johan van Zyl

{BIO 4080290 <GO>}

Thank you, Kobus. As you can see ladies and gentlemen, the results were pretty good.
But, as we discussed at the Board yesterday, the management continuously wanted to

Page 12 of 26



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

FINAL

refer to the past six months the Board made a focus on the next six months, and the next
year or two.
Priorities for the year and for the immediate period thereafter is to really maintain the
performance that we have here, and we don't think that will be easy given the tough
conditions. In Sanlam Personal Finance, I think the main focus is really to establish our retail
growth platform in South Africa. And that is why we've combined the business, the old SPF
with the Sanlam Sky Solutions, where we've seen good salary increases to create
opportunities by really through in the front end we think there are opportunities and also
on the back end.
But really the focus for us is to get the sales growth there and to maintain the value of
new business margins. So it's not to grow by dropping margins, but through the
maintenance of the margin. I think the growth in profit is key there. We expect a slowdown
the performance relative to what we've just seen, simply because of the base effect
we've had a excellent second half of last year.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, the bar was quite high and that's what the comparison is from what we will have to
grow. So it will be tough in SPF to continue the growth, but we'll of course try our best. We
would like to leverage the combination of Sanlam Sky and SPF, to really penetrate the
mass middle market. We've seen tremendous growth again in the numbers of people
that are upward the mobile.
We would like to continue the focus on distribution growth initiative, you know to have
more feet on the ground, but not to indiscriminately just grow our distribution but to focus
on those pockets where we think there is value. And to be much more selective and
we've also earmarked to money on of the surplus capital that we have for investment
small or relatively smaller amount to really grow the business.
We would like to improve the collaboration within SPF and the wider Sanlam Group we run
what we call a Sanlam for Sanlam program to really make sure that we optimize the flows
also to in the investment cluster that we have the money that we administer within SPF.
And elsewhere we would like to build different businesses and get cross selling going
really.
We would like to continue the focus on transformation we now just about at the level of
6% of our -- or black within the Sanlam Group, I think given the base and were we a few
years back there is been steady improvement, clearly still a lot of room for further
transformation and really remaining the employer of choice in that area.
We would like to drive operation efficiencies in particular so it is everything that we do so
also do it cost efficiently. And we'd also like to respond to the regulatory requirements,
there is lot of that being thrown our way particularly in terms of the capital that we have to
keep for our main business, but also with future pick your clients fairly and whole host of
other things like regulation 28 and things which by themselves will have a massive impact.
But if you take the combined effect of these things it is a bit like flying an airplane in the

Page 13 of 26



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

dark, it is scary sometimes and then really one of the issues that we have to up our game
quite substantially to be able to response to that.

FINAL

We don't think this is a once off ladies and gentlemen. What's happening in financial
services worldwide means that governments will take a much bigger interest and how we
run our businesses and we'll have to get our act in order to be able to cope with the
change.
The new emerging markets business, that will be run by --. It is really now getting to scale.
I think we have the beach head in places like India and Africa and it's really now getting
those things to scale. To turn the potentially that we already see there and the profits that
are now coming through but to really to grow of that base.
So, it's really about getting done what we have continue to explore the further
cooperation with the Shriram Group where we now have I think have taken the next step
to really tie the knot with them and really moving into the broader financial services with
them. We would like to enter with some big later in the year as most of the agreements
have been signed there.

Bloomberg Transcript

We would like to focus on a few bolt-on transactions in Africa and really working with our
partners in the different countries to really get to scale. In many of the countries we have
scale in places like Namibia and Botswana and so forth, but we have to in place like
Uganda in particularly Ghana, we are getting things going. Tanzania we have to get to a
bigger scale. There are opportunities there and we would like to focus on a few bolt-on
Kenya in particular as well.
We would like to finalize spends for South East Asia. I think there is potential in places like
Malaysia, Indonesia and so forth. We would like to see what can be done there and we're
not in a hurry there. We already going but we really looking at opportunities. And we
would like to continue focus on organic growth of the smaller businesses to really get to
rebalance the portfolio to get them to make a bigger contribution to what is possible. And
if you take that one or two of the smallest countries in Africa, Namibia and Botswana and
you actually look at their contribution already to the bottom line of this business. I mean
the potential must be massive in places like Nigeria, Ghana, Kenya and the bigger
economies. We just have to up our game, we have first mover advantage in many of
these places, we're already the biggest. But we have to leverage of that base, and move
forward.
And E Benefits business, focus should really be to continue on the operational efficiency. I
think we've seen from the awards that we got there. We've upped our game substantially.
But we think there is a lot that we can really do. The flows are beginning to get in. We
have to continue to focus on the administration business. I think we already doing a much
better job. But we're still running the administration at a loss.
In the next year or two, we have to get to breakeven and we have to be able to do it
profitably. We can't simply say, we'll continue to run this sort of last leader. We have to
work with Sanlam for Sanlam program to enable synergies and improved access to clients
Page 14 of 26



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

FINAL

also for our other businesses. Particularly while still making a loss. There is a big
opportunity in the administration business, if you can mine that base properly through the
gatekeepers and involving them. So we'd like to really improve that whole part of the
business.
And then use technology to be dealing agent to deliver our operational efficiencies. We
still too people intensive in this part of the business, that leads to mistakes and it leads to
when there is churn of people coming and leave to things being dropped. We would really
like to invest a little bit in technology to get that going.
We would like to target new business in the Umbrella Fund I think we already have close
to 135 sort of members there and a business that we started about a year and half also
ago. We would like to the retirement front to achieve economies of scale. Our big clients,
where we have scale are profitable. It is in the large number of smaller clients where we
struggle to do things profitably.

Bloomberg Transcript

And we would like to target the corporate market with the consultants that we deal with
to increase the single premium flows into that. And I think they're particularly good
opportunities in the smooth bonus business, part of the opportunities there with the
unions in particular to really work. And what is nice about those flows into the business as
we get a margin, but we also get a second bite in the cherry within the asset
management business.
On the investment sides of it, it is really operational performance that we have to do. The
first object however is to deliver investment performance consistent. We say here up a
quarter, I would even say consistent superior, it's above average medium, above the
medium-term, long-term investment performance across all businesses.
We quite close to that and we've change the model not to take massive risks. So that we
take small steps around wide range of things. To create more focus in that business over
the last number of years we've added a whole lot of businesses. We had 20, 22
businesses in the investment space. We've now lumped in together create more focus to
get the synergies out.
And to do the -- get the growth in a more disciplined manner, not simply because we
became bigger, but because it's more profitable and better for us. So the enhancing of
operational efficiencies really around people, technology and these things are critical for
us. It's really leveraging of the strengths that we have that we have and the ability that we
have, we have a massive pool of assets that we managed for the life company and it's
how do we use that capacity that's been created to leverage that into the private clients
base into the situations base by doing in the third participation things like that. And we
also now have a footprint of investment partners. The Sanlam International Investment
Partnership and the Sanlam UK that we've now added to this where we can provide
opportunities for people in Asia we can provide opportunities in Western Europe, in the
UK, in the U.S. through the 10 or 12 businesses that we have in ship. And how do we
leverage those things to really make it work for our clients and then for us as well.

Page 15 of 26



FINAL

Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

So, and Sanctum I think the trick there is to continue with the very good performance to
continue with that leadership position that they've established in the South African market.
Of the 20% market share in the business I think the next two or three players together
have listen them. But it's how do we retain that in terms of market share, in terms of
financial performance and market share of the profitable business in short-term insurance.
The trick is about saying no to business rather than yes. I think that's more important and
really to get that brand positioning and leveraging of it and I think Ian and his team has
done particularly well over the past number of years to deliver good value for us as the
main shareholder in that business.
It is about focusing on the growing and diversifying book of business through not only
focusing on the intermediated channel I think where they will intrenched really as a market
leader, but they also bringing on board my way and in that direction on to really optimize
the synergies that we have. And without throwing out the intermediated model we think
that will be a key driver of our business into the future.

Bloomberg Transcript

But how do you do more, how do you develop the relationships? And if we don't do it
someone else will just come and take that away. That is to continue the operational and
the capital efficiency I think there is a lot that's being done in Santam around those issues.
They're differently a leader there and then re-engineering the underwriting capability
across diverse distribution channels, geographies that they deal in and so forth. And really
optimize the claims part because often on the sales parts you good in short-term
insurance.
But I think a huge amount of sterling work has been done on optimizing claims and how
that pans out. Of course often that is where a whole lot of the linkages occurs through I
think a whole range of unethical behavior, or simply wastage. And we try to optimize the
opportunities in that space.
So, ladies and gentlemen let's return to the outlook. Let me say that we think the results
for the first six months were excellent. We think it will be hard act to follow though in the
second half simply because the benchmark from which we measure the second half
performance of last year is so much -- was so much higher than the first half. But secondly
because the environment is tough.
So if we talk and look about environment, we think the uncertainty and volatility in global
financial markets won't go way. We think there will be increased measures by government
to really get the economy growing. So, we're not overly pessimistic. But we don't think
there will be miraculous return to growth. It will be a steady and a long and a hard droll
and maybe a bit longer then most of us actually think.
So slow economic recovery we think is the best case scenario over a period of time. And
we've set up the business for that. We don't want to take massive risks. We would like to
continue what we've done over the past few years. We see risk eliminating from
particularly developed economies which in our mind create an opportunity for Africa. And
we've seen many publications and cries of Africa, Africa's time has come. We will place

Page 16 of 26



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

FINAL

there we think similarly of India that's why we're investing money into these places from a
South African base which we don't want to abandon.
And increasingly in the business environment we continue the regulatory changes And it's
not a South African thing to say but these things happen in the UK they happen in India,
they happen in Africa. And we maybe at different points of with in this curve of change.
But we think it's a part of life of operating in financial services in savings particularly in prebenefits in those areas.
And we giving up also for handing this continue change I know in our industry it's a long
term industry, it's not easy to handle those things, but we differently giving up to be able
to handle those things much easier. And one of the big things on how we handle that is of
course in the increased diversification of our businesses to have many geographies there
not to only have life insurance but to have short-term insurance, to have savings, to have
investments, health products, credit exposure, property a whole range of these things.
And if you look at that drive that we've had towards diversifying the business we see
much more focus on diversifying that. Of course the core of what we do is a insurance
business, and we would not like to abandon that, but we would like to add the other
things we have a big client base that became really work from.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the low income market we've been lucky and to the extent that in South Africa in
particular we've seen high real wage increases in the increases in the unionised sectors
that provides a definite opportunity. We have seen growth in our profitability there. We
didn't grow our distribution footprint. In fact we shrunk it because of the focus on quality.
But we think there are other ways of getting back in there. And getting the growth that is
required. If you look at the profit growth, and we would certainly expect this market where
the profit that we make that should grow by in excess of 20% per annum. So we'd really
like to push this.
And again not across the board trying to do just what everybody does. But to focus on
those profitable opportunities that we see out there and they are several of them. So
we'll be pursuing them. In the middle income market, we see salary increases more inline
with inflation. We see the needs to reduce debt. We see the need to increase savings and
certainly in some people who run the deficit in terms of the cash flow within the
household don't have the opportunity.
Other people particularly those with equity in the mortgage bond in their house. They do
pretty well and that is the market that we focus on being a relatively mature insurer being
not as sexy in the good times as some of the others, but being much more stable. We
don't see too many of our clients being in financial trouble and we would like to leverage
of that.
We also see in these tough times of volatility when people lose money that they much
rather place that money with what they perceive safe hands. That's what our logo stands

Page 17 of 26



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

FINAL

for you see your future safe in our hands. And we see a lot of what we perceive as flight
to quality in these tough times.
So this is where we really driving it. And we are a big part of our business model is
focusing on. Not over promising but really getting the growth. Then the high part of the
market, particularly our glacier market and also on our private investment market, there
we less constraint by income growth, it's really tapping in those pools of wealth that there
is. We've seen partial recovery in the net wealth, people are again pushing for quality.
There is still high leverage out there in the market and there the benefits get from growth
getting new clients on board forming new relationships. And that is working well for us.
So to summarize really in the remainder of 2011, what do we see different second half in
terms of difficult second half in terms of the economy a higher part from which to
perform. But we convince ladies and gentlemen that the strategy that we have in place,
the diversification, the people to execute are really in place that we can deliver on the
performance targets. And like pretty we set high targets for ourselves. And I'm pretty
sure that we'll be able to deliver on that.
That brings me to the end of the formal presentation. I would like to invite André Zeeman,
our Chief Actuary to join myself and Kobus Möller, Financial Director here on the stage to
answer some questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

Questions And Answers
Q - Mike Brown

{BIO 4704847 <GO>}

Ladies and gentlemen, the order of proceedings now. There is a roaming microphone
here just put your hand up -- so get the microphone, introduce yourself ask the question.
And we'll start with the room here then we'll get some phone lines if there are questions
from there we'll look at the web and then we'll end up with some questions here from the
room again.

A - Johan van Zyl

{BIO 4080290 <GO>}

Alright, let's start. Any question? I hope we've been very clear.

Q - Mike Brown

{BIO 4704847 <GO>}

Question here.

Q - Analyst
Thanks -- I'm referring to the section group financial review on page 20. In the center of
the page under net fund flows investments. These is three items there where the
comparison with the previous year reflects massive differences. What is the background
to those differences and specifically why should retail have show a 40% increase whereas
institutional has gone from 1.8 billion nearly to a negative 209 million. And non South Africa
has gone from a negative 2.9 to a positive 11 million.

Page 18 of 26



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

A - Johan van Zyl

{BIO 4080290 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. Those are very specific questions. I just wanted to say in terms of the retail changes
that we have seen over there. We've had a big focus on profitability in the business. And
in the retail market you make so much more basis points of the money that you do, you
do the administration, you get much higher fees for the asset management that you
actually do and so forth much more than that.
So, we've put a massive focus on trying to get the retail to grow. And you can see the
results of that and part of there those figures. The institutional money that's gone
backwards there is because of the chunkiness if you get one or two clients that may, that
remove their money or through particularly I think and this is in the cash market where
we've lost some money because of the changes that we've seen over there. It is fairly
chunky, and therefore really two clients can have a massive influence on what happens
there. In Africa in particular I think the positive Botswana result and the big inflows there
has turnaround the fund flows Kobus gives us the...

A - Kobus Möller

Bloomberg Transcript

I think it's big part of the answer is drunkenness of the business I think in particular on the
international side we had some big out flows a year ago. I think that things has turned
around which you can see it's actually flat now for the six months period. And what Johan
has said is correct. I think with the emphasis on particular a private client business is also
not lead different investments used in the retail side there with some good in flows and
some good retentions as well on the funds.

A - Johan van Zyl

{BIO 4080290 <GO>}

So, a lot of that is part of the strategy. We'd have liked of course to have all the numbers
up substantially but thank you for the question. Another question?

Q - Analyst
-- from Standard Bank. Now bond yields are falling quit sharply since June and it's not
totally infeasible as we're going to go to below 7% on long debt at bonds here. I am just
trying to think what is Sanlam doing in terms of firstly product design? Are you preparing
yourselves to be able to sell products in the loan stream environment? And then secondly
what are you doing to hedge the current maturity guarantee reserves and other sort of
risks that are inherent in your book.

A - Corporate Participant
First one say it's not our view that bond rates will necessary go down seven and stay at
that levels because we already seeing inflation picking up in South Africa and with
electricity prices and the rand probably weakening a bit. It's we didn't see inflation 4% and
lower for the net year or so. But even on a level of 7% wouldn't really have a big impact on
our investment guarantee reserves. Our highest roll-out rate is around about 4% that
won't impact us a lot.

A - Johan van Zyl

{BIO 4080290 <GO>}
Page 19 of 26



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

FINAL

On the product design and so I mean if you look at ourselves you have seen the single
premiums we have done pretty well. We've had got sales of guaranteed type products
going forward. And single premium guaranteed products in the retail space. And we
would see that continuing. So we've done, already done a lot of the work on that. We
really think that the interest rate environment is a tough one in which to operate. So, as it
becomes a little bit more tougher, we'll do more of what we really have.

Q - Analyst
Right.

Q - Michael Christelis

{BIO 15233664 <GO>}

Hi. I am Michael Christelis from UBS. Two questions if I can. Firstly, if you just talk a little bit
about persistency and the assumption changes you made to the EB this is now another
time that we're seeing a negative change despite this fact that you are getting positive
variance so I mean are this specific products that are problematic and therefore you feel
and need to strengthen your assumptions or am I missing something, right?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Corporate Participant
Okay. The persistency assumptions is adjusted every period to what we see in the
different books and it's the effect that you see in the numbers is the average a lot of
products. We haven't seen actually seen big chances in persistency as such. So, the
number it's a capitalized number so it's actually very small number. But where we have
seen some effect is on retirement annuity business in the past it was not this is wasn't
able to switch out of the policy ones that in there. But over a year so ago they allowed
Section 140 funds for this. And we do see some of that out of the retirement annuity
books. And we adjust before that but I saying overall context, the capitalized value is quite
a small number.
So, certainly, if you take the size of our annuity book, I mean the changes there are really
manicure. So...

Q - Analyst
And the second question just on SPF risk market. I see the administer of grow your risk
premiums quite nicely in your business yet. I think your competitors are all struggling in
that space. Can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing in the market at the moment
individual risk business?

A - Johan van Zyl

{BIO 4080290 <GO>}

The individual risk business it's a tough market there. I mean rates have been coming
down over the past 10 years certainly on a constant basis and it is a very, very competitive
market out there. And our own approach has always been that we don't chase market
share, but we ride business profitably. So we focus on those segments within the market,
I've already explained that over the past number of years.

Page 20 of 26



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

FINAL

Where we think we can add value and as being a big insurer we use our own risk
experience three to price the products what we think really competitive there. In some of
these risk categories we simply not competitive and we don't try to be clever there or
ride business that will give us business. But which will be loss making over a period of
time. So we pause on those opportunities and allow our competitors to take their own
profitable business.
We retry and focus on the profitable pocket. So we don't see that subsiding, it is a very
tough market out there and we don't see massive margins for new risk business being
written, even within our business, André.

A - André Zeeman
Yeah, I totally agree, I think it's important for us to play in that space and to be as
competitive as possible because I mean we need to provide the range in some. But that
particular, the risk margin is South Africa I think the margins are very tight and I don't there
is a lot of scope for us to do more there.

A - Johan van Zyl

{BIO 4080290 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Incidentally if you met many of the analyst that made comparison between the rates in
South Africa for risk for whole of life for life policies and then for term policies I often think
we getting it wrong in South Africa. If you look at life policies in the UK for instance, the
rates are substantially higher than what we offer in South Africa given our health support
system here and even the lower life expectancy.
We offer rates at close to half the value of what people in the UK get, and we often offer
at term policy levels these things. And we see going forward certainly some changes in
what we regard as an unsustainable situation at present in South Africa.
Question there at the back, and then mic here.

Q - Analyst
Andrew -- Capital. When you are talking about Santam, you indicated that you want to
extend the leadership position in South Africa. I just wanted to ask in terms of the
investment in Shriram which is a fairly substantial non-life insurance business. Does your
relationship with Santam going dependently in terms of strategic opportunities in terms of
growth? And can I just ask you another question related to Shriram in terms of that almost
2 billion investment is I know what your hurdle rates are in terms of your opportunities, in
terms of investing new discretionary capital et cetera. Can you give us an indication of the
timing of the profile in terms of returns that you'd expect from that investment?

A - Johan van Zyl

{BIO 4080290 <GO>}

Yeah. I think clearly Santam has minorities and whatever we do Santam has to be a down - I mean we would like to do certain things but we have a very I think strong governance
process in place. Wherever there are dealing between Sanlam and Santam that we have
an independent board committee particularly signing off on what is agreed. And so I just
Page 21 of 26



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

want to make that point. So with the country although we regard them as a subsidiary,
many of the decisions are taken by Santam in terms of partnering us and so.

FINAL

What we have agreed, upon in principal is that opportunities created by Sanlam will be
available for Santam and vice-versa and as we see opportunities in each other space we
rather collectively participate and quite particularly in places we relatively small players to
get to scale and so forth.
So the whole Shriram agreement and we will go forward is in that spirit on what is best for
the two groups being decided on independently. And in this particular case the original
investment in Shriram was made by Sanlam with an option available to Santam. And they
will convert that into a different instrument that will given them the value that is consumer
to the effort and the value of that is being created in that business as being negotiated by
ourselves and being agreed on independently with fair and reasonable sort of statements
and things that come along that chain.

Bloomberg Transcript

But it is -- and I'm pretty on that by working together we can do so much better and by
entering these market by ourselves. So, that is the absolutely critical. And coming to the
second question on Shriram in particular what sort of scope and sort of issue that we
have? You will see that the investment that we make into Shriram, Shriram the big listed
entities where the real values sets and what we're actually buying into by spending the
money. Trades at a PE of around 12 or so the historic PE there. Clearly with the 20%
growth that we've seen in profitability in that market. And that we expect for the next two
or three years that will come down quite substantially.
So, the environment in which we expect for our money to be returned. And that we will
get some sort of contribution from Shriram is not massively long. In fact it's fairly
immediate. We don't expect though to really repatriate a lot of the dividends over the
very short-term from Shriram. We'd like to invest that into increased growth as I said. We
see the Shriram investment as an optionality to really create scale for us three-four years
from now when we run out of growth opportunities in South Africa. And we have hard
listed a lot of what is available in Africa already. So it's an investment farther in the future
but not ten years way.
Hence, the discount rate that we use for businesses like that is in the it's mature
businesses they listed and so forth, is in the order of 16-17%. And we easily clear those
returns for that investment. What is interesting though is when you -- when we go to India,
they often question us because they have a much lower discount rate or risk free rate
than what we have in South Africa. They often question us on why we use these huge
discount rates for India and they regard as well of course we say we regard the place as
risky or so. And then they rather view us as risky. And it makes for an interesting debate
when you start arguing a process and things that is appropriate.
Bur certainly in terms of the hurdles and so forth, I'm pretty convinced that the investment
in Shriram will yield certainly handsomely the hurdle rates that we applied to South African
businesses and using South African money. And that's really what this is about. And we
won't have to wait too long either for that to realize.

Page 22 of 26



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

Another question, Mic?

FINAL

Q - Analyst
Thanks Johan. -- Just on dividends I know your policy is to only have one dividend a year.
So you can get away with an interim presentation without talking about dividends. So we
could get you to talk about it. I see your Board back shares during the first half about
R944 million if I remember rightly, there might be a school of thought that says perhaps
you could have paid that to shareholders as a dividend? And you also seeing with quite a
lot of capital on the center. I think -- so the small number but I think its about 800 million
which is not small change, just take us through your thinking why there is only one
distribution a year in terms of dividends and if that might change in the future?

A - Johan van Zyl

{BIO 4080290 <GO>}

I think you alluded to us when you introduced us to say that we have the largest number
of shareholders of any listed South African company. And that presents a problem for us.
At present group is we just have over 500,000 shareholders which is half a million. When
we mail our annual reports, we stop the post office there for about three few months,
they do nothing, nothing else.

Bloomberg Transcript

Sanlam office, post office -- is that. It's a massive logistical exercise to just get these things
up. And once we've paid the dividend, it takes us around eight months to really sort out
and re-balance and make sure that everybody gets there money in the right way. So, it's a
massive logistical operation.
And if we were to split that, last year the dividend was around R1.15 a share. Most of our
shareholders only hold 270 shares, that's the sort of mode of the shareholding. So, it's a
small number of people and that really makes, within affected. We've tried various ways
of interaction with JSE. Of course the biggest bulk of various shareholders, people actually
investing in the JSE are presented by ourselves they don't like to see they are diminished,
so it does create a problem.
But we like these people because they're also policyholders. And therefore I think it's a
logistical thing. The cost of just -- the distribution cost of the dividend is in the order of
about 20, 30 million. So it's a substantial cost. So, if we were to debt repay that, it's simply
not efficient, it is not efficient.
In terms of our thinking, in terms of the dividend and why the share buyback rather than
the special dividend. So, I think we've said that we've had STC leakages, and things like
that in the past. We preferred adding value and we've consistently through the buybacks
returned something in the order of about 16%, if you look at the period in which that held
buyback program took place.
Going forward of course we have less capital, but right now the 800 million is a big
absolute number. But I can't see anybody running the business, a business of our size
without some having a -- it would be a tough day for us if opportunities do come along
and they do come along every now and then.
Page 23 of 26



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

FINAL

And we don't have the money to actually quickly, moving that, that is less than 2% of our
market cap in fact about 1.5. And it is a price that we pay. And particularly the
management level, as we measured on returns. Capital that aren't applied well. And as a
massive drag on our bonuses and things like that. So we're very aware of the need to get
that capital to perform.

Q - Brian Mushonga

{BIO 16209522 <GO>}

Brian Mushonga from Credit Suisse. Good morning

A - Johan van Zyl

{BIO 4080290 <GO>}

Hi Brian.

Q - Brian Mushonga

{BIO 16209522 <GO>}

Just a few questions. The first around Shriram, I just want to find out if the Shriram Group
itself pays a dividends and what sort of dividend yield would you expect on your 1.9 billion
and seeing as your already at the 26% threshold what would you do with the money, so
you can't sort of -- would you invested outside of Shriram in other ventures in India? And I
guess another question around Shriram is within the Shriram Life any insurance we use to
have operational involvement will this be the case with Shriram Group and are you
comfortable with it?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Johan van Zyl

{BIO 4080290 <GO>}

Just on the level of dividend payments and so Kobus will just answer that. And
operationally we will be involved in all the business of Shriram or we will have observed
that is at the different boards even of those where we don't have a contribution. Nothing
however would change in terms of operational involvement in terms of Shriram General
Insurance where we will keep Santam in. And Shriram Life Insurance where our own
people will end. Yeah, I think it's absolutely critical in terms of the synergies that we see
from this business going forward, to be able to do that. At the Board level we will have
representation and then we will have observed the status at the credit institutions. Of
course that's where we have to unlock and keep on working with our partners to unlock
value. So we will in fact keep what we have and expand on that in terms of preparation on
operational responsibility.

A - Kobus Möller
On the dividend I think I already referred to. If you look at the different businesses in the
Shriram Capital Group, all of them are actually fast growing businesses with their own
capital requirements, the life insurance companies but also the credit companies. So at
the moment the bulk of the profit will actually be reinvested into those growth
opportunities -- entities. And we come to see that happening for the foreseeable future
as well. So we don't actually rely on any dividends coming out of that structure for the
moment. We move in that if you reinvest to build up the capital requirements of those
businesses.

Q - Brian Mushonga

{BIO 16209522 <GO>}
Page 24 of 26



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

Second question in the original announcement this morning you mentioned you bought
shares between the 22nd of February and the 30th of June. Was that a type or are you
buying shares now in closed period?

A - Kobus Möller

FINAL

We don't buy shares in closed periods.

Q - Brian Mushonga

{BIO 16209522 <GO>}

On the 22 February?

A - Johan van Zyl

{BIO 4080290 <GO>}

That's a small number that got booked over

A - Kobus Möller
That may actually be --

A - Johan van Zyl

{BIO 4080290 <GO>}

If we just get the --

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Corporate Participant
No I think we don't those views. I think that's your answer. If that might be in -- because we
actually just bought, we buy within the open periods. Okay. There is no buying in fact since
let's say June we didn't buy anything. Often there is a small issue in that you're buying
that 29 so the 30, I think we've rectified that thing. But the transaction takes place on that
day But it takes a while to finish that administration. And that's often where you get a little
bit of that. But we don't buy in close periods.

Q - Mike Brown

{BIO 4704847 <GO>}

Anything else ladies and gentlemen? Thanks so much. Anything from the phone lines?
Nothing. Anything from the web? Great. It's been clear.
The last question from here. That leads me then ladies and gentlemen with been
thanking you for being here. Thank you for the support. Thank you for sharing I think the
great set of results. I hope we don't disappoint you in the next six months. It will be a
tough six months. Certainly in the economies looking too great. But as I've said we will set
the structures are in place. I think there is enough scope. And strategically the route that
we've embarked on is really one is performing well in tough times. And we need these
tough times to differentiate our -- that appears. So we look certainly forward to the tough
times and to seeing you six months from now. And being able to share again a great set
of results. Thank you for being here.

Page 25 of 26



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2011-09-08

Page 26 of 26

