Admiral Group PLC Interim Management Statement Conference
Call

FINAL

Company Participants
David Stevens , COO
Henry Engelhardt, CEO
Kevin Chidwick, CFO

Other Participants
Adrienne Lim, Analyst
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Andy Broadfield, Analyst
Andy Hughes , Analyst
Chris Esson, Analyst
James Pearce , Analyst
Marcus Barnard, Analyst
Paul Goodhind, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Peter Eliot, Analyst
Unidentified Participant, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Good day. And welcome to the Admiral Insurance conference call. Today's conference is being
recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to your host today, Mr. Kevin
Chidwick. Please go ahead, sir.

Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Good morning, everybody. It's Kevin Chidwick here, the CFO of Admiral
Group. I'm going to talk about our IMS today for about five to 10 minutes. And then take as many
questions as people would like to pose.
If you are not already aware and don't have it in front of you, then you should know that there are
some slides to accompany this call which are on our website, which is a mini pack of the same
slides we'll be presenting to our investors and analysts later on today. So please, if you can get
access to those, go ahead and take a look at them. And that will explain some of the points I'll
make in the next five to 10 minutes.
So let me start by saying that what we're saying to the market today is based on what we know
about claims development in the Third Quarter of this year. We're expecting to report our profits
for 2011 up about 10% on 2010, which is lower than the analysts are currently expecting our
numbers to come out at. And we are disappointed and sorry to have to be saying that.
We are clearly concerned about the development of large claims in the Third Quarter. And we
have taken some action as a result of what we've been seeing. And I'll talk a bit more about that in



a moment. But first to say that the development of large claims in the Third Quarter means that
our H2 earnings are projecting to be lower than the H1 earnings.

FINAL

And I'm going to take you through now some of the other news from the Third Quarter before I go
on to talk more about claims development patterns and what we're seeing.
So if I start with the other news, which is on the third slide of this -- sorry, the fourth slide of this
pack. Our turnover grew in the Third Quarter by about 3%, which means that we're growing now at
an annualized rate of about 13%, which is significantly slower than the growth we were showing in
the last 18 months, which was in the 30s.
We raised our rates in the Third Quarter. We raised them, which is against the market, which seems
to have dropped its rates in the Third Quarter. So we're clearly raising rates ahead of the market.
Overall, our turnover at the end of the Third Quarter was up about 30% on the same turnover for
the Third Quarter last year. Most of that growth, of course, is driven by what happened in the
previous nine months, not necessarily in the quarter itself.

Bloomberg Transcript

And in the Third Quarter, our ancillary income line performed pretty much in line with the way it had
done in the first half of the year. That is to say that the ancillary income per vehicle was pretty
stable.
So all of these things are in line with what we said we were going to be doing when we talked
about the half-year results back in August. So there shouldn't be really any surprises in any of that
news. But the one thing that is different, clearly, is the claims development that emerged in the
Third Quarter. Now I'm going to go on to talk about that in some more detail.
It wasn't in line with what we expected. We saw more large BI claims in the Third Quarter. And what
I'd like to do is talk a little bit about how important those large BI claims are to our overall numbers.
If you look on page six of this pack, you'll see two pie charts. They show the split of claims in the
Admiral book between -- one showing the volume of claims by size. And the other one showing
the value of claims by size. And you can see from these pie charts that we're now in a position.
And this is a position that's emerged over the last few years, that more than 50% of our claims are
coming from just 2% of our volume.
And if you look on the next slide, on page 7, you can see that the large claims, the ones that I want
to specifically focus in on today, which are the claims that are more than GBP100,000 in value,
make up roughly one-quarter, just over one-quarter of our total case reserves. And that's a trend
that's been moving up over quite a number of years, as you can see from these graphs.
And so roughly one-quarter of our outstanding claims reserves are made up of these very large
claims. And if you look at the numbers at the bottom of this slide, you'll see that the vast majority.
And in fact in the case of the 2011 year, only 1% has actually been paid. So the total -- virtually all of
it is still outstanding in terms of claims. And there's no paid pattern to refer to yet. So these are a
relatively small number of claims that constitute a very large proportion, or a significant minority of
our outstanding claims.
And they are volatile in nature. If you look at the next slide on this pack on page 8, you can see
how volatile they can be. And this slide is looking at the Admiral data for a number of underwriting
years from 2001 to 2009. And it's taking the case reserves as they will be -- as they are at the end
of 24 months of development and indexing them back to how they got to that point.



FINAL

And so if you imagine that they all finished at the same point, you can see that they all took very
different journeys to get there. And indeed, the journeys are very volatile and very unpredictable.
And we are effectively for the 2010 and 2011 years on a path towards that journey. And they will
take something of a volatile journey to get there.
And that's not just true for Admiral, it's true for the whole market as a whole. And if you look on the
next slide, which is now slide nine of this mini pack, this data is for the market as a whole for their
large claims and how those patterns change.
And the important -- I think the interesting data on this slide is the thing that's circled at the
bottom, which is the level of inflation that we see in these very large claims, which is itself very
volatile. So you can see on the data at the bottom that recent inflation rates have been 1.7%, 17.5%,
12%, 1%, 18%, minus 10%, 18%. So it's very, very volatile. And large swings in either direction.
So the picture I'm trying to present is that Admiral is not immune to getting large claims, of course.
We get more than our fair share of them because we do tend to write a book with a slightly
younger bias to it. But the market as a whole would expect to see volatility in large claims. And
we've seen some volatility in 2011.

Bloomberg Transcript

And we've seen a bit more, a few more of these claims in the Third Quarter than we would have
expected to see. And that means that we have to extrapolate from there to a view that says
they're going to develop into a higher loss ratio outcome than we had expected.
That's the picture on large claims. But in terms of why that's going on, the next few slides try and
talk to that point. And on slide 10, we would say that it's not the case that we're writing a more
risky book and therefore this is the reason why we're getting more of these large claims.
Our portfolio mix, as you can see from the -- we've highlighted three components of our portfolio
here which tend to be the riskier segments; non-comprehensive policies, zero no claims bonus
policies, or young males. And the portfolio mix over the last two to three years has not really
changed that much in these segments. It's not as if Admiral has grown into some risky segments
and that's what driving this change. Our portfolio, as I say, has been broadly the same over the
time. And our claims frequency overall doesn't look particularly out of line with the market.
So it's not down to writing a more risky book. And it's not the case that we're relaxed our
underwriting criteria in order to seek growth. Our underwriting criteria over the last couple of years
has been exactly the same as it always has been. And our pricing algorithms have not been
changed in any way to attract any other forms of business. And you can see that in the portfolio
mix.
So it's not that we've been particularly aggressive in terms of trying to grow particular areas. And
it's not that we've grown into particularly risky segments. What is probably the case. And on page
11 there's three plausible explanations here, is that it's an environmental effect that there are more
of these large claims around, in which case you'd expect everybody to be seeing something
similar to Admiral in time.
But there isn't really much evidence to suggest that's the case at the moment. But it may be the
case. And we may see that if that's true, then ultimately the whole market would have to reflect
that in its rates.
Or it could secondly be a question of randomness. And that seems to us more likely the case, that
we are effectively having a disappointing quarter on top of a disappointing half. And that that
would, one would imagine, unwind in time. So you have lucky periods and unlucky periods. And if
that's the case, then 2011 will be a disappointing outcome for us. But one would imagine on
average, it would bounce back in next year or the year after.



FINAL

And the third explanation would be that we are seeing higher initial reserving on our case reserves
in the Admiral book than we've done in the past. And if that's true, then ultimately the pay. And
when they unwind, we'll see some of that inflation in inverted commas in 2011 coming off next year.
So it's our view that it is largely down to randomness and potentially some over-prudency in
reserving. But we fully understand that's not a very satisfactory answer for our shareholders
because it still produces some volatility in the results. and volatility is unsatisfactory when it comes
to producing a predictable earnings stream.
But overall, we still believe it's a good business. We are, if these numbers ultimately turn out to be
true, then we are writing business today in the mid-80s combined ratio instead of being in the
early 80s combined ratio. That's disappointing. And we're sorry to have to say that. But on the
other hand, it's still a very profitable business, still significantly ahead of our shareholders. And -sorry, it's ahead of our competitors; and we believe that therefore logically, the profit maximizing
thing to do for our shareholders is to continue to grow the book.

Bloomberg Transcript

But we have taken some action to dampen down the volatility, or to attempt to attempt to
mitigate some of the volatility in the book. We've made some selective price increases in certain
parts of the portfolio, elements that would typically produce more volatile high claims numbers.
And so we've done a few specific actions in a few isolated areas. We have, as I spoke about
earlier, raised our rates somewhat ahead of the market. Year to date, our rate increases are now
about 14% compared to a market that's according to indices, has raised its rates about 6%.
So we are significantly ahead of the market so far this year. And we have slowed down our growth
quite considerably, as I mentioned earlier. We're now growing at a run rate of 13% or so, which is
more like the sort of level of growth that we've seen historically for Admiral rather than the more
rapid growth we saw in the last couple of years.
We believe these are the right actions to be taken at this stage. And we are, of course, monitoring
the position with large claims very carefully. And we'll see how things develop as we go through
the Fourth Quarter. And we'll be able to give more news on those at the end of the year.
But I must repeat, we are very concerned about the position. But it is our view there's no news at
this stage that says that the Admiral model is broken. What we have is the business is still writing
very good business and the business is still growing. And we intend to deliver, all else being equal
now, a profit growth in 2011 of around about 10%. And it's our intention at the moment to continue
to grow through 2012. And we aim to grow the business by something around 10% or more next
year. If that happens. And all else remains equal, then we would anticipate being able to deliver for
our shareholders profit and growth once again in 2012.
That's it from me. Thank you. I'll now very happily open it up to questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Please go ahead.

Q - Andy Broadfield

{BIO 7273415 <GO>}

Andy Broadfield, Barclays Capital. Yes. Three questions, if I may. And if you want to develop them
later, then by all means do. The first question is what's the role of PPO in this, given that you don't
discount your reserves? And potentially, just from a nominal level, that could have an impact on the
way that the liabilities are reported. And I guess that does apply specifically to these large bodily
injury claims.



FINAL

Second question is the frequency of these big claims, you've shown that the quantum of these
large claims has grown. But has the frequency of these large claims grown as well? And is that a
reflection of the way that you've perhaps -- or some of the risk categories you've perhaps opened
up to over time?
And the third question is you said that you're seeing higher initial claims reserves. That's a sort of a
passive statement. But I assume that you set the initial claims reserves. So it would suggest that
you are taking that decision yourselves. And presumably, that doesn't make an explanation; it's
your justification or your action that's done that.

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thanks, Andy. Well first on PPO, I'd say that we have for some time now held a specific
provision for the emergence of higher levels of PPO over and above the case reserves, the
projected ultimate’s. And that provision remains at a very significant level, we believe much more
significant than the industry average. That's what our auditors tell us anyway. So we think we are
well reserved for further emergence of PPO. But the actual occurrences of PPO in our book is still
very, very small and, therefore, not relevant to this issue about further high claims volumes in the
Third Quarter of this year.
On the question of frequency and severity, I perhaps should have made it clearer in the call it is a
frequency issue, as well as a severity issue. And in fact, it's more of a frequency issue than severity
in the Third Quarter. We have seen more of these claims than we typically would expect to see.
And these are claims over the level of GBP100,000 each. So we don't get that many of them. We'll
be settling 400,000 to 500,000 claims this year. And we'll probably see something in the order
of between 500 and 700 of these large claims. But they're very small in number, relative to the
number of claims we process as a business. But they're very significant in value, as I talked about
earlier.
So we're expecting to get 500. If we get 600, then it's a relatively small change in volume. But it
can have a material effect on your view about claims inflation. So it is a frequency issue as well.
And in terms of setting higher initial claims reserve, I think it's a very well worded question; it's a
good point. I think what we're trying to say there is that we can't be clear at this stage whether -we are seeing higher claims reserves happening, that's clearly the case, because the average
claim reserve per large claim is bigger than we typically would expect it to be. But what we can't be
clear of at this stage is whether that's because we are therefore expecting not have to pay out
larger high claims when these ultimately settle, or whether there's an element of over-prudency
going on in the claims handling in a way in which we then set that reserve.
And that's more of a psychological issue about how you seek to set your reserve as a claims
handler. If you found that you are disappointed in a claims outcome on your last claim that you've
just settled, you may take a view to make sure you reserve this one a little bit more prudently to
make sure you've given yourself even headroom to not be disappointed this time around.
That may be the case. But it may be the case that you need to set that reserve because we are
generally seeing that level of inflation continuing on. So that's why I make the comment that it may
be about over-prudency. But I wouldn't want to leave that as the explanation, because until it all
unwinds. And as I said before only 1% of these cases so far this year have actually been paid so far,
we just won't be able to say for sure.

Q - Andy Broadfield

{BIO 7273415 <GO>}

So that ties -- that's an operational issue effectively in that -- I know you've talked before about
having significant growth and having to -- growth in personnel as well as a result. And that takes
time to train those guys up. Is that all tied into the same issue?



A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

FINAL

No; no, it's not. I think our comments about operational slippage that we made at the half-year
were a putting forward of a hypothesis as perhaps the reasons why we might be seeing this
activity. Our analysis that we've done in the Third Quarter and to date tells us that there's no
evidence to suggest that's the case.
So it's not a case of new handlers not following procedures as well as other handlers. That's simply
not the case. But what is the case is that there is a great deal of judgment goes into the
establishment of a reserve on a large claim. There's a lot of ambiguity about the nature of the
claim. There's a lot of uncertainty, unknown facts about how the claim will develop, the condition of
the person in the accident and the prognosis for their development. And what, therefore, costs
they're likely to incur before they're hopefully back to full recovery or need permanent long term
care.

Bloomberg Transcript

And so there's a lot of judgment goes into the assessment of that number. And you can't look at a
particular case reserve and go, ah, I see that you've made a more prudent judgment there than
you would have done before. It's a very subtle area of judgment. And therefore, it may be the
case that these reserves that are somewhat higher than previously are entirely justified, because
that will indeed be what is necessary; or it may the case that these reserves are a little more
prudent than they need to be. And that's, as I said before, because of what claims handlers are
seeing from what they've paid in the past.
So only in time we will see whether this turns out to be the case. But it is clearly the case that over
and above that, we have seen higher numbers of these large claims than we would typically
expect to see. And in the absence of any evidence that we've been able to establish for any other
reason with that. And I emphasize that we have not delved into more riskier elements of the UK
population and we have not seen a development in our portfolio that would suggest we're writing
riskier business, in the absence of that information, we have to allocate the primary cause down to
randomness in the Third Quarter.

Q - Andy Broadfield

{BIO 7273415 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks very much.

Q - Paul Goodhind

{BIO 16200839 <GO>}

Paul Goodhind, Redburn. Two questions. One possible thesis I would put forward, which you didn't
include in your list, is that others have perhaps caught you up to some extent on the risk selection
side. And that whilst you aren't perhaps getting adverse selection, you're getting less good
selection than you have historically; which wouldn't be something that you've done badly. But just
that others have had some success in replicating perhaps some of your pricing algorithms. Is that a
theoretical possibility that you would consider as being valid?
And the second question is really a strategic business model one, because your reinsurance piece,
I think at a combined of 102%, the reinsurers with interest rates at current levels would start to get
pressured in terms of the return that they would be earning on the business.
Now you're well away from 102% obviously at the moment. But we know that the industry receives
swings of 20 points or more across the cycle. And given the slippage that we've seen so far, it's
not out of all bounds of possibility that you may come close to that, which will still be a very good
result relative to the industry, which obviously peaked above 120% this time. But the point I'm
making is that you can still be a great business and have a big advantage, yet you would perhaps
have to rethink some of our reinsurance strategies and how you actually finance the business. And
have you thought about that. And what are the options that you would consider?

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}



FINAL

Thanks, Paul. Let me deal with your first question first, have the others caught up and is that why
we're seeing some of this adverse development. I think it is almost certainly the case from what
we're seeing of what our major competitors are getting up to that they will have improved their
pricing algorithms, their risk selection. And therefore we will -- we have to expect to see some
closing of the gap, if they're executing that well. But I don't think we can see any evidence to
support that yet. And these are -- if that were the case, then I think we would be seeing patterns
of development across our claims experience, across the portfolio, somewhat more significantly
than we are seeing.
So these are small numbers of claims that are behaving in a way that says there's a few more of
them in this quarter. And that's not evidence enough, in my opinion, to suggest that somehow
others have been -- have cleverly picked out where these few more claims are going to come
from and have managed to avoid them and, therefore, they've been dumped on Admiral.
If this pattern continues at a much higher level for a significant length of time, then maybe that
prognosis would -- could be justified. But I don't think there's enough evidence to suggest that to
date.

Bloomberg Transcript

And on the reinsurance point, I think I would say that, as I said in my comments earlier on, we are -having seen this disappointing development in 2011, we're writing business now with an ultimate
combined ratio in the mid-80s, is our view. And that is clearly a long way away from 102%. And the
action we're taking, together with our view of how the future develops suggests to us that we
should be able to maintain that kind of position and that kind of advantage over the market, or at
least a good part of that market, going forward.
So there's -- we're a very, very long way from anything that could suggest a challenge to the
Admiral model with its reinsurance structure because we're still many, many points away from
anything where the reinsurers would have to consider whether they're likely to be paying out on
adverse development.
We have had, of course, conversations with our reinsurers over the last few months as you would
expect, as we regularly do. And they are fully aware of the claims development patterns that we're
seeing over the course of this year and in the Third Quarter. And I have to say that those
conversations with the reinsurers have been very relaxed about what they're seeing.
They expect to see some volatility. They understand the nature of these claims and the nature of
our market. And they expect to see some volatility in claims patterns, on large claims. And there's
nothing in what they're saying to us which suggests there anything other than comfortable with the
continued participation with that structure.

Q - Paul Goodhind

{BIO 16200839 <GO>}

Thanks.

Operator
Next question.

Q - Adrienne Lim

{BIO 16537674 <GO>}

It's Adrienne, Morgan Stanley. Just a couple of questions. So can you just talk about what
expectation? You said that for 2011, you would expect the 81% combined ratio to move towards
85% -- mid 80s.
And can you also elaborate what your expectation of 2010 loss ratio is? You haven't changed it in
the slide on page 14, to go to it [ph]. Some quantum of that would be very helpful.



And also, can you just elaborate a little bit what's really changed in Third Quarter? I know you said
it's randomness. But given you increased the 2010 loss ratio by 4percentage points in the half year,
what's really moved from that expectation?

FINAL

And the last question, it's just on claims inflation. Can you just tell us what level of claims inflation
you're currently reserving for 2010 and 2011, please?

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Thanks, Adrienne. I'll just say that I've got Henry Engelhardt and David Stevens here with me on this
call as well. So I'm going to hand over to David, I think, to give you an answer on that one.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Hi, there.

Q - Adrienne Lim

{BIO 16537674 <GO>}

Hi there.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Ladies and gentlemen. this is the operator. I'm afraid we've lost the connection to the moderator's
line. So we'll just stand by and we'll wait to re-establish his line.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Hello. I'm sorry. David Stevens here. We -- sorry, we got cut off there. I hope Kevin had made the
introduction to say that I was here. And I'm just asking -- answering the questions, the last question
around 2010/2011 and claims inflation.
First of all, the slide on page 14 is the replication of the slide of the half-year, using the half-yearly
actuarial projections. Kevin said 2011 probably at the end of the year come out towards the mid80s. 2010, probably up a little from the half-year, nearer 90% than 88%; but, yes, still up a little.
Claims inflation; what we're seeing, at the half-year the claims inflation numbers implied by the
actuarial projections were 11% for 2010 versus 2009. And 17% for 2011 versus 2010. And that's
essentially driven by the bodily injuries side of the equation and not the material damage side of
the equation. But as Kevin was obviously saying, those numbers, in a sense, are heavily provisional
in the sense that very, very little of these bodily injury cases are actually settled.

Q - Adrienne Lim

{BIO 16537674 <GO>}

And in terms of the what's really changed in the three months since we last heard from you?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Well it's really, it is primarily the number of larger claims. And the average value of those larger
claims relative to what we were expecting at the half-year. And relative to past patterns for our
accounts. And given that 2011 is an accident year, in a sense you're getting 50% more data. And
you're getting a year that is very under-developed. And in nine months into the actual year, let
alone having had any tail, the actual experience of one quarter is quite material in trying to assess
the likely outcome for that year.

Q - Adrienne Lim

{BIO 16537674 <GO>}

Okay. So -- and frequency is something that you're highlighting now, where perhaps you didn't
really highlight in the half-year. So is that something which is driving --?



A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

That was particularly a reference to the frequency of larger claims.

Q - Adrienne Lim

{BIO 16537674 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. Okay. Thanks a lot.

Operator
We now move to our next question.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Andy Hughes, Exane. Couple of questions, if I can. The first one, I guess on the large bodily injury
claims, the problem is. And I guess the difficulty is just to judge whether it is a random quarter or
not.
Obviously, Direct Line and RBS put through a whole heap of charges for specifically this issue; and I
know your comments about market reacting in the same way. And seeing the same trends. But is it
a possibility you actually lag the competition on this particular factor?

Bloomberg Transcript

And given that they experienced it for more than a couple of quarters of a strengthening of large
bodily injury claims, is there a danger that this continues on for a few quarters? And have you seen
any change in Q4 to date?
Thank you.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

I think the issue we're asking about them in terms of the market is whether there is an increase in
frequency of big claims, particularly in 2011. RBSI made a very significant reserve-strengthening,
much more significant than the other players in the market during the course of 2010, particularly in
relation to claims 2009 and prior years. And so in a sense, the strengthening that RBSI was putting
through during the course of 2010 related to a different time period.
What we're looking at here. And what we're seeing is this feature of a number of large claims,
particularly during the course of 2011 calendar year. And so in a sense you -- it's not comparing like
for like there.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Okay. And on the Q4?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

I'm sorry, I missed that part of the question.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

I was just wondering how they've progressed since the end of the quarter. Has there been any
change since the end of the quarter?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

I don't know if we discuss month-by-month numbers, really.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}



Okay. Thanks anyway.

Operator

FINAL

We now take our next question. Please go ahead.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Peter Eliot, Berenberg. First of all, on -- you talk about the 2010 and 2011 years as being the ones
perhaps that you're most concerned about. But just looking at slide seven and the numbers on that
where you said that you've only paid out 8% of the large claims in respect to 2009. And only a
quarter of those going back as far as 2007. I'm just wondering to what extent we should perhaps
also expect to see some developments from those periods. Perhaps you could just talk about how
comfortable you feel about those.
Then the second thing I wanted to ask, on slide 13 you make the point that you're still growing
faster than the price comparison market as a whole. I'm wondering if you can just say how that was
looking in Q3 in isolation. And you've touched on perhaps a slowing of growth going forwards. But
whether we should expect that in the near term in terms of your growth in that -- through that
channel to slow significantly, going forward.
Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Yes. If you come to the Investor Day later on today, or the Analyst Day later on today, you will see
more slides. And one slide you will see is a slide that follows on from page 8. Page 8, the slide
demonstrates a volatility is from 5 to 24. And demonstrates that the volatility very substantially
reduces between 24 and 48.
And essentially what happens with these claims is there is typically a period of significant
uncertainty around the -- often the extent of the person's injuries and the nature of the -- whether
they're going to go back to work, how much care they're going to need, how aggressively the
case will be pursued. But within a couple of years, you typically get a much better set of data about
the injury case.
It doesn't however then pay immediately. It then goes through a process which can take a long
time. As you can see from page 7, it's only by sort of 2006 that you've actually got the majority
paid. But the period of maximum uncertainty is the first two years; and then uncertainty very much
reduces. That's not to say that 2009 is by any sense a done deal. But it would be misleading I think
to take the 8% and imply 92% uncertainty.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Can I just come back on that quickly and add in with respect to PPOs, given that you mentioned
that you haven't seen a lot of those coming through? We've heard from competitors that the
average time period there is probably four years or so for one to actually know what one's paying
on that. So I'm wondering whether that might change the picture slightly as those come through.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Well I think we're in a pretty strong position on PPOs. Essentially, we've got a reserve which is now
knocking on the door of GBP120 million which is specific for PPOs. And which our advice from
external advisors is a pretty cautious amount of money to hold against the PPO risk. And it's
essentially the equivalent of covering us to a discount rate reduction on Ogden to about 0.5%.



We track PPOs very closely. And we have a number of claims that we identify as high-risk claims of
turning into a PPO. And you're very right that the lead times on these things are very substantial. So
far, our experience has been that roughly 25% of the high-risk cases turn into PPOs. We anticipate
that much more than 25% over time will turn into PPOs. But that the GBP120 million that we
currently hold is adequate, more than adequate in that context.

FINAL

Kevin, do you want to handle the second part on growth?

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Yes, sure. The second part of your question, Peter, was what's the specific growth in the Third
Quarter and what does it look like now as it's a whole year. And I think growth in the Third Quarter
is just over 3%. So the growth that we're seeing on an annualized basis for Q3 in isolation is about
13%. Our growth for the year to date would be something in the 20s, because we grew at about
30% or so in the first half of the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

So the Q3 experience is somewhat different to the first-half experience. And that partly reflects
that raising of rates that I talked about earlier on. And partly reflects a deliberate strategy to
reduce the growth, given what we're anticipating is high levels of competition in the market from
here on in.
And I think what we're now expecting, or certainly that will be our prognosis for the Fourth Quarter
as well, is something similar. So we are expecting to grow roughly in line in the second half of this
year with the growth that we're seeing in price comparison sites, which you referred to, which is
somewhere around 10% to 12%. That suggests that we're roughly on a good growth trajectory now
which is more akin to the levels that Admiral has typically grown at over the years.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Okay. So that sounds like you think you'll be able to maintain the share of price comparison
business that you've won over the last year or so?

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Well we're always cautious about given market share forecasts or even commenting on it, because
we do try and run the business in the way that's whatever we think is the profit maximizing thing to
do. At the moment we'd say we anticipate growing by about 10% or so next year. And we
anticipate the profit price comparison sites growing their market share again next year. But if the
context changes and the competitive environment looks very different, then we may take a
different view.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks a lot.

Q - James Pearce

{BIO 16758460 <GO>}

James Pearce, UBS; a couple of questions. Could you give us more detail on the specific areas
where you've targeted your increased rating; how much, what sort of people. And so forth?
And secondly, is there scope to address claims volatility through more targeted excess of loss
reinsurance?

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

James, I will jump in on the first one; no, we won't give out detailed information of price hikes,
sorry.



Q - James Pearce

{BIO 16758460 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

FINAL

And the second question is --?

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Reinsurance. Not hugely. The vast bulk of the value of claims is in the range of GBP100,000 to
GBP5 million. And yes, we could go out and buy reinsurance down below our current levels, which
are typically, depending on the year you're talking about, GBP5 million to GBP7.5 million. But it
comes at a price. And it's not necessarily the optimal thing to do.

Q - James Pearce

{BIO 16758460 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks very much.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It's Andrew Crean. A couple of questions. First one is these large claims, GBP500 million to
GBP700 million large claims which you're getting. Can you identify whether they're coming from
business which you've put on the book since 2009; i.e. whether they're part of the expansion of
the business or the in-force business which you've had on the books for a long time?
And secondly, in that slide where you've looked at the proportion of claims which are large claims,
which has risen from 14% to 15% up to 26%, do you have a sense, I think it's slide 7, as to where
that might settle?

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Sorry, David, do you want to --?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

No, you go ahead.

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Okay. I think on where the claims are coming from, the answer is it's coming from across the
portfolio. It's clearly because we've grown so much. And we do tend to lose about one-third of the
business out the back door each year, which is generally what the market does.
There's obviously a bias towards younger policies in the portfolio. But the claims experiences of
these larger claims is coming across the portfolio. And it's coming across renewals and new
business. But it's not anything in particular that you'd isolate.
And in terms of where they would ultimately settle, I'd say it's clearly the case they're a bigger
proportion of the book than they used to be. And they will settle higher than they did back in
2007/2008 times. But it's probably -- these are case reserves we're talking about here. So by their
nature, you tend to see an unwinding. That's part of the reason why we have this negative IBNR
which we'll talk about later today. You'd expect to see some of this unwinding. But ultimately, it will
finish higher than it used to be.

Q - Andrew Crean
Right, okay.

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}



FINAL

Q - Unidentified Participant
Hi, it's Andy again. I just wanted to follow up on Paul's question earlier about the reinsurance
structure. I guess my question is slightly different. You mentioned that the reinsurers obviously
won't experience a loss ratio of more than 100 [ph]. So not have to pay anything on the adverse
claim development. But obviously, that has a knock-on consequence for you, because when you
are strengthening reserves, that clearly means you need to pump equity into not just your own
27%. But also the reinsurers' bit as well. Does this change the view of the volatility of the business
that you're seeing at the moment? Does it change your view of the relative attractiveness of
coinsurance and reinsurance and general equity?
And with that in mind, is the level of equity that you have appropriate to run the adverse
development on the reserves? I understand obviously you're posting an 81% combined ratio in the
first year. And that's great. But subsequently, if that turns out to be a lot higher, you don't obviously
recover that money from the reinsurers on the back years. And I'm just wondering, have you
thought the business is perhaps a little bit more risky than it was than it was, it seemed a year or
two ago?
Thank you.

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

No. The answer to that question is a straightforward, no. The results are disappointing relative to
where we hoped the results would be. But the results are still very, very good relative to the
market. And they are still lower than we were writing in business when we were producing results
in the mid-2000s.
So at that point we were very confident or comfortable that our coinsurance and reinsurance
model is a very powerful way of structuring the business in terms of being able to support the
premium growth and a cheaper form of capital than equity. And it supports a strong dividend. And
that's still the case today. And there's nothing in this data that changes that view.

Q - Unidentified Participant
So you don't think you need to hold back more capital in respect of the reinsurance portfolio in
fact, for example, you would do on the coinsurance portfolio where you don't have the possibility
of negative profit shares coming for you in future?

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Well that's reflected in the reserves that we're setting in the book numbers. And as you know, we
tend to book somewhat conservatively relative to our peers. And book loss ratios that are well
ahead of these projected ultimate’s that we're talking about. And all of the conservation this
morning has been about the development of those projected ultimate’s.
It will mean that we anticipate not making reserve releases in the second half of this year. But it
doesn't mean that we're talking here about any significant reserves of strengthening. We still have
what we believe is adequate reserves. And within -- therefore within the reserves is the capital that
we anticipate needing to support these changes.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Okay. Thank you.

Q - Chris Esson

{BIO 6194371 <GO>}

Chris Esson, Credit Suisse. I've just one clarification, if I might. On your discussion, or your comment
about targeting 10% growth in 2012, can I just clarify whether that's for the UK only, or whether it
also includes the international operations where your profitability is relatively low?



And just perhaps following on from that, can you just provide a sense of what you're expecting
from an industry point of view, given your presentation clearly outlines that you are putting prices -or your pricing trends are higher than peers if you like incrementally? And I just wondered whether
in fact the implied market share gains by your growth target are perhaps a bit ambitious.

FINAL

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

The answer to the first question is that's UK.

Q - Chris Esson

{BIO 6194371 <GO>}

It's just UK 10%.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

That's UK, yes.

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

On the second question, essentially, if we maintain our current level of competitiveness on price
comparison sites. And price comparison sites grow in line with the market, our expectations for
that market, then we'll end up with growth in the UK in unit terms somewhere in late single digits
or early double digit percentages.
Now if our competitiveness changes versus where it is today, then we'll write less or we'll write
more, depending on what that change is. And certainly, if in a sense -- if other people were seeing
some trends that meant they held the premiums flat or increased them, then that would have an
implication for us. If other people took their premiums down in 2012, that would also have an
implication in the other direction for us in terms of the volumes we'd write.

Q - Chris Esson

{BIO 6194371 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Q - Marcus Barnard

{BIO 2103471 <GO>}

A couple of questions, firstly on the dividend. Can you say what today's statement means for your
ongoing level of dividends? In particular, will you continue to pay an ordinary and special dividend in
the high 90s of your earnings for 2010 and 2011?
Secondly, we've been hearing in the market that you're doing an actuarial review of your reserves.
Can you explain what the scope of this review is and when we're likely to hear on it?
And following on from that, on slide 14 you say that the -- the notable change on slide 14 is that
you've got an independent actuarial projection as opposed to Ernst & Young previously. Is that still
Ernst & Young, or is it a different set of independent actuaries?
Thanks.

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Dividend impact, nothing changes. I think we should step back and put this discussion into some
context here. We're seeing a bit of a deterioration on our loss ratios for the '10/'11 years. It means
that our combined ratio will be in the 80s. It means that our business is going to be a little bit less
profitable that we hoped it would be. But it's still going to be 10% up on profits in 2011.
And our dividend policy is very explicit. We pay out all the spare cash that we generate we don't
think we need to support the solvency requirements of the business. That view is informed by



what we think we needed in terms of capital going forward. And including our international
development.

FINAL

But notwithstanding those comments I'd anticipate no changes to our dividend policy, which is
deliberately split [ph] in normal and special [ph]. So give us that flexibility. But otherwise, nothing
changes.
In terms of the actuarial review, of course, we are taking this development of large claims
extremely seriously and wanting to get as much data as we can to understand the nature of the
developments. And so we did conduct a review ahead of this announcement to help us inform
what we're speaking to the market about today. But it will not be our intention to share with the
market every time we do some analysis of our claims, partly because of the volatility that we've
talked about earlier.
So we will, of course, be disclosing our projected ultimate’s at the full-year end, as we do every
time. And we very much encourage our competitors to do the same thing. But we won't be doing
it every quarter, or every time we have a look at it.

Q - Marcus Barnard

{BIO 2103471 <GO>}

So just to be clear, the actuarial review is concluded?

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes.

Q - Marcus Barnard

{BIO 2103471 <GO>}

And was that by Ernst & Young?

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

It is the case that Ernst & Young are our actuarial advisors. But it's obviously the ownership of those
numbers rests with us, not with anybody else.

Q - Marcus Barnard

{BIO 2103471 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

Operator
As we have no further questions, I'd like to hand the call back to Mr. Chidwick for any final remarks.

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Okay. Well thank you very much for listening this morning and for your questions. We will be holding
sessions later on today as well in which we'll go into some more detail around the issue of the
large claims particularly. But also on any other aspects of the business.
So I look forward -- so those of you who are coming along later today, I look forward to seeing you
later. Otherwise, thank you very much.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, that will conclude today's conference call. We thank you for your
participation. You may now hang up.



FINAL

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

