Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

S1 2010 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Alastair Lyons, Chairman
David Stevens, COO
Henry Engelhardt, CEO
Kevin Chidwick, Finance Director

Other Participants
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Andy Hughes, Analyst
Ben Cohen, Analyst
Bobby Hicks, Analyst
Colin Simpson, Analyst
James Quin, Analyst
Nick Johnson, Analyst
Olivia Brindle, Analyst
Paul Goodhind, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Tony Silverman, Analyst
Unidentiﬁed Participant, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Admiral Group 2010 full year results conference
call. (Operator Instructions) We are now going live to the presentation room, where you'll
hear silence or background music until the call begins.

Alastair Lyons

{BIO 1520499 <GO>}

Ladies and gentlemen. thank you ever so much for coming along here early hour of the
morning, and delighted to have the opportunity to talk to you about another year of
record proﬁts, coupled with continued strong growth from Admiral.
So I think most of you already know our team. For any of you who don't, from the right,
Henry Engelhardt, our Chief Executive; David Stevens, our COO; and Kevin Chidwick, our
CFO.

Page 1 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

FINAL

The batting order for today is as follows, but just perhaps a couple of words of
explanation as to which of our Executive Directors now have responsibility for which areas
in the business and, therefore, why they're talking about various things. Do forgive me;
I've done the one thing, which you're always told you mustn't do. Always good for the
Chairman to set an example.
So David focuses on UK insurance. Kevin as well is obviously having responsibility for our
ﬁnance areas; also has oversight over Confused, our price comparison business in the UK.
And then Henry takes direct responsibility for our international businesses.
And we actually also have a couple of his team in the audience here today. We have
Cristina Nestares in the front there; and Peter Balbach[ph] at the back, who is one of our
Business Development Managers.
Cristina, she takes responsibility, as you can see there, for not only the Spanish businesses
that were her direct responsibility previously, which is Admiral Seguros, which is the new
name for our Spanish car insurance business now that it has two brands which Henry will
talk about later, so I won't steal his thunder there; and then also Rastreator, our price
comparison business in Spain. But she also then has the three businesses, which we
launched in 2010, being Chiarezza, our Italian price comparison business; and then the
two French business, LeLynx in price comparison, and L'Olivier, the most recent, which is
our direct insurance business in France.

Bloomberg Transcript

So as well as that then Henry also takes responsibility for the US, Elephant Auto and Italy,
which is ConTe; that's the UK insurance -- sorry, the Italian insurance business.
Just one other change before I sit down; I'd just like to mention Alistair Hargreaves has
served us enormously well as our Investor Relations Manager. He's now gone back into
operational experience in UK insurance; and delighted that Louise O'Shea has moved
across from Confused to take the Investor Relations role.
So without further ado, if I may, hand over to Kevin.

Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Okay, let's start with this slide, which is the one that we like to talk about, which is Admiral
is diﬀerent; diﬀerent because we are a motor insurance business in the UK which is
making good proﬁts, which does make us a bit unusual. We are fast growing, and
certainly 2010 was a year of fast growth for us.
We do believe that we oﬀer low risk proﬁts to our shareholders, low risk in a number of
ways. We have a low risk investment strategy; we are low risk in the way we're
approaching our international expansions; and we're certainly -- we've built a low risk
model in terms of our reinsurance structures that create a business that has very strong
returns but limited downside in terms of the exposure to the Admiral Group on the
underwriting.

Page 2 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

FINAL

And a business which despite being very fast growing and being in insurance, is able to
still deliver very strong cash returns and pay dividends to our shareholders, which is
something we believe in very strongly. And 2010 is a year in which we've once again paid
out more than 90% of our post-tax proﬁts as dividends, which I'll talk about in a moment.
So here's the highlights from the 2010 year. Proﬁt up to GBP266 million, up 23%. Our
turnover up 47%, and now just shy of GBP1.6 billion. And that's on the back of vehicle
growth, which has been very strong in 2010. Up nearly a third to now 2.75 million vehicles,
which is in the UK, round about 10% of all UK car insurance we now believe is on the
Admiral books.
Very strong return on capital, as I've mentioned already; a record return; in fact, 59%, and
that's because of the Group's combined ratio, despite all the international expansion
going on in the late '80s. And overall, a ﬁnal dividend, which is once again a new record
dividend for the Admiral Group of 35.5p.

Bloomberg Transcript

Here's our turnover slide since we started in 1993; from GBP18 million in our ﬁrst year to
just shy of GBP1.6 billion in our 18th year. As you can see from the numbers, GBP18 million
in 1993. It took us a whole year to do. We now do on a busy month end. It's, as you can
see from the numbers, the graph has taken a very sharp upward turn in the last 12 months
on the back of that 2010 growth.
This slide shows our combined ratio over the last seven years, so the seven years since we
came to market in 2004. It's for the Group as a whole. I put this slide up because I wanted
to make a particular point, which is that really underwriting discipline is at the heart of the
Admiral Group, and so you'll hear lots of stuﬀ this morning, and you do hear lots of stuﬀ
about the things that drive Admiral's revenue, drive our proﬁts, drive our growth, the
things we're doing internationally, etc.; but at the heart of all of it is being a very focused
and very disciplined car insurance underwriter.
And this period of seven years is a period in which the UK car insurance market has
changed quite dramatically. It's been through probably the peak to the trough of the
cycle, or the trough to the peak, depending which way you look at it. It's a year in which -sorry, seven years in which Admiral has trebled the size of its business, and it's the seven
years in which we've expanded the Group beyond the UK to be active in ﬁve other
insurance markets in the world.
And yet despite all those changes, we've consistently delivered a Group combined ratio
around about the mid to late 80s, and we've done that again in 2010. And that's because
we believe everything else that we can achieve as a business is underpinned by being
very disciplined and very focused on our underwriting result.
Here's the spread of the UK proﬁts in 2010, split between the component parts at the
Group level. So the Group made GBP266 million, and it compares that split to the three
prior years. And you can see here the growth is really driven by the growth in UK car
insurance. In fact, 2010 UK car insurance is now 110% -- sorry, 104% of the total; and I'll talk
a bit more about that in a moment.
Page 3 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

The Confused piece at the top made a contribution of 6% of the total, which is about half
the level it was the year before; and I'll explain some of the reasons behind that in a
moment as well.

FINAL

And then below the line, we've got two minus 5s. The ﬁrst minus 5% in the white is our
international expansion, which Henry will tell us more about in a few minutes, and that is
once again our investment in international makes up roughly 5% of our P&L account.
And then the second minus 5% is for our Group costs, which is primarily our shared
scheme costs. And as you know, there's pretty obvious reasons for that being more
expensive in 2010. One is that the share price rose a fair amount, and that makes the
scheme more expensive; but the second one more materially is that we increased the size
of our staﬀ base very substantially in 2010, and as you know, I think Admiral likes to make
as many staﬀ as possible participants in the Admiral share scheme. And that's one of the
reasons why the costs went the way they did.

Bloomberg Transcript

So while I'm at the Group level I'll talk about the dividend. Our dividend is a new record.
Our dividend policy remains exactly as it's always been, which is to pay out any spare cash
we can to our shareholders over and above the amount we think we need to run the
business. That's based on a policy of paying 45% of post-tax proﬁts as a normal dividend,
and anything else we calculate we don't need out of the special dividend. And one again,
there's another special dividend at this reporting point.
It's based on this calculation, which I've shown every time I think since we reported in
2004 and beyond. We take our net assets at the end of the period; we take oﬀ the
goodwill and the solvency capital we need. We then take oﬀ a buﬀer of GBP30 million,
and that leaves us with the amount of cash that we will pay as a dividend, which this time
around is GBP95 million, which works out as 35.5p per share.
And that is a new record. It's up substantially on 2009, and for this dividend, it will mean
the shares will go equity[ph] on May 18, and the dividend gets paid on June 10.
But back to the UK car insurance; a very similar looking slide to the Group one. Here, we
split out the UK car insurance results by their component parts and compare it back for
the previous three years as well. The UK result is up 33% year on year, and that's really
driven by substantial increase in volumes. The proportion of splits between the
component parts, as you can see, hasn't really changed that much. Ancillary revenues
there in the dark blue making up just over half of the total, and then a substantial part of
the rest being made up by the underwriting result for our own book and the proﬁt
commissions in the white from our reinsurers. And they are really two sides of the same
coin, and I'm going to try and talk a little bit more about what's happening with those on
this next slide.
This is quite a busy slide, so please bear with me as I try and work my way through it. On
the left hand side, I've split out the reinsurance structures, the underwriting risk structure
for the Admiral Group over the last few years. In the 2010 column, we're retaining 27.5% of
risks on our own balance sheet. We share the rest with reinsurers. The biggest part of that
Page 4 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

FINAL

is Munich Re in the white in the middle; they take 45% of the whole book. And that deal,
as you can see, has been coming down from 65% over the course of the last ﬁve years. It's
also been changed twice since 2006. So we are now on considerably better proﬁt
commission terms for Admiral than we were back in 2006.
And then in the dark blue, the balance and the increasing balance has been given to
other reinsurers who are on proﬁt commission terms substantially better than the Munich
Re terms. So overall, the Group is getting a lot more proﬁt commission now back from its
reinsurers than it would have been getting ﬁve years ago. And that's really the reason for
the increase in contribution you're seeing from proﬁt commission in the P&I account in
2010.
And I've tried to explain that on the two parts of the slide on the right hand side. So at the
top, I've shown the 2009 reported result, the contribution to that result from proﬁt
commissions and reserve releases, split by the underwriting years to which they relate; so
GBP85 million in total split by the four underwriting years, or the 2006 and beyond years.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then the bottom the same numbers for 2010 account. And in 2010 GBP90 million of
prior year impact -- sorry, the proﬁt commissions and reserve releases impact. So, for
instance, in the 2009 year, you can see of that GBP90 million, GBP38 million came from
proﬁt commissions and reserve releases; and of that number, 73% of it was proﬁt
commission and 27% was reserve releases.
So if you're still all with me, good. Then that's trying to explain the fact that the proﬁt
commissions, which are basically the red bits of these bars, are now making up a much
more substantial component of the number than they would have done in the past.
It's also worth pointing out that the current year, in 2010, we are recognizing already, and
that's the ﬁnal column down the bottom right there, GBP10.9 million of proﬁt
commissions, because we're now booking a loss ratio for the initial pick in 2010 that puts
that year into proﬁtability already. So in the current year, we're recognizing proﬁt
commissions coming back from the reinsurers, which is obviously substantially more than
the GBP1.5 million we recognized for the 2009 year.
So overall, it's a very similar message to what I've said in the past, which is that proﬁt
commissions are now much more important to us in the totality; and we do take them into
account when we're thinking about the level of prudency in prior years. We put it together
with the reserve stock and we try and maintain a consistent level of prudency overall. And
that means that we've taken an initial level of reserve picking, which will be a bit lower,
we'll see lower reserve releases going forward but much higher proﬁt commissions; and
probably something similar going forward to that which we've seen in 2010.
A slide on ancillary revenues, again, they've jumped up quite a lot in 2010, primarily
because we grew our vehicle base by 32%. But there are some moving parts to ancillary
revenues; there are lots of things which will impact the change in number. We've also
grown the ancillary income per vehicle in the year, quite a big jump up to GBP77.50.

Page 5 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

FINAL

And there are a lot of things that contribute to that, and I've tried to list those out in bullet
points on the top right there. And they've all moved to a more or less degree, but I
wanted to highlight one in particular, which is the speed at which we grow the business.
That actually has a perhaps surprisingly large impact on the ancillary revenue per vehicle.
The reason it has an impact is because we book ancillary revenues in a mixed way. Some
of the revenue comes in straightaway, as soon as you make the sale; some of it comes
through during the life of the policy. But the way -- the denominator in that calculation is
the average number of vehicles during the year, so that will be based on an average
across all the policies. So if we're growing more quickly, putting on more new business,
we'll recognize more income more quickly.
So at the bottom of the slide, the graph at the bottom there shows the GBP77.50 based on
our actual growth rate, which was 32%. Had we grown more slowly, maybe 20%, it would
have been GBP76, and had we grown by 10% it would have been GBP74. So the speed at
which we are growing actually impacts the number.
And I illustrate that because I'll make the same point I make I think most times I stand
here, which is we expect ancillary revenues per vehicle to remain pretty stable overall,
despite all the moving parts. And so despite what we're seeing in 2010, we'd still project a
number going forward of somewhere in the mid-70s and it might oscillate around by a
few pounds or so either way, depending on how we're growing.

Bloomberg Transcript

There is more. Thank you. A couple of slides on Confused, before I ﬁnish.
Confused did have a tough year in 2010. It was a year in which the price comparison
market continued to grow. They continued to gobble up more share of overall car
insurance business in the UK. They're now more than 0.5% -- sorry, 50% of the total.
And this slide shows the split of the spend on TV and radio for all the main players, the
four main players across the months of the year. And you can see by that graph, it's
dominated by the green of GoCompare who did spend the most through the year. But it's
also true to say that all of them were spending quite substantially through the year, and all
of them were spending more or less consistently large amounts right the way through the
year. And that helped to drive the growth of the market.
But that did mean that those who had the most successful campaigns tend to be the
winners, obviously, and those who didn't were the losers. And I think the year was typiﬁed
by two major winners, in CompareTheMarket and GoCompare. And unfortunately,
Confused was a loser. Its marketing campaign was less eﬀective; particularly in the ﬁrst
half of the year, where we had a disappointing campaign, and we lost a fair amount of
market share in the ﬁrst half of 2010. And that's shown on the top right of this slide.
So our market share dropped from being in the early 30s at the back end of 2009 to
being in the early 20s in the back end of 2010. And that's a very substantial drop, albeit in
a rising market.

Page 6 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

FINAL

And that, obviously, had a consequential eﬀect on revenues for Confused, and that's on
the top left. So Confused revenue dropped about 10% in 2010 to GBP72 million. The
impact on margins is fairly obvious, and it ended up with Confused making less money. It
made GBP17 million, compared to GBP26 million the year before. And that disappointing
marketing activity was the main reason for that fall.
Having said that, we did change the marketing, obviously, in the mid-year, and changed it
again at the end of 2010. And we have, I think, believe, got a much better campaign out
there now.
I think Confused is a business that still has a strong potential, but it needs to do better
with its marketing. We have made a number of changes in Confused. We've streamlined
the management structure. We are making a number of changes to the website to make it
hopefully more compelling for our customers. And we are launching more TV advertising
shortly to hopefully improve the eﬀectiveness of our campaign.
So there are reasons for hope for Confused, but I would say I wouldn't anticipate those
impacts being very immediate. It will take longer to win back some of the business we've
lost, and so I would anticipate that 2011 is a year in P&L terms that might look quite similar
to 2010, and certainly wouldn't expect it being any better.
So on that happy note, I'll pass you over to David. Thank you, very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Thank you, Kevin. I'm going to talk about the UK market over the last year; then a bit
about Admiral's performance in that market; and then brieﬂy touch on our view of the
future.
So the ﬁrst thing on the UK market is the distribution story, and it's more of the same;
price comparison continuing to grow; 16% up in volume terms; going over 50% of new
business for the ﬁrst time in 2010. And that remains part of our underlying growth story,
given that over 80% of our new business is coming from price comparison.
More of the same on distribution; radically diﬀerent story on prices. A level of price
increase in the market, as you all know; almost -- perhaps even actually unprecedented in
recent experience. The actual level of increase is a little bit less certain, with the Confused
EMB survey talking about 38% over the year, the AA at 33%, and IGO4 at 25%. But what is
clear is there has been a dramatic and substantial increase.
The increase hasn't been evenly spread. Diﬀerent segments have experienced diﬀerent
increases. And most strikingly, the younger drivers, the higher premium segments have
experienced the highest increase; which is a consistent reading across all the surveys. The
one I've taken here is the AA with the younger drivers up 58% versus the average for the
market as a whole at 33%.

Page 7 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

FINAL

Now although the market as a whole has gone up, and although it's been consistent that
the younger drivers have gone up more, there have been diﬀerences in the relative
movements among the competitors; and some people have gone up more than others,
as you would anticipate.
Now one way we try and get a feel for that is we look at the percentage of business that
comes to us from an individual competitor, and the percentage of business that we lose
to that individual competitor; and we create a net number, which is the diﬀerence
between the two. And on this exhibit, a positive number means that Admiral takes a lot
more of its business from that person than it cedes to that person.
And the most striking play in this context is RBSI, where in 2009, we were marginally
losing business to them. Now in this context, by the way, RBSI is Direct Line, Churchill and
Privilege only. It's not their aﬃnity brands, it's not Tesco, it's not NIG. So it's their three
main direct brands.

Bloomberg Transcript

And you can see a radical turnaround there, where RBSI shedding volume is having a
really material impact on the market and on ourselves. And that was conﬁrmed by last
week's results announcement where you were seeing RBSI's direct brands shedding
600,000 policies during the course of last year; their aﬃnity brands shedding 200,000.
And NIG, although you can't, I don't think, unpick that from the results, has a book of
600,000, which is in the process of closing down.
So essentially, you're looking at roughly 1 million policies coming out of the RBSI Group
during the course of 2010. And that's, obviously, a key driver of the pricing momentum
that was experienced during the year.
They're not the only people shedding shares. Collectively, we believe the broker market is
shedding slightly. This is four big brokers; the AA, Budget, Kwik-Fit, and Swinton. And you
can see that we took a bit of business from them in 2009; we took rather more in 2010.
And what's happening here is that the brokers typically are struggling to maintain their
share on price comparison sites, which in our view, is down roughly 20%; and that's,
essentially, because they're struggling for supply. A lot of the people who've withdrawn,
the HSBCs, the Brits[ph], the NIGs, essentially took their biggest hit on broker business,
and particularly on broker business through price comparison.
There are obviously gains, and obviously we're one of them, but we're not the only one.
There are a couple of directs that I'd highlight who are consistent growers of market
share.
Here, you've got Swiftcover; took business from us in 2009; still taking business from us in
2010. And last week in AXA's results, the combined AXA, Swiftcover direct books grew
30%[ph] in premium terms in 2010, versus 2009; so really substantial growth from the
AXA Group on the direct side. And Liverpool Victoria up 28% in unit terms in 2010 versus
2009.

Page 8 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

So essentially, a picture of a number of players feeding, to an extent, oﬀ RBSI's falling
share, and oﬀ some of the brokers shedding share.

FINAL

Now I'm going to talk about Admiral's own experience during the year, and we'll start
with one of our favorite ratios. No, we won't; we'll start with our price rises. I apologize.
Our price rises during the course of the year were very substantial, but in our view, slightly
less than the market as a whole. So we've shown you numbers from IG04 and Confused,
EMB and the AA, and our number of 26% is towards the end -- the bottom of that range.
And we have increased competitiveness, notably on the price comparison sites.
That's partly about relative prices, but it's also partly about some of our competitors
actually withdrawing from segments, as opposed to changing their prices; narrowing their
footprint on price comparison sites, which is a slightly more complicated picture.

Bloomberg Transcript

So essentially, our growth is driven by that 16% price comparison growth, some
improvements in competitiveness, and some withdrawal from certain segments by
competitors; and it adds up to a 32% growth.
Now I'll talk about the expense ratio. This has been the consistent and most stable
element of our outperformance versus the competition. The red line is the market
expense ratio on an earned basis. The blue line is our own expense ratio on a written
basis. And in 2010, we have an expense ratio of 14.4%, which is our lowest ever, largely
driven by increases in average premiums; slightly driven by improvements in eﬃciency
productivity.
If you break it down, you see all the beneﬁt comes from the administration side of the
equation, where we've gone down from 7.7% to 5.6%. And none of the beneﬁt has come
from the acquisition side. And you might say, well, isn't that a bit strange in the context of
rising premiums? And the answer is very much, no, because, of course, at 32%, policy
growth, our share of new business, is substantially up versus the previous year; and so to
hold our acquisition cost percentage of 6% of the whole book is an encouraging
outcome.
The loss ratio; another of our favorite graphs. And again, just a reminder of what the lines
are representing. The red line is the market reported loss ratio at the end of 2009, with
any reserve releases allocated back to the accident year to which they relate. And the blue
line is our own actuarial projection of ultimate loss ratio for each accident year as at the
end of 2010. The numbers in the brackets are the movements between June 2010, when
we last showed you this exhibit, and December 2010.
What we've seen on the loss ratio pattern is a stability in our development patterns,
actuarial development patterns over the last two or three years, such as there hasn't been
an awful lot of movement in the back years. The movement that has happened has
tended to be around big claims.

Page 9 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

FINAL

So when we stood here six months ago and talked about 2009 going up 3 points, it was a
big claim issue, because the ﬁrst six months of 2010 were not good on big claims for that
accident year. The second six months happen to have been pretty good, and it's come
back down 2 points. Conversely, 2007 is up a couple of points; again, largely driven by
volatility on big claims.
One further point on this exhibit though is to talk a bit about our Ogden reserve. This is
the reserve that we have to allow for two interrelated potential hits on big claims, those
hits being a reduction in the Ogden discount rate, currently at 2.5%[ph], and currently
under review by the Ministry of Justice. And the other possible factor that might drive
higher big claims is an increase in the percentage of claims that are settled on a periodic
payment basis, or a periodic payment order.
We've talked about this in the past, and we've talked about how we have a reserve in
place within the blue line which is suﬃcient to cover us for a reduction in the discount rate
to just under 1%; it's somewhere between 0.8% and 0.9%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now we weren't very happy with that rather random arbitrary number. Fairly conﬁdent the
Ministry of Justice is not going to come up with somewhere just between 0.8% and 0.9%
if they were to make a change. So we had the option of going for 1% or 0.5%. You won't
be surprised to hear we've gone for 0.5%.
And essentially, that move in the calculation of the Ogden reserve adds about GBP28
million to our projected best estimates, and moves the 2008/2009/2010 loss ratios by 1
point each, relative to the numbers here. So they're incorporated in the numbers, but they
would have been better if we hadn't made that adjustment.
Now what you will have seen from that exhibit, sorry, is that 2010 is 2 points better than
2009. And you've also heard me talk about a 26% premium increase during the course of
2010. And so a 2% increase in -- sorry, 2% decrease in loss ratio seems relatively modest in
the context of a 27% -- 26% increase in premiums. So how do we square the two?
Well, the actual increase in average earned premium in 2010 versus 2009 is 8%. The
projected ultimate increase in claims costs per vehicle year in 2010 versus 2009 is just
under 6%, hence the 2% increase. How do I square the 26% I've talked about and the 8%
I've just mentioned? I'll just do that for you now, hopefully.
Well, ﬁrst of all, the year-on-year Admiral rate movements that we've announced were
26% at the end of 2010; 12% at the end of 2009. If those rate increases had been spread
evenly during -- through 2009, and evenly through 2010, mathematically, essentially, the
average increase would have been roughly 19% in premiums over 2010 versus 2009.
Our average written premium is up 16%. Okay, so that's not 19%. Why is it diﬀerent? There
are two reasons it's diﬀerent. We've often talked in the past about people's modeled rate
increases, or declared rate increases not feeding through fully into actual experienced
price increases, which we've sometimes called price comparison deﬂation, and has in
recent years been a signiﬁcant factor, 5 points or 6 points. And we believe it still is a factor
Page 10 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

notably in eroding people's, including ourselves, ability to carry a premium of renewal
versus new business.

FINAL

So that takes the 19% down actually probably below 16%. And what takes it back up a bit
towards 16% is some small change in mix of our business towards slightly higher premium
risks as people have withdrawn from some of those risks on price comparison, so we
average around 16%.
Now 16% on a written basis actually translates into 8% on an earned basis, because the
earned basis, we're comparing business in 2009 that was written in '08 and '09 versus
business in 2010 that was written in '09 and '10. And so there are material lags that mean
the full impact of price increases in 2010 has not been felt on earned premium yet, and
therefore by extension on the loss ratio.
I mentioned the claims inﬂation underlying the actuary projections was just under 6%
increasing claims cost per vehicle year. That's actually made up of a small decrease in
frequency, and a slightly bigger increase in average claims cost. But certainly, those
numbers are numbers that don't sound very consistent with the message of doom on the
claims side that we've heard from a number of our competitors.

Bloomberg Transcript

And we are still in a situation where we are not experiencing huge BI claims shock, and I'd
like to expand on that, while holding in one hand a rabbit's foot and the other a piece of
wood.
We are not experiencing a BI claims shock. We have in the past talked about frequency,
and I'm -- in these graphs, which I'll come to, I'm not going to talk about frequency.
What we've said in the past was -- six months ago/12 months ago -- yes, the proportion of
claims that have a bodily injury element has been increasing, but that has been a longterm feature of the market, and there was not a discontinuity in that in 2009, as observed
by some of our competitors.
What I'm going to highlight is some other BI features which also suggest to us that the
world is as much as it has been, at least for us. I haven't actually put values on these axes,
because I don't really want to give numbers for the competitors to, in some cases, aim for.
The graphs are showing the outcomes for 2008, 2009 and 2010. What you're seeing in
the top left is that our speed of settlement is practically unchanged. So we aren't seeing a
radical lengthening of settlement speeds, which might be the result, for example, of
people actively farming two or three-year old claims.
On the right hand side, you are seeing an increase in whiplash claim payments, but not a
radical increase. You're talking -- this is late -- well, mid to late single-digit increase on
average settlement costs.

Page 11 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

FINAL

Down the bottom left hand side, you are seeing practically no change in the number of
claimants per claim. Again, some of our competitors have observed a signiﬁcant change
in that metric. We haven't.
Just to make the point that not every number we show is positive, I have pulled out one
here, which is the lag between when an accident happens and we ﬁrst become aware of
bodily injury -- a bodily injury element to that accident. And what you see there is certainly
-- I've stopped it at nine months because, in fact, it's a measure that needs to mature to be
an accurate measure, and 2010 would look unrealistically good for the back end of 2010
because it hasn't had the chance to mature. But essentially, you're seeing a measure there
where in the early part of the year, that lag appeared to increase by roughly eight days.
Not quite sure why; it may be because it was a very busy winter last winter. It may be
because they introduced the new claims portal across the market in early April, and
maybe people were holding on to claims in the run-up to that. But essentially, the big
picture is our experience is more of the same on bodily injury as opposed to a major
discontinuity.

Bloomberg Transcript

Combined ratio; I'll ﬁnish the review of Admiral with a -- visiting one of our favorite
graphs, which is the comparison of combined ratio, where you're seeing more of the
same pattern we've shown you in previous years, i.e., a substantial outperformance versus
the market; a narrowing of that outperformance in 2003 to 2006. Apparently, or actually, I
think, a widening of that outperformance in '07, '08 and '09, as we coped with the new
price comparison environment better than a number of our competitors.
What are the prospects for 2010? There are arguments that that gap will narrow. What are
the arguments? Well, we've said that our price increases have not been as rapid as many
of our competitors. That should lead to some narrowing. There's a mathematical basis for
narrowing on the expense ratio. If prices go up 10% and you have a 25% expense ratio,
your expense ratio goes down by 2.3%. If prices go up 10%, you have a 15% expense ratio;
expense ratio goes down by 1.4%, and the combined -- and the gap narrows by 0.9%.
That's just mathematics, all other things being equal.
There's a change in the competitive landscape in the course of 2009 and the shock that
that represents. You've seen some of the least competent players pull out. And you've
seen a shock to some of the more competent players, who have been still seeing very
serious losses. Has that shock energized them? Has it made them lift their game when
RBSI reported last week a lot of stuﬀ about new pricing, new claims, new processes,
cutting costs? Will that feed through to a more eﬃcient set of competitors long term?
Counter-arguments; one counter-argument is the price comparison story hasn't run its
course yet. It's 52% of the market. It's going to be 60% and then 70%, and then more.
And so, in a sense, the ability to cope with price comparison remains a major issue and a
major potential diﬀerentiator.
Scale; we are believers in the theoretical value of scale. Not so much in the expense
context; that's not the big issue. The issue is information and using that information for
pricing. You look historically at the UK market; people have not made scale pay in loss

Page 12 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

ratio terms. But we believe that there should be an ability to do so, and our approach to
pricing is the most likely to make it possible to realize that opportunity.

FINAL

And in terms of relative competence, very pleased to say I do think there are lots of things
we are still doing badly; and, therefore, there's scope for us lifting our game, as well as
the competitors; and so it's just not clear cut how that's going to evolve.
Lastly, I'm going to talk a little bit about the outlook, the prospects. First of all, a
disclaimer, caveat auditor. I'm not casting aspersions on the accuracy of KPMG's work, I'm
saying, beware the listener. Our track record on forecasting is mixed, to be charitable. A
year ago, we attempted to give you some thoughts on this year's potential volume, and
we created three scenarios, one of which said we'd grow at 11%, and another said we'd
grow at 15%; and the third scenario we showed you said we'd grow at more than 15%. And
actually we grew at 32%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now if I was trying to mislead you, I might imply that I always meant 32% by more than
15%, but that isn't true; 32% was a shock to us as well. So our own record at forecasting
our own results, even in the short-term, is mixed.
Our record of forecasting the market is also mixed. Here's what we said a year ago about
the upcoming 2009 combined ratio. We projected 113%, and in the event, it turned out to
be 122%, justly slightly above 122%. Mainly wrong on two counts, we thought that the
declared price increases would feed through more into average earned premium, but we
saw no feed through at all in 2009. And we thought that the reserve release, the
phenomenal, unprecedented reserve releases we'd seen at the back end of the decade
would diminish, but not come to a shuddering halt, as they did in 2009.
So I'm going to go on to talk about our view of the future; and right now might be a good
time to catch up on your emails, based on my track record, but let's have a go anyway.
This is a best estimate of where the market might go over the next ﬁve or six years, and it's
characterized by a reversion to a six or seven-year cycle. And that's partly driven by the
impact of price comparison on the market, as we see it.
Now a six or seven-year cycle was the norm, going back before the early -- before last
decade, where we saw essentially 10 years from worst point to worst point. There are two
reasons why I don't think that sort of extended cycle will be repeated.
Firstly, in the ﬁrst half of last decade, there were two benign claims shock. Frequency was
better than people had anticipated, and bodily injury for inﬂation was initially, at the
beginning of the decade, substantially better than people had anticipated. Don't think
that we could anticipate benign claim shocks over the next two or three years; although if
the price of petrol keeps rising the way it is, we may well be a useful hedge against it.
The other factor is price comparison. Cyclical markets overshoot. At some point, the bulk
of the players are going to go from concern about margin to concern about market share.
Page 13 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

FINAL

And at that point, the market turns substantially. In a price comparison world, volume is
accessible quickly and, therefore, the ability to turn a margin focus into a market share
focus is substantially enhanced versus what it was in the middle of the last decade; and,
therefore, a more violent turn is likely to be the case.
I've prepared some excuses for being wrong. Ogden, it should have a small, short-term
eﬀect. If the Minister of Justice came out and said it's staying at 2.5%, then the outcome
for 2011 may be a bit better. If he said it's 0.5%, the outcome for 2011, a bit worse, but the
turn downwards somewhat delayed.
Much bigger issue, RBSI. What are they going to do in the run-up to 2012 and their IPO or
trade sale? Obviously, they're in the process of creating a narrative around a strong core,
a smaller core of attractive policies and a revitalized set of competencies. They'll probably
be in a position to create a narrative around the end of reserve strengthening and actually
a return to reserve releases.

Bloomberg Transcript

But will they be seeking to create a narrative in 2012 about a return to substantial growth?
Or will they prefer to play an important role in achieving stability and proﬁtability for the
market, and go with a narrative about a market that is fundamentally more attractive than
it used to be?
Aviva haven't been mentioned so far. Very diﬃcult for us to track as accurately what their
market share movements are because of stuﬀ that's going through brokers and stuﬀ that's
going through directs. But we're fairly conﬁdent that they're growing quite strongly; and,
obviously, they are big players and the extent of their aspiration will be important in
determining that pattern. Investment income and inﬂation, they could alter the equation.
Gender regulation, frankly, no big deal in terms of the overall proﬁtability of the market,
or the timing of the cycle. Some potential impact on relative proﬁtability as the diﬀerent
players in diﬀerent contexts may be able to -- I hate to use the word -- take advantage; live
more eﬀectively within a gender-constrained environment than other players. But it's not
going to be a material impact on the overall level of proﬁtability for the market.
So in summary on the UK; substantial growth in price rises in 2010 which are not yet
ﬂowing through fully into reported proﬁtability. Pricing momentum in early 2011 is actually
exhibiting a similar pattern to 2010. What we saw during 2010 is still the case, and we
anticipate some further price rises in 2011, but with a caveat. It's a cyclical market; the
more extreme the overshoot, the more violent the return, potentially.
And lastly, a factor that the management team spends a lot of time thinking about and
talking about, coping with growth. One of the big recurrent themes of our own internal
discussions is, what is the right level of growth for Admiral in this environment?
Over one-third of our staﬀ have been with us less than a year, and that's a function of
growing your business as fast as we're growing it. And when we're determining what is
value maximizing for our shareholders, it's about what can we do and still sustain what
makes us special. And so one of the things we've been watching very carefully during
Page 14 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

FINAL

2010 as we grow this fast is, are we delivering on those measures which reassure us that
we are still doing a very good job? And you've seen some of those today. You've seen
there's been a settlement on bodily injury. You haven't seen customer satisfaction
measures, but they've stayed robust during 2010.
One of the really important ones for us is staﬀ satisfaction in the face of the pressure and
the newcomers coming in; and so we're really pleased that we've achieved our highest
ever result on the Sunday Times best companies to work for, coming in at number nine on
a survey done in late 2010.
So that's the UK situation. I'll now hand you over to Henry.

Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Thank you, David; and good morning, everyone. As you can see, David makes the money,
Kevin counts it, I spend it. So how did I spend it? I spent it like this. I spent GBP14.3 million
on international; the ﬁgure pretty similar to what we spent in the previous year, as you can
see by percentage and by actual amount. But I think what will surprise you a little bit is the
makeup of that spend when cut between our insurance operations and our price
comparison operations.

Bloomberg Transcript

The insurance operations, over time; well, last year, we actually spent less than the year
before, quite substantially as a percentage; only a little over 3% of the proﬁts before tax
went towards these operations, GBP8.6 million, compared to roughly 5% the year before,
and GBP10.5 million.
And as you can see, the growth in development there, as Balumba -- obviously, we've
been spending on Balumba every year up until 2010 when it did make a return to the
Group. AdmiralDirekt; you won't see AdmiralDirekt going forward, and I'll come on to
that in just a minute. And we've added L'Olivier at the bottom, and the ﬁgures there
include not only the eight days of trading that L'Olivier had at the end of the year, but also
the pre-launch costs that were taken during the year.
And we now insure 195,000 vehicles. Again, that does include AdmiralDirekt, so that did
drop oﬀ quickly when we hit January 1.
But we did spend a lot more money on our price comparison businesses. And you can
see in 2009, we really only had the one, the Rastreator in Spain; but in 2010, early in the
year, we launched two further operations; LeLynx in France and Chiarezza in Italy. I'll talk
more speciﬁcally about those operations in just a minute, but they did account for GBP5.7
million of our spend outside the UK, and 2.1%.
So I think, just so you understand where is the money really going, it is not gushing into
insurance operations; as you can see, that's been tempered; but we are spending quite
heavily on the price comparison businesses.

Page 15 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

FINAL

Germany; probably the last slide you'll see from us on Germany for a while. We did feel
that it's a very diﬃcult market and that our resources basically are better deployed
elsewhere. So we chose to withdraw from the German market, and we did so by selling
our operation, AdmiralDirekt, which will continue in the AdmiralDirekt name, but it is
owned and managed by Itzehoer, a German mutual.
The total bill for Germany was GBP10.7 million. We feel that is not an excessive cost, but
we felt it was not the right strategy to continue there, as it is a very diﬃcult environment.
Spain. As Alastair mentioned, now known as Admiral Seguros; known as Admiral Seguros
because we now have two brands trading, both Balumba and another brand called
Globalty.
Balumba is our young Internet brand; you might see it akin to Elephant in the UK. And
Globalty has been introduced as our bigger, broader, more general brand; you might see
it compared to Admiral in the UK.

Bloomberg Transcript

Globalty did just launch in 2011, and we have no numbers for Globalty yet, but we do
expect it to come on and take a position within the Spanish market as a more general
brand, and not seen as a young person's Internet brand, as Balumba is seen.
Balumba had a good year. Certainly picked itself up from a reduction in customer
numbers. It grew quite a lot; it grew from 50,000 customers to 70,000 customers. It did
sacriﬁce a bit of loss ratio to achieve this, and I'll come on to that in just a minute, because
the Spanish market is quite particular. But the big beneﬁt came on the expense ratio side,
as you can imagine, as we can leverage some of the ﬁxed costs we have in the operation.
An improvement in the combined ratio of 13 points.
The result was a proﬁt of EUR900,000. That was largely down to a robust ancillary
contribution. How do you look at this? Well, that's very good. It's good to see the business
making money, but it is not sustainable that Balumba can continue with a combined ratio
of 135% and make money long into the future. It needs to improve. We need to see
further improvements in this operation, going forward.
That will be challenging, because the Spanish economy is challenging. This is the only
market we are in that we actually see vehicle numbers and premium shrinking. They are
not steady, they aren't growing by 0.2%[ph]; they are actually reducing in size. There is
the same number of insurers chasing less business.
In addition, there's not a lot of pain in the market at the moment. Combined ratios in the
market somewhere around 100%[ph]. That's not a painful point, so we are not seeing
large price increases go through the market as we're seeing in other places. This makes it
a very challenging environment to grow a business, and grow it proﬁtably.
Rastreator had a good year, good growth, but obviously at a cost; expending a fair
amount of money in Rastreator to grow that. I think we are beneﬁtting here from the
Page 16 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

FINAL

Spanish economy, because people are doing more shopping around. And I would think
that Rastreator is the leading price comparison business in Spain, but we now need to
transfer that growth into proﬁts.
Quite an exciting story in Italy. ConTe, as you can see, had quite rampant growth from
35,000 customers to 86,000 customers in a single year. And this was done with an
improvement in the loss ratio, but I do want to caution you, these are 12-month loss ratio
ﬁgures; they are very young, they are very volatile. But I'd rather be at 70% at the end of 12
months than at 98%.
This is on the back of large price increases in the market. From what I can gather, this
market has actually moved faster in price increases than the UK market, so you can see
how substantial the price increases are. And therefore, we launched at a very lucky
moment, very much akin to when Admiral launched at the beginning of 1993 in the UK
market.
The expense ratio dropped considerably with all the added volume, and a combined ratio
for a business that isn't three years old of 115% is quite good. And the result was a small
loss; just a slightly larger loss than the previous year as you can see of EUR3 million. But
this is a very positive start for ConTe, and we would expect to see continued growth in
2011.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the other side, Chiarezza has had diﬃcult trading. It's a challenging market for price
comparison; it's a very busy market for price comparison. There are quite a few very good
price comparison operations out there challenging Chiarezza.
Chiarezza did spend some money. It's got to build its panel more, it's got to give more
competitive oﬀers, and it's got to reduce its marketing costs in 2011.
On to the US. The US was a bit slower growth than we had anticipated. During the year,
we were trading just in the single state of Virginia. We have now in the beginning of this
year also launched in Maryland.
The simple math of how many people you can sell to come into play. Virginia has roughly
5 million vehicles needing insurance. Maryland has roughly the same. So we basically
doubled the possible ﬂow of customers into the same operational unit. So we should see
some economies of scale go forward.
On the positive side, very positive on the loss ratio; a 64% loss ratio for a new business
book is very good. I think it's worth pointing out that the US market is a very diﬀerent
market than the European markets. This is a damage market not a liability market. It is not
unlimited liability. Can you imagine unlimited liability in the US market? My goodness. We
couldn't charge enough in premiums.
So this is not unlimited liability. It's limited liability, and it's sometimes limited at very low
amounts. Customers choose, and there are minimum limits of roughly $25,000. So that's Page 17 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

- you know, you run over an investment banker waiting for a bus, should you ever see an
investment banker waiting for a bus, all the insurers are on force[ph] $25,000. And the
investment banker would have to sue the person that ran him over to collect anything
else.

FINAL

So a very diﬀerent market. It's much shorter tail also, because it's all about repairing cars.
And so we feel more conﬁdent. This is still a young number on very small amounts of
data, but we feel reasonably conﬁdent that it's not going to swing violently going forward.
So 64% is a very good result.
The expense ratio, 228%, is a tad higher than we had anticipated, and clearly down to
volumes. We have a call center set up; we have people sitting there waiting; we have
managers, we have chairs, we have desks, etc. We need to have more customers.
Opening up into Maryland gives us access to more customers. We would hope to be
opening up in a third state yet to be determined later this year. That should again add
another 5 million/6 million/7 million motorists to the pool.

Bloomberg Transcript

And by the time we get to the fourth state, out of 51 -- actually, Washington DC is treated
as an independent entity for insurance in the US, so it's 51 diﬀerent operations -- we would
hope to have a market size close to or as big as, say, the UK market, and then we can
anticipate volume.
So if you think about it, if Elephant is selling 50 policies a day, and ConTe is selling 400,
but ConTe has got 40 million vehicles in its market, and Elephant it was only in Virginia
and had 5 million vehicles in its market, it's not actually a bad result. But you can't really
run a successful business like this on 50 policies per day.
France; not a lot to say on L'Olivier. We're still in a position where we know all our
customers by their ﬁrst name. We have eight people in the operation. We've attacked
France in a diﬀerent way. We are outsourcing the operations to avoid the heavy startup
costs of all those desks and chairs and people, and managers and so-forth. So we're
outsourcing all that. It gives us a ﬁxed basis for operation, a ﬁxed cost basis for our
operations.
We will soon be on price comparison sites; that's the way we intend to market. It's unlikely
you will see a L'Olivier TV commercial any time soon. It will be Google; it will be price
comparison; that's how we intend to grow the business.
Price comparison is reasonably well developed in France, and growing, and that's
something we found out ourselves with LeLynx. LeLynx got oﬀ to a pretty good start its
ﬁrst year. It has been able to drive volumes. It has a pretty good panel. And we would
anticipate further growth from LeLynx. And that will help drive the growth through
L'Olivier later in the year.

Page 18 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

FINAL

All in all, pretty good. 32% vehicle growth, very strong. More people to handle the
customers; coping with growth in the UK and in Italy in particular. Very challenging, but
challenges you certainly like to have.
Hard work; combined ratio of 89%, quite good. Three international launches in 2010;
nothing planned at the moment for 2011. International growth coming forward. Proﬁt
growth, nice incline. Going like a freight train; 59% return on capital. But a lot of work to
do. We can and will intend to do better.
Thank you, very much for your attention here this morning. If we can now take any
questions, comments, indignant remarks.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions)

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
One is a request, and I know it's a repeated request, and I know there's some issues
around conﬁdentiality agreements, but the car insurance, I know you've made some
attempt to talk about the accident year[ph]. But the car insurance by provider, given that
there's a whole suite of proﬁt formulae, and some of it's disclosed, some not disclosed,
would make a huge help in trying to unravel what I deem as a black box in terms of that
item.
So that is a request. I don't know if you can or can't do it, but --

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

I can't[ph] make a comment on that really.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
All right. Well, all right. Just two others. Quick one is --. Did you want to comment? All
right, sorry.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Yes, quickly. That 27.5% to the reinsurers other than Munich Re, you can use a ﬁxed cost
assumption of about 1.7%[ph] on that, of premium. And then assume 100% proﬁt
commission is coming back after that on all of that 27.5%.
And then the Munich Re one I'm afraid I can't disclose; it's conﬁdential. I can only help
you with some of the -- if you show me your modeling, I can give you a bit of a hint as to
whether it's miles out or roughly --

Page 19 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
It's not the Munich Re. It's easy to model the (multiple speakers).

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

FINAL

They are relatively straightforward now. They're just -- take an average of 1.7% and assume
it's the same across the book, and everything else comes back to us.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
All right. I assume there's some limits around 104[ph] and stuﬀ there as well, but -investment income and some contracts that it isn't included and --

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

We get all the investment income, as long as we are in good proﬁt territory after the 1.7%.
If we go into negative territory, that income would help cover some of the costs.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Maybe you can give further disclosure that would be useful. Shall we chat about that?

Bloomberg Transcript

The other thing is, I was wondering -- the poor weather we saw, what that would have
added to the loss ratio, and with a mind to reverse it out next year if it doesn't reoccur.
The poor weather we saw in November/December; if it didn't reoccur next year, what sort
of --?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

The poor weather was primarily a property event rather than a motor event. And although
the ABI has issued comment talking about very large amounts of claims going out in
December, if you actually work out the number of motor claims you might expect during
the course of December, it isn't that radically diﬀerent from the number being quoted.
So in my view, December was a rough month, but other months have been good months,
and really it's not a big story there.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
The last one is, you talk about an expense ratio superior to your peer group, but you have
a business model that tends to pay people in shares, and you've got a GBP12 million costs
that isn't even in the proﬁt book. All[ph] tax will go straight through to the NAV.
When you bring that back in, it's a signiﬁcant amount. I'm not criticizing whether it is or
isn't in the combined ratio, but given that you're increasing the amount of staﬀ and your
share price is going up, I was wondering if you would give us some kind of steer where
you saw that going in terms of your business model going forward.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}
Page 20 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

FINAL

Well, the rules of the share scheme are such that we can't allocate to our staﬀ more than
1% per year, or 10% over a rolling 10 years of new shares. So we do very much believe in
the model of as many staﬀ as possible participating in the scheme; and, therefore, we do
look to utilize as much of that capacity as we can. But we certainly won't be able to, and
can't go any further than that sort of number.
So it depends entirely where the share price moves, of course, and whether -- in terms of
the P&L impact of the event, but it's probably going to keep growing a bit more, and then
it'll look pretty stable going forward after that, all else being equal. But the share price is
quite an important part of it.

Q - Paul Goodhind

{BIO 16200839 <GO>}

It is Paul Goodhind, Redburn Partners. Reserving[ph] conservatism, could you ﬂesh it out
in more detail? In particular, you're putting in I think 12 points of front-end
conservatism[ph] is what you've said historically. That was down from 15% a year or so
ago. The language in the press release suggests that maybe that's moved down again.
Would that be a correct interpretation?
You're trying to keep the overall conservatism broadly ﬂat, taking into account proﬁt
commissions, I think is what you've said in the past. So are you still putting in 12 points at
the front end is the question.

Bloomberg Transcript

And in terms of reserve releases to premiums, that's come down quite a lot to 9 points. I
guess that's expected, but is that now a broadly stable level, do you think, going forward?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

It depends on the level of proﬁtability that emerges from the book, or we think is going to
emerge from the book, and therefore the amount of proﬁt commission that we think we're
looking at in the number.
Your comments before are actually spot on, Paul, which is to try and look at the thing in
the round and take the conservatism to keep broadly consistent across both. And by
deﬁnition, just talking to Greig[ph] there, that does mean that bigger PCs[ph] means we'll
be building less stock into our initial picks on reserves.
So I'd say it probably looks like it's going to be similar or maybe slightly smaller going
forward from where we sit right now, but it depends on how the perceived loss ratio,
proﬁtability emerges.

Q - Paul Goodhind

{BIO 16200839 <GO>}

But is 12 points at the front-end still a reasonable --?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

No, that's a bit higher now.

Page 21 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

Q - Paul Goodhind

{BIO 16200839 <GO>}

It's a bit higher now, so maybe --

FINAL

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

If you go to the back of this pack in the appendix, you can see the initial pick on 2010 year
is 78[ph]. And I know it's underwriting (inaudible), but we're looking at 70 as a projected
alternative[ph] to 2010 at the moment. So that's not 12 points.

Q - Paul Goodhind

{BIO 16200839 <GO>}

So 8[ph] to 10[ph] maybe?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Yes, at the moment.

Q - James Quin

{BIO 3878205 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Three questions, please. First one is, I wonder if you could possibly walk us through from
the expected ultimate loss ratio for last year -- sorry, 2009, of 72%, to the 70% for 2010 in
terms of some of the high level moving parts.
One thing that was mentioned brieﬂy, I think it was either half-year or with the Third
Quarter, was the drag that comes from renewals versus new business -- or, sorry, new
business versus renewals. I don't know how much of a feature that is within those high
level movements.
The second question is just on the quality of the earned premium in 2011 versus 2010. I
guess I could probably work this out for myself, but I just wonder if I could have your view
of if there were no rate increases at all in 2011, what the earned eﬀect would be just on a
like-for-like basis.
And the third question is a quick one. In terms of reserved conservatism, Kevin, is this
essentially an absolute ﬁgure or a relative ﬁgure in terms of it's an absolute ﬁgure, or is it
relative to the size of the business?
Thank you.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Working backwards, Kevin --

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

I'll take the easy one. It's relative rather than absolute. Give David the two hard ones.

Page 22 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

Page 24, your question is what would happen if there was no price inﬂation in 2011. I think
I'd have to go away and do it, but I think you'd be somewhere low teens on your earned
premium, but I'd have to go away and do it.

FINAL

And what was -- there's another one, was there?

Q - James Quin

{BIO 3878205 <GO>}

Walk us through the ultimate '09/'10, which is a bit easy[ph].

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Yes, page 23; essentially 72[ph] to 70[ph], average earned premium up 8%, cost per
vehicle year just about 5.7%[ph], I think. Frequency marginally down, so average claim -average cost per claim itself up 6%-ish, just above 6%.
In terms of unpicking, why you get a 19% turning into a 16% in terms of the average
modeled rate change versus the average written, it's actually really diﬃcult to say, well,
that's mix, that's renewal versus new business; that's this, that and the other. You just know
that these forces are in play and their rough magnitude.

Q - James Quin

{BIO 3878205 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Would you say within the 70 for the 2010 year that there's any noticeable impact in that
from a new business versus renewals drag, which I think you talked about that being a 10
point impact.

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

No, no; that is material in the sense that the loss ratios on new business are materially
worse, low double-digit worse; and, therefore, there is a mix eﬀect on your outcome.

Q - James Quin

{BIO 3878205 <GO>}

And how long does it take for that to run its way through the books again?

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Well, it's just essentially the renewal book is better than the new business book
immediately. It's true to say that the second year is a bit better than the ﬁrst year, and the
third year's a bit better than the second year. But the big thing is the renewal book is
better than the new business book.
So you could probably work out the mix of premium between new business and renewal,
and if you said, let's assume that switches to 50/50, you could work out the materiality of
it. It's going to be 1 point or 2; it may be even knocking on just above 2 in terms of the
outcome.

Page 23 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

FINAL

We haven't really done it because essentially we've always been growing. It's not that we
have -- if we were sitting here and saying, look, the growth's coming to an end guys, and
by the way, when you're projecting, you might bear in mind this eﬀect. But 2011 is going
to be another year of growth. So we're not going to be sitting here talking that much
about a change of mix.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Two questions, if I could; the ﬁrst one on confused.com. In terms of your market share and
data, you're getting a very high level given that it's not growing perhaps as quickly as
peer group. Is the very high level of the revenue you're seeing currently people
responding to an email at the end of the year saying -- are they existing clients, basically?
Could you break down the number between existing clients who are renewing and new
clients?
And the second question was on the large claim movement in '07. Is that not a bodily
injury claim? And I know you've got a lot of slides that show that things haven't really
changed for bodily injuries, so I was just wondering what it was, if it wasn't bodily injury
claims deteriorating.
Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Let me do the bodily injury claims ﬁrst, if that's all right. The thing about large bodily
injury claims is there is a randomness about them. You can have a case which could be,
depending on when it -- how it turns out when it goes to trial, potentially seven or eight
years after the accident, you could win on liability or lose on liability. You can be surprised
on quantum positively or negatively. And so there's going to be always volatility on big
claims. And that doesn't mean there's necessarily a big change in underlying patterns.
So in the latest set, you've seen some volatility in an adverse direction in 2007, but you've
seen some volatility in a positive direction on 2009, which of itself is oﬀsetting volatility in
the other direction at the ﬁrst half.
So you've -- there's volatility and there's trends. Now the trend is for big bodily injury
claims to get more and more expensive as things like care costs more, as medical
instruments cost more, and things -- as lawyers get more and more sophisticated in
adding heads of damages. So those big claims increase well above inﬂation. But they
have done for six, seven, eight years now, and so that in itself is not a discontinuity in
trend.
Confused?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

On Confused, Andy, I think you've seen the latest Confused ads, and if you remember
them, that would be nice, you'll know that we feature in that ad at the end that we've got
Page 24 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

20 million customers. And so that's almost everybody now at some point in their lives has
gone on Confused and done something.

FINAL

So an awful lot of Confused customers are repeat customers, and with market growing at
16%, as it did last year, there's a lot more existing customers in the whole market than
there is of new customers.
So it is true to say that most of Confused customers will be people that have used
Confused before. But it's also true to say, I think, that we can get better at marketing to
those customers through emails and other routes. And so it is an area that can make a
contribution to Confused doing better, but it's not as impactful, as important an area as
reminding customers in the ﬁrst instance that Confused is around and has got a good
product to oﬀer to them when they come to their annual car insurance renewal, because
they're likely to have forgotten where they went last year.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Andrew?

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

A couple of questions. Could you talk about projections this year for rate rises relative to
average claims cost; what do you expect for those two by the end of the year?
And then on the International business, I think if you take out AdmiralDirekt, your vehicle
count overseas went up 34% and your vehicle count in the UK went up 32%. And the
whole idea of International was it was supposed to expand more rapidly than UK to take
up the running when the UK eases oﬀ.
When do you expect to really grind up the vehicle count in International? Have we
reached that point of launching some of those companies and really getting it to move
forward?

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Can I take that one ﬁrst? Well, the goal isn't to ramp up the vehicle count. The goal is to
create proﬁtable, sustainable growing businesses. So if doing that means ramping up the
vehicle count, so be it. If it means growing the vehicle count slowly, so be it.
34% is ahead of 32%, but part of the problem is the UK had an exceptional year for
growth. How many times in the past have we grown 32% in the UK? Not often.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

1994[ph].

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Page 25 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

That's about it. So I would say that you met normal markets outside, although the Italian
market didn't grow by percentage far more than the UK market, and exceptional growth
in the UK, which is going to make it harder to catch up to the UK, isn't it?

FINAL

So we don't have a date. We don't have a time. We don't say, by next Thursday, we've got
to be bigger outside the UK than in the UK. It's a function of growing these businesses
successfully over time.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

And on the price increases, market growing, say, 30%-ish last year, you don't keep that
going forever, for obvious reasons. What we'd expect is that 2011 price increases will
outpace claims inﬂation, and hopefully materially. We've been encouraged by the ﬁrst two
months of the year, but it is only the ﬁrst two months.
A lot of competitors are still in a sense looking over their shoulder at 2010 reported
results which are not good. And so we'd hope the momentum will be sustained during
2011, but probably at some point in the course of 2011, things will cool oﬀ.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

But average claims inﬂation, where do you see that? Do you see that easing back with
higher oil prices and perhaps the spike in bodily injury claims easing back?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Well, I think the frequency will have -- petrol prices will have a beneﬁcial eﬀect on
frequency if they're sustained; and tightness on disposable income will have a beneﬁcial
impact on frequency, and that will be sustained. So the frequency story is probably mildly
positive. And the average claim story, well above -- well, I say well above inﬂation, inﬂation
may well yet catch up; above inﬂation, but in line with the single digits that we've got in
2010.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Thanks.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

A couple towards the back.

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Just a quick question. I wondered what you estimate your share of new business sales
through a UK price comparison site is running at. I think that's a number you may have
given in the past and how it's changed over the last year.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Sorry, you're talking about --?
Page 26 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Share of -- your market share of --

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

FINAL

Oh, the direct brand share of price comparison, sorry. David?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Yes, it increased, increased substantially; late teens maybe, something like that.

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

Could I just ask on the price comparison sites outside of the UK where you've seen losses
increase quite a lot. You made one or two comments that some of the markets are very
competitive. Could you maybe just say a bit more in terms of how much you see needing
to invest before you get to break-even, and what are the metrics that you're looking at to
determine, well, this is a market where it's really going to succeed and we're going to get
a scale business; and maybe where, if you're one of six or seven, that you just don't think
you'll make it?
Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Sure. We're the leader in Spain, and that market looks interesting. We feel we're on a
good trajectory. Whether we're proﬁtable this year or proﬁtable next year, not completely
clear. Part of it does -- you are investing now for your future as well, as you can see by
Kevin's comment on the repeat users, so you're building your repeat users in many cases.
So -- but we feel we're on a good trajectory there.
We think the French market is good. It's growing, which is the most important thing. The
market is growing, and we feel we've done well so far to be able to get the quote
volumes up to good levels.
The one that's proving most diﬃcult, as I said, was the Italian market. It looks expensive to
get quote volumes up. We need to get those costs down and that's what we'll be
concentrating on during 2011.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Just a very simple question really. Why didn't the market earned premiums go up in
2009?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

The discrepancy between the survey price increases and the actual reported earned
premium increases was the largest it's ever been. And in 2007 and '08, you were looking
at 5% or 6% discrepancy, and I think it was at 9% or something like that in 2009.
Page 27 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

FINAL

It's not very easy to say. The possible explanation is people moved quite radically to
protect their renewal book from the impact of price comparison, and there was a very
material -- well, what would have had to have been a very material reduction in the margin
between new business and renewal.
And the other factor is probably inaccuracy in the surveys, which were overstating the
actual price increases being put through; whether that's because of not representative
baskets, or not representative insurers being looked at.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Is there any movement from comprehensive to third party as well coming through
possibly?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

In the market as a whole?

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Yes.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Well, I don't -- there's been a long-term trend for third party to shrink as a share of the
market to the extent that you get some real selection issues around third party, because
the saving you make on third party isn't that substantial in a lot of cases, and if people
need that saving, then they become a less attractive risk; and so the gaps are narrowing
and narrowing. So I don't think there's anything particularly material happening there.

Q - Tony Silverman

{BIO 2162363 <GO>}

I was just wanting to ask a bit further about slide 19, your very interesting slide on
changing competitiveness. You mentioned, obviously, four people there. There are lots of
others you mentioned in the course of the narrative; you thought Aviva was increasing
share, but were they indeed neutral vis-a-vis yourselves if they're not on that list? It would
be interesting to hear a bit more about that slide.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

The reason we don't include Aviva and we don't do RSA and MORE THAN either, it's very
diﬃcult to do people who straddle brokers and insurance, because when the customers
report to us, they report -- they might report they've come from Swinton's, they might
report they've come from Aviva, depending on whether they're reporting the broker or
the insurer. So the numbers can be misleading, and so we've hesitated to use them about
those cross-distribution channel brands, but we do see within those numbers an
indication that Aviva is growing materially.

Q - Tony Silverman

{BIO 2162363 <GO>}

Page 28 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

Is that because they're just being -- and MORE THAN or any of the others that aren't on
there, are they getting to grips with price comparison sites, or just throwing money at it
and doing it ineﬃciently, if you like? How would you characterize the rest of the market at
this stage?

FINAL

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Well, this is very dangerous because Aviva are doing their results tomorrow or the day
after or something. So you run the risk of being entirely discredited soon after having
spoken.

Q - Tony Silverman

{BIO 2162363 <GO>}

I understand.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

But what I would say is I suspect if you look back at Aviva, they increased their prices ﬁrst
back in 2006, and they shed a lot of share; and my guess would be, I don't know whether
this will become apparent, that in fact, they haven't really been going up with the market
in 2010 to anything like the same extent as players like RBSI. That would be my guess.

Q - Tony Silverman

{BIO 2162363 <GO>}

Thanks very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

We've got one at the back ﬁrst. Then come back to the front.

Q - Olivia Brindle

{BIO 17273762 <GO>}

Just going back to the ECJ ruling on gender, you said you do expect some potential
relative changes in terms of competitors and how they can respond to that. I was just
wondering how you see yourself in that context, given that you currently potentially have
better segmentation in terms of how you relate that to pricing; and do you think that
potentially gives you a worse positioning in responding to this change?
Thank you.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

There are two things I'd say about that. First of all, I would say that the younger market is a
more important part of our book than it is some of our competitors, so actually, the exact
section of the market which is really materially aﬀected by this, i.e., the younger drivers, is
more important to us than it is to a number of others.
I think our ability to respond within that segment is probably better than most of the
people that play in that segment, because essentially, you're going to be looking for
factors that try to adjust for the loss predictiveness of gender. And I think being direct and
Page 29 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

being someone that has asked lots of questions and kept lots of data, puts us in a better
position to make that adjustment more eﬀectively and respond to errors in that
adjustment more quickly than a number of our competitors operating in that area.

FINAL

Q - Bobby Hicks

{BIO 18272685 <GO>}

Bobby Hicks, Macquarie. Just a small point. You mentioned, Henry, that you've
outsourced a lot of the admin in France. I wondered -- I'm presuming that doesn't include
risk selection pricing or perhaps claims management. I wonder what it does include.
Who's doing it and whether there's any model there for other territories?

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Correct. We're doing the pricing. We're doing the bodily injury claims management.
They're doing the damage claims management. They're handling the sales calls, the
customer service calls, basically the renewal calls. Yes, and we'd like to think that if this -- if
we can make this work, it does give us a way to enter other markets in the future. That
would be a less costly entry ticket.

Q - Bobby Hicks

{BIO 18272685 <GO>}

If you can't say who it is, can you say what it is? Is it an insurance company?

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It's a broker, an intermediary.

Q - Bobby Hicks

{BIO 18272685 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Any other questions, comments or indignant remarks? Anything from the phones?

Operator
We have no questions from the telephones.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

We have answered them all. Great. Well, thank you all very much for your time this
morning and if not before, we'll see you end of August. Cheers.
Thank you.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, the conference has now concluded. You may now replace your
handsets.
Page 30 of 31



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2011-03-02

Page 31 of 31

