Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

S2 2011 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Andrew Moss , CEO
David Barral, CEO, Aviva UK Life
Igal Mayer, CEO, Aviva Europe
Patrick Regan, CFO
Richard Hoskins , CEO, Aviva North America

Other Participants
Abid Hussain, Analyst
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Andy Hughes , Analyst
Barrie Cornes , Analyst
Blair Stewart, Analyst
Greig Paterson, Analyst
James Pearce , Analyst
Marcus Barnard, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Nick Holmes , Analyst
Raghu Hariharan, Analyst
Toby Langley, Analyst

Presentation
Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Right. Good morning everybody. Thanks very much for being with us this morning. I know
it's an extremely busy day for people on your side of the fence so we will try and get
through this reasonably quickly, allow plenty of time for questions and answers of course
as well.
It's an interesting world out there at the moment. The last few days particularly in the
markets of course have been interesting. We just did our newswire call, which
unsurprisingly majored on eurozone exposure I think so we'll make sure that we give you
a very clear view of that today obviously. But we think we've got a lot of other very
interesting messages that we'd like to give you as well, so let's get on with that.
What I'm going to do is take you through some numbers, headlines, talk a little bit about
strategic progress and then hand over to Pat to give you a little bit more detail on the
first-half numbers.
Page 1 of 25



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

FINAL

But let's just start by looking at some of those headline numbers. And the heading here,
'further success in all key areas', I think is a genuinely accurate summary of where we've
travelled to in the last six months. IFRS operating profit up 5% at the headline level, 13% if
you strip out the effect of the special distribution last year. So good underlying growth.
Net operating capital generation up to GBP0.8b. I'll talk to you in a moment about our
target there and were we see that coming out for the year. On the back of that strong
capital generation and profitability, a 5% increase in the interim dividend.
And the business I think growing pretty much whichever way you look at it. Funds under
management in the six months up 4%, so 8% annualized, if you like. The driver of future
profitability clearly. And I think just something to note, a couple of years ago with Delta
Lloyd funds under management in the Group were around GBP350b. Today without Delta
Lloyd they are GBP350b. And that clearly is a salient point when we think about earnings
going forward.
Economic capital surplus, very important point again I think in uncertain times. We haven't
updated the market for some time on that. I think the first number we gave you were the
full year '09 numbers. So you can see the full year '10 and half year '11 numbers there. A
really substantial increase to GBP6.9b. That's cover of about 1.7 times on the economic
capital surplus. So good progress on that, which gives us great financial flexibility.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the market-consistent embedded value, net asset value up to GBP5.75. That's proforma-ed for the disposal of the RAC, but clearly headed substantially upwards again.
So pleased with all of those numbers, but I think a lot of progress on some of the nonfinancial things which companies like ours face as well. I think Aviva has strengthened its
position in a number of areas over the last couple of years.
Customer and reputation. In our big businesses, our net promoter scores, the way our
customers think about us and are willing to recommend us are headed upwards. And
that's very important and it's been driving some of the gains in business that we've seen.
Price and service in our key market, here in the UK, driving volumes up. So something like
670,000 new motor customers in the course of the last 18 months. That's not a
coincidence; that's about changes we've made in the market.
We've been pleased by some of the reaction too to Aviva's performance, as I say, in nonfinancial spheres because, for example, we were pleased to see us voted the most
reputable financial services company in the UK in the Reputation Index Survey in April.
That's banks and insurers. And this is a brand that's only two years old. So we're proud of
that and we think it makes a difference to our customers.
People. There's been quite a lot going on on the people front. Most important I think
clearly is the announcement that with Colin's retirement, John McFarlane will be joining us
as Chairman of the Company. He comes on the Board in September and takes over as
Chairman in the middle of next year. We're delighted with that and, as an executive team,
we look forward to working with John into the future.

Page 2 of 25



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

FINAL

Trevor Matthews joining us in the autumn. I think his desire to come and join us to run what
I think is, without a doubt, the most successful insurance franchise in the UK, I'm very, very
pleased about that. And we have aggressive aspirations for further growth in the UK
market. And we are I think arguably today the leading insurer in the UK market, but over
the course of the next couple of years, in what is the third largest insurance market in the
world, I think we will be in a position of undisputed leadership.
Philippe Maso joining us as the CEO of our French business. Well known to some of you in
the UK in terms of his previous roles with AXA here in the UK.
So attracting good people into the business, but also bringing good people up through
the business. So David Barral, who's over here, now running our UK Life business, he'll be
working with Trevor. Great to see actually opportunities for people who've done a great
job for the Company over a period of time coming through and getting their chance to
put their stamp on our business.

Bloomberg Transcript

We should talk about regulation and Solvency II in particular. What's the backdrop to that? I
think the economic capital surplus that we're talking to you about today, the GBP6.9b. Our
view is, and look, it's impossible to be categoric about this, but our view is that pretty
much anything that comes down the track in relation to Solvency II we're ready for. And we
have built our economic capital position, of course with that in mind. Regulators remain a
little nervous I think in this pre-Solvency II world. We work very hard on our regulatory
relationships and I think that's been paying off for us too in qualitative terms in the course
of the last six or so months.
Risk management, clearly very important. We've seen very volatile markets again,
particularly in the Eurozone, particularly related to sovereign debt in the course of the last
few months. We are committed to our businesses in Europe. Interesting to see we've got
a 21% increase in profit in our European businesses in the first six months of this year,
speaking I think to the resilience of our European business. So all of those things, I think
we are right on top of that. Those exposures are within our risk appetite and Pat will tell
you exactly what they are later.
Just talking about the Life business, profits headed upwards. Again these are numbers
excluding Delta Lloyd so we have to learn to look at us now excluding Delta Lloyd.
So good upward trajectory in Life operating profit. Life new business being written well
above our target for new business profitability, with a 14% IRR, and we've made some
choices about what business that we write in the first half of 2011. So you can see the
sales coming down. That's about choices, primarily in the Italy in the first half, where we've
moved away from less profitable with-profits business. But although sales are coming
down, we need to be clear that the business is still growing. Life in-force reserves headed
upwards, GBP271 billion at the end of the half year, a driver of future profit, as Pat will
elaborate on later.
And in General Insurance, the underwriting profit in the business continuing to head
upwards, driven by current year profitability. Measures that we've taken over the course of
Page 3 of 25



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

FINAL

the last two or three years to pull out cost, pull out distribution cost, change our
underwriting practices really paying off in terms of the underwriting profitability today,
whilst of course the investment returns have been under some pressure with interest
rates being where they are.
Combined operating ratio beating target at 96% and perhaps most importantly growing
into a stronger market. So sales, net written premium up to GBP4.7 billion in the first half
of 2011. I've talked about the expense ratio. That's right across the Group now at 11%.
Around 10% in the UK business, a real driver of profitability and our ability to price
competitively.
Just looking at the UK, I've talked about our aspirations in the UK, but both the Life and
General Insurance business going very, very well. You can see in terms of IFRS operating
profits, taking out the effects of the special distribution, up strongly in the first half of 2011.
And again that's not a coincidence; it's the result of business that we've chosen to write,
partly with an eye towards RDR.

Bloomberg Transcript

So when you look at that second graph, middle top there, you can see that overall sales
up 5%, but with a real slant towards those businesses less affected by RDR. So that's
Group Personal Pensions and then those two businesses, Annuities and Protection, that
are not affected at all by RDR. So in Annuities we have a market share now in individual
annuities of well over 23%. Undisputed market leader in the UK. Protection, a market
share now close to 16% and I believe, particularly with the Santander deal now having
coming on-stream, started very successfully, that will move us into number-one position in
UK Protection in the course of the next 12 months.
New business internal rates of return, that's 16% in the UK market. That makes the UK a
very attractive market in which now to deploy capital. And we are in the best position to
do that in terms of competitive position, in terms of having capital to put to work.
In General Insurance, profits going up, but volumes going up 14% in the UK market. So as I
say, building and growing the business into a rising market I believe at the right time. And
with the efficiency measures that we've taken, the combined operating ratio moving
downwards.
Europe. I stressed it earlier, a 21% increase in profits in what clearly has been a challenging
economic environment. But the resilience of our business driving profits up 11% in the Life
market and up very strongly in General Insurance, helped to some degree by better
weather in the first half of 2011 relative to 2010.
The sales story, as I said, we have made choices about the profitability of new business.
We're quite content to see the volumes drop to some degree, but meanwhile we see the
internal rates of return on new business going up to 14%. That knocks through into the
operating capital generation numbers that Pat will talk to you about later.
So you can see in General Insurance the combined operating ratio down 5percentage
points. So a real improvement for us there, and an area where Igal is bringing his
Page 4 of 25



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

expertise to bear to drive profitability in the General Insurance business forward.

FINAL

Other regions. North America, the US Life business up 27% on top of nearly doubling
profits -- or doubling profits actually last year. So good further growth in the profitability of
that US franchise. And Canada, a 96% combined operating ratio, although investment
returns falling in that market. Underwriting results good.
And Asia Pacific, our intention is to grow the value of our franchise there. To do that you
need to grow volumes and you need to grow returns on new business, both of those
things coming through in the first half. So an encouraging performance there.
Lastly, Aviva Investors, a business we continue to invest in. So profitability broadly flat in
the first half. Remember please that performance fees are accounted for in the second
half, so broadly the profit profile there is often one-third/two-thirds, first half/second half.
And what's really encouraging is on the back of strong investment performance we move
from a position a couple of years ago of negative external sales to positive. So we're
winning new mandates from third parties in our investment management business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Targets. As you know, we've set some short-term financial targets for the business. And
I'm pleased to say that we are beating those in the first half of 2011 and the outlook also is
encouraging in that respect. So 14% IRRs on Life new business, the 96% combined ratio.
Let me take a little time to talk to you about the operating capital generation target. We
set it at GBP1.5b. What we're saying to you today is that we think the outcome in the full
year will be between GBP1.5 billion and GBP1.8b. Our overriding priority is not to maximize
this number at any cost. We have to balance the growth in our business and the value of
the in-force that we're putting on the book to ensure future profitability of Aviva versus
this number. So we're content to manage it between that GBP1.5 billion and GBP1.8 billion
target. And we will continue to target a range as we go forward, rather than simply
seeking to maximize it.
The gross capital generation in the Company is about GBP3b. If you don't want us to write
any new business, that's what it would be. But we believe that we need a more balanced
approach than that.
Cost and efficiency savings, right on track to hit our targets by the end of 2012. And I'll talk
to you about some of the structural cost issues in the Company in just a moment.
So what are we saying today? We believe that, if you like, the new Aviva that you can see
emerging post Delta Lloyd, post RAC, is a fitter, stronger organization positioned for
growth. So let me just talk to you for a few minutes around that.
So let's just track back to 2008, thinking about profitability, the size of the in-force book,
the efficiency of the Company, the risk profile of the Company and ultimately of course
the profitability of the Company. So Life IRRs then at 11%, now at 14%. Combined

Page 5 of 25



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

FINAL

operating ratios down to 96% driven by current year profitability. The value of the in-force
book going up to GBP6.6b, the source of future profitability in our Life business.
Efficiency, these two metrics probably underline more than any other the scale of the
change in the Company over the last few years. A cost base then of GBP5.7b, annualized
looking forward GBP3.9 billion without Delta Lloyd and the RAC. And headcount down
from 55,000-odd, down to 36,000 people as we go forward. So the operating leverage
of the Company greatly increased. And I'll talk about how that flows through into potential
future profitability in just a moment.
But risk too is an incredibly important part of this equation. Disposing of Delta Lloyd, which
has a completely different risk profile from the rest of Aviva, very, very important in this
respect. The economic capital surplus up to close to GBP7b, as I said, giving us financial
flexibility as we go forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

And one of the big liabilities that hung over the Company up to six or so months ago has
been the long-term liability associated with the pension fund. That has been eliminated.
The UK pension fund stands slightly in surplus today. We've reduced a lot of the volatility
as well in terms of that number. So there's still some risk associated with it, but I think a
structural change has taken place, which means that essentially we can say that we have
largely dealt with that issue.
And what about profitability? Actually in 2008 it was GBP2.3b. It actually fell in 2009 to
GBP2b. Today in the half year we're reporting GBP1.34b. And of course there's a question
mark; I can't tell you exactly what the profit's going to be in the second half of the year,
but we do believe that we can drive profitability in the new Company actually to avoid
dilution. And that is certainly our aspiration post the disposals of Delta Lloyd and the RAC.
Now let me move on and just talk to you a little bit about our portfolio and delivery against
that because in value terms we are very well on in that process subsequent to some of
the strategic statements we made towards the end of last year. I think you have to go
back to 2009 actually, the sale of Australia was an important strategic move for us, part of
our portfolio reallocation. And the proceeds of that actually largely went into the
reattribution of the inherited estate, a very profitable investment for us.
Then the initial IPO of Delta Lloyd came and of course that's been followed in April of this
year by a further 15% sell-down, which has meant the deconsolidation of Delta Lloyd as
we go forward. In terms of proceeds for Delta Lloyd, broadly I think you can think about it
in the way that we do, around GBP600 million went into the pension fund here in the UK. I
think, again, a very good use of funds for shareholders, helping to eliminate that longterm liability. We now have the sale of the RAC, another GBP1b. We were pleased with the
price of that, 17 times earnings. I think good and well-timed in terms of market conditions.
So we have much greater financial flexibility. The capital position is stronger. The cash
position at the center of the Group is stronger. And that liquidity and capital strength in
uncertain times is of great value to us. We'll continue to focus on some other smaller
changes to the portfolio. But we absolutely believe that the value to shareholders is
Page 6 of 25



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

FINAL

optimized by careful planning and good execution around these issues. And we think both
in terms of Delta Lloyd and the RAC we have a good track record in that respect.
And before I hand over to Pat, just to look at the detail of the numbers, I just want to talk a
little bit about the momentum for growth, again in the new Group as it now looks going
forward. The first graph there, top left, looks at the IFRS operating profit and the profile of
that, again without Delta Lloyd, without the RAC. You can see substantial growth between
the full year 2010 and the full year 2009. And there on the graph is also plotted the half
year for 2011. So our objective clearly will be to drive earnings up to exceed the full year
'10 numbers and to keep on a growth trajectory as we go forward. Why are we confident
about that? And I think the answer lies in the three graphs on the remainder of the slide.
Let's start with General Insurance, top right. You can see volumes going up and
profitability improving as we grow into a harder market, but actually driven by the cost
changes that we've made in our business. Remember in the UK we've taken GBP400
million of cost out of that business, a GBP1.4 billion cost base going to a GBP1 billion cost
base in the course of the last three years. That makes us more competitive. That allows
us to price products in a way where we can drag volumes through to the position where
we have, for example, nearly 2 million motor customers today, a number that's grown by
40%-odd in the course of the last 18 months.

Bloomberg Transcript

So the outlook there, I believe, is good. And whilst premium rating is still not helping us,
frankly, on the commercial property side to the degree that we'd like, we think all of the
trends are in the right direction.
Now the bottom half of the graph I think echoes some analysis which one or two of you in
the audience have been doing on the industry in the course of the last few months.
Looking at cost/income ratios, cost/income ratios clearly are a well-known metric in the
banking industry and important, but I think there is some resonance for that ratio on the
Life side of our business as well. And on the bottom left you can see the way our
cost/income ratio has been tracking down. And that is because we've been taking cost
out of our business. And that allows us to price new product better, but it sees more
profitability coming out of the existing book as well.
The last graph is a comparison, as I say, drawn from some third party analysis. And it looks
at 2009/2010 cost ratios across our major competitors. And I suppose there are two key
messages that you can see. First of all, in absolute terms, our efficiency is good relative to
the rest of the industry. And secondly, that we continue to drive the cost/income ratio
downwards. And that is about cost. If you look at the analysis, our -- as Pat will talk to you
about in just a moment, our administration costs as a percentage of funds under
management have driven down I think to very competitive levels. We will continue to do
that and that will continue to drive profitability as we go forward.
I'm going to stop there and hand over to Pat to take you through some numbers and pick
up, I think, some of the same themes.

Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}
Page 7 of 25



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

FINAL

Great. Thank you, Andrew and good morning everybody. Nice to see everybody here
today. As usual I'm going to run through a little bit more detail on the operating results
and try and unpack the Delta Lloyd element of that so you can see the impact of the
deconsolidation. Equally important obviously in today's times that we evidence our strong
cash flow generation and our strong balance sheet so I'll talk a little bit about that as well.
Starting then with our operating results, at a headline level the 5% increase to GBP1.337b.
Excluding Delta Lloyd, 6% increase to just over GBP1.1b. As Andrew mentioned, obviously
last year we had the last of the special distributions. So on an underlying basis, ex-DL,
some 14% or so growth.
On the left-hand side you can see the growth in operating profit again very much driven
by the Life business. Again, two trends. We've got an increasing value in-force, an
increasing block of reserves on the Life business. I'll come back to that a little bit as we go
through. And on the GI side, two trends, a continuing decrease in the combined ratio
offset a little bit by a lower longer-term investment return. Again, I'll come back to that in a
moment.

Bloomberg Transcript

Below the regional profit level of GBP1.082b, looking at the fund management, as Andrew
said, broadly flat year on year. Of course you'll remember that's very much second-half
loaded when the performance fees come in. 75% or so of our funds achieving or beating
benchmark again so that bodes well for the performance fees.
Other non-insurance costs slightly higher, reflecting the non-repeat of a small pension
credit from last year. Corporate costs slightly higher, reflecting slightly higher risk and
regulatory costs. Although worth noting both of those lines, other non-insurance and
corporate costs, lower than the run rate for the full year 2010. Group debt cost broadly
flat and pension cost down, reflecting the lower opening deficit position of the pension
schemes.
On Delta Lloyd, so the numbers look eerily similar. Last year's, of course, GBP224 million is
the full consolidated 100% in the operating result. This year, four months at a full 100%,
two months coming in at 40%, 42% of -- into the operating result line.
So a little bit more then on the what's going on on the Life business first and then the GI
business. I'll talk to the profit drivers in a second. Just talking to the numbers at the top
left-hand side to start with, what's going on business unit by business unit.
In the UK, as you can see, some 17% increase in the Life profits, ex special distribution.
Why? So in-force reserves are up. On the annuity book we had an increase in our APE of
about 16%, if you measure it that way, an increase on our in-force reserves for annuities of
about 15%, so comparing this time this year to this time last year and again that's driving
those annuity profits forward. Similar increase, double-digit increase, in our in-force unitlinked, partly due to higher inflows, also due to the impact, positive impact of bringing the
RBS book on board. So higher in-force and lower expenses as well. I'll talk to that more in
a little minute. Higher in-force and lower expenses.

Page 8 of 25



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

FINAL

In Europe, an 11% increase in the Life profits, again particularly driven by the higher in-force
in Europe. They're generally young, slightly younger businesses. We have high retention
levels. So notwithstanding the lower level of headline sales, there's still an increasing inforce business, driving the increased Life profitability.
As Andrew mentioned, some 26%, 27% in North America. Again, a similar story. Slightly
lower headline sales but still higher in-force block of business driving higher profitability,
together with slightly lower DAC amortization.
Looking at that a slightly different way from the profit drivers, income up adjusting for the
special distribution, expenses down. New business income, broadly flat at GBP471m. In
percentage terms, percentage of APE up from 24% to 26%, again reflecting our value
over volume on new business, particular increase in Europe from 20% to 24%.
On the underwriting margin again, a good story on there. Continuing increase in
underwriting margin, larger in-force block of business driving larger underwriting margins,
particularly in our European business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Investment return I'm going to come back to on the next slide.
In terms of the costs, acquisition costs down 4%, very much in line with the decrease of an
APE measure of our new business, down some 4%. On the admin cost side, so, as
Andrew highlighted, our in-force reserves up about GBP30 billion from this time last year.
So average for the first six months of last year were up about GBP30 billion of our in-force
reserves. The cost of managing those reserves is down. So on basis points terms, cost 42
basis points this time last year, down to 38 basis points this time this year. Primarily driven
by the UK business. Again, those similar stats, 34 basis points now down to 27 basis
points, managing that in-force business in the UK.
Just on investment returns, again, across the board you can see increases on our in-force
business. On unit-linked, double-digit increases in both Europe and in the UK, partly driven
by the positive impact of the RBS deal. The slight tick down in average basis points just
reflecting the new regulation in Poland, capping pension charging for that business. But
we're now at a steady state of AMCs with a higher level of reserves going forward.
Participating business, two trends. Continued growth in Europe, up again over 10% of inforce participating in Europe. Slightly lower in-force in the UK, and obviously, as we've
mentioned, last year we had our GBP84 million special distribution. This year's GBP266m,
not including that special distribution.
Spread margin, again, that's our annuity business in the UK and the US. As I mentioned
earlier, some 15% increase in in-force in the UK. And again, similar slightly lower increase in
in-force in the US, about 8% or 9% there. So driving that overall increase in average
reserves to nearly GBP69b. In terms of the basis points, couple of things there. In the US
we had an embedded derivative gain in the spread margin last year. And in the UK we've
got a slightly lower equity release margin. Again, now pretty much a steady state average
basis points at 101 with a growing in-force going forward.
Page 9 of 25



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

On the expected return on shareholder assets, similar story, growth on there, primarily
driven by the benefit of the reattributed estate, some GBP70 million in the first six
months.

FINAL

Turning then to General Insurance. As Andrew mentioned, a doubling of the underwriting
result, so reflecting that decrease in combined ratio from 97% to 96%, offset by the lower
longer-term investment return. I'll come back to that in a moment.
Business unit by business unit, 14% increase in premiums in the UK, 20% on personal lines,
6% on commercial lines. And personal lines very much driven by that motor book. 210,000
new policies in personal motor in the first six months. 20%-plus rating increases still
achieved on personal motor, a much decreased combined ratio on personal motor, down
to some 94% in the first six months. Still good growth in commercial lines again,
particularly driven by rating we're achieving on the commercial motor book in the UK.
In Europe, as Andrew mentioned, some 5% decrease in the combined. About 3% of that
is weather net of lower reserve releases and about 2% of that reflects underlying claims
performance, particularly in our French business. In Canada, two things, slightly higher
weather-related claims by about 2%, and a 2% lower expense ratio offsetting that as we
deliver those expense saves we outlined at the end of last year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Overall in terms of reserve moves, again, a continuing trend. Again another 2% lower
reliance on reserve releases this year versus last year, driving that overall underlying
improvement in the combined ratio.
On the LTIR, two trends there. Obviously you'll remember our premium levels used to be
higher. We've gone through a cleansing of that book to drive increased profitability on the
underwriting side. Two years ago we had about GBP2 billion higher reserve level,
excluding Delta Lloyd. That came down really to the end of 2010. The interesting feature
is it's now started ticking up again.
The growth in each of those portfolios, particularly in the UK, is flowing through to a higher
reserve level now, and obviously over time, therefore, a higher level of assets backing
that business. So whilst yields are a little bit lower, what you'll have coming through
offsetting that is a gradually increasing asset portfolio backing that, allowing the
underwriting result increasingly to flow through to the bottom line.
Briefly on Delta Lloyd. Obviously they've got their own presentation today. GBP224 million
up to GBP272 million on a fully 100% basis, very much driven by their Life result, very much
driven by their own execution of their simplification program and their expense reduction
efforts there. General Insurance result lower. Some level of reserve strengthening and a
higher level of fire claims in the first six months of this year versus last year.
Just looking then below operating profit line. So in all, headline including Delta Lloyd at
GBP1,337m, as we talked about, and GBP1.1 billion ex-DL. We've put -- we've tried to
summarize here the Delta Lloyd impact below the line, which is most of the variances and
then the Aviva ex-Delta Lloyd impact.
Page 10 of 25



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

FINAL

If I start with the Aviva ex-Delta Lloyd impact on that left-hand side. Integration costs
reflecting the completion of the Quantum Leap program, cost savings achieving in the UK
and some Solvency II-related costs. The GBP275 million of investment variances really
reflect primarily increased spreads on Italian government bonds and to a lesser extent
Irish. Government bonds obviously unrealized investment variances there. Then the usual
bits and pieces of goodwill amortization. All coming down to a GBP638 million profit
before tax for Aviva Group ex Delta Lloyd.
On the Delta Lloyd side, very much as signposted both in terms of the First Quarter and
the circular we did at the time with the Delta Lloyd sell down. So the GBP880 million of
investment variances reflecting the reduction of the Delta Lloyd yield curve, the curve they
used to value their liabilities of about 80 basis points reduction of that. The opposite of
the positive impact of that this time last year. GBP32 million then being the overall loss on
sale, a total of GBP900 million of impact on those two items. The same total again that
we highlighted at the time of the circular.

Bloomberg Transcript

Big pictures terms, loss on disposal, GBP400 million of proceeds, market value of our
remaining stake about GBP1.1b, that's GBP1.15b. Deduct the book value of our
shareholding before that, GBP2.1b, so GBP1.5 billion less GBP2.1b, and then the recycling of
foreign currency reserves of GBP600 million coming down to your broadly net neutral
impact. Overall then operating EPS of some GBP0.29 up from GBP0.27.4 last year.
Looking at that in terms of net asset values, obviously GBP0.18 on IFRS basis a positive
profit and investment variances ex-DL. You've then got those DL net of tax, net of
minorities investment variances flowing through at GBP0.13. The Delta Lloyd sell down,
again just to be clear on that. The GBP0.22 obviously from a net asset value perspective
excludes those recycling of foreign currency reserves. If you exclude that GBP600m,
GBP600 million impact on net assets or a GBP0.22 impact.
From an MCEV perspective, we sold for close to MCEV book value, so a much lower
impact on those MCEV book values. So the profit investment variance is really flowing
through there and even before the impact of RAC an increase in our MCEV embedded
value up to GBP5.54 and an increase in our EEV embedded value up to GBP6.15 and
GBP6.36. What's driving that MCEV again is the increase in our value and force. Compared
to this time last year our MCEV VIF is up by just over GBP1b, our EEV VIF is up by over
GBP2b, driving those increases MCEV and EEV.
Then pro forma for sale of RAC, as you'll remember, we made about a GBP600 million
gain on sale of RAC or about a GBP21 million -- GBP0.21 positive impact on all of these
metrics. So IFRS at GBP4.46, MCEV up now to GBP5.75 and even allowing for the
deconsolidation of DL, EEV up to GBP6.36.
Moving on then to capital generation, last year we posted GBP900 million for the first six
months. You'll remember of course that included GBP200 million positive impact, positive
one-time impact on those lower capital resource requirement in GI. So if you like, GBP700
million of underlying. What's happened this year, that GBP700 million has gone to
GBP800m. In-force generation basically flat. Notwithstanding the lower or non-special

Page 11 of 25



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

FINAL

distribution, Life generation again coming in a bit over GBP1b, very much in line with that
GBP2 billion a year we've talked to you about before. Non-Life generation slightly up
some GBP50 million or GBP60m, again reflecting the higher level of profits in our Non-Life
businesses.
The story I guess is the amount of capital consumed in our Life new business, in total
down GBP200 million for the first six months of this year versus the first six months of last
year. So GBP500 million now. Last year GBP700m. The year before that GBP900m. So
substantial decrease in capital consumed in Life business, again at the same time we're
growing that value in-force.
Payback over the same period, we're now a six year payback ex-DL. I think actually a
couple of years ago we had an 11 year payback on an equivalent basis.
IRRs as Andrew said across --- up in all of our businesses, up 12% to 14% in Europe. In
Europe we consumed about GBP100 million lower capital. In the US we consumed about
again GBP100 million lower capital, all driving that overall reduction in capital efficiency
down to now some 4%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Just looking a little bit at the balance sheet then. What are some of the headline impacts
of the sell down of Delta Lloyd? Total assets obviously down by some GBP35b, down to
GBP113b. Even more profound impact on the mortgage book. We're now almost half the
size of the mortgage book and the remaining amount, most of which relates to the UK
commercial mortgage book.
Again just for completeness, that book continues to perform extremely well. Very resilient
loan to values, some 93% loan to value. Continued strong rental interest cover of 1.3
times. And the total amount of interest and capital in arrears is a mere GBP15 million
compared to the GBP750 million provision that remains in place or a total of GBP1.3 billion
provisions back in the whole annuity book.
Again, with the deconsolidation of Delta Lloyd the equity holding's down from what was
GBP5 billion on the shareholder balance sheet now down to a mere GBP1 billion at the half
year.
Again for completeness, let's go through performance on the corporate bonds. The UK
almost a zero default record in the first six months. Very strong record. We talked quite a
bit about that in January. That compares to our reserving assumption of just over 60 basis
points. A similar story in the US. Again, an incredibly strong record there of a mere five
basis points for the half year. The market for that, as we talked to you about before, is
way higher and obviously that's much lower than our pricing and reserving assumptions.
Worth spending a moment then on our exposure to southern European sovereign debt.
Numbers we've talked to you about before in the chart, so direct shareholder exposure
for Greece, Spain, Portugal and Ireland down again from GBP700 million to GBP500
million at the half year. And both of those numbers frankly remain well within our risk
appetite. We've added to the disclosure so we've got the participating amount in each of
Page 12 of 25



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

FINAL

those countries as well, so what we share with policy holders, and again you can see
they're pretty modest amounts in total.
In Italy, like every other life insurance company in Italy, we have a structured savings
product, tax-efficient savings product, and largely we invest that money in Italian
government bonds as most of our competitors do. And in total we hold some GBP900
million direct shareholder exposure and in the participating funds net of minorities at just
over GBP6b, again, if anything lower proportions than our big European peer groups. In
total we're very comfortable with that, very much within our risk appetite, and again each
of those business models have served us well in the future and I'm sure will serve us well
going forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

Adding all that together then in terms of economic capital surplus, when we talked to you
before in January we outlined our economic capital surplus GBP4.8 billion or about 140%
coverage. What have we done since then? We've grown our MCEV available capital.
We've continued to reduce our required capital, all the product things we've talked about.
Lower new business, lower guarantee levels, different product features, de-risking of
certain assets, de-risking of the pension scheme, all of that has reduced are required.
Obviously we've sold down Delta Lloyd. That has a positive impact. And the sell down, the
pro forma sell down of RAC. All of that increasing by over GBP2 billion economic capital
surplus to GBP6.9 billion or close to now 170% coverage ratio.
Few other stats. Our IGD remains very resilient at GBP4 billion surplus. Obviously we've
maintained right throughout the crisis our AA-minus rating from S&P. Pension scheme's
now in a small surplus and in addition we continue our de-risking process. We've more
than halved again the amount of equities within the Aviva staff pension scheme.
Just lastly from me, and really picking up some themes from Andrew, what has been
driving our profit increase on the Life and GI side? On the Life side it's the stuff at the top.
We've got GBP30 billion higher in-force reserves now than we had 18 months ago. We
earn on that in total revenue terms about 180 basis points. So you can do the math
yourself, GBP30 billion higher reserves drives more than GBP500 million higher amounts
of income going forward. We've also worked hard on the cost of managing those in-force
blocks of reserves. It's now about 8 basis points lower and again on GBP300 billion of
reserves that makes about GBP250 million increase to profitability.
GI side, a lower combined ratio obviously drops to the underwriting result. As we've
talked a lot about the quality of that, the current year ratio of that, much improved over
that time as well. And as I said earlier, we've now turned the point where the assets
backing the GI business are going to be on the growth again so the LTIR will have a
growing asset base offsetting that slightly lower coupon.
Thank you for that. With that I'm going to hand back to Andrew.

Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Page 13 of 25



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

Thank you, Pat. A brief summary then. We believe that the first half speaks well to
operating performance in the business. I'm pleased to see the ongoing improvement, but
we remain confident as well of ongoing improvement from there. Capital position
demonstrably stronger. That's a good thing in today's world, but I think it also puts us in a
strong position to deploy capital into our growth businesses as we go forward. The
strategic delivery we've seen against a portfolio objective that we've set for ourselves.
That does allow us to flow through into that capital position, into our liquidity position,
allows us to finance that growth and to deploy capital organically in our business.
But all of the structural change that we've made is not just an end in itself. It is genuinely
to put us in a competitive position in our key markets. So the reduction in the
administration costs, for example in the Life business, allow us to price new business now
more competitively I believe than anybody else operating here in the UK market. The
reductions in costs in our General Insurance business, an expense ratio of 10%, give us,
against our broadly based competitors in the UK general insurance market, again a
competitive advantage which drives through to pricing, offering good value as well as
good service to our customers. And we expect our volumes to continue to increase into a
strengthening market.
So that's where we stand. We'd like to move to Q&A. I'm going to ask Pat to come back
on stage. I'm going to ask Igal to join me as well and we will go from there and answer
any questions that you may have.

Bloomberg Transcript

Questions And Answers
A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Greig, I think you were first hand up.

Q - Greig Paterson
Good morning. Yes. Always. Greig Paterson, KBW. Three questions. One is you guys are
still paying commission in the pre-RDR world and obviously you're gaining from the buynow-our-commission-loss theme. I wonder if you can just give us an idea of percentage of
your APE or whatever, PV, give us a premium that is coming from that, so that we can take
it out next year. That's question one.
The second one is, Emlyn [ph] has talked about a deteriorating '09 accident year in motor
and house, I was wondering if you could just give us some feel for your experience in that
line and that accident year.
And if you could just, it might be in the pack, but if you could just give us an idea of what
the default provision is, whether it's changed in the half year, and what it is as a
percentage in terms of basis points and reserves, whether that's decreased.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Do you want to take the last one first?
Page 14 of 25



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

FINAL

Sure. No change to the default provisions overall so very much in line with what we talked
about before. It obviously varies very much portfolio by portfolio. As I said, we're mid 60s
on the UK corporate bonds. We're mid 70s on the commercial mortgages. So yes, very
much in line with what we talked about before.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Okay, let's go back to the first question. I'll ask David Barral to come in in a bit more detail
on it. The reality is that that picture has changed already to quite a large degree as we've
adapted for the RDR world. But maybe I can ask David just to comment in some more
detail.

A - David Barral

{BIO 17035123 <GO>}

Yes. Will do. Hi Greig. I think we are -- the vast majority of the business we write now is
either on fee based or is on a lower initial and recurring income anyway. In fact the
recurring income commission is written for GPP is fairly close to what we think the post
RDR charges will be. The fact is most employers won't want to write out a physical check
for the business so the model that a lot of the corporate IFAs are already moving to is
pretty close to what we'll do in a post RDR world.

Bloomberg Transcript

But to put it in context, the total commission bill is now 40% less than what it was three
years ago. So that gives you some idea of the movement in terms of the improvement
and the change in the model.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Thanks David. On the GI side, do you want to comment first Pat?

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Yes. So we're very happy with the development of all of our accident years including the
recent years '09 and '10. Nothing particular to highlight. We have seen inflation in bodily
injury, but that's something we've factored into our initial estimates of ultimate. And we
spend quite a bit of time looking at these trends, don't we, and going through and
comparing how we're doing with competitors, and we're very happy with those
developments.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Thanks Greig. Andy.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Thanks very much. Andy Hughes, Exane BNP Paribas. Three questions if I may. The first
two on the US. Obviously a numbers question, you don't disclose the level of unrealized
gains in the US which are included in your IGD surplus, so can you give us a rough idea of
what that is?

Page 15 of 25



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

FINAL

And the second question is I guess also on the US. In terms of when you do your
operating numbers, you're assuming only a target spread in the US. I'm just wondering
what you're actually earning compared to that operating spread because previous
presentations have indicated that you're earning quite a wide spread between what
you're paying the policy holder and what you're earning on the assets. So it would be
quite good to know the difference between your current operating assumptions and your
actual realized earnings from the US business.
And the third question is I guess one on the disposal proceeds. Obviously your share on
economic capital has increased as well as you've received disposal proceeds and this
doesn't seem to be part of the de-leveraging process that you've announced already
because you've only got GBP200 million of debt or so maturing next year. So I guess the
question is what happens to the proceeds that you have and the excess capital on the
balance sheet now? Thank you very much.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. Do you want to take the US questions first? Then I'll take the last one?

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Sure, yes. I think we're about GBP1.4b, David, of unrealized gains in the US. In terms of
gross numbers, obviously I'm excluding lots of stuff, we yield about 6%, Richard, on our
portfolio in the US and we pay about 2% on average to customers. Obviously that
excludes a whole bunch of stuff, cost of options, expenses, commissions and stuff, but
they're the gross numbers if that helps.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

You're coming back on that.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Any idea what it would be on a net basis then including the cost of options and expenses
and stuff ?

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

The net spread is something in the region of 200, Richard? About a little under 200 basis
points.

A - Richard Hoskins

{BIO 19402720 <GO>}

It's about 250, 300. (Technical difficulty).

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

And what's the target spread that's included in the -- when you do your numbers in terms
of operating cash flow and profit? (Technical difficulty).

Page 16 of 25



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

FINAL

I guess there's lots of variables in that. Part of -- I guess the biggest one is is what our
actual defaults are versus the assumptions and as you saw a little bit we're massively
inside our reserving function, so maybe 50 basis points inside of that at the moment. So
that would flow to future profits as that continues.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

On the last one, Andy, I think you've got to just step back a bit and say look, what's the
environment? I think it's an environment in which capital strength of financial service
companies will serve us well and I don't see that changing for the next year or two at
least. You're quite right that we've built the financial strength of the Company and I think
successfully over the course of the last two or three years. That shows through in the
economic capital, the IGD is strong, the liquidity at the center of the Group is strong as
well. # And that gives us flexibility. And I think what we've been demonstrating in the
course of the last six to 12 months is we can put that capital to work organically very
profitably for the Company. So that is our main priority.
Raghu.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Raghu Hariharan

{BIO 15133573 <GO>}

Thank you. Morning. Raghu Hariharan from Citi. Just had three questions please. The first
one was on the pension deficit. I see in the IGD that there is a pension funding of
GBP200m, which I'm surprised by because the deficit I thought was eliminated by the end
of last year.
The second question is -- or two questions related to UK GI. I was wondering if you could
highlight what the RAC contribution was to your combined ratio in the UK because I guess
we'll have to work through that once that business has gone off your books.
And the third thing was just following up on Greig's question. I see there's a GBP12 million
reserve strengthening in the UK and I was wondering which line is that coming from.
Thanks.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Sure. The RAC contribution in the UK is a couple of percent on the combined ratio. So
we've set our targets, the 97% target, with that in mind as we go forward.
The reserve strengthening, I guess commercial motors probably.

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Page 17 of 25



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

Yes. It's just a tiny amount. Yes, commercial motors, where a little bit in commercial
motors. You can see our combined or commercial motors a little bit higher and, as I think
we say in the pack, we're achieving some pretty good rate increases through that part of
the business now.

FINAL

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Sorry Raghu. What was the first question?

Q - Raghu Hariharan

{BIO 15133573 <GO>}

Pensions.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Yes, of course. I mean the rules dictate that we have to account in the IGD for I think it's
five years of pensions --

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Yes, so we do have ongoing contributions into the pension scheme. It's an accounting
surplus but obviously we've got a long term funding agreement that still has us putting in
an amount of money each year into the UK scheme and obviously a smaller amount into
other Irish and Canadian schemes.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Raghu Hariharan

{BIO 15133573 <GO>}

GBP200 million would be the number?

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

It's a little bit of rounding in there, Raghu, so it's probably a little bit lower than that on a
full year basis.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Andrew.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Hello. It's Andrew Crean at Autonomous. Three questions. What's happened to the
balance sheet in July other than the RAC?
And could you say around about policy holder participation, are there circumstances when
if sovereign bonds move into non-investment grade where you're not allowed to -- policy
holders are not allowed to participate in losses? That's one question.
I wasn't quite clear when you were talking about the cash generation range of between
GBP1.5 billion and GBP1.8 billion whether that range extended as a forecast for 2012. You
said you were going to give ranges, whether that's what you were indicating.

Page 18 of 25



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

And finally could you just update us on how you think things are going in Spain with the
merry-go-round of cajas?

FINAL

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Yes, I'm going to start with the operating capital generation. Yes. We very intentionally are
just shifting our guidance away from, as I say, just maximizing that number for the sake of
it to getting it into a range which we think gets the balance right between the amount of
capital generation coming through to finance central costs, to finance debt repayments to
finance dividends, and to put profitable growth on the books of the company. So does it
extend to 2012? We're not giving any number for 2012, but I think you can expect us to
target that sort of range to get that balance right. And that's the way we'll be talking
about it going forward.
I think in Spain, our strategic objective I hope is clear. We've mentioned it a number of
times, which was to keep our distribution footprint through what we describe as the
merry-go-round going on. Our team in Spain is very focused on that, Igal.

A - Igal Mayer

{BIO 15440055 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, very focused ,Andrew. Look, what's a top priority for the cajas themselves? It's going
through this recapitalization process, which is very much in high gear right now, will get
resolved for each of them in the Fourth Quarter and into the First Quarter. That's their top
priority. Obviously they don't have a lot of cash or any excess cash.
So what do I expect? I expect most of those deals to be settled on an non-cash basis and
that they're basically re-cutting the deals between distributors and manufacturers. We
continue to have very positive discussions with all our partners and as you've seen in the
papers we take legal action where appropriate to protect our contractual rate. So my view
is it'll be done in an amicable way through renegotiations of the deals.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

It's a classic example, Andrew, and we have a great team of people on the ground there
who have been managing these relationships for the last 10 years and really keyed in to
the local business environment. And that's served us incredibly well through what will be a
period of change I think.
Balance sheet?

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Balance sheet, yes. So probably -- the number we pointed out there was the unrealized
movement on Italian government bonds. We took it to the start of this week. There's
probably about another GBP150m, Andrew, I would say in the investment variances line,
both for IFRS and MCEV, that kind of order of magnitude. And probably there's a little bit I
guess in equity movements, but not a big number.

Page 19 of 25



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

FINAL

The last one was on participating funds. I guess we look at all sorts of scenarios in terms
of movements, further movement in government spreads in any of those countries. I
guess in the round, we think that even 300 basis points or 500 basis points further
spread widening, which is more than double what it is today, is still relatively manageable,
relatively modest amounts of capital in any of those countries, including Italy.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Nick.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Nick Holmes, Nomura. A couple of questions on European Life please. The first one is do
you think that the banks' increasing appetite for deposits is going to slow down your
growth?
And second question is you're targeting unit linked and we know that in Europe unit linked
is very volatile. How can you kind of dimension your targets in the context of these volatile
markets?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks Nick. Good questions. W4e've seen -- I'll ask Igal to come in for sure, but
we've seen over the last three years banks behaving in different ways at different times
with liquidity being more important to them at times. And I think that was at its worst
frankly in the period through late 2007 and early 2008, and definitely we saw a little bit of
a fall in volumes at that point. Because of various rules that are being imposed clearly
there's a bit of pressure in that regard. But I don't think we see fundamental change.

A - Igal Mayer

{BIO 15440055 <GO>}

Yes, I do think it's almost either country by country or bank by bank. Our intelligence would
suggest you're absolutely right in France, but we're not experiencing with our
bancassurance relationship. We've had very strong sales in the first half from Credit du
Nord. So I think it is going to be bank by bank, but I would agree with you, over the next 18
to 24 months many of the banks are going to need to beef up their liquidity. We see it as
that range of time.
On the unit link, I think it is all about the product mix. We are obviously emphasizing unit
link, but remember Nick we're also emphasizing protection and we're seeing good
growth in both lines really just to get some balance against what was arguably an
overweight in the with profit funds.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Blair.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Page 20 of 25



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

FINAL

Thanks very much. Blair Stewart from ABN Amro. Two or three questions. Firstly on your
Life reserve growth, I think the last time I looked, last time you gave net flows information
was about 1% of opening assets. I just wondered what's the driver of that, of those Life
reserves growth. Is it asset markets and particularly bond yields going down? That's the
first question.
Then on your expense ratio, could you just give us an update as to what expense actions
are still outstanding both Life and P&C?
Then thirdly to Andrew's question. There's a bit of confusion in the market about under
what circumstances the usual policy holder/shareholder split would stop working in some
countries, and particularly with Italy, the participating exposure you gave. Could you give
us a bit more clarity on that?

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Sure.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me just do the expense one first and then I'll ask Pat to comment on the others.
We've reiterated our comments around the GBP400 million target today. Things are
going well in the UK. I think it's fair to say that there's a little bit more to come in Europe.
Igal, you're going to do an Investor Day October 26?

A - Igal Mayer

{BIO 15440055 <GO>}

October 26, yes.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Which will take us into a lot more detail in terms of European markets and there are one
or two initiatives there which will drive that number through.
One thing to note on that, when we made the initial target, it included Delta Lloyd in that
GBP400m. Our thoughts today is that ex-Delta Lloyd we can stick with the GBP400 million
target. So in a sense that's additive to a degree. But I think you have to understand it
market by market in a little bit more detail.
Value of the in-force?

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

In terms of the flows, there is a table in the pack you can look at that repeats the
disclosures from year end on net flows. What we see in there is in the UK we continue to
add to our non-profit flows. We had positive flows there really very much driven by that
annuity business. We have negative flows on the with-profits, which is same as last year
and probably same as you should expect for the remainder of this year and next year, the
maturing endowment policies and maturing bonds over the next couple of years. In
Page 21 of 25



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

Europe again we've got positive flows, partly driven by -- there is a market movement
element to it as well, but we still are adding to our stock of profits in participating and unit
linked.

FINAL

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

On the participating it's necessarily quite a complicated story and different in different
places, Blair. The first contextual thing you have to say is the capital position of the Group
is strong, stronger than it's been for a long, long time.
Secondly we have looked at all sorts of contingency plans around this area looking at
stresses. Pat talking about 300 to 500 basis points and we've looked at more than that
as well in the context of managing the overall business relative to the capital position. So
we feel comfortable, absolutely comfortable within risk appetite where we are. And
frankly with some of those things you have to make some assumptions and we can't see
sitting here today exactly what some of the outturns might be. But pretty much whichever
way we look at it, we feel pretty comfortable about the potential outcomes.
James.

Q - James Pearce

{BIO 16758460 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Morning. James Pearce from UBS. I see that your capital strain solvency requirements in
the UK new business have gone down over the year, which is the opposite direction of
travel from what one of your competitors was saying, particularly on annuities. Can you
give us some color there please?
Second, internal debt has gone down a lot judging by the corporate center line on the
capital structure. Can we expect to see that fall further?
And thirdly, how are you investing your premium income in Italy and Spain please?

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Okay. Pat, do you want to take those?

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Yes. I think you're talking about the 100% capital requirement. Is that the question, on the
first question on the Life capital comment?

Q - James Pearce

{BIO 16758460 <GO>}

The strain.

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

The strain, yes. We had a look at that and thought that was a better representation of our
actual capital requirements to be honest. Nothing more or less than that.
Page 22 of 25



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Italy, deploying premium income.

FINAL

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Deploying premium income. We've got -- primarily we've invested as everybody else has
in government bonds typically. We're slightly broadening that, but the main investments in
that portfolio remain, generally speaking, long-dated government bonds. In Spain we've
got a higher proportion of protection business so there's less asset-heavy in that business
just naturally.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Was there a middle question in those, Jame?

Q - James Pearce

{BIO 16758460 <GO>}

Internal debt.

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

The overall movement in that balance hasn't really changed in the period. We -- in the
table there it's shown net of our central cash and the central cash has grown. That's really
the movement you're seeing there.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Yes, gentleman there.

Q - Toby Langley

{BIO 15924432 <GO>}

Hi. It's Toby Langley from Barclays Capital.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Hi Toby.

Q - Toby Langley

{BIO 15924432 <GO>}

I've got a follow up question on the RAC. Can you actually break out what the operating
profits were for the RAC business in the first half before and after pension costs?

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Yes, so at a premium level you're talking a little over GBP150 million I think in the first half.
In terms of profit it's a bit over GBP35m.

Q - Toby Langley

{BIO 15924432 <GO>}

And a follow up question on sovereign debt. Can you remind us what you see as the
triggers for impairments on any of these bonds should they be required because we've
Page 23 of 25



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

seen a number of companies this morning report some impairments on their holdings?
What is it we should be looking out for? What do you look out for when you're looking to
make an assessment on that?

FINAL

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Yes, specifically on Greece our holdings on that are less than miniscule. So there's nothing
to talk about in terms of Greek impairment, which is I think things that people are
addressing today. And all of our sovereign debt is held at market value so whatever the
price changes of that are reflected in the current balance sheet.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Marcus.

Q - Marcus Barnard

{BIO 2103471 <GO>}

Yes. Marcus, Oriel Securities. Is there anything more to say on the disposal program and
the refocusing? Is that finished now with RAC or is there more to do?

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

No. We are looking at one or two other things. But in value terms though, if you look at
Australia, Delta Lloyd and the RAC you're talking about GBP3b. The other things that we
have in mind, Central and Eastern Europe for example, are really tiny compared to that.
So in value terms our priority has been to look at the big things and get them done in a
well ordered way, and I think we've done that.
Barrie.

Q - Barrie Cornes

{BIO 2389115 <GO>}

Thank you. Hello. Barrie Cornes from Panmure Gordon, really following on from that
question by Marcus. Could you give us a split in terms of the amount invested in Asia
Pacific region between Asia and the rest? I think you've given an overall figure previously
but not broken it out.
And also I think you've also given an indication of a multiple that you thought it might be
worth a while ago and just wondered if those multiples still apply, and what it would be for
Asia as opposed to Asia Pac.

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

Let me just understand your distinction between Asia and Asia Pac. Obviously what we've
said from a strategy perspective is the two countries of real focus for there are India and
China. I think the way we're thinking about -- perhaps I can answer the question a bit more
generally. In terms of value it's going up. There's no doubt about it, volumes are going up,
margins are going up, profitability is coming through. So any -- literally with every month
that passes I think the value of that business demonstrably increases.

Page 24 of 25



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2011-08-04

FINAL

The way we're thinking about it I think is in line with the comment I just made, sometimes
taking your time a little bit is the way to optimize value. Even within that we have a
business in Singapore which actually could probably meet our targets in terms of
profitability and franchise value in actually quite short order. So there is a possibility of that
business coming up into our premier league if you like. So we're just looking at that. There
are a number of options available to us, but meanwhile while the value is going up, Barrie,
I feel very comfortable in just taking our time around that.

Q - Abid Hussain

{BIO 20229932 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning. Abid Hussain from Jeffries. Just a question on your economic capital
position. I can see that it's improved to 170% of required capital. Just wondering can you
give us a sense of the sensitivity to changes in the risk-free rate, a 10% fall in equity
markets? Thanks.

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

I think the best place to look at that, we publish at the back of our deck there the MCEV
sensitivities, so I think that's a pretty good proxy for those numbers.

Q - Abid Hussain

{BIO 20229932 <GO>}

Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andrew Moss

{BIO 3628034 <GO>}

How are we doing? Okay, I think that looks like a natural place to pause. I know you've got
lots of other people to go and see and other things to do this morning. So thank you very
much for joining us. Any other questions that you've got, obviously I, Pat, the IR team are
always here to help. So thanks for coming and we'll talk to you in due course. Thanks.

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 25 of 25

