Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

S2 2012 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

David Stevens, COO
Henry Engelhardt, CEO
Kevin Chidwick, Finance Director

Other Participants
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Andy Broadﬁeld, Analyst
Andy Hughes, Analyst
Colin Simpson, Analyst
Fahad Changazi, Analyst
Greig Paterson, Analyst
James Pearce, Analyst
Marcus Barnard, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

William Hardcastle, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Welcome to the Admiral Group 2012 interim results conference
call. My name is Rob, and I will be the operator for your call this morning. We are now
going live to the presentation room.

Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. I'm Henry Engelhardt, Chief Executive of Admiral Group.
Welcome to the Admiral ﬁrst-half 2012 results announcement.
How many companies will be standing in front of you over the next couple of months, few
months, and announcing record half-year proﬁts and a 61% return on capital? Well, here
we are.
So, I'll talk for a few minutes just to give you a brief overview; Kevin will go into more
detail on the results; David will talk to you in depth about the UK market; and I'll come
back and talk to you about International.

Page 1 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

FINAL

When we ﬂoated eight years ago we said we're diﬀerent. Well we're still diﬀerent. Why
are we diﬀerent? Well, we make money. And this time we're delivering a proﬁt up 7% to
GBP172 million. Put that in perspective, that is almost as much as we made in all of 2007.
And we're focused on proﬁt growth; that's what we model for. When we do our models,
we look for maximum proﬁt over the short term, over the long term. It's not about
customer growth, it's not about market share; it is truly about how we get the most bang
for our buck.
And we're growing; we now insure over 3.5 million vehicles. It's all been organic growth.
We take a long-term approach to things; we don't jump out and buy market share, and
we adjust our growth according to market conditions.
We're in a cyclical business, and a few years ago we spent a couple of years growing 30%
on the trot. That is not a sustainable growth rate. In a cyclical market like this, as the
market declines in margin, as it's doing now with prices coming down and claims costs
rising, it isn't the time to put the foot to the ﬂoor. And it's those companies that are
growing rapidly that are actually reducing margins.

Bloomberg Transcript

We're not playing that game quite the same way. We're balancing our growth against the
cycle of the market, and David will go into more detail on that in just a couple of minutes.
We're a low risk option. We have no debt. Our cash balances are conservatively managed,
as I'm sure you've seen by our investment returns. And we protect ourselves through the
extensive use of co-insurance and reinsurance, where we put out some of the risk. We do
pay for that a little bit, but we get the vast majority of the proﬁts back, and it does help
drive that superior return on capital.
We have very strong cash ﬂow, and that is shown by the record interim dividend of 45.1p
per share. And it's a very high payout ratio. We don't believe it's good for us if we leave
copious amounts of cash sloshing about in the Company. It's, perhaps, been seen that
companies tend to waste money when they have lots of cash sitting around, so we let you
waste it instead. So we divi it out, and the payout ratio is in excess of 90%.
We do have aligned interests with our shareholders. Every member of staﬀ in Admiral is a
shareholder, or those who have joined in the last couple of months will be within the next
couple of weeks a shareholder. Because of the superior results, every member of staﬀ will
receive GBP1,500 worth of shares in the coming weeks.
Simply put, we want every member of staﬀ to feel like they own a part of the business, so
we give them a part of the business to own. That's what it's all about. We want everybody
to have that ownership feeling, so they all are our owners, and it's an important part of
what makes Admiral so successful.
In addition, there is signiﬁcant share ownership among the executives, and this further
aligns the interests of the management with shareholders.
Page 2 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

FINAL

All in all, it goes to produce that superior return on capital in excess of 60%, consistently
so.
So very, very quickly, the key things that we want to look at this morning. Kevin is going to
talk to you in detail about those record proﬁts and the dividend; David is going to update
you on the UK, including the claims situation; and I'll come back and talk to you about the
good growth we're enjoying in price comparison, and our Insurance businesses outside
the UK.
Thank you. Kevin.

Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Thank you, very much, Henry. Morning, everybody. Okay, our proﬁts for the ﬁrst year[ph]
up 7%, GBP172 million. As Henry's mentioned, it's backed by a low capital base, so it is a
return on capital of 61%, which it's been, I think, several years in a row now; well, north of
50%.
We grew our vehicles over the period to 3.5 million, which is 11% growth, which is, as
Henry's talked about, a slower rate of growth in the UK -- we're running at about 4%
growth at the moment -- but something like 60% growth in our International businesses
so far this year.

Bloomberg Transcript

The combined ratio on a Group basis now is getting more and more impacted by those
International businesses. They now represent about 11% of all of our customers.
So when you look at the combined ratio of 95%, as a Group number, it's actually of course
impacted by those businesses which are still immature and still making losses. And so the
UK number after[ph], you split that out, is actually an improvement to 89%; down 1 point
from 90%, which David will talk more about a bit later on.
And the consequence of all that, of course, is that record interim dividend of 45p, which
I'll talk a bit more about in a moment.
If you look at the way the proﬁt's spread out by the individual businesses, you can see
here, on this familiar slide, that the Group -- sorry, the contribution towards the Group
result from the UK business is now well over 100% of the total; 107% of the total in the ﬁrst
half of 2012. That number is up 9% year on year.
The International business, which is in the lime green color below the line there, the minus
5%, is a pretty consistent number the last few years in terms of its impact on the P&L.
Obviously, a blend of numbers within those businesses are moving closer towards making
less of it, a negative contribution. And those businesses are quite new, which obviously is
just kicking oﬀ and still making quite more signiﬁcant losses.

Page 3 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

FINAL

And then at above the line, the light blue color at the top, is Confused.com. We split out
the price comparison businesses here, and which is slightly diﬀerent to where they are in
the accounts. So the International price comp businesses are in the minus 5% below the
line.
And the light blue color at the top is just Confused.com in the UK. And that had a pretty
good ﬁrst half of the year, considering the context of a very competitive environment. It
held its market share, it held its margins so, consequently, it grew its proﬁts, up about 7%,
I think, to GBP8.4 million, which is encouraging in the context of a very tough market.
And then the last number on this slide I want to mention is the red bar below the line,
which, as Henry's already mentioned, is about our share schemes that we contribute -give to all of our staﬀ. And that is the major component of that minus 6% number there,
which is, again, something that's been happening every period, I think, for quite some
time.
Our investment strategy, I think, would also be quite familiar to you all. We've -- our
investments have grown quite signiﬁcantly over the last couple of periods; up 39%,
actually, year on year now to GBP1.6 billion in investments.

Bloomberg Transcript

But our investment strategy hasn't changed, which is that we look for capital preservation
and minimal volatility over yield. Consequently, our investments are held in UKdenominated money market funds, and cash and deposits. And the yellow component
here is the money market funds, which is the majority of the balance.
We don't -- we have a little bit of exposure to Italy and Spain, as you would imagine,
because we've got operations running there. They represent about 2% of our investment
balances. We have no exposure at all to Greece, Ireland, or Portugal.
And as a consequence of this investment strategy, of course, you end up with very low
investment returns. So our investment return in the ﬁrst half of '11 was an annualized rate
of about 1%, which is the way it's been again for the last couple of years, and no change
there.
Similarly, on solvency, on this slide you see our solvency position remains very strong. This
slide shows our net assets oﬀset against our minimum solvency requirements on the
Insurance Group Directive basis, and our solvency requirements, in the green bar there,
on our own ICA basis. And on both counts the capital is obviously, at the balance sheet
point, signiﬁcantly ahead of our requirements. And that's the position that hasn't really
changed that much; it's got slightly larger since last year.
And I wouldn't anticipate as we work our way through the Solvency II project, that project
still rolls on, as we eventually get to the end I don't anticipate any great change in our
solvency requirements as a consequence of that project and, therefore, any particular
change in this position.

Page 4 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

FINAL

And then the last slide from me, my favorite slide, is the dividend slide, which, again, our
dividend policy hasn't changed at all either. Our dividend policy is to pay out all of our
spare cash to our shareholders. And we do that by paying a normal dividend of 45% of
post-tax proﬁts, and then a special dividend of all the spare cash over and above that as
to whatever that number works out to be.
That means that, as you see from the calculation on the right-hand side here, the dividend
is a straight forward one. We take our net assets and deduct the goodwill and solvency
requirement and the buﬀer, and that's left us with GBP122 million at the end of the ﬁrst
half of 2012. And divide that into all the shares, you end up with 45.1p, which is a growth
of 15% on the dividend from the ﬁrst half of last year, and is a 95% pay out on post-tax
proﬁts.
That dividend will go -- the shares will go HD[ph] on September 12, and the dividend will
be paid on October 12.
Thank you, very much. That's all from me; I'll hand you over to David.

David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Kevin. I'm just going to do some highlights on the UK, then one page on the
UK market as a whole, and a number of pages giving more detail on Admiral's own
performance.
So, overview of the ﬁrst half, proﬁt in the UK up 9% versus the ﬁrst half of 2011; up
considerably more than 9% against the second half. You may recall that there was a much
bigger proportion of the proﬁts last year in the ﬁrst half; we don't anticipate the same
asymmetry in the UK results in 2012.
UK vehicle count, up 7% on a year ago; up 2% in ﬁrst half, annualizing to 4%. And I'll talk
more about growth later on.
Combined ratio, down a point on the ﬁrst half; down 3 points on the second half. No
repeat of the -- it's increasingly looked like an abnormal claims experience in the middle
of 2011, and improvements on the loss ratio projections for the prior years overall, which
are both encouraging observations.
However, prudently, we've not taken full credit for those improvements in the prior years
in this set of results, and I'll talk more about that as well.
Other revenue per vehicle, down from GBP86 in the ﬁrst half to GBP82. A little bit of that
about slower growth. We've talked in the past a bit about this metric being sensitive to
growth rate, mainly though, very largely, about change in the way we recognize legal
cover, which I will also talk about.

Page 5 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

FINAL

So a little bit about the market, the 2011 results are out in their entirety. And this shows the
combined ratio. You can see a substantial fall in 2011 for the market as a whole, down from
115% to 107%, essentially driven by two factors; very -- a substantial increase in average
earned premium of 11%, and a big drop in frequency. Only partially oﬀset by a continuing
trend for more and more claims to have an element of bodily injury, and that feeding into
claims inﬂation.
Now when the market's making 107% and it's got a little bit of investment income and it's
got a lot of other income it's making money. And some people within the market are
making decent money, and that has an impact on rates.
This graph on the right-hand side shows you the rate history as shown by the AA, in
yellow, non-aggregator, and Confused, in blue. And the two surveys largely agreed with
each other until the middle of last year, showing over the previous 24 months very rapid
premium inﬂation. But they've diverged in the second half of 2011/ﬁrst half of 2012, as you
can see, with Confused showing quite a material drop in prices in the ﬁrst half.
I wish I could stand here and tell you the AA is telling you the truth and Confused is
wrong; sadly, I feel that Confused actually is a more accurate representation of what's
happening. And with a number of players at least reporting high levels of proﬁt in 2011,
and going into the ﬁrst half of 2012, there are people out there looking for market share
gains, and that is feeding through into the rating.

Bloomberg Transcript

Right, I will talk more detail about Admiral itself. We grew 7% versus the middle of last
year.
Vehicle count, 2% in the ﬁrst half. As you can see, that's a relatively modest rate of growth,
certainly relative to the previous two years. We've actually doubled our vehicle count over
the past four years. We felt that 2010/2011 was a good time to grow the business. We do
feel strongly that modest growth is more appropriate in 2012.
The claims experienced, particularly in quarter 3 of last year, is slipping into the past. But
it did relate to big claims, and these things have a tail to them so, in terms of certainty
about proﬁtability, it's appropriate to allow the elapse of time.
And also, we did feel strongly, particularly in the ﬁrst half, that it was appropriate to avoid
the risk of chasing the market rates down further than they're going down anyway. Two
reasons for that; particularly, and the main reason, is when the perception is that business
is being written proﬁtably by most of our competitors, they don't like to see change[ph].
It's not a good time to be aggressive on pricing, quite the opposite.
And this particular, I think, feature of the last six months, which was three of our major
competitors had the prospect of a potential capital event, IPO, or such like. I think that
potentially inﬂuences their decisions on volume aspirations. Again, it's not necessarily
appropriate to try and counter their aspirations in that context in the short term.

Page 6 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

FINAL

Going on from volume to claims trends, as I mentioned, the claims trends have been
encouraging. This graph on the left-hand side is picking out some information about the
ultimate loss ratio.
As you'll see in the appendix, the full details on ultimate loss ratios by accident year. This
focuses on, in a sense, the two key years in terms of materiality, 2010 and 2011 accident
year. As you can see on the left, we had that signiﬁcant deterioration in quarter 3 in terms
of the ultimates, 3% on '10, and 6% on '11; stable in the ﬁnal quarter of last year; and,
encouragingly, the projected loss ratios improving over the six months, so 2010 down 1
point, 2011 down 3 points.
As I mentioned, we haven't taken full credit for this improvement. We've chosen instead
to increase the size of the buﬀer that we hold between ultimate loss ratios and reported
loss ratios. And we've increased that buﬀer both in absolute terms and in relative terms,
relative to the size of the book.

Bloomberg Transcript

Notwithstanding that decision to increase the buﬀer, we still have had enough leeway,
due to these developments, to slightly increase our reserve releases. So on the left-hand
side, again, you see a graph of our historic reserve releases expressed as a percentage of
premium. Our reserve releases, which were 2.5% in the whole of '11, have risen to 4.8% in
the ﬁrst half of 2012.
Now, we aren't anticipating a return to the mid 20%s that we saw in the middle of the
decade. And I'll just remind that's because earlier in the decade we had very conservative
actuarial projections due to the lack of information on which to base those projections,
and so those were exceptional years. However, we're glad to see a return to more
substantial releases than 2.5%.
A really important part of our long-term competitive advantage is the expense ratio
advantage, so it's appropriate to talk brieﬂy about that as well.
This graph shows, the red line, the market-earned expense ratio, the blue line the
Admiral-written expense ratio. A strange kink in the market numbers attributable to some
strange UKI numbers. I think a fairer representation of the market is to back out the UKI
from '09, '10, and '11, and then you get 29%, 27%, and 26%, with the beneﬁts of premium
inﬂation feeding through into better expense ratios for the market, and, of course, for
ourselves.
But, interestingly, 2009, our advantage, 17% versus 29%, 12 points; 2011, 13% versus 26%
(sic; see slide 16, "28%"), 13 (sic -- see slide 16, 15) points. So, encouraging, despite the
market and ourselves both going up in premium, we've managed to slightly widen that
outperformance.
H1 2012 a little better than 2011, but not suﬃcient to knock it down due to rounding.

Page 7 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

FINAL

You will notice in the reported results, that our earned expense ratio is just over 12%,
which is down from last year. This is partly attributable to a one-oﬀ event, historical -sorry, reserving for levies, MIB and other similar levies to Prudential, and we've unwound
some of that. But there won't be a repeat of that.
Okay, one thing that I also would like to mention is that the long-term trend that we've
referred to a couple of times now of our portfolio tending to nudge in the direction of
slightly lower premium, lower frequency risk continues. And it's reﬂected in the average
premium.
This shows the average written premium calculated on a relatively crude basis that you
can replicate from the accounts; rising 23% in 2010 versus 2006, reﬂecting the price
increases we put through, but also reﬂecting some portfolio mix towards slightly higher
risk sections of the market; 2011, 11% increase; and then in the ﬁrst half of 2012, down 3%.
Now portfolio changes, what sort of thing are we talking about? I just thought I'd take a
couple of illustrations to give you both an idea of what we're talking about and the scale
of what we're talking about.

Bloomberg Transcript

So if you look at our low risk segment over 35, and look at our high risk segment, zero no
claims bonus, if I index their share of our portfolio to 100 at 2009, you can see that for the
over 35s we dropped a bit in '10. And we've come up, not an irrelevant amount, in '12
versus 2011.
Zero no claims bonus; we rose quite substantially, 10% in '10. And it's come down 16%,
17% since in 2012.
Now, just to set this in context, we remain a business that tends to write disproportionately
higher premium risks. And that's reﬂected in the fact that the 2011 average premium of
GBP637 compares with a market average earned premium of GBP400.
Right, we talked a bit about the underwriting results, and now we'll talk about the other
revenue lines.
In the area of other revenue, or ancillaries, regulatory changes are, obviously, the big
issue of interest to a lot of our investors and analysts. A lot of changes have been
happening, most of them well ﬂagged and well discussed. But I'll just do a quick overview
of those changes and how things have evolved since.
So the oldest chestnut, in a sense, or the longest standing issue, is personal injury referral
fees. And the ban on those was announced in September 2011; it will go live on April
2013.
The associated changes in the environment in terms of legal cost changes are yet to be
announced so, pretty much, the only ﬁxed feature is the ban on referral fees.

Page 8 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

FINAL

A more recent development is that the OFT conducted a survey of the car insurance
market, mainly in the ﬁrst half of 2012. And it was a wide survey of the healthiness and the
appropriateness of the structures in the car insurance market in general, and focusing on
a number of speciﬁc issues.
In the end, their conclusion was that there was only really one area of concern, which was
the credit hire and repair area, which they felt was dysfunctional; I think quite correctly.
Their recommendation is that the Competition Commission should take a further look,
and that recommendation is likely to be approved in October and a Competition
Commission process likely to start.
Now on the right-hand side we've talked a bit about the quantums here. What we can say
is that from April 2013, GBP7 of other revenue in the form of personal injury referrals that
is at risk. And, obviously, the credit hire referral thing creates some risk to that income
stream, which currently equates to GBP6 per vehicle.

Bloomberg Transcript

The timing is very diﬃcult to know. The Competition Commission has to come to a view.
There may need to be legislative changes. We've plugged in mid-2014 but, obviously,
there's a lot of leeway around that date.
A point we'd make, and have made on a number of occasions, is both these changes
have oﬀsetting improvements in claim cost implications, and that they impact all insurers
and brokers. And, obviously, if you fundamentally -- if you reduce the proﬁtability of some
of these streams in a market that overall isn't proﬁtable there has to be a search by the
players for substitute sources of proﬁt; probably, actually, just in the core car insurance
product in this context.
More recently, the Financial Conduct Authority has laid out its priorities for its ﬁrst couple
of years of existence, and has said that one of those is to look at the sale of add-ons
alongside general insurance. And so, obviously, there is some possible risk that the
changes they may implement as a result of that may have an impact on margin in that
area.
Again, we would say it impacts everybody. And if you reduce the overall proﬁtability of
other revenue, it will probably knock onto the proﬁtability of underwriting revenue.
Now I'd like to just get something oﬀ my chest, which relates to some of the coverage that
accompanies some of these changes. Often, we see coverage announcing an initiative in
this area alongside the comment that Admiral is particularly vulnerable to changes in the
regulatory environment. I'd just like to lay out our view, which is that, in fact, we're less
reliant on other revenue than other insurers, and to explain that, and perhaps explain why
that misconception exists.
First important point to make is, as a Company, we're essentially indiﬀerent between
revenue from underwriting and other revenue. The nature of our reinsurance contract is
such that we receive as much from one source as from the other in terms of share.

Page 9 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

FINAL

So this graph shows that in 2011 we get 93% of any other revenue ﬂows ﬂowing to the
Group. The long-term co-insurance partner gets a proportion of installment income,
which explains why it's not 100%. And we get 89% of the underwriting income. So, you
can see, GBP1 of underwriting income/GBP1 of other revenue doesn't make a diﬀerence
to us.
Now, if you look back in history, to the time of the MBO and the ﬂotation, you're seeing
numbers more around 50% of the underwriting income. And so at that time GBP1 of
ancillary income or add-on income was very diﬀerentially worthwhile to us, but that is no
longer the case.
The other element of the argument that we're less reliant on other revenue is just, actually,
unlike most insurers, we make money on the underwriting. So what we've done is just an
exercise to look at the proﬁtability of ourselves and two major direct players who produce
accounts that make this possible to do.
We've look at the proﬁtability excluding investment income, and we've split it between
underwriting income and other revenue. Now, any of the analysts can replicate this work.
You might not come up with exactly the same numbers because it involves some
modeling, but I think you'll have the same sort of directional thrust.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, in 2011, 32% of our income was from underwriting, 68% from other revenue. In the
case of one the major directs that competes against us it was 8% from underwriting, and
92% from other revenue. And in the case of one other major competitor, it was minus 33%
from underwriting, and 133% from other revenue.
Right, I've got that oﬀ my chest. I'll move onto talk a bit more about a couple of initiatives
in the other revenue area. The ﬁrst one is a change in the way we recognize legal cover,
and the introduction of something we're calling a reinsurer vehicle commission charge.
Now, for over a decade now Admiral has included legal cover as a standard feature of its
policy, rather than selling it as an optional add-on, like most players in the market, and this
graph illustrates how we've accounted for it.
Of the 100% of the price paid by the customer, 95%, historically, has been treated as car
insurance premium, and roughly 5% as legal cover, going through into other revenue. We
have moved, since April, to a diﬀerent way of recognizing it; now, 100% of the cost to the
customer is recognized as car insurance premium. Roughly, 5% of that is held back by
Admiral, and then the remaining 95% passes through to our reinsurers and co-insurers.
Why have we made this change? Well, the legal cover beneﬁt is free to our customers,
and we feel this accounting convention better reﬂects that reality than the historical
accounting[ph] convention.
The rules of accounting is such that although the underlying economic reality between
these two options is, as you can see, in a sense, unchanged, the actual timing of
Page 10 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

recognition of income is changed so that some of the reinsurer vehicle commission is
taken on an earned basis, rather than a written basis.

FINAL

The outcome of this is that our other revenue per vehicle in the ﬁrst half is GBP3.50 lower
than it would have been had we been working to the old convention. And so the move
from GBP86 to GBP82, as you can see, is largely attributable to that accounting change.
The impact will increase for the full year as a whole, such that for the full-year results the
other revenue per vehicle will be just under GBP6 lower than it otherwise would have
been. GBP3 of that will unwind in 2013, and more thereafter.
Now although we're looking at other revenue per vehicle being GBP6 lower than it would
have otherwise been in 2012, we are happy to say that our expectations of Group proﬁts
for the year as a whole, we expect to meet those.
The second change that we're making relates to the underwriting of some of our major
core add-ons or optional ancillaries in-house. We're talking here about things like
breakdown and personal injury sold alongside the motor products at point of sale.

Bloomberg Transcript

We're doing this now because we feel we can, in terms of competence. We've become
increasingly familiar with these products over the years, and increasingly rich in terms of
the data on claims and proﬁtability.
The beneﬁts to us are twofold. We feel that we can improve the features and beneﬁts to
our customers of our add-on products, underwriting in-house more cost eﬀectively than if
we were to continue to underwrite out of house, or outsource the underwriting.
I think most important also we feel the underwriting in-house of these products gives us
maximum ﬂexibility to respond to any changes in the environment to amend the products
and the pricing, as appropriate.
It doesn't change our risk proﬁle. We understand the claims drivers and the processes
here. It's non-cyclical products. They're not unlimited liability, or exposed to catastrophe
risk, or anything like that. No short-term impact on proﬁtability.
Over the long haul, we anticipate the additional ﬂexibility that we're looking for from this
move that will be beneﬁcial to us in terms of proﬁtability.
Okay, so last graph, my favorite graph, in a sense, three rosettes; 10th in '10, 9th in '11, and
ﬁrst in '12. The UK operation of Admiral was voted the best place to work for in the large
company category in 2012. And we were particularly pleased to see that happen. It is a
vote based on anonymous surveys done with our staﬀ and other people's staﬀ and is very
gratifying for us.

Page 11 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

A quick summary. We're seeing a potential accelerated cycle versus our expectations six
or 12 months ago; higher than anticipated premium reductions, alongside the continuing
environmental claims inﬂation.

FINAL

For Admiral itself, we've been seeing, and we continue to see, encouraging loss ratio
trends, and anticipate modest growth from a larger base.
I'll hand over to Henry.

Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Thank you, David. My turn to talk to you about the International businesses. I'd like to start
just by reiterating what we're doing there. And the key is a very simple philosophy; that
we believe the Internet is an irresistible force, and all of these markets over time are going
to go Internet. That it's the perfect distribution method for car insurance.

Bloomberg Transcript

You don't really want to touch it, kick it, smell it, feel it. Consumers don't really want
intermediation and the Internet becomes the perfect way for them to buy car insurance.
And, over time, the current 22 year olds in Italy, in Spain, in France, and the US are going
to buy car insurance on the Internet, and we'll be there.
We also think that we should take what we do well and do it elsewhere. That's again been
a driving force behind our expansion outside the UK. We do car insurance. It's kind of all
we think about 24/7, although we're moving on slightly to something else soon. It does
make us rather dull at cocktail parties, but hopefully makes us really good at car
insurance.
It's a long-term investment. We have targeted large, mature markets. Why? Because
they're large and mature.
We like large markets; you can go in, you can pick oﬀ 2% or 3% market share and lead a
very happy life. If you go into a small market, you need to be 10%, 15%, 20% of the
market. You're going to draw the ire and ﬁre from competition straight away. But if you go
into a big market, nobody pays much attention to you and you can actually do quite well
on small volumes.
Mature markets come with mature distribution systems, they come with legacy systems,
etc. Channel conﬂict is a big problem for many of our competitors. They've got
distribution networks that have been in place for decades and they can't just
automatically swing to the Internet and telephone distribution, and that is our friend.
The goal is to create proﬁtable, growing, sustainable businesses. It's not about size; it's
not about being the biggest; it's not about market share. It's about proﬁts; it's about
steady growth, and the sustainability of that growth and those proﬁts. That's what we're
trying to create.

Page 12 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

FINAL

What's the timeframe? It's ﬁve years to 10 years. We've done a little bit of a study in the
marketplace of other operations that have gone in and done similar with telephone
distribution, and now more with Internet distribution, and they're virtually all ﬁve to 10 or
even more years. We put kind of a ﬁve to 10 frame around it.
Our oldest operation is coming up on six years. Balumba in Spain will be six on
Halloween. So, you see, we're just starting to move. And the other operations in France,
and in Italy, and in the US are quite a bit younger and so we do believe that these
operations need a fair amount of time before they do produce the good results we
expect.
It's an organic growth approach. I wouldn't say we would never -- necessarily we wouldn't
close the door and say we would never do an acquisition, but that's not how we've gone
about it so far. It's all been organic. And we do minimize risk with long-term partnerships
with reinsurers in every jurisdiction.
It's a modest investment; typically been about 5% of proﬁt. But there's no golden rule
here, it could go up, it could go down. But, basically, we keep it well within the means of
the Company.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's take a look, ﬁrst, at the price comparison businesses we've created in Spain and
France. As you can see, they've grown very rapidly; 64% growth between H1 '11 and H1 '12
on the number of quotes that they generated. That's quite good.
In addition, you can see that we've had a 30% increase in turnover from the end of
December through to the end of June, and the losses have reduced by about 90%. So
very positive trends in both Spain and France for price comparison, and that's exempliﬁed
on this chart.
The blue line shows you the French searches in Google for compare car insurance and the
like, and you can see that the trend is upwards. It's even more radical in Spain, where the
trend is even sharper upwards.
How does that compare with, say, Confused? At the same point in time, and you can see
that on the right, that actually in the early years both Le Lynx and Rastreator were ahead of
Confused, whereas[ph] Confused did really surge in its third and fourth and ﬁfth years.
And Le Lynx and Rastreator will be hard-pressed to keep up with that, but they are on a
very good trajectory and oﬀ to a very good start.
Saying that, there's a lot of competition, new competition. Since we stood up in front of
you in March, for instance, two new price comparison sites have gone onto television
advertising in Spain. And that gives that that Rastreator a lot more competition. And Le
Lynx is waiting now for the start of the advertising campaign from the French Meerkat as
the Budget Group made a purchase not too long ago and is putting out a Meerkat-type
animal in France in the coming weeks, I believe.

Page 13 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

FINAL

All of this competition, we're a bit schizophrenic about it, to be honest. From the price
comparison side, we prefer actually that the competitors didn't show up. That would suit
us quite well. But on the insurance side, the competitors help create this new distribution
channel, which is very much where we're playing and ﬁshing, and so we don't mind at all.
So we're a bit schizophrenic on the competition.
The Insurance businesses are also growing quite rapidly. You can see 60%-plus growth
over the period from the end of June last year to the end of June this year.
The results, yes, we are investing more in terms of absolute investment. The newer
markets, the US and France, in particular, are at their worst points, getting towards their
worst points in their plans.
Premium income is up.

Bloomberg Transcript

The loss ratio has improved a little bit since the end of the year. I would say this is an area
that we are dedicating a lot more time, eﬀort, and resource to. It's not something we're
completely happy with. We would like to be showing a bigger improvement in the loss
ratio side.
The expense ratio number you're looking at and you're going, oh, boy, that's up now,
that's going to be rough trouble, that's actually very misleading because every one of our
operations actually improved their loss ratio in the period. But the mix towards the
younger operations leads to a higher overall loss ratio. So, actually, we're not displeased
at all with what's happening on the expense ratio. We're not displeased at all with what's
happening on the expense side.
And, as Kevin said, it's accounting for a lot more importance within the Group. A couple
of years ago, the internationals accounted for 5% or less of the policyholders; it's now
over 10%, and growing. So I think this will become an ever more important part of the
Admiral story into the future.
As David pointed out, we are very proud at being able to export the culture. And we've
got our blue ribbons, and so forth as well. We were fourth as best work places in all of
Europe this year, which is a fantastic achievement. And that is exempliﬁed by being third
in Spain; fourth in Canada, which isn't yet in Europe but we were fourth there; eighth in
Italy; and we also won awards for the culture we have in Richmond, which also doesn't
appear to be in Europe.
This is just a recap of this slide you've seen before and, as David mentioned, on the
bottom added one bullet point, which is that we are ﬁrmly on track to meet our
expectations for 2012.
As I said, we are very boring because all we think about is car insurance. But by the time
we stand up in front of you again, we'd hope to be selling home insurance. After 20 years

Page 14 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

FINAL

of just car, we are now taking a very small step into home insurance, hoping to launch this
product in the UK either before the end of the year or some time in the First Quarter.
We are very excited about this product. We now have enough customers, over 3 million
customers in the UK to market to. The growth of home insurance on price comparison
leads us to believe that this can be done, that acquisition costs can be contained, because
very often in home insurance it's the acquisition costs that make it very diﬃcult to build a
book from scratch.
But we like the trends that are happening in home insurance, and we're very excited in
this future. But this will be a very slow burn. We would not expect to be even a blip on the
results for several years. We will test, and learn, and make sure that we've got everything
right before we accelerate any growth there.
Well, thank you very much for your attention here this morning. Now, before we open up
for questions, I would just like to thank UBS for this excellent facility and their hospitality.
So, thank you very much.
And now happy to take your questions, comments, indignant remarks. Greig?

Questions And Answers

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Greig Paterson
Greig Paterson, KBW. I was going to say a request; please don't change your accounting,
it makes life very diﬃcult. Three questions. Frequency and severity of the large BIs, you've
given us an index movement from '10 to '11, I was wondering how that has happened into
2012. I'm talking about the large bodily injury claims.
Second one is could you give us your increase or change in your base rate over the ﬁrst
half of the year? I notice it's omitted this time from the results.
And the third question is, these ancillaries that you're going to underwrite, I was
wondering if you could just venture a percentage out of the -- was it value two[ph] that is
now going to be underwritten, and give us a ﬂavor of what these sort of products are
going to be so we get an idea what the risks are.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Okay, let's do bodily injury, ﬁrst. What I would say on bodily injury is that we said there
hasn't been any repeat of the unusual patterns from 2011. So I think you can take from
that, that the evolution of existing claims and the number of new claims hasn't surprised
us adversely in the last six months in relation to any accident -- not material in relation to
any accident year, including 2012.
In terms of -- the next question was how many of the -- base rate, sorry. Base rate, our
base rate, the market as a whole is down, as you saw in the presentation. Our rates are
Page 15 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

slightly down less than the market, but slightly down.

Q - Greig Paterson
(inaudible).

FINAL

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

I'm not going beyond slightly down.
And then the ancillary thing, the products in question are the long established simple
products sold alongside, and they include personal injury, and breakdown, and car hire as
the most material ones.
In the past, we've talked about our ancillary income splitting simplistically, somewhat
evenly, between legal cover, fees, and optional extras. And legal cover is obviously
replaced by reinsurance vehicle -- will be replaced by reinsurer vehicle commission. Fees
are unaﬀected by this. So, essentially, you're looking at a proportion, which is not a million
miles away from one-third, of optional ancillaries, where, by value, the bulk of those will
move in-house over the course of the next 12 months.

Q - Greig Paterson
Just one-third of the total, or one-third of the optionals?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

No, the optionals are roughly one-third of the total, and most of that will move in-house.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Andy Hughes, Exane BNP Paribas. Three questions, if I could. The ﬁrst one is on Simmons
versus Castle, which obviously came in after the half year, July 26, which is 10% increase in
bodily injury claims, damages for any court case after April 1. Now I understand for new
claims you get an oﬀset for legal expenses, but for all the back book that you've got,
presumably, you don't get any legal expense oﬀset, so you still have to pay both the legal
expenses and the 10% higher bodily injury claims?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Okay, just a bit of context on this one. This relates to the Jackson reforms, which are due
to go in on April 1, 2013, where there were a number of changes which were designed to
reduce legal costs, such as banning after the event legal cover, and things like that,
alongside 10% increase in general damages.
The court case that Andrew's referring to was a court case where a judge said -- sorry, and
the intention was that would, in a sense -- those two would oﬀset each other. And our view
looking at the changes was that was probably about right; those two impacts would
roughly oﬀset each other and be cost neutral.

Page 16 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

FINAL

What the judge has said is that the 10% applies on old cases, if they're settled after April
2013. And of course on those old cases you don't get any of the beneﬁt of a diﬀerent legal
environment.
Now the -- that judgment is being appealed because it certainly wasn't the intention of
the government that they would -- sorry, it's been appealed not by the government, I
should say, but it's been appealed by the insurance industry, where our view is it wasn't
the intention of the legislation for[ph] that would be the outcome.
But what I would say is general damages are actually surprising. They're roughly onequarter, a bit more than one-quarter of total personal injury costs. And if all our general
damages were to be 10% higher than they're currently reserved at, it would eat roughly
somewhere between 15% and 20% of our buﬀer.
So that's the sort of thing a buﬀer is there for, and there's quite a substantial likelihood or
probability that -- that's a worst case scenario, and a probability that, in fact, there's further
judicial toings and froings to go on, on that one.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So just a short follow-up question, before I get onto the other two, so that doesn't actually
trickle down? So if a GBP20,000 claim goes up by 10%, that doesn't mean that claims of
less than that amount necessarily would also go up in terms of impacting the level of
small bodily injury claims as well?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Well, there's an element to general damages to small claims, and there's quite a material
element, and there's an element to general damages to big claims. But, overall, it
accounts to roughly 25% of bodily injury costs.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

The second question was on the average premium. So I know you showed the average
premium come down over the half year by about 3%.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

And I think what you're trying to say is that that's reﬂecting the business mix, as you're
reducing the risk, within the portfolio, so is that fully complete now or is that an ongoing
thing? And to what extent does that reﬂect the 6% reduction you're ﬂagging in new
business rates?
So in terms of when I'm looking at my average premium for the full year and next year,
what kind of -- because, obviously, the growth in the portfolio's only 2% over the half year,
Page 17 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

and the fall in average premium was 3%. So I'm just trying to work out the direction of
revenue for the full year in terms of the UK motor insurance and where we're going.

FINAL

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Well, I didn't ﬂag a 6% reduction in new business rates. What I was saying, I think, the bulk
of the 3% relates to portfolio changes. What we do is we tend to do about four or ﬁve rate
changes a month, and just the balance of those rate changes over the last 12 to 18 months
has tended to favor lower premium segments.
But it's a variable-by-variable process where we make decisions on the balance based on
the loss ratio. And if the loss ratio by segment continues to suggest that slightly lower
premium within our higher premium book is the proﬁt-maximizing place to go then we'll
go there. But there have been times where the analysis has suggested the other way. And
we don't pre-predict entirely what that direction's going to be. It's a continual process of
reﬁnement of the book.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

The third and ﬁnal question, I promise, was on the legal expense change to the
reinsurance. When you've wrapped this into the reinsurance, presumably, the reinsurers
are a much lower risk position than they were before. Because not only do they only pay
out when the combined ratio's more than 100%, it's now the combined ratio including
legal expenses has to be more than 100%. Is that reﬂected in the -- have they reduced the
terms as a result of this? Or what was the driver, frankly, in legal expenses?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Essentially, the economic outcome is unchanged because in the history they got 95%
shared between co-insurers and the reinsurers, having had 5% taken oﬀ as a legal cover,
and now they get 95%, having had 5% taken oﬀ as reinsurer vehicle commission. And in
the calculation of the combined ratio relevant to recovery, an appropriate adjustment is
made to make it neutral.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

So what's actually the point of doing it then, if it doesn't change the economics in any
way?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Because it's a better reﬂection of the --- relative to the fact that we include legal cover free
in our policies.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Thank you.

Q - Andy Broadﬁeld

{BIO 7273415 <GO>}

Page 18 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

FINAL

Andy Broadﬁeld, Barclays. Just a couple of questions. One, on the ancillaries, so you
bring some of these activities in-house, does it -- how does that actually change
operationally? Because I'm assuming you're not getting a ﬂeet of breakdown recovery
vehicles and running them, so I'm assuming that's still outsourced. So how does that
actually work in terms of you're providing it, but which bits are you actually providing
now?
Are you taking some sort of risk? And if you're taking some sort of risk, therefore, is there
a capital charge? And is it of any meaningful amount? And do we need to think about it?
And attached to that is -- presumably, this means you're taking underwriting risk; you're
now shifting this into your underwriting results, rather than as an ancillary. Maybe you've
said that already, apologies if you have.
Second question, your point about the referral fees, the credit hire fees and the impact it
has on other stakeholders, I'm thinking the garages, brokers, the impact it has on their
proﬁtability, does this -- I'm just wondering whether you can take the second order impact
to say does this drive what residual amount of broker-driven motor insurance further onto
direct distribution and destroy the brokers harder?

Bloomberg Transcript

Do we have to think about other parts of the industry you don't worry about so much, but
maybe you will do with house insurance, etc., where potentially organizations are making
money on something they no longer make money on? I'm just trying to think of the
second order impact there. And also garages, where they've made some money on this in
the past, does that impact the fees that you get charged for your garages?
And then just a ﬁnal one, a small one actually, but there was a small minority interest
increase, I think, in your balance sheet, space of[ph] GBP5 million went up. I was
wondering what that related to?

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Kevin, why don't you take the last one ﬁrst?

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

The minority interest is in relation to a business development activity we've got ongoing.
We don't really want to talk about it just yet because it's in too early a stage, so we'll
probably talk more about it next time around.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Ancillaries[ph]?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Yes, essentially, our existing products are underwritten by external insurers, who are
involved in conversations around pricing and product deﬁnition. We're not taking all[ph]

Page 19 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

business structure in-house. So, for example, for breakdown, we're simply replacing an
external insurer with an internal insurer and continuing to use the same supplier of
breakdown services in terms of who turns up at the roadside and ﬁxes the car. So it's not
material to the actual process.

FINAL

The materiality is around our ability to control the pricing and price sub-segments as we
like, and to control the product deﬁnition and change that if we want like, if we want to.
In terms of capital, the majority of the turnover in relation to these optional ancillaries is
held by the distributor, rather than the insurer. And the actual quantum of premium
written is not hugely material, and, therefore, the capital requirements aren't hugely
material.
In terms of the impact of potential elements of reduction on referral fees and stuﬀ like
that, I would, in a sense, agree with what I think you're implying, that the most exposed
sub-sector of the market is, in fact, brokers, who have to be much more aggressive than
we are in maximizing some of these revenue ﬂows in order to be able to get to the top of
the list on price comparison.
And if some of the options to maximize are excluded by regulatory changes then, yes, I
think it will accelerate the increase in the share of direct players in the market.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - James Pearce

{BIO 16758460 <GO>}

James Pearce, UBS. A couple of questions. First of all, is 3% a good indication of the size
of additional conservatism in your reserving, given trends in ultimates?
And second, is it a coincidence that the FCA is having a look at add-on products and you
are moving now to in-housing, rather than outsourcing these products?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

I'll do the second one ﬁrst. One of the things I said was that the advantage of taking them
in-house was ﬂexibility. And I think what we would say is the world is a faster-changing
world than it was when we maybe did three-year deals on a ﬁxed product at a ﬁxed price
with some of our suppliers, and we need the ability to move fast if, in a sense, there are
changes in the environment in which we operate. And that is -- and one of those possible
changes is decisions made in the regulatory context. And the FCA is an important part of
the regulatory context.
The ﬁrst question --?

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

3%.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}
Page 20 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

Is that taken from the 2011 reduction? Is that where you're getting the 3% from?

FINAL

If you look at the claims ratio in the ﬁrst half of 2012 versus ﬁrst half of 2011, it's slightly up;
marginally, it's practically ﬂat. I think it would be fair to say that implies that a very
signiﬁcant proportion of any good news has been taken into the buﬀer.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Andrew Crean, Autonomous. Could you, on the UK ﬁll us in with what's going on, on
average claims and frequency to run against what's happening to the rate?
Secondly, you don't talk about an in-house lawyer, but is that what you're referring to with
the minority, because that was always the deal, that you counterbalance the loss of
referral fee income with an in-house lawyer?
And then, Henry, one for you. When you talk about the break-even point being ﬁve years
to 10 years, is that for each individual operation, or for the portfolio of operations?
Because you might be reaching proﬁtability in Spain after six years but then, if that's being
drowned out by a new operation in a new state, what point can we look for a stable
portfolio of businesses so there isn't something in the tail coming along to upset the
movement into proﬁtability.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

If I take that one ﬁrst. It is each individual operation is ﬁve years to 10 years. So we depend
then on the growth of the operations as to when all of them as a competence reach
steady state.
So some of them are growing at diﬀerent rates. And others, the Spanish although the
oldest operation, is not the biggest operation. The Italian operation is bigger than the
Spanish operation. But it's meant each individual. So the French operation is coming up
on two years and so you might say we're -- four years, at the minimum, before in a sense
they're all reaching a level of proﬁtability.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

But I suppose the issue here is at that point in time where there are some newer
operations in newer states in the States which are then -- I guess what the shareholders
are interested in is, as a package, when does this thing come in to make proﬁt?

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

It's very diﬃcult to say, like I say, because of the growth rates. And there are opportunities
often to grow and take bigger losses at an early stage to make proﬁts later on because
acquisition is, especially in the US, is the expensive bit. So you might say we have the
economics in order, but we've got to grow and, therefore, we're going to take the hit now.

Page 21 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

So there's no set rule as to when they'll all as a composite, hit, but we would like each
individual operation to be proﬁtable within six years to 10 years of its beginning.

FINAL

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Your question about minority investment, I said before, it's too early a stage in the
development of the thing that we won't make any comments about it. So I won't say any
more about it than that.
But I think we have said before that we are looking at alternative arrangements if and
when the referral fee ban comes through and it has the impact that it has. It depends on
how that position really changes. So the fact that we're still investigating those options is I
think not a secret move[ph]; we've said that before as well.
And the other questions were --

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

David, average claims frequency.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Historically, we've often talked and thought about the world with frequency and average
claim cost as a separate thing. And I think that gets harder and harder in the environment,
particularly the last 18 months, where what we've seen is a lot of frequency reduction but
basically it's because people aren't making the smaller claims. And alongside that, the
claims that people do make have got more likely to have a bodily injury element to them.
So, in a sense, I think you have to bundle it together and say the average claims cost per
vehicle year is continuing to rise. And it's a more volatile measure than people would
necessarily assume, but I think it's still plausible to look at 3%, 4%, 5% -- 3%, 4% above
inﬂation as the underlying level.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

And it begs the question what's the inﬂation (multiple speakers)?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Well our[ph] --

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Well, bodily injury inﬂation is slightly diﬀerent to repairing cars.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Overall, if you just took the whole picture, I think it's fair to say that, probably, we're
looking at 5% or 6% as the underlying level of increasing claims cost per vehicle year.

Page 22 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

Q - Andy Broadﬁeld

{BIO 7273415 <GO>}

FINAL

Andy Broadﬁeld. Sorry, just one quick one. Just on the home insurance, you piqued my
interest now that it's really going live, how are you structuring the capital provision behind
it? Are you having similar reinsurance type arrangements? Is this something you are going
to tell us about more later, or can you tell me about it now, in terms of how you're
structuring that?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

I think reinsurance has been part of our model in our expansion abroad. It's been a
successful part of our model in motor. I don't think we're in a position to announce
anything at this point, but I think you would be surprised if we weren't exploring it as an
option.

Q - Marcus Barnard

{BIO 2103471 <GO>}

Marcus Barnard, Oriel Insurance. Just carrying on from the household point, how
aggressively do you expect to expand that? Are you going to just dip the toe in to start
with and gradually increase share? Or are you going to try and build that up, ramp that up
quite aggressively in the next four or ﬁve years?

Bloomberg Transcript

And secondly, on the International business, with the growth in the UK a bit slower now
and the International picking up the growth, perhaps a request; could we see more
breakdown of the International ﬁgures? I know you used to give this. We can still get
some of it from the regulatory ﬁlings, but I'd be particularly interested to see what volume
and proﬁt or loss you're putting on in the US.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

For the household, it's a toe in the water. Five years is a long time, but certainly the ﬁrst
couple of years we would not expect to make much noise in household.
The International, we don't feel it's in the best interest to shareholders to break out the
International because it does give a lot of information to competitors that we don't really
want to give, so we're unlikely to be doing that in the near future.

Q - Fahad Changazi

{BIO 15216120 <GO>}

Fahad Changazi, Nomura. Just a question on the market behavior. Could you provide
some more detail on the competitive behavior in the UK market because the
comment[ph] from a certain French insurer suggested they[ph] were maintaining
discipline in Q2 after a change in UK management?
And, going forward, could you envisage a realistic scenario where you're UK policy count
will be ﬂat, or even negative?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Page 23 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

FINAL

I think AXA[ph] are a bit unusual in the sense that their personal mode[ph] to combined
ratio in 2010 was 127, I believe, and 121 in 2011. So in that context they're a bit of an outlier
and maintaining discipline seems appropriate.
Conversely, there are players that are reporting considerably lower combined ratios and
growth. And so you've got people like Aviva and Liverpool Victoria who have made it
clear that they -- who have reported substantial growth and decent combined ratios; and,
obviously, also you're no longer in a situation where Direct Line is shedding, as it did for
the couple of years during the benign period of 2010/2011.
So, generally, in a sense, there's more people out there that want to grow than there is
people who want to shrink, and in that context prices tend to go down.
It is impossible that we don't grow. As Henry said, we're constantly making proﬁtmaximizing decisions for the beneﬁt of the shareholders, and it would be ridiculous for
me to say that it is impossible that a proﬁt-maximizing decision would always imply
growth.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

Colin Simpson, Goldmans. Just a quick one, please. Could you update us on your
thinking ahead of gender-neutral pricing, please?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

We're making necessary amendments to be compliant with the legislation that comes in
towards the end of December. It will create a degree of uncertainty in the market; I don't
think it's likely to have a material relative competitive impact.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Andy Hughes, Exane BNP Paribas. A couple of questions, if I could do. First one, Ogden
discount rate, I think you've said before you use 0.5% in your reserves already, I'm just
wondering if that's pre or post a negative IBNR.
And when I'm looking at the Ernst & Young best estimate numbers, presumably, they're
not doing best estimate on the basis of 0.5%. So if it were to come out 0.5%, would the
E&Y best estimate suddenly jump up, and would your reserve buﬀer, therefore, decline
quite a bit?
And coming back to the previous answer of the reserve buﬀer of 20% to 25% for the
impact of 10% in bodily injury claims, could you explain that in a little bit more detail
because it seems quite a small number? Thank you.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Okay, let me do the ﬁrst one ﬁrst. There isn't a 10% impact on bodily injury claims; it's a
10% impact on general damages, which is just over one-quarter, so there's less than 3%

Page 24 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

FINAL

impact on bodily injury claims. And I'm not planning to go beyond that in terms of an
explanation.
The best estimate done by our actuaries includes an allowance for a move in the Ogden
discount rate, such that a move in the discount rate should not aﬀect the best estimate
value. It allows for a move in the best -- in the discount rate. That's something I think we've
always said in the past, because it's appropriate to be cautious in that because, obviously,
as everyone knows, the Ogden discount rate is under continual discussion.
I think encouragingly, actually, in the latest news on it, the government is asking for a
consultation on whether or not it's appropriate for claimants to enjoy the risk-free rates of
return, which isn't necessarily a realistic reﬂection of what actual investments will take
place. And I think that's ﬂagging quite a material possibility that simplistic view based on
UK index-linked gilts isn't necessarily the outcome of any review.

Q - William Hardcastle

{BIO 16346311 <GO>}

Will Hardcastle, Bank of America. Just a really quick one; what would change the thinking
of the GBP30 million surplus on your dividend calculation?

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

If we spent it, that would change. Well, we think of it in terms of a general buﬀer for
something that might come up that we want to use the money for. So it's the alternative to
holding back capital in the business as an unspeciﬁed amount, an unspeciﬁed thing. We
hold a certain amount for something that may occur at some point.
So it's completely unrelated to the business in terms of the reserves and the solvency, it's
just for some potential event. So if we felt as if there was a shift in some potential event
that we might be thinking about, or we wanted to have more capacity for more
unspeciﬁed events[ph], then we may rethink the number. But we're quite comfortable
where the number is for now.

Q - William Hardcastle

{BIO 16346311 <GO>}

So it's not really correlated to the volume, or anything like that?

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Correct.

Q - Colin Simpson

{BIO 15894636 <GO>}

David, could you talk a bit more about how you see the soft cycle developing over the
next year or two?
And secondly, could you talk about any developments on PPOs, and whether they're
showing up as a material issue, or whether it's just one of those slow burn issues in the
background?
Page 25 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

FINAL

Let's do PPOs, ﬁrst. We continue to settle some of our claims on a PPO basis. The Institute
of Actuaries reports that tracks[ph] on behalf of the market PPO uptake showed signiﬁcant
increase in importance of PPOs in 2008/'09, and going into '10.
Interestingly enough, it appears to have plateaud in '11, and going into '12, at around 30%
to 35% of 1-million-plus claims settling on PPO, and certainly our best estimates allow for
that sort of outcome, and a little bit more.
Soft cycle, soft cycle's diﬃcult to call in a sense. I think some of our competitors are
looking at nice results for 2011 and the ﬁrst half of 2012 and, in a sense, potentially looking
a bit backwards in terms of their volume calls. And it might be that we have to wait until
the reported proﬁtability deteriorates before they recognize that, perhaps, some of the
business they're writing isn't going to be as proﬁtable as it was in '11 and the ﬁrst half of '12
in reported terms.
So, yes, I think the second half will continue to be competitive. The only element that
slightly confuses the picture is some of the decision making being inﬂuenced by capital
event considerations, and that's really diﬃcult for an outsider, like ourselves, to call.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Any last questions?

Q - Greig Paterson
And just a point of clarity, the 5% of the premiums for legal, is that going to come through
in the proﬁt commission line now?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

The vast bulk of it will just come through within the other revenue line.

Q - Greig Paterson
So really just, in terms of modeling and proﬁt commission, we must just ignore that item?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

There's some complexities around reinsurance contracts that mean there's a little bit of
complexity beyond just a straight one-for-one slot, but it's a tiny proportion.

Q - Greig Paterson
Right. And so you've only included two months of it here in this period, so it basically
hasn't aﬀected accounts in this ﬁrst half?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Page 26 of 27



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2012-08-30

No. And one thing we'll have to work on is how we reﬂect our numbers in a way that's
clearly understandable and comparable going forward.

Q - Greig Paterson

FINAL

Well, some detail in terms of, maybe, a separate release in terms of exactly where the
pluses and minuses would be useful. Thanks.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Great, thank you very much. We appreciate your attention here this morning, and we look
forward to seeing you again in the spring. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 27 of 27

