Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2012-09-10

Barclays Capital Global Financial Services Conference
Company Participants
FINAL

Jeff Kelly, CFO

Other Participants
Jay Gelb, Analyst

Presentation
Jay Gelb

{BIO 21247396 <GO>}

Hi, everyone. I am Jay Gelb from Barclays. We're very pleased to have with us today
RenaissanceRe. Renaissance is a leading global provider of property catastrophe and
specialty reinsurance coverage with a notable and superior long-term track record of
book value growth. We're very pleased to have with us today RenaissanceRe's Chief
Financial Officer, Jeff Kelly. So with that, I will turn it over to Jeff.

Bloomberg Transcript

Jeff Kelly

{BIO 20911735 <GO>}

Thanks, Jay. Good afternoon, everybody. I'll apologize in advance. As I was just telling Jay,
in addition to living in a climate prone to mold and other allergies, I managed to get a
head cold over the weekend, from which I am recovering. So hopefully that won't cause
me too much unpleasantness here.
So as Jay said, I'm the Chief Financial Officer at RenaissanceRe. And I have the distinct
pleasure of talking to you today about what I think is a really unique company with a really
unique history. And I can tell you that it is an incredibly interesting, intense. And fun place
to work, in addition to not being in a bad location in Bermuda.
So before I get started, let me call your attention to the safe harbor statement on the
screen, covering forward-looking statements, as well as the fact that I'll be using some
non-GAAP measures of financial performance in the presentation.
One of the areas for which I have responsibility at RenaissanceRe is corporate strategy. So
today I thought I'd start with a bit of background on the Company and our history and
then give you some insight into our corporate strategy, business unit strategy. And how
we think about the role of investments and capital management within that strategy. So
with that, let me give you a little bit of background on the history of the Company.
As Jay said, at RenaissanceRe we are a global provider of property and cat specialty
reinsurance through our office in Bermuda. And right now not only property, cat. And
Page 1 of 12



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2012-09-10

specialty reinsurance. But also some insurance coverages via our Lloyd's operation. I think
some people have typically thought of RenaissanceRe as a Florida specialist. But I suspect
after the events of 2011, they were dissuaded of that misinterpretation.

FINAL

Our business model is to match what we believe are attractive risks with the right capital
to support it. Sometimes it's our own, sometimes it comes from third parties. But more
often than not, it's a mixture of the two each and every time.
The Company was founded in 1993 and has a market capitalization of just under $4 billion.
We've enjoyed strong financial performance over our history with tangible book value per
share plus change in accumulated dividends, which is our primary financial target, having
grown at a compound annual growth rate of 20% since our inception as a public company.
Finally, we have some of the strongest financial strength and enterprise risk management
ratings in our industry that I think attests to the competitive strengths of the Company, as
well as that financial performance. Only about 3% of companies in our industry have
earned an excellent enterprise risk management rating.

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. With that as background, let me shift to a description of our corporate strategy. I
think it's rather simple and fundamentally unchanged since our inception some -- almost
20 years ago now.
Here's a summary of our business. Our mission is to produce superior financial returns for
our shareholders. They hire us. That's our -- where we are laser-focused. Superior returns
come from being a leader, not a follower, hence our vision statement to be a leader in
the businesses in which we operate.
We think the leader in the businesses in which we are involved is the best underwriter,
hence the identity that we have adopted. We avoid businesses where being the best
underwriter isn't likely to produce the best returns necessarily. And we think this is a critical
difference in our business model.
Our strategy -- to be the best underwriter -- is to operate the Company to a single
system to match risk and capital.
In the slides that follow, I will touch on these each in a little bit more detail.
So on the surface, our business model is simple. We match desirable risks with efficient
capital. We take risks in multiple forms and deployment capital in multiple forms.
Ultimately, if we match desirable risk in the most efficient capital, we will have a single
portfolio that over time will outperform the market.
It's important to note that we operate the Company as a single risk-taking book. We are
not a collection of traders each with their own profit and loss statements. Over 19 years,

Page 2 of 12



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2012-09-10

we've invested in building a system that accurately assesses and measures risk and
accesses and engages the most efficient forms of capital and to match them effectively.

FINAL

Some parts of the system we believe have been imitated over the years on both the
capital and the risk management side. But we believe our business model remains
distinctive. And indeed, business models that have integrated systems are the most
durable form of competitive advantage.
So in the next slide, I want to expand a little bit more on that green box in the middle
there between most efficient capital and accessing the most desirable risk, which is
focused on our risk-taking capabilities and our culture at the Company.
In the short-term, it can sometimes be difficult to discern the difference between luck and
skill in underwriting the kinds of risk we ensure. For instance, were you lucky just because
there were no cats in a year, or did you really construct a portfolio that offered the best
risk return profile? Over short periods of time, it really is difficult to tell.

Bloomberg Transcript

However, after almost 20 years, we have a track record of successful risk taking over
many cycles that few reinsurers can match. We integrate what we believe are some of the
most sophisticated risk assessment tools in the industry with a unique risk culture.
Ultimately, the goal is to avoid surprises; be able to respond quickly with innovative
solutions for our clients; avoid solvency risk; and while at the same time, accepting some
earnings volatility.
I think the most critical differentiating factor at RenRe is how tools and culture work
together. So our Chief Risk Officer has oft-quoted phrase, at least around the Company,
that says, "A fool with a tool is still a fool." It's meant to convey the point that there's no
substitute for good judgment. And tools are only useful to the extent that you have your
own view of risk that incorporates not only the capability of the tools but, just as
importantly, their limitations.
Let me stay on that just a second. One misunderstanding about our business that I
sometimes encounter with investors is our risk level when the "big one" hits. The nature of
excessive loss reinsurance incorporates policy limits and cats and is really important in
limiting our exposure.
So once we reserve at a policy limit, we are off the hook for anything more -- no matter
how big the event gets. In fact, in most cases as industry losses from a specific event
grow, our share of those losses declined. It is simply the nature of cat exposures.
Our track record is also helped by the fact that our senior underwriters not only have long
tenured experience in the property cat business. But they have long tenure at
RenaissanceRe. They understand the intricacies of our models, how they are constructed
and their attendant limitations. They are also guided by underwriting principles that drive
clear accountability for ensuring that each deal is underwritten and rolled up into the
overall portfolio properly.

Page 3 of 12



FINAL

Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2012-09-10

In order to produce superior financial results over time, we have to be able to construct a
superior portfolio of risk. That requires us to source attractive risks and match them with
the most efficient capital. Our three competitive advantages are what some of us refer to
as the three superiors support each component of portfolio construction -- having
superior customer relationships, having superior selection and portfolio construction
capabilities. And superior capital management, all operated in an integrated fashion. It
doesn't do any of us any good to be able to source business. We don't have the tools
and underwriting skills to separate good deals from bad deals. It doesn't do us any good
to have superior ability to attract capital if you can't source risk and construct attractive
portfolios from it.
Increasingly, we're finding that customers are becoming more and more sophisticated
and expect us as a reinsurer to be superior managers of capital as well. They expect we
will bring capital to bare quickly when capacity is needed. And investors expect us to
return it when capital -- when that capacity is not needed and we have excess capital.
Customers also expect us to have superior risk capabilities to ensure that we can fulfill our
promise to pay when they have a loss.

Bloomberg Transcript

Investors and capital providers expect us to have superior customer relationships and risk
capabilities such that we can accurately gauge the market and obtain the lines we want
when pricing is attractive. Deals in the market are sometimes oversubscribed. And our
superior customer relationships often allow us to obtain full lines when some of our
competitors get signed back.
So in short, each of the three superiors is important. But we think that what differentiates
RenRe is the way we integrate their delivery to create successful outcomes for both
buyers of our products and for our investors.
This is a slide we usually have indexed because we think it is an incredibly important one
for a number of reasons. I said our mission is to produce superior returns for our
shareholders over time. This chart shows tangible book value per share, plus change in
accumulated dividend since our inception in 1993, as well as our stock price since our IPO
in 1995, which is the dark line. So the green bars are tangible book value growth over
time. The gray portion of the bar are cumulative dividends. The line is our share price.
As I said, tangible book value per share plus change in accumulated dividends is the
financial metric we use to measure value creation for our shareholders. And it tends to
correlate highly to our stock price over time.
As I said, it has increased an impressive 20% since inception. And our stock price has
appreciated at a 15% compound annual growth rate since our IPO.
As the data shows, there have been years during which significant catastrophe losses
have resulted in book value declines for us. But an important component of our strategy
as a company is to take advantage of the market dislocations that frequently occur after
large events to write strongly into those dislocations. This philosophy has allowed us to
Page 4 of 12



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2012-09-10

FINAL

earn back the book value we lost in the event. And I think you can see that from this chart.
It's hard to over-emphasize the importance of this because virtually every one of those
instances where we lost book value in a particular year, it was more than recovered in the
subsequent year. It's very easy to pull back from taking risk when you've incurred a loss.
But that is not our business model.
Our business can be volatile from time to time. But we take on this volatility because we
believe we're able to manage risk and generate superior returns for our investors over
time.
This chart shows the operating return on equity for RenRe and the blue bars, as well as
for a composite of our peer group since 1996. The solid line denotes the peer group
average.
As we frequently say on average, reinsurance is not an attractive business. The peer
average of an ROE of 10%, I think, attests to that. The trick, as we always say, is not to be
average. And that's why we seek to be the best underwriter of the risks that we
participate in because we feel that is the only way to differentiate ourselves.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've historically generated higher ROEs than our peers. And in years of high catastrophe
losses such as 2004, 2005, 2008. And 2011, we tend to underperform since our book has
a higher concentration of cat risk. However, we manage our book to limit losses on the
downside and subsequently outperform on the upside.
That has been the case in the years that have followed -- catastrophes such as 2002 and
2003, 2006 and 2007, 2009. And hopefully that will be the case in 2012. These are years
where our clients need us the most as competitors often pull back capacity after large
losses. By being a relatively stable source of capacity and establishing a reputation for
exposure-based pricing, we have been able to build strong relationships with our clients
over time.
We believe that being a disciplined underwriter has been key to our success. Our
underwriters don't have premium goals each year. Our philosophy is to play the hand
they're dealt by market forces. We do not try to force opportunities that aren't there,
whether that's in our underwriting book or our investment portfolio.
We seek to grow when markets conditions are attractive. And we try and take as much
good business as is possible. You can see that was the case in this chart, after 2002, after
the World Trade Center catastrophe, when we grew our own cat and specialty book. But
also rapidly expanded our joint venture capacity.
It was also the case earlier this year when we saw an attractive opportunity to grow our
book internationally and, as a result, grew close to 30% on our top line in the property cat
business around January 1.

Page 5 of 12



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2012-09-10

FINAL

On the other hand, we're equally willing to reduce exposures when market conditions
become less attractive. You can see that in our specialty lines, which expanded rapidly
between 2002 and 2005 and have since been reduced. And in 2010, we made the
decision to sell our insurance business which consisted of more process-oriented lines
where we believe the returns were not adequate and being the best underwriter wasn't
the primary determinant of success.
So hopefully that gives you some sense of our broad corporate strategy. In the next
several slides, I want to talk about each one of our business units. And we have three
strong businesses in our Company, each of which work to get implement the three
superiors. The first is our reinsurance business, which includes property cat and specialty
reinsurance. The next one is our Lloyd's syndicate where we write property cat and
specialty reinsurance, as well as some insurance coverages focused on business we don't
see in Bermuda. In our ventures business, this unit is primarily focused on supporting our
underwriting businesses by attracting third-party capital from providers and providing
governance around balance sheets that are not wholly-owned by RenaissanceRe. This
group also manages our weather and energy risk management business, REAL.

Bloomberg Transcript

So let me start with the largest of our business units, which is our property catastrophe
business. The largest of these -- this is the largest business for us. And we are probably
the reinsurance company most focused on property cat. We think that the cat business is
fundamentally an attractive one. But not all cat risk is attractive. We think we see most of
the worldwide cat business that comes to the market. And we believe that about half of
the cat market has attractive returns and the rest do not.
Now admittedly, this reflects our view of risk. And the 50% business that we rate as low
scoring or negative scoring, having negative returns, may actually score well in some other
people's models. And apparently it does since obviously it gets written.
But our focus at our Company is on getting as much of the business that is in what we
believe is the attractive bucket as we possibly can. Over time we believe that a company
that lacks superior risk selection skills will end up with a portfolio that ends poorer riskadjusted returns. Our ability to get as much of the attractive business as we do is a result
of a philosophy of having deep and long-term relationships with cedants in the industry.
On the right side of this chart and each one of the other two businesses, we give a little
more detail about the three superiors and how they are implemented in each of our
businesses. It's not intended to be an exhaustive list, only illustrated examples of how the
integrated system works at RenaissanceRe.
I think people think of us primarily as a cat specialist company. And to be sure, we are
heavily cat-focused. However, we have also done quite well writing over $2.5 billion of
specialty reinsurance business that has generated over $1 billion in underwriting profits
since 2000. Doing so for us is highly efficient from a capital perspective due to its
diversifying impact on our loss profile.

Page 6 of 12



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2012-09-10

FINAL

At RenaissanceRe, specialty reinsurance consists of a number of non-cat lines such as catexposed workers comp, surety, terrorism, aviation, energy, crop, political risk, financial
lines and casualty clash.
We have been a specialty reinsurer since our founding. And while we actively provide
capacity when the market needs it, we're equally willing to withdraw capacity when it's
less needed. So as you can see here, we've rapidly grew in the years that followed 2001
and then subsequently reduced our writings after that. They have still, though, maintained
core partnerships with a number of high-quality insurers. And again, we are there for them
when they need us.
Recently you can see we've also been growing the book over the last three years. And I
expect this to continue.
The makeup today is a little bit different than it was in previous years. But our focus is still
the same. In specialty, we take more risk in the lines of business we think have the highest
expected returns or what investors like you might call a sector allocation strategy. But we
continue to have a platform in place that will allow us to grow this business quite
significantly should market conditions allow.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've grown our presence at Lloyd's over the last few years, although we are still a very
small syndicate. We established our Syndicate 1458 in 2009. We built rather than bought
an ongoing syndicate to retain RenRe's culture and our philosophy. One of our most
senior underwriters from Bermuda, Ross Curtis, manages the syndicate which we operate
as one book with Bermuda within the context of the Lloyd's Corporation.
Our presence at Lloyd's allows us to access business that we would not otherwise see
come to Bermuda. And much of it being non-cat and, therefore, diversifying business for
our overall book.
We're extending our reputation here, serving clients and brokers across new lines and
new geographies. Our intention would be to continue to grow our Lloyd's presence,
although only to the degree that we find attractive business. But with the size of the
Lloyd's market, we think that is pretty likely.
Our final business is Ventures, which we think is unique at RenRe. Ventures involve three
main activities. The first is our managed risk capital business, which is our joint venture and
sidecar business where we manage capital on behalf of third parties. This is our core
activity in the Ventures group. We started managing third-party capital with the formation
of Top Layer Re in 1999 and DaVinci Re in 2001. And we establish sidecars as market
conditions allow.
The second function of Ventures is evaluating, making and managing strategic
investments where we principally provide capital to our customers in forms other than
reinsurance. One example would be investing in the debt or equity of insurance
companies in forming a strategic relationship. So examples of this would be our

Page 7 of 12



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2012-09-10

investment in Platinum prior to their IPO, which we exited in 2011. And our investment in
Tower Hill, a leading Florida specialist insurance company.

FINAL

The third area is managing our Houston-based weather and energy risk management
business, RenRe Energy Advisors or REAL. This unit primarily provides weather protection
in derivative form to energy and utility clients worldwide. Let me touch on each of these a
little bit deeper.
As I mentioned, our core business in Ventures is managing third-party risk capital. So this is
where I'll spend most of my time on Ventures. Our mantra here is matching the right risk
with the right capital at the right time. Not all capital is suited for all risk. Being able to
recruit the right capital and the right risk is critical for both customers and capital providers.
Managing risk capital allows us to deploy more capacity at customers and leverage our
underwriting platform to earn management fees and profit commissions. The first joint
venture on this chart is one of our long-standing franchise plays, DaVinci Re, which we
established in 2001. We set it up in partnership with State Farm right after the World Trade
Center catastrophe when clients needed capacity. But did not necessarily want to place all
of their risk with a single counter party.

Bloomberg Transcript

We created a separate entity. So while the client deals with us on the front-end, the
business is written on two pieces of paper, representing two separate rated balance
sheets. DaVinci always writes property cat business alongside RenaissanceRe Ltd., our
reinsurance business. And no deals are in DaVinci that are not also in RenaissanceRe Ltd.
While our ownership in DaVinci modulates from time to time, we currently have a 31.5%
ownership stake in DaVinci with third-party owners including State Farm, a number of
pension funds, endowments. And family offices making up the remainder.
Top Layer Re is still, we think, one of the more innovative structures in the property cat
market today. It's a 50/50 partnership with State Farm and writes non-US, high-layer
business. It is capitalized with equity amounting to $100 million with a $3.9 billion stop loss
cover provided by State Farm above that level.
The third type of venture or product we have is something called CPPs, which is short for
catastrophe portfolio participations. This is a product whereby we allow some of our
clients to participate in our cat business on a quota share basis.
Lastly, we have performed a number of one year sidecars to respond to short-term
market dislocations such as after Hurricane Katrina, Rita. And Wilma in 2005 and 2006
and after the record catastrophe losses of last year. We've done six of these deals since
2005 with the latest iteration being announced in June with the formation of Tim Re III.
Our partners in these ventures tend to be -- seek pure cat risk and a defined exit from a
short-term vehicle as opposed to a longer-term relationship with Renaissance Re and
DaVinci.

Page 8 of 12



FINAL

Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2012-09-10

We have been forming joint ventures for longer than anyone in the market. DaVinci Re
and Top Layer are our evergreen, long-term plays we manage as franchises. These are
battle-tested, long-term vehicles having survived and thrived despite many catastrophesfilled years, including 2011. Our clients recognize the importance of long-term capital and
the long-term nature of our joint ventures as a critical distinguishing factor from the newer
forms of capital that have entered the market in the last few years. We deliberately create
short-term vehicles to respond to market needs by forming such ventures as Tim Re III,
Starbound in 2006 and more recently, Upsilon Re designed this year to target worldwide
retro basis after the international losses of 2011.
This slide is a graphic that gives a brief overview of our business at REAL, our weather and
energy business. This is a Houston-based unit with about 30 employees. The unit
provides derivative-based weather and energy risk management solutions to utility and
energy clients on a global basis. Thus, REAL takes on exposures in the US, Europe, Japan.
And Australia. The unit operates with oversight locally, as well as in Bermuda. We monitor
the value at risk on a daily as well as seasonal basis and also limit our exposure to
counterparty guarantees on a deal-based level.

Bloomberg Transcript

The value at risk at the 99th percentile confidence interval was $26 million on average in
the first half of 2012.
Our business here is generally protecting our clients from warmer-than-normal winters
and unusually cold temperatures in the summer. The exposures for this unit tend to be
seasonally higher during the fourth and First Quarters due to the winter contracts where
the variability of temperatures around the mean is a bit wider than in the summer. The
unit's losses in late last year and early this year were the result of the record warm
temperatures we saw in the fourth and First Quarters of the year, both in the US, as well in
Europe. And they persisted over that entire time period, as you know.
So those are the individual business units and what we try and accomplish in each one of
them. Let me turn to capital management and investments to describe how we view them
in support of achieving our financial and strategic objectives.
We have what we think is a very strong balance sheet with a solid capital structure of over
$5 billion, including the third-party capital in DaVinci. We also believe we're prudently
reserved with over half of our reserves still booked as incurred but not reported losses or
as additional case reserves.
We've historically had a very good track record of accurately reflecting event losses when
they occur and not having substantial net upward revisions.
Our solid capitalization, we think, is one of the reasons, just one. But one of the reasons
we receive industry-leading financial strength ratings from the rating agencies.
Needless to say, we strive to be good stewards of our investors' capital over time. When
market conditions do not allow us to fully utilize our capital to write business with attractive
returns, we seek to return it as quickly as is practical. A preferred method has been and is
Page 9 of 12



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2012-09-10

FINAL

share buybacks for returning capital to our shareholders. We've only raised equity capital
one time during our 19-year history. And this was to go on the offensive to take advantage
after conditions following the World Trade Center catastrophe in 2001.
Since 2007 we have repurchased over 35% of our outstanding shares. We currently have
a $500 million share buyback authorization in place that the Board has given us. And
anticipating a question, have for the first time in our history, done share repurchases
during wind season.
We will continue to manage capital with an eye toward returning to our shareholders when
we can't generate adequate returns on it in our underwriting business.
So hopefully by now you see us as we see ourselves, which is as an underwriting-focused
company. In that context, investments exist as a result of our underwriting activities. And
our management of the investment portfolio is designed to support our underwriting
activities. As such, we typically structure our portfolio to have a very high degree of
liquidity so that we can meet any cash requirements our underwriting activities may have.

Bloomberg Transcript

As you can see from this chart, about 88% of our investment portfolio is either in shortterm instruments or high-quality, fixed-income instruments and about 12% is in
alternatives.
We invest in the context of the risk profile of the overall business, which is principally
driven by the underwriting book. We do not strive for returns in the investment portfolio
that could create meaningful earnings volatility. We never want the investment portfolio to
limit our flexibility in the underwriting part of our business. However, within all those
constraints, we do seek to maximize after-tax, risk-adjusted returns.
I should mention also, because we get questions on the yield of our portfolio, we do not
manage the portfolio targeting a specific yield. It's managed with a total rate of return
focus.
So in summary, we think we are well-positioned as a company to take advantage of the
opportunities and the challenges ahead. We have a long track record of delivering
superior returns for our shareholders who are willing to experience some earnings
volatility from time to time. We accomplish this by operating our competitive strengths as
an integrated system. Parts of that system have been imitated by some of our
competitors. But our culture is unique in the way that we integrate our delivery of these.
We have a view that risk management like capital management and client relationships is
everyone's job at RenaissanceRe. It's an important part of our success. And it underpins
our culture.
Our past and continues stability to produce superior financial returns we think will help us
sustain the strong financial strength ratings of the Company. And as a result of these, we
believe we're well-positioned to remain a market leader in the businesses within which we
operate.

Page 10 of 12



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2012-09-10

So thank you very much for your attention. And with that, I'll turn it back to Jay and let you
take it from there.

Questions And Answers
FINAL

Q - Jay Gelb

{BIO 21247396 <GO>}

Thank you. In the couple of minutes we have left for Q&A, Jeff, why don't I kick it off ? Do
you have any initial outlook for the January 1 reinsurance renewals coming out of Monte
Carlo? You guessed that one was coming.

A - Jeff Kelly

{BIO 20911735 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Jay Gelb

{BIO 21247396 <GO>}

Then the other near-term issue would be Hurricane Isaac -- what type of impact do you
anticipate for the reinsurance sector probably as well as Renaissance?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jeff Kelly

{BIO 20911735 <GO>}

Well I probably won't have time for anything other than the Isaac answer. So let me turn
quickly to the Isaac question. We have our own view of that at this point. But it's a -- I
should say it's a -- it's still very early to know. All I can communicate to this group is that we
see just what you see, estimates on the losses from Isaac. I've not know what the latest
are. I've seen estimates around the $2 billion area. So we do not believe it is a large
reinsurance event. I expect we'll have a bit of exposure. But not a significant amount of
exposure. That's our view at this time.
I think you may be better connected to the folks in Monte Carlo than me. I'm not getting a
lot of e-mail traffic with my colleagues from Monte Carlo. So I don't know whether they're
having too much fun or what.
But I think our expectation is really unchanged from that which we communicated on our
Second Quarter earnings conference call, which is that we think the series of events that
conspired -- that's a bad term -- that came together to push pricing up in the market -and those are the implementation and adoption, I think the subsequent adoption of the
RMS 11 models, as well as just the significant amount of cats that occurred in 2011 have
worked their way through pricing and are kind of in, for lack of a better term, equilibrium.
We're at equilibrium at the end of June. And so while we had hoped that pricing would
continue to rise for a period, I don't think we're terribly surprised to see it come to price
increases, to come to more or less a halt at June 30 and was one of the reasons why we
grew our book so much at the first part of the year.
So apart from that, things can happen beyond that. But I don't think we see the market
forces that caused pricing to come to more or less full stop at the end of June, to
continue. We expect that to be the case absent any other market forces.

Page 11 of 12



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2012-09-10

But I would just say that we, in spite of the fact that pricing did not seem to go up postJune 30, we still view the property cat market largely as attractively priced. And we felt
we had a very good -- we built a very good portfolio at the end of the Second Quarter.

FINAL

Q - Jay Gelb

{BIO 21247396 <GO>}

All right. Well I'm afraid we're out of time. Please join me in thanking Jeff Kelly from
Renaissance. We are having a breakout session with Renaissance in the Riverside suite.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 12 of 12

