Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-26

NKSJ Holdings Inc Management Plan Presentation
Company Participants
FINAL

Kengo Sakurada, President
Shinji Tsuji, Senior Managing Executive Officer
Unidentified Speaker, Company Representative

Other Participants
Hideyasu Ban, Analyst
Jun Shiota, Analyst
Koichi Niwa, Analyst
Masao Muraki, Analyst
Natsumu Tsujino, Analyst
Takanori Miyoshi, Analyst
Tatsuo Majima, Analyst
Unidentified Participant, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Wataru Otsuka, Analyst

Presentation
Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

I am Kengo Sakurada. Thank you for your attendance despite your very busy schedule.
NKSJ Holdings has reviewed the NKSJ Group management plan announced in September
2011, which was to be completed in fiscal 2015. The plan was revised in view of a basic
agreement on the merger of the Group's main P&C insurance firms, Sompo Japan and
Nipponkoa, as well as subsequent changes in the business environment and other factors.
The losses coming from the natural disasters and also the other insurance policies after
the September announcement and also the cost impact from the merger has led us to
review the business plan.
We would have liked to make this announcement earlier; however, we wanted to assess
the impact accurately, including the IT system cost. So in that context, we decided to
make an announcement recently, last week.
Today, I will be talking about the numerical target, as well as the strategies. And also
capital strategy and our thoughts behind the shareholder return.

Page 1 of 22



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-26

Please turn to page 1. Here are the main points of the management plan that were
revisited. First, we revised up NKSJ Group's numerical management targets for fiscal
2015. In order to leverage on the full margin of Sompo Japan and Nipponkoa to realize a
sustainable growth cycle, we will clearly identify the strategy for each business lines.

FINAL

NKSJ Holdings will lead the way to enhance the corporate value on net asset basis by
optimizing the business portfolio.
In the domestic P&C insurance business, measures for better efficiencies, such as steps
leading to joint head office system, have already been taken prior[ph] to the merger of
the two P&C companies. By achieving the targets out of the group management plan, we
strive to reach the highest level of efficiency and profitability in the industry.
For the domestic life business, we will strategically allocate the Group's managerial
resources to growing scale, while sustaining our focus on the more profitable protectiontype insurance products.
In the overseas insurance business, we will hammer out clear strategies for personal and
commercial lines respectively. And also for different regions. And refocus on select
strategy. We will prioritize our initiatives so that it will have bottom-line contribution.

Bloomberg Transcript

For capital management, we aim to maximize the capital efficiency while rewarding the
shareholders in a sufficient manner by keeping steady dividend and nimble share
repurchase execution.
Please turn to page 2. The slide shows a rough idea of our numerical management
targets. We will strive for JPY180 billion to JPY210 billion as adjusted consolidated profit,
aiming for an adjusted consolidated ROE of over 7%. The breakdown would be JPY70
billion to JPY80 billion from domestic P&C business, JPY100 billion to JPY110 billion from
domestic life business, JPY13 billion to JPY20 billion from overseas. And JPY2 billion to
JPY3 billion for financial services and others.
We will continue to achieve steady growth with the domestic life business, which in fact is
driving the Group profits today.
Domestic P&C business, which is now in the recovery phase for profitability, you'll see a
fundamental earnings improvement with the full merger.
Earnings contribution from the overseas in the financial services business would be just
about 10% in fiscal 2015. But we view the two businesses to be extremely important. So
we've strived to realize our vision to become a truly service-oriented company. So we will
make investment as needed for these businesses as well.
On page 3, let me go over the changes from the previous management plan. The
adjusted consolidated profit was revised up from JPY160 billion. As you can see on this
slide, this is mainly driven by the domestic life business, whose adjusted earnings outlook
Page 2 of 22



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-26

FINAL

was almost doubled from JPY55 billion to over JPY100 billion. Details will be provided
later. But basically we revised up the projection for the value of venue[ph] policies, given
that strategy to push more profitable products from Himawari Life is nicely penetrating
into the organization, thanks to the fact that the life subsidiaries are already merged.
On the other hand, in order to grasp the reality in our business, we slightly revised on the
outlook for the domestic P&C business. Though we will enjoy merger effect, we consider
that it will take some time to improve the profitability of the other insurance business. So
due to the time lag, we revised down the outlook.
At the press conference, as Mr. Tsuji mentioned, obviously for fiscal 2015 we have targets.
But this will be a transitionary target. So much more important for us is how we reach in
fiscal 2015 and look at the future beyond. But our aim is to gradually improve the
profitability of our respective year leading up to fiscal 2015.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please turn to page five for our domestic P&C business. As announced in March, when we
disclosed our intentions for the merger, Sompo Japan and Nipponkoa will fully merge to
form Sompo Japan Nipponkoa in the first half of fiscal 2014. We will become the largest in
terms of topline in Japan. But that alone is not our intention and that alone will not
guarantee our survival.
To grow in the domestic P&C market where there's no expectation for medium market
expansion, we need to increase our market share in the P&C insurance business by
earning high recognition from the customers, as well as growing the non-insurance
services. We will strive to provide the top-notch service in this industry so that we will be
the number one choice for the customer, not just by slogan but by reality.
For cost reduction, we have implemented measures such as joint head office system and
sites co-location prior to the official merger. And we have set up a single virtual company
and also have actually reduced the headcount.
And as insurance for the whole industry to improve the profitability of the auto business,
we will revise our products in the premium rate, as well as step up our underwriting
capabilities in order to improve the profitability of the auto insurance business to an ideal
status.
Please turn to page 6. This shows the specific measures leading to the merger in effect. In
sum, we will make steady progress by completing these tasks prior to the merger date.
Also, we will make necessary preparations and facilitate this process to reach the merger
date. Every day, I can first-handedly feel that we are making progress.
On the next page is about the merger synergies. For fiscal 2015, we expect JPY56 billion
as merger synergies, JPY28 billion each from personnel and non-personnel expenses.
On the personnel cost, as Mr. Tsuji mentioned at the press conference, we will have some
natural attrition. And on top of that we have implemented a voluntary retirement program.
Page 3 of 22



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-26

So by fiscal 2015, the headcounts will be reduced by 4,800 compared to fiscal 2012. We
aim to achieve the industry's highest level of personnel efficiency.

FINAL

Apart from the added cost savings, we aim to lower the non-personnel expenses by
cutting the rent, administrative and printing costs, among others. System integration will
help in lowering the running cost as well.
Please refer to slide eight for the changes made from the previous management plan.
Through the new plan, the merger synergies were calculated conservatively by limiting
the project synergy criteria to just personnel and non-personnel expenses on a financial
accounting basis, while not accounting for the accounting-based numbers. So in that
sense, we have not reflected the benefits of topline growth and reduced payments of
insurance claims.
The base year was changed from fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2011, which was another reason why
the merger synergies under the new plan look smaller.
From fiscal 2010 to 2011, we have already achieved cost reduction of JPY10 billion. So if we
were to use the same starting point of fiscal 2009, the synergy under the new plan would
have been JPY66 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

We believe there will be additional merger synergies, such as topline growth driven by
enhanced brand value. This extra expectation is not baked into the numbers.
Please turn to page nine. This is the newly calculated one-time merger cost compared
against the previous one. The previous plan called for a JPY72 billion in total. But this was
increased to JPY120 billion.
The previous plan projected minimum costs, assuming that rationalization will be
promoted with one platform and two brands. In the previous plan, we aimed to reduce
the one-off costs as much as possible by promoting one platform and two-pronged
strategy; however, with the decision to merge, incremental costs for system integration,
branch relocation, rebranding. And voluntary retirement program, which is now in place,
were calculated in details and added on in a very conservative way. And so, in total we
expect the one-off costs to increase by about JPY50 billion.
This is the one-off cost for ourselves. And compared to the one-off costs which was
observed with the other financial institutions that merged in the past, I think this is a
rational level.
And next is about the auto insurance business, which is the biggest piece of our P&C
business in Japan, facing a big challenge for the industry. The insurance payment is
calculated by multiplying the number of claims and average insurance payment per claim.
The number of claims peaked out early 2011. And subsequently it continues to gradually
come down. So we can say that the number has peaked out.

Page 4 of 22



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-26

FINAL

On the other hand, the average insurance payment per claim shows a rising trend. As a
result of the calculation, the loss ratio in sum, although have stopped to go up, has stayed
unchanged at a high level.
Please turn to the next page. The insurance business, particularly the auto process which
is inevitable for the people of Japan, when the profitability deteriorates the current
measure cannot be implemented immediately and there's always going to be a time lag
in reality. The rate calculation committee of the new rate will be implemented. But in that
sense there's always going to be a time lag for the companies to adjust their products
and their rates to the reality. That is what we're seeing in the current auto insurance
market.
With the recent rate revision, as the other companies have done so, we have made
stricter reform, including revising the drivers rating system. And going forward, we will try
to cope with the reality to develop and adjust our products and rates so that it truly
reflects the reality of the insurance events. And I think this is the strategy we need to take.
And obviously, we will make our own effort to further improve our efficiency.

Bloomberg Transcript

Also, we will be reinforcing our underwriting capabilities. And also try to promote the
prime repair shops so that we can reduce the payment per claim without sacrificing the
quality of the service. We will also promote more active use of the recycled parts.
Please turn to page 12. This is an overview of how we aim to improve the earnings, by
lowering the operating expenses and beefing up the profitability of the auto insurance
business. The graph indicates a trend of the underwriting balance and the factors behind
the changes.
To better show the improving trend, this does not reflect the one-time merger cost. And
we have indicated the merger cost at the bottom of the slide with a footnote. As you can
see, the underwriting balance this year will be roughly negative JPY30 billion. And it will
continue to consistently improve every year. And in fiscal 2015, we will reach about JPY90
billion and it will continue to improve beyond.
Combined ratio will improve from this year's 102% to 95% in fiscal 2015, which will be an
improvement of seven percentage points. The breakdown of a seven points'
improvement on the combined ratio is indicated on the right. We project very little
contribution from the claims payment side. Some improvement expected from revising
the driver rating system is likely to be offset based on the conservative assumption that
payment per claim will continue to rise.
Also in that sense, we expect no contribution from the claims payment side. Increasing
premiums will contribute with the auto insurance business improving with the rate and
product adjustment. And also expansion of the reinsurance business. This will have a five
percentage points contribution. Two points improvement will come from our internal
cutting -- from our internal efforts to cut operating expenses.

Page 5 of 22



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-26

FINAL

Please turn to page 13. This visualizes the new earnings improvement picture against the
previous plan. Reflecting a tough environment for the auto insurance business, the
starting point dipped into the negative zone for 2012. But by revising the rate for the auto
policies on an ongoing basis, the losses will be overcome. And the underwriting balance
for fiscal 2015 is expected to be similar to what we projected in the original plan.
Please turn to page 14. In regards to our strategy for auto insurance direct business, we
believe that there is a momentum in the current auto direct business. And it's also making
it more convenient with the advent of ICT[ph]. And also the customers' experience of
improvement in accessibility of their IT[ph] devices.
Personally, I am highly interested in the growth potential of the direct business. So we
would like to consider to take a more active part in the market. In observing the trend to a
direct market, it is consistently increasing. And we believe this will continue for some time.
And the market share is definitely going to be double digit in the near future.

Bloomberg Transcript

As a result, from the conventional underwriter, the customers may shift to the direct
companies. We have Saison Automobile & Fire as a vehicle for the direct business. High
appraisal from the customer and strategic targeting should enable us to outperform the
market growth. This is just the beginning. But I can already feel the result of our efforts.
Now, let me turn to the domestic life business on page 16. As the P&C business, the
domestic life market is on the contracting trend. But we leverage on the strong position of
being a live company within the P&C group. The annualized premium of business in force
grew by roughly 10% in the last three years. Relatively more profitable medical insurance
has grown by a little less than 40% over the same period.
The growth of the high-margin protection-type insurance, particularly the strong jump in
the medical insurance, has resulted in the rapid growth of MCEV, which reached JPY615.3
billion at the end of fiscal 2011.
Please turn to slide 17. The domestic life business for the NKSJ Group undertakes business
strategy focusing on maximizing the EV. We use MCEV for disclosure, a highly reliable and
transparent standard.
Since the merger of the life companies in October last year, product strategy focusing on
the EV-centric protection-type product has penetrated well in the organization and it has
been very successful. Promotion of the life policies on the P&C distribution channel is also
making progress. As a result, the adjusted EV grid for fiscal 2011 stood at JPY100 billion,
partially reflecting some one-off factors, such as experience variances and assumption
changes.
We will strive to increase the EV on an adjusted basis by JPY100 billion to JPY110 billion
leading up to fiscal 2015 by keeping the product portfolio focused on protection-type
products, while steadily expanding the business in force with new policy sales.

Page 6 of 22



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-26

FINAL

Please turn to page 18. I don't believe I need to explain this to you all as you're analysts.
But this shows an image of EV and how it contributes to the periodical P&L. Please take a
look at this slide.
Please turn to page 19. More companies in Japan are disclosing EV; however, there are
various types of disclosure, such as TEV, EEV. And MCEV. The NKSJ Group has adopted
MCEV as our numerical management target as its assumptions are the most consistent
with market assumptions, enabling elimination of the arbitrariness of the Company.
Please turn to the next slide. Here are our product and channel strategies. Products will be
centered on high-profitability production-type products. Channel-wise, the focus will be on
the P&C channel. Since the merger of the two life insurance companies in October 2011,
this sales strategy has been accelerated and has become established.
Comparing the 12 months before and after the merger, the weight of protection-type
products increased from 49% to 56%. As for the P&C insurance channel, its contribution
has increased from 59% to 61%. It has been increasing little by little. But steadily. We will
continue to promote this sales strategy.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please turn to page 21. Sales will continue to be centered on the highly profitable
protection-type products. In our approach to Japan's largest P&C customer base, which is
our strength, there are about 20 million people, it's said. This customer base will be
reinforced in order to expand sales. This will be key.
Compared to an annual average increased rate of 2.7% for overall ANP, the plan is to
grow protection-type products by 6.1%.
For channel expansion, against 2.7% growth for the overall channel, we expect the P&C
channel to grow by 4.3%. We will strengthen the alignment between the life insurance and
P&C businesses in order to achieve the plan. And for management resources, we would
like to shift the resources accordingly to the profitable businesses.
Next on page 23, we will talk about the overseas insurance business. Existing overseas
sites have already started the integration process. The integration started before the two
domestic P&C companies merged; hence, it is expected to be completed during fiscal
2013. The aim for net income in fiscal 2015 for the overall overseas business is JPY14
billion to JPY20 billion, which includes M&A contribution on top of existing operations.
Regarding -- on page 24, regarding overseas investments, I believe there are three
different stances amongst the three mega organizations. But we have specified and
prioritized regions which we will invest in so that, for one, we can avoid dispersion of
management resources. Or in other words, we won't be doing anything we don't
understand and we will be able to implement measures that will ensure success, that we
are capable of executing. Especially in the retail sector for emerging countries, the idea is
to set the automobile insurance business as the core and expand out the products we
have strength in. We have determined that we will be able to roll out measures to
succeed by leveraging our expertise from the Japanese market.
Page 7 of 22



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-26

FINAL

Though mergers and acquisitions, we will be following this policy for emerging countries.
For key markets, such as Brazil, Turkey, or Malaysia in which we are already about 10th in
the market, we aim to become a major player and establish a steady scale in order to
ensure steady earnings so that we can be fifth in the market or above. This will include
mergers and acquisitions.
Apart from the retail sector, as for the corporate sector, the basic policy is to generate
stable earnings. I believe this is what people are thinking on an industrywide basis by
distributing risk. We will look into M&A opportunities is the specialty field in western
countries. And this might not be directly related to the overseas business. But we would
like to also expand our B2B business, such as reinsurance.
On page 25, we talk about risk management. We learned lessons from the flooding in
Thailand; therefore, we did a review related to an aggregate risk management system for
the overseas market. We have started to rebuild the aggregate risk management system
for overseas natural disasters following the floods in Thailand and expansion of the
overseas insurance business. A reevaluation of all the regions and risks for which we have
exposures to, such as wind and flood-related disasters in the US and Europe, as well as
earthquakes in the US, have been addressed. And we have confirmed that there are no
large aggregate risks we are unaware about.

Bloomberg Transcript

Of course, our policy is to continue to see strength in the risk management system for
natural disasters. If a disaster happens in one country, it can impact other countries. So we
will look at this type of repercussion risk as we reinforce our operations.
Please turn to page 26 where we talk about the overseas reinsurance business that I
mentioned earlier. So the overseas reinsurance business is a very steady and efficient
market already. And we don't have to have sites on a local basis. But we are able to gain
earnings from the markets. And from the viewpoint of diversifying global risk, we will
continue to develop the overseas reinsurance business.
There are three prioritized categories. One is in Asia, which has a high growth potential.
We have had a local presence in Hong Kong for over 20 years generating results. We also
take general risk in western countries, as well as a certain level of exposure to overseas
natural disasters, which is volatile but highly profitable.
With regards to these three categories, we would like to continue rigorous risk
management as we strive to expand the business whilst generating profits.
Regarding quantitative products targets for net premiums written, we strive for JPY60
billion in fiscal 2015, as shown in the chart, which will account for more than 3% against
total net premium written. We would like to increase topline, as well as earnings.
Now I would like to talk about the capital management policy on page 28. The basic policy,
as shown in the title, for capital management has not changed since the NKSJ Group was
established. We will balance three imperatives, namely maintaining financial soundness,

Page 8 of 22



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-26

improving capital efficiency. And increasing shareholder returns while aiming to increase
corporate value, which is, in other words, increasing NAV.

FINAL

For maintaining financial solutions, we target a credit rating of AA whilst we continue to
reduce strategic holding shares. Regarding improving capital efficiency, we aim to be able
to achieve an ROE of 7% or more constantly. The capital buffer generated by reducing
strategic holding shares will be used for growth investments.
The basic policy for shareholder returns is unchanged. I will elaborate on this later. But
first, please turn to the next page, page 29. On this slide, we look at the management
plan from a capital and risk perspective. As of end of September this year, as you can see
in the center bar chart, the capital buffer stands at JPY310 billion. The solvency ratio,
capital divided by risk, is 121%. It says 0.31 -- it says buffer on the slide. That's what I am
talking about.
After executing the management plan, profits should accumulate to where the bar graph
on the far right shows. That would mean a larger capital buffer of JPY530 billion and a
solvency ratio of 135%.

Bloomberg Transcript

The chart on the right-hand side shows the sensitivities of the solvency ratio as of
September 30. You can see that sensitivities are still high towards the stock market. We
acknowledge that the reduction of strategic holding stocks continue to be an important
management agenda. We would like to continue to watch the market; however, we would
like to push forward the challenges we have set so that we can reduce the strategic
holding stocks.
Based on this, please turn to page 30. We have strived to reduce strategic holding stocks
by JPY300 billion over a three-year period from fiscal 2010 to 2012. We have broadly
reached agreement already with the issuers regarding this fiscal year's reduction target of
JPY127.1 billion; however, we will also consider the protection of shareholder assets on the
other hand and sale at the best timing as we see some signs of improvement in the stock
market. We are not going to sell down to stocks mechanically. But try to sell at the best
timing.
However, we don't believe that the reduction of strategic shareholdings is enough, even
after we achieve plan, when considering capital efficiency or future tightening of capital
restrictions, which is likely to happen. We are considering on having an even larger
reduction target in the next period.
Please turn to page 31. This is how we envision the asset portfolio over the medium term.
Strategic holding stocks now account for over 30%, which will be brought down to the
20% range after reduction. The reduced amount will be reallocated to yen-denominated
bonds, as well as investments in overseas insurance company M&A opportunities. Of
course, nominal yields would be lower when comparing shifting from domestic stocks to
yen-denominated assets; however, the capital buffer expansion coming from the
reduction of stocks will allow us to generate profits in growth areas and the reinsurance
business, leading to better capital efficiency on a Group-wide basis.
Page 9 of 22



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-26

FINAL

Please turn to page 32. This is a diagram showing how efficiency will improve through
appropriate allocation of capital. You can see the ROE 7% line. Some of the businesses
are above that and some are lower than that. So we would like to implement measures so
that the businesses can exceed the 7% mark.
Please turn to the next page. Here are some numbers from a shareholder's capital return
perspective. Net asset value per share at the end of this fiscal year is expected to reach
JPY4,600. Total NAV is expected to be around JPY1.9 trillion. If we achieve the numerical
targets as planned, NAV per share, including dividends, will increase by JPY1,200,
reaching about JPY5,800 at the end of fiscal 2015. The increase from JPY4,600 to
JPY5,800 will mean annual average growth of roughly 8%.
A breakout of the JPY1,200 increase is shown on the right by factor. The biggest
contribution will be from the domestic P&C business. The business will lead the way with
its profitability-focused strategy to steadily increase MCEV. They will drive the entire
business. And by the end of fiscal 2015 the life insurance business is expected to exceed
40% in contribution out of total NAV.

Bloomberg Transcript

Of course, we will make efforts on the P&C business as well. But in reality for the P&C
business, cost-reduction measures are being implemented and we need to improve the
profitability of the auto insurance business, which are our biggest themes. So it will take a
little bit of more time. Its contribution leading to fiscal 2015, hence, will not be that large. In
other words, when structural improvements are completed in future years, contribution to
NAV per share will take place in earnest.
Stock buyback contribution is anticipated at JPY190. This is based on the assumption that
dividends are kept at JPY60 and overall shareholder return levels, including buybacks, are
maintained at 2012 levels, which is this fiscal year.
Please turn to the next page. Regarding shareholder return, like I mentioned, we will
maintain our policy of paying several dividends. We aim to flexibly return profit to
shareholders. The medium-term target for the total payout ratio of 50% of adjusted
consolidated profit is unchanged. We have reduced our prospective dividend for fiscal
2012 from JPY80 per share to JPY60 per share; meanwhile, by buying back shares we
expect to maintain total return, which includes dividends and share buybacks.
Also as announced, for next fiscal year, interim dividends will be paid out. We show on this
slide an image of shareholder return beyond 2013. We will firmly maintain a policy of
paying stable dividends as we conduct buybacks, depending on capital conditions.
From the next page, here we show the numerical targets of the new management plan.
Whatever the case may be, we would like to -- we took time to put together this
management plan. So we would like to ensure that we achieve the numerical targets and
we hope to update you on a regular basis. And we would like to make efforts on a Groupwide basis to achieve this management plan.
This concludes my presentation. Thank you very much.
Page 10 of 22



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-26

Now we would like to take questions from the floor. Please state your name and affiliation
before asking the question.

Questions And Answers
FINAL

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

I am Muraki from Deutsche Securities. I have three questions. On page 35 the
overpay[ph] of the targets. For the expense ratio, excluding CALI, for fiscal 2011, which
was 35.4%, you expect that we improve to 32.6% under your plan. In this number, JPY56
billion reduction will come from the lower operating expenses, the net premiums written,
excluding CALI, is JPY1.7 trillion. So just this will give an improvement of three percentage
points.
And for the agency fee, what is your outlook for the agency commission?

Bloomberg Transcript

And in improving the profitability, I have another question. On page 13, if you look at the
diagram, the topline growth of the premium, the underwriting balance will be improved
due to that. That's about JPY80 billion from this chart. As for the details, the
retribution[ph] for the auto policies, which is already decided. And also expansion of the
overseas reinsurance business, I think, is included here. On these two points, what kind of
impact is this already included? For the revenue growth prospects.
And my second question is about the capital policy. On page 34, look at the diagram. The
shareholder return this year is JPY33 billion, including share buybacks. And in fiscal 2013,
2014, it goes down. And then from fiscal 2015 and beyond it goes up again. This is what I
see from the diagram. But on page 33, if you look at the footnote 3, you plan to the share
buyback every year so that the shareholder return will be comparable to what was
observed in fiscal 2012. What kind of assumption are you implying in these statements?
What is the actual shareholder return going to be?

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

I think there were three questions. First is about the agency commission. Second was
about the improvement of profitability out of the JPY80 billion, which is coming over the
overseas reinsurance business. And what portion is coming from the old direct revision
which is already a decided. What are the contributions of these two factors? And the third
question was about the shareholder return, the policy and actual numbers. Are there any
contradictions between the two?
Let me first answer the first question about the agency commission. The agency
commission is based on the rate. So if we grow the revenue, the absolute value of
commission will increase. Also in that sense, in terms of percentage points, it will not
change on our operating expenses. So right now are we considering measures so that the
commission fee will not go up in commensurate with the topline growth? So I can say that
it will not go up pro rata to the revenue growth. But how much cost savings or how much
increase we can contain is still under discussion.

Page 11 of 22



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-26

FINAL

In the second point about the overseas reinsurance business and the rate revision for the
auto policies, there still some uncertain factors. But for the auto policies, out of the JPY80
billion the contribution will be made from -- a contribution of JPY50 billion will be made
from the auto policies. And for the expansion of the overseas reinsurance business,
roughly JPY30 billion will be coming from that. So out of the JPY80 billion a large
proportions will be coming from these two businesses as contributions.
So these are the two factors which are already decided with high visibility. And on your last
question, about the shareholder return, I was not sure I accurately understood the
question. So can you repeat your question again?

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

On page 33, on the footnote, you mentioned about the share buyback which is
equivalent to JPY20 per share. And you said that you will continue to do this going
forward. Meaning that the shareholder return in total is going to be JPY33 billion in the
coming future. And if that is going to be the case, I guess you do not need to change the
mix of the shareholder return coming from dividend and share buyback.
And in fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2014, does this diagram indicate that there is no share
buyback? And for 2015 and beyond, you don't know the mix yet. But you intend to return
the shareholder -- the amount which will be comparable to the previous levels. So in that
sense, next fiscal year, are you incorporating share buybacks in the plan or not?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

This time we announced a policy to buy back shares. As such, when our share price is
undervalued compared to our intrinsic value we want to execute a share buyback. Also
maintaining the JPY60 is our medium-term target that we would like to uphold. And I can
say that we will maintain this level.
But the share buyback beyond 2013 is not guaranteed. Because it's subject to -- on the
price level of our share price. So we would like to execute the share buybacks nimbly. And
this does not guarantee that we will execute the share repurchase.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

For the first half, with regards to agency commission and amendments, you haven't
accounted for it in your plan. However, you're going to think about some measures. Is that
the way I should interpret your comment with regards to JPY50 billion from auto and the
profitability improvement? If you just implement the measures that has been decided, I
don't think it would be sufficient. Which means, are you going to amend the rates even
more? Have you accounted for this in your plan already?

A - Unidentified Speaker
With regards to agency commission, the rates are the existing ones that have been
applied. For P&C, the increase of a consumption tax has not been accounted for. If
consumption taxes are going to go up, rates will be amended once again. That's what I
Page 12 of 22



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-26

FINAL

surmise. In that case, agency commission will be a separate theme we will need to
consider.
And Mr. Sakurada talked about JPYD50 billion from auto contributing to the profitability
improvement. If I may follow up on his comment, starting from October this year, for most
of the companies and industry they have amended their driver rating systems. And based
on that, out of the JPY50 billion, about half of that will be achieved by fiscal 2015. That has
been accounted for. Thank you very much. Any other questions?

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

I'm from J.P. Morgan, my name is Tsujino. I have several questions related to numbers.
Page 12 is my first question. The one-time merger cost. It's shown how much it's going to
cost at the very end. But if there are any extraordinary losses, let me know. Second
question is, for this fiscal year, for underwriting profit beginning of the year plan. And
when you look at your full-year performance, when you look at the breakout of cost and
expenses, first of all on the Sompo Japan side, the claims for Sompo Japan is expected
to increase by JPY15 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

And I believe that this is accounting for the increase of insurance payment claims, the unit
insurance payment claims. How much have you accounted for this on the Nipponkoa side
from auto? Claims is not expected to go up that much higher. So I was wondering why
there is a difference of trend between the two companies?
Third question is related to life insurance. You talked about growing the life insurance
business over the medium term and new business for medical insurance has been
growing up substantially. But for this fiscal year, a year-on-year decline is expected to
happen. You talked about reallocating people. But I was wondering under what
mechanism you are going to grow the life insurance business. Can you talk about this in
detail, about how you're going to leverage your sales force?

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

With regards to extraordinary losses, for personnel and non-personnel cost, we are
thinking that part of it will be extraordinary losses. But for system cost we will make
decisions accordingly. So at this moment in time, we haven't made a decision of which
item it's going to be recognized under. So the one-time merger costs that is shown here
is not necessarily fully extraordinary losses.
Regarding your second question, regarding the expectation difference between Sompo
Japan and Nipponkoa for automobile insurance, in the first half, when you look at the
trend of both companies for auto insurance, the number of policies for Sompo Japan has
been on the rise. As for Nipponkoa, the number of enrollments have been going down.
Therefore the expectation for claims is different between the two companies. With
regards to unit insurance payment of claims, we have the car insurance as well as the
casualty insurance. But for cars that are subject to the eco-car system, there has been

Page 13 of 22



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-26

FINAL

more electrification happening. So the components are more complicated and complex.
And we have accounted for that in our expectations.
Also, for our life insurance business, our companies last year as of October 1, Sompo
Japan Himawari Life and Nipponkoa Life have merged together and 12 months have
passed already. So we are in year two since the merger. We used to have whole life types
of products being sold by Nipponkoa Life. However, in order to increase MCEV, which is
our policy, we have been carrying up evaluations internally and we are trying to sell more
of third sector medical insurance and protection-type insurance, because it's evaluations
are higher.
The channels that used to carry the conventional types insurance -- have been focusing
more on protection-type, higher profitability insurance and 12 months have passed
already since they've started to carry this kind of insurance. Therefore we are seeing
growth in their businesses. That is one thing I can mention.

Bloomberg Transcript

Also within the group, we have four business categories -- P&C, life insurance, overseas
and other financial services. For P&C we would like to rationalize and streamline the
business continuously and we have about 4800 people. And from 2012 to 2015, we would
like to continue to reduce the headcount. Within the group, we have growth areas
positioned such as life insurance and other businesses. And we would like to shift our
personnel to these businesses, from the numbers perspective as well as from a quality
perspective. And that is how we formulated this business plan.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

So how many people are you going to shift and what are they going to do? And for the
agencies are they going to be supporting the agencies, or are they going to be engaging
in consultant-type services?

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

For P&C and life insurance, the cross-sell ratio at this moment is about 6% to 7%. So more
than 90% are being sold individually. For the life insurance companies, 90% of revenue
comes from the agency channel. However, there are agencies that are active and there
are nonactive agencies for life insurance. Therefore, for the nonactive agencies, we would
like them to become active in selling life insurance. And that is how we are going to shift
our resources so that we can make these agencies active.
With regards to numbers, or how many from the P&C companies, there are people that
are secondary to the life-insurance organization; that would be about approximately 300
people at this moment. Regarding our direction in the future, we haven't made a final
decision yet. But on plan by 2015 fiscal year we would like to shift 100 more people. So
that we can turn the nonactive agencies into active agencies. That is what we would like to
focus on.

Q - Takanori Miyoshi

{BIO 16985826 <GO>}

Page 14 of 22



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-26

FINAL

My name is Miyoshi from Goldman Sachs. I'd like to ask about the net premiums written. In
your plan for fiscal 2015, it were JPY1.7 trillion, which is 5.3% growth. And with the
reduction of the operating expenses I think it will happen, a 1% contribution. But looking at
three years from now, I don't think you can easily grow the topline because you have to
rationalize the organization and also reduce your operating expenses.
Also in terms of business management it's going to be very difficult and tough. But
against that backdrop, how do you plan to increase your topline? Please tell me if you
have any specific measures in place.

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

There's no particular strategy. But what's evident is that we have not incorporated the
topline synergy in our numbers. In the past we have been promoting two brands and have
been working together to promote the business. But now we will be working under one
wheel and that was -- going to be make a huge difference.

Bloomberg Transcript

And in that sense, there is a synergy that we can anticipate. One is that in the retail
business we can exit back[ph] synergy, because in the respective markets there are areas
where one is strong and one is weaker. And obviously, for the financial institution channel,
for particular financial institution and Nipponkoa may have a long-standing relationship with
that organization. And that can be applied to Sompo Japan's business where we lack that
strength. And we can do vice versa.
We can also get greater capacity in the reinsurance market. So with these factors we
expect to see a good topline growth potential. So that's one potential that we are
foreseeing. And in addition to that, regarding the reduction of the operating expenses,
the personnel cost will be lowered and also nonpersonnel expenses, particularly IT cost,
will be lowered. And I think those are the key elements.
So we will closely monitor these two expenses to rigorously manage the cost. The overall
market is not likely to grow rapidly. So in order for us to increase our bottom line, we need
to implement measures that I just explained. And we have decided to pursue a merger
instead of two brands. Also we believe our vision as an organization is going to be
different from what we previously upheld.
We cannot say how many percentage points is coming from topline synergy and how
much is coming from the operating expense reduction at this point. I am not sure if I have
gently[ph] answered your question but if you have any follow-up question, I would be
happy to take that.

Q - Takanori Miyoshi

{BIO 16985826 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Q - Jun Shiota

{BIO 4127431 <GO>}

Page 15 of 22



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-26

FINAL

I am Shiota from Daiwa. I have two questions. With regards to the voluntary retirement
system, I believe you are currently asking for people to apply. And as you are going to cut
4800 people going forward, have you accounted for another round of cutting personnel?
My second question is with regards to P&C direct sales which you talked about on page
14, for this business -- profitability, I believe, is deteriorating. So I was wondering how you
view profitability of this business going forward? And you said growth that exceeds the
market. But when you talk about the market, are you talking about the direct automobile
insurance market or are you talking about the entire P&C market when you say
outperform? Those are my two questions.

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

With regards to the retirement program, we have just initiated the process. So it's hard to
talk about this. But I wouldn't say it's happening steadily. But you can say that things have
started to move in line with our expectations. There have not been any negative surprises.
So that's where we stand.

Bloomberg Transcript

Therefore, out of the 4800 people you asked a question about, are you going to have
another round of early retirement programs. If people don't apply at this moment, no, we
don't have plans for that to happen. With regards to profitability of pure premium, we do
expect it to go down. But for the direct business, I believe the direct business at a
company like NKSJ engages in not only focus on the profitability of this business in
particular. But looks at the entire P&C business to see how the direct automobile
insurance business contributes or not.
So with regards to corporate cost, agency commission has been taken out. But we need
to control the advertising expenses. So for automobile insurance overall, I believe this will
account for 60% of the Japanese market. So if losses continue, I don't believe this will
have a positive impact on the economy. So Sompo Japan, Nipponkoa, both need to make
efforts to improve efficiency and profitability.
However, rates also need to head towards an appropriate direction. So I believe, going
forward, our profit and losses will balance eventually. Then, the biggest line of our
business, which is automobile insurance, is something we need to go after. We can't have
our market share go down and that is why we believe the direct business is required. So
we would like to implement this business based on that stance.
And with regards to outperforming the market, when we are talking about the direct
market here on the slide, as you cherry pick, our direct automobile insurance business are
insurance products for adults. We target people in their 40s and 50s. At this moment we
have no intentions of changing our strategy. Any other questions?

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

My name is Otsuka from Nomura. I have two questions. The first one is about page seven
and page 9, the synergy and costs. The merger impact is JPY56 billion and the one-off

Page 16 of 22



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-26

cost is JPY120 billion. And if we do a simple calculation, the one-off cost is larger than the
merger impact.

FINAL

However, in your future plans beyond the current presentation, are you going to catching
up or making up for this one-off expense, or as you have said on page 8, on the topline
synergy, which is not incorporated in the figures, it will be enough to offset the bigger gap
of one-off expenses. Can you give me an idea of the cost and synergy benefit?
And the second question is about the overseas reinsurance business on page 25, 26. I
want to confirm the diagram on page 25. On the size of the pie, is the amount of the
aggregate risk, is that the right understanding? And is this the aggregate risk for you or
the aggregate risk for the market?
And based on that, when we look at page 26, are you going to assume reinsurance
based on the aggregate risk that you have indicated on page 25? So can you elaborate
the pages 25 and 26?

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Your first question, it's both. Meaning for the one-off cost, it will be incurred as a one-off
cost leading up to fiscal 2015, including 2014. And for synergy, we only look at single year
fiscal 2015. But we can anticipate more synergies to come in the following years. Also, we
should be able to collect on this cost within a little over two years.
And another question about the topline synergy and how we look at that potential, is that
if we can realize the topline synergy, well then our payback period will be shorter. But it is
not incorporated in this figure in our current presentation. So in this presentation, we are
doing simple compression of how much cost savings will help to compensate for the oneoff merger expenses. And regarding the aggregate risk, I will have Mr. Tsuji answer this.

A - Shinji Tsuji

{BIO 16148256 <GO>}

This is aggregate risk for our group. And a slice of the pie in a way indicates the rough
image of the aggregate risk in respective markets. We have overseas subsidiaries and
also overseas branches, which is the same as this aggregate risk for natural disasters. And
on page 26, this is just the overseas reinsurance business on page 26. But to date, as you
can see on this slide, we have the existing overseas reinsurance business.
And along with the market, where we have some presence and business relationship, we
aim to expand the business, leveraging on the existing clientele base and relationships.
So in that sense, we will look at the aggregate risk of the natural disasters to expand our
reinsurance business for the natural disaster, assuming that since these two slides are
closely related.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

The portion is very large. But it seems that you have a good management over this. So
does it mean you have more room to grow that reinsurance business?
Page 17 of 22



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-26

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

Yes. That is correct. Any other questions?

FINAL

Q - Hideyasu Ban

{BIO 15250840 <GO>}

I am Ban from Morgan Stanley. I have two questions. I'm sorry I'm repeating this question.
But for adjusted profits and for dividends, it was about JPY70 billion excluding life
insurance. Timed[ph] 50% is JPY35 billion. Then, dividends can revive back up to JPY80
from JPY60. Is that the image I can have? That's my first question.
Second question is related to your capital policies raised on page 29. As of March 2016,
the risk amount is not going to really change compared to the end of March 2011. But
expanding underwriting will lead to bigger risk. However, you will also reduce risk by
cutting the strategic holding shares. So with regards to cutting risk, apart from reducing
strategic shares, how are you going to reduce risks?
Are you thinking about a different way? And also compared to March 2011, the buffer was
JPY500 billion. That's the picture you have by the end of March 2016 or the solvency ratio
is 135%. But how should we look at this number?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

So with regards to adjusted profit, yes, on a calculated basis that's how it would turn out. If
we have JPY35 billion we would say, okay, we can automatically bring it back up to JPY80
from JPY60. But on a -- we will think about whether it's important to increase dividends or
show net asset value per share. But basically, our ultimate target is to grow corporate
value. That's what we believe is important.
But of course, shareholders will evaluate highly monetary rewards, if that's their point. We
would probably go through an appropriate level of increased dividends. But at this point in
time it's really hard to say, yes, we are going to revive back dividends or not. But we do
put importance on NAV.
From that end, we would like to put importance on the life insurance business growth, as
well as the profitability improvement of the P&C business, although it might take time.
Through the measures we have talked about today we would like to improve its
profitability. With regards to the risk amount as well as the buffer, the target we have, as
mentioned earlier, is more of ratings.
We would like to strive for AA. So that is why we have the JPY530 billion buffer, or the
135% solvency ratio. In order to reach those ratings, that comes first. So with regards to
the plus and minuses, the minus factors would be the sales of strategic holding shares.
Including reinsurance, we would like to review our portfolio. But we have accounted for
that regarding underwriting risk.

Q - Hideyasu Ban

{BIO 15250840 <GO>}

Thank you very much.
Page 18 of 22



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-26

Q - Koichi Niwa

{BIO 5032649 <GO>}

FINAL

My name is Niwa from SMBC Nikko. In improving your P&C business. And also capital
allocation for your different businesses, please elaborate. First, on improving the P&C
business on page 12, how should I read this diagram? You have the positive underwriting
balance impact and should I net the one-off cost, mature cost? It looks like until fiscal
2014, the business is going to be very tough.
But the one-off margin expense, are they going to be incurred in a big chunk in fiscal
2014, or does that also mean that they we will have to wait until fiscal 2015 for us to see
the improvement in the business? And also I'd like to ask a question about page 32.
Regarding the allocated capital on the right axis, how much capital are you allocating in
different businesses based on what kind of policy?
My interest is the P&C business probably will see an improvement in probability going
forward. But do you really need to allocate that much capital? That's the intention behind
my question.

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, on your first question, I think in a nutshell, on a P&L basis, you included the
extraordinary losses, meaning including the one-off merger cost. When do we expect to
see the improvement in profitability, including on the extraordinary losses? On page 12, as
you can see on the graph at the very bottom, you have the one-time merger cost listed.
As you pointed out, in fiscal 2014, it goes up quite substantially. This is mainly for servicing
the IT systems. So if this is gone on then, the merger costs will pick out so the profitability
should improve beyond that. So ultimately, for the bottom line, reflecting other cost to
improve, there is a big challenge we have to overcome in fiscal 2014. So the bottom line
should start to improve from fiscal 2015 and beyond.
And if I may reiterate, we know the reasons for the profit pressures. So I believe we can
monitor this profitability levels. In regarding the allocation of capital, ROE 7% is a
threshold, not just for P&C business but for all the businesses. And looking at the
profitability of the P&C business, over the short-term we cannot see a rosy future and we
cannot expect to see a big jump in the profitability.
And I think your question was, why do we need to allocate so much capital for that
business? And I get your message. Also we have to look at this very closely. The point
here is, I think about this a lot recently, that we have the P&C market industry in Japan,
which is JPY8 trillion. And in the past, just the auto business has been generating JPY100
billion of underwriting balance in the past. I don't think we will be able to go back to that
period.
As a system, we have the auto insurance, the fire insurance and also insurances to protect
against the natural disasters. We have reconfirmed particularly with the big earthquake in
March 2011, that is necessary. Also the industry and also NKSJ must make an internal effort
so that the system can be maintained.
Page 19 of 22



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-26

FINAL

Then, if that is the case, we should be able to generate a certain level of profitability. And
although we would sometime like if we were able to improve the profitability, then we
need to allocate this much capital to cover for the risk included. The period may not just
be 2 to three years.
A lot of the companies in the industry is making efforts to improve the profitability of the
auto insurance policies and this will take multiple years. But sometime in the future I am
definitely confident that we will see an improvement in the auto policy business. Any other
questions?

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

I'm from Tokai Tokyo, my name is Majima. My question is regarding page 26, your
reinsurance business. That's JPY60 billion of overseas assumed reinsurance net
premiums written, which is expected to double. And JPY20 billion was underwriting profit
that you were expecting. So this JPY20 billion is based on the assumption that you're not
going to achieve it. So obviously, if there is a natural disaster, you might be generating a
loss. Is that the way we should interpret this target?
Or, by making use of the latest technology available, have you done a rigorous analysis of
putting together this underwriting profit target of JPY20 billion?

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Actually, Mr. Majima, where did you get that JPY20 billion number?

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

Overseas reinsurance, JPY20 billion?

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

No. For the overseas business, JPY20 billion is the target. It's not just limited to the
overseas reinsurance business. Of course, it's sourced from overseas. But is actually
included under the domestic business. The underwriting profit is not shown here. But it's
several billions of yen. So it's not that high.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

All right. My next question is, where this business going to be developed? Is this going to
be operated from Tokyo, or is it going to be distributed over various bases overseas? If
that's the case, would you need to allocate capital? How is it going to be operated?

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

With regards to reinsurance, we will be doing it at our headquarter office. Regarding page
26, we would like to expand this business by JPY30 billion and this operation will be
covered by headquarters.

Page 20 of 22



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-26

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

FINAL

Q - Unidentified Participant
My name is Suzuki for Mitsubishi UFJ. On page 33, NAV of JPY5800. What is the
assumption of the number of shares issued, share price and interest rate on this
JPY5800? And also the share buyback that you plan, are you assuming canceling these
treasury stocks?
And the second question is regarding dividend, if the merger process is smoothly making
progress and you have also revised up the adjusted earnings outlook, also I feel that you
don't need to reduce the dividend per share. Why did you decide to reduce your dividend
payment per share?

A - Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

First, on the assumption I will give -- we will give the numbers from the Secretariat[ph].
The share price is, as of September end, JPY1528. And for the issued, it is as of
September end, of 450 million shares. And as for interest rate, roughly 1% for Japanese
interest rate.
And as for the cancellation of the treasury stocks, after buying back the shares, whether
we want to immediately cancel the shares or not, we have not made a final decision yet.
We may hold onto it for some time. And we have business plans, including various M&A
opportunities. Also the treasury shares may be used for those purposes. Also we will be
very nimble in making a decision for canceling the shares.
Thank you very much for your thoughts and questions. And obviously, this was a very
difficult decision for me to reduce the dividend from JPY80 to JPY60. On the net asset
value, this is not a reduction of return but in terms of dividend it is a reduction.
And with the earnings outlook, while we may not have had to reduce our dividend, one
thing that was on my mind was the valuation on our share price. The dividend payout and
looking at a dividend payout, our share was considered to be a high yield share. But as a
business manager, we didn't want to be too focused on the high dividend yield to appeal
to the stock market.
I do not think that it was a sustainable approach. And I thought that it was most important
for us to enhance the corporate value in the eyes of the shareholders. Also, in order to
enhance the corporate value, we came up with different measures. One of that was
MCEV, focusing on the life business, because it will have a long-term impact, though it
may not give us a quick jump tomorrow.
And when we think about the frontloaded investment, we wanted to have some capital
buffer so that we can make investment. And also, looking at the three main group -insurance groups, in order for us to be unique, having a high payout ratio was also
Page 21 of 22



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-26

important. But vis-a-vis the peers, we wanted to enhance the NAV to reach a comparable
level.

FINAL

And in order for us to pursue the future growth, we wanted to enhance the NAV. So at the
Board meeting we reached an agreement and, as a basic policy, we would like to pay
steady dividend and also maintain the current return policy to shareholders.
This is critical for us. So that's why I share it with you, some of the discussion that took
place internally. Thank you very much. Any other questions? As time has come, we would
like to conclude the investor relations meeting. Thank you very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 22 of 22

