Company N ame: Arch Capital Group L td
Company Ticker: ACGL US Equity
Date: 2013-09-10

Barclays Capital Global Financials Conference
Company Participants
FINAL

Mark Lyons , EVP, CFO & Treasurer

Other Participants
Jay Gelb, Analyst
Unidentified Participant, Analyst

Presentation
Jay Gelb

{BIO 21247396 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good afternoon, everyone. I'm Jay Gelb from Barclays. It's our great pleasure today to
have Mark Lyons from Arch Capital. Mark is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of Arch Capital Group. Arch is based in Bermuda and writes commercial insurance,
as well as reinsurance, on a worldwide basis with a focus on specialty lines. Arch has one
of the best long-term track records in the property and casualty insurance industry. And
with that, it's my pleasure to turn it over to Mark.

Mark Lyons

{BIO 6494178 <GO>}

Thank you, Jay.
I'm glad to see that I was able to pack the house here today. So anyway. Thanks very
much.
So I think we have 40 minutes today. I'm going to try to keep it to 25 minutes on the
innate presentation. I think there's some audience feedback aspects and then we'll go to
Q&A unless Jay wants to torture me with questions along the way, too.
What we're going to hit today is go over some -- I'll say the boring stuff. We'll go over
some financial information. Then we'll skew it a bit and we'll get into our book of business
and how it's shifted over time and how that's contributed to our performance and I think
our multiple differentiation. And then we'll get into the market, what are we seeing right
now and how do we view that.
So when we get to the Q&A, hopefully I have as much A as you have Q. So we'll see.
Oh, yes. I put this up here. This is the -- every presentation must have legalese in it that no
one reads and everyone ignores. Okay.

Page 1 of 14



Company N ame: Arch Capital Group L td
Company Ticker: ACGL US Equity
Date: 2013-09-10

FINAL

All right. Now, Arch strategy. Some of this stuff I view as pretty basic. The major bullet
points being we diversify our risk exposures. I call that Insurance 101. That's something I
think -- one-note tunes. It's not something that we believe in. Instead, we believe in a
diversified product set, a diversification between insurance and reinsurance and
diversification in a geographic perspective.
Underwriting is the whole key. People are the key and we focus on talent-intensive rather
than labor-intensive businesses. And we have a couple exceptions to that. You could say
surety is -- has some labor associated with it. But the market niches you're in still require
that kind of intellectual thinking.
We evaluate risk constantly on an individual level, as well as concentrations throughout the
portfolio from a risk management perspective.
Active cycle management we view as one of our hallmarks. I always make the analogy on
little league. If the coach would always say to the shortstop, charge the ball. Do not let
that ball bounce and take a bad bounce in front of you. You control the play, don't let the
play control you. And we think the same way when it comes to the marketplace. We can
be proactive in it. We change mix of business, we change our capital allocation and we
change our net positions and we do that continuously.

Bloomberg Transcript

We also have an Underwriting Committee of the Board, which is very intense, reconciles
various points of view and we rotate lines of business throughout it. But the Board is very,
very active in our risk management and our underwriting management.
Our conservative balance sheet is almost our conservative accounting policies, whether
it's revenue recognition, whether it's loss reserves, whether it's our investment portfolio,
whether it's recognition of things. From a reserve standpoint, we tend to recognize
adverse results sooner than we recognize favorable experiences.
We have low financial leverage, that we'll hit a little bit later. And strong liquidity. And on
the financial leverage I'll make a reference to our capital structure because, from the
outset, our Board was thinking of matching audio/video to have -- if you're going to have
an underwriting company, make sure the capital structure supports being successful in
that regard.
Our financial highlights quickly on the Second Quarter. We have a return on average equity
of almost 11% for the quarter. The combined ratio from a calendar quarter basis was
87.4%. On an accident quarter basis, excluding Cats, it was at 91.7%. That's our blend
between our insurance and our reinsurance facilities.
Book value due to interest rates movement on fixed-income instruments dropped 2.3% in
the quarter. But was still up from 7% from June of the prior year. We had cash flow from
operations of roughly $183 million and we had total GAAP capital of $5.6 billion at June
30th and we had market cap of roughly $7.1 billion.

Page 2 of 14



Company N ame: Arch Capital Group L td
Company Ticker: ACGL US Equity
Date: 2013-09-10

FINAL

This is the point I said I'd reference later on our structure and our leverage position. You
can see on a pure debt perspective it's only 7% of capital. And debt and hybrids are at
12%. So I think there's two important takeaways there. One, the initial structure. The Board
from the outset did not want to lever up, have a lot of debt to service across all years of
the underwriting cycle and possibly have marginal deals be rationalized to be good deals
in order to get cash flow in to service the debt. We never wanted to be in that position
and that's why we keep it so low, firstly.
Secondly is the ability to allow us to lever up when market conditions really dictate. We
don't need to dilute common shareholder. We could go to debt markets and have a fair
amount of flexibility. In fact, we look at it this way. We could probably lever up, without
having rating agency issues or bank covenant issues, probably another $1.25 billion. If it's
really justifiable for that, we'd push that premium-to-surplus ratio maybe 1.5-to-1 on that
marginal difference and we'd -- at the right time of the cycle to take a higher net. So all
told, we could probably write another $2 billion of gross on the additional debt capacity
that we could put out without diluting common.
On the liquidity side, it's just a couple quick bullet points. You can see we have a lot of
short-term investments. We have $13 billion investable assets. So you can see roughly
30% of that we view as highly liquid, which is about $4 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our business outlook. I love how we like -- we call this business outlook. But it's a trailing 12
month view.

Unidentified Participant
(Inaudible; microphone inaccessible.)

Mark Lyons

{BIO 6494178 <GO>}

Yes. So I'm apologizing to myself. Let's see what I can do to correct that in my verbal
comments here. Okay.
So the net premiums written is 60%/40%. That's the year ended June 30. It's skewed a
lot more towards the insurance group on a gross basis. It's closer to 70% insurance, 30%
reinsurance. The reinsurance group has a few retros here and there. But the insurance
group keeps about a 72% net as of now and that explains the differential gross and net.
Client location. You can see it's about two-thirds out of the US with Europe right behind it.
You could almost say that, between the US and Europe, it really controls the whole
ballgame. And our Canadian and Bermuda operations, Canada growing, Bermuda
stabilizing, are rounding out influences. But the markets and the kinds of clients that go
there are radically different between those two.
Line of business you can see is pretty well diversified. This is an ACGL view. So this
combines insurance and reinsurance. You'll see that property exposed and property cat is
about 29% all told. That's pretty radically different between the insurance and the
Page 3 of 14



Company N ame: Arch Capital Group L td
Company Ticker: ACGL US Equity
Date: 2013-09-10

FINAL

reinsurance sector. The reinsurance sector gets most of our PML and therefore has most
of the property exposure. The insurance group worldwide is under 20% of its total net
volume being property cat exposed.
Okay, capital management. This is just a generic slide to really reflect, that they allow me
to comment on, the drivers and effects of cycles. You can see at various points,
depending upon your view of returned or combined ratios, when you should put the
pedal to the metal and write a lot of business, when you should be very defensive in
nature. And where the points of inflection occur and you have some opportunities starting
to accrue.
Depending on where we are in the cycle, we allocate capital differently. We will have PML
allocations that change. Our mix of business and the drivers and the instructions we give
people on the customer-facing gross premium changes. And of course it affects our
reinsurance purchases to protect the insurance group, depending on where we are in the
cycle.

Bloomberg Transcript

And lastly. And I think just as importantly, our underwriters are very keenly aware of this
because they have an underwriting year base incentive compensation plan that truly aligns
the interest of the shareholder with the incentive compensation. Because if it's an
underwriting year, put your money where your mouth is, multiple calculation type plan.
This slide will start to migrate us into a little different kind of conversation. In totality, you
can see that the year-end 2012, if you look across at the top, we were roughly $3 billion of
net written premium. It was about $3.8 billion of gross written premium. The proportions,
with the green being the reinsurance group and the -- or lighter blue, I guess, being the
reinsurance group and darker blue being the insurance group, that really from about
2006 forward the insurance group was relatively flat; had some movement up in recent
years. Whereas, in totality, the reinsurance group you could see much more of an
opportunistic bend across.
I think what gets lost in the sauce sometimes is that there's been some pretty material
changes within the insurance group itself as to -- between these mixes of business. And
to illustrate that, we'll do a comparison of just 2010 through 2013, which characterizes our
worldwide insurance businesses into these buckets. I'll explain what they are in just a
moment. But you'll notice the shifts.
First, the buckets are low volatility, stable positions, opportunistic or defensive. And you
can see over that three-year period low volatility on a gross written premium basis went
from 34% of the worldwide book to 40%. Stable positions went from 18% to 22%.
Defensive went down from 26% to 20%.
What's in these businesses? Low volatility businesses are our A&H businesses, lenders
businesses, contract binding businesses, some of the programs we have; low limit, high
frequency oriented businesses that are much more predictable.

Page 4 of 14



Company N ame: Arch Capital Group L td
Company Ticker: ACGL US Equity
Date: 2013-09-10

FINAL

Stable position businesses we frame as those where we have a hook. So for example,
some risk managed businesses have been altered recently where they don't go out to
the market every year. They don't shop it. They're looking for a carrier to have a three,
four or five-year relationship with. Not a bound deal for three years. But have that
relationship over that period of time. Firstly. So the buying behavior is conducive.
Secondly, there's generally a lot of service required on those accounts, whether it's
ongoing up-front service, a policy issuance, because a lot of these deals are work comp,
GL and auto, composite, (about three-line) deals, as well as ongoing service for collateral
and other retrospective adjustments. And thirdly is the collateral itself. That's always a
hook when you're holding the client's collateral as to -- for longevity.
So those businesses, we categorize those are stable.
Defensive, I'll jump ahead to that, is generally businesses that we finally got our
underwriters to acknowledge are commodities. And that's generally where it is highcapacity businesses. So a lot of excess casualty capacity, hospital/professional liability -man I hit this thing a lot. I got to stop being Italian here. D&O businesses, especially on the
commercial side where you're putting out a big slug in capacity. That's what we view as
being defensive because it is -- has more commodity characteristics.

Bloomberg Transcript

And opportunistic is where the market allows us. And on the insurance group side, we
view some of the property businesses as opportunistic, mostly because there's a minority
of the P&L allocated there. Most of it's into the reinsurance group.
Okay. We've had this shift and we've talked about this on earnings calls and other times,
to be purposely towards lower volatility business, which means we are far less dependent
on complex, heavily (well-broked) Fortune 2000 business and into the -- much more of
the middle market businesses.
So when you make that -- you see that kind of shift, that's evident. But it's much more
exacerbated when you look at it on a net basis. On a net basis, for example on low
volatility, over the same time period it went from 45% to now 50% of the book. And the
stable position book in yellow is 21%. So 71% of our worldwide net premium, the
businesses representing that, we view as low volatility and something that we have a
good stable position and customer retention on.
The reason -- and if we flip back -- and you'll notice that low volatility in 2013 was 40% of
the business gross. But 50% of the business net, is because all low volatility business we
take massive nets on. And I mean 95% and north nets. So we believe in it. We think it
helps stabilize the return on capital. It certainly helps stabilize the volatility around that
average return on capital and we've been very successful at that.
Now, as is segmented in the next slide, I had mentioned that in the defensive category
one of the lines is D&O businesses or professional liability businesses. They're very
volatile. It requires generally a fair amount of capacity to put out. It has commodity

Page 5 of 14



Company N ame: Arch Capital Group L td
Company Ticker: ACGL US Equity
Date: 2013-09-10

FINAL

characteristics. And as a result, we tend to reinsure that more, especially in softened part
of the years of the cycle.
So why do we feel that way? Well let's just take a quick look at our friend from Schedule P,
which is the US industry result. And what this shows from the right is the 2012 year, which is
the greenest year and therefore the most immature year and more actuarial estimates
than known claims. To the far left, where it's 2003, all evaluated as of 12-31. It says 2013.
But since we're not there yet that's a typo. So it's 12-31 2012.
So the main part of this is to acknowledge that early on there's a tighter cluster when
companies don't know as much. Everybody tends to have the same initial expected loss
ratio. But as time goes by, claims emerge, they get reported, they get settled, the
difference starts to emerge and the spread between them.
Most people tend to think of what's the difference in the volatility between accident years
or between underwriting years, whereas there's a ton of volatility within between
companies. And that's the difference between taking an index fund approach versus
individual stock type approach. Underwriting does matter and this kind of scatter
demonstrates that.

Bloomberg Transcript

In 2012 you have roughly an 18 to 20 point spread, which is generally a lot more than you'd
find in some of the past years. It's a 75 loss ratio point spread from the 2003 year. That's
the more mature, more baked in and more definitive in its ultimate outcome.
Now, if I had put up Med/Mal here or I had put up occurrence-based line 17, other liability, it
would be actually more pronounced than what I'm showing here. But it's an example of
commodity businesses, high-capacity businesses that have this kind of variability within a
year between carriers. And it's one of the reasons we reinsure it more and change our
mix as the underwriting years go.
Moving over to this packed side. There's a lot happening here. Up top is really dealing
with -- it's peer comparisons of returns of tangible book value growth versus return on
equity. And the bottom is more of a stock view as opposed to a book value view.
The top left you'll see that we've compounded since inception 18.6% growth in book
value, which has outstripped this peer group as defined at the very bottom.
To the far right. And this will be a segue to some of our later slides, you'll see a few
things. One, you'll see first off that Arch is in blue and -- I'm sorry, Arch is in green. No.
That's right, Arch is in blue. And we generally have equaled or exceeded our peer
comparison in every year.
However, I think one of the points of differentiation is, if you look at 2005, 2008 and 2011,
we did not make major errors. We either had -- our peers either had negative returns or
anemic returns. And we had lower than we'd like but acceptable returns. So it means our
defensive risk management approach has worked. So when it's been a large cat year, we
Page 6 of 14



Company N ame: Arch Capital Group L td
Company Ticker: ACGL US Equity
Date: 2013-09-10

FINAL

were not hurt as badly as our peer group. So that kind of differential on book value. And
therefore on stock price, compounds itself over time. And we view the fact that we
outperformed in non-cat years. But I think more readily so in cat years.
When you go down to the bottom left and the five-year stock performance, you could
almost draw a line where you start to see the divergence of the multiple between Arch in
blue and our peer group in green, which is roughly in the 2009 area, which means the
market kind of looked back at our 2005 performance and our 2008 performance and
started to say I guess there is a risk management differential here.
Now, a lot of the stock market is evaluated as of 4-1. This was a BofA ML slide so we didn't
want to modify it. But we're trading at roughly the same multiple now that existed then.
Now, into market conditions. I think one of the reasons we had that kind of performance
that we just talked about is that it's how we look at the same set of facts. Every
management team is looking at the same set of facts and interpreting it in a given way.
We may be interpreting it differently than many.

Bloomberg Transcript

So what are we seeing right now? Well there's clearly -- there's ongoing improvement in
the insurance group. The margins are clearly improving there. It's been led by the US.
There's been improvements in other markets. European markets, however, Bermuda
markets remain challenging. But about 70% of the worldwide group volume is emanating
from the US where there's a stronger recovery.
I think one of the key segues, before we get lost in the sauce of this slide, is the segue
thought of looking at things differently on our financial performance from the prior slide to
what's going on now. So let me give you a few examples.
Specialty/casualty business and workers compensation business has been getting pretty
meaningful pricing increases; in fact, of having rate on rate increases. Yet in our view it's
still not enough to justify a capital allocation and a foot on the accelerator view into those
lines of businesses. Others are going to look at that differently and -- but we don't look at
relative changes. We look at absolute improvements implied by those relative changes.
Secondly as an example, more on the coverage side of the house, the Bermuda
insurance industry, which is complex risks, has started to have some morphing changes in
terms of conditions. I think one of the more notable ones is on the casualty sector, the
excess casualty in particular.
There's been a shift towards four or five Bermuda competitors accepting Duty to Defend
within the policy form contract. Duty to Defend means it's -- well, defense costs and it's
outside the limit; outside the limit of liability, therefore unbounded. And when you get
risks that go to Bermuda, they are complex organizations. They take reputational risk very
seriously.

Page 7 of 14



Company N ame: Arch Capital Group L td
Company Ticker: ACGL US Equity
Date: 2013-09-10

FINAL

And it's not just that there's Duty to Defend. It's written with a No Right to Settle clause.
So insurers who are buying into this can have the taxi meter go unbounded on defense
costs associated with it, which is something I think is slipping through the cracks. It's an
example of soft market, of changes. It's one of the reasons our Bermuda book is not
growing. And I think it's a point of differentiation on who's writing that and who's not.
I mentioned US sector rate movement. Relative to 2006 as a base year, we've had
movement in a lot of different areas. National accounts is a lot stronger. D&O business
actually strengthened through 2009 and then softened again. Specialty casualty business
from 2006 actually had dropped 30% from 2006. But has rebounded to be about 15% off
those numbers. So improving. But not yet back to 2006 levels.
Excess casualty business is similar. That was down around 25% to 30% and now we think
it's about 8% or 9% down relative to 2006 levels. We take a further differentiation there
and we think the lead excess business is still underpriced and higher up in the tower and
is approaching adequacy.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the reinsurance side, as most of you are aware, cat reinsurance pricing has softened.
Our view of the Second Quarter. And I think mostly on 6-1s and 7-1s that our effective rate
change was down around 10%.
In our view, the influx of non-traditional capacity, which we estimate to be about 15% of
the market, of the capacity coming through the market, is real. But has had a dampened
effect on -- with more supply coming in. I think just as notably is our view of where that
capacity has played in the past. That has been very high up in programs and that has now
shifted, not completely. But directionally towards being lower in the -- on the loss curve
and, therefore, the alternative capacity is now exposed; not just the severity. But also to
frequency events.
So if we had another 2004 where we had four storms or 2005 where we had three
storms, they are much more exposed because they're no longer upstairs. They're -- a
bunch of them were down low. And so I guess what we'll really see with the risk -assuming we have a couple of cat events, we'll see how the risk/reward equation works
out for them.
We -- I think we're one of the few. We actually dropped our cat volume in the Second
Quarter relative to the Second Quarter of last year. We did it because of some of the rate
-- effective rate changes. The absolute return is still acceptable. It did tail off. But some of
the layers that the alternative markets or the non-traditional markets went down south at
was not at pricing levels we found attractive and we let those go where we had been on
those. So that changed our mix as well.
We're seeing some -- well, let me go back to that last bullet point. Premium -- on selective
use of capacity. Now, our cat underwriters are defensive of this or aren't bummed out by
this. They kind of like this because this is really roll-up-the-sleeves time. This is, okay, let's
really compare across the board on these submissions. Where are we going to place the
capacity? What are the characteristics of the ceding company? What's been the historical
Page 8 of 14



Company N ame: Arch Capital Group L td
Company Ticker: ACGL US Equity
Date: 2013-09-10

history of it? Let's -- every layer has a different return characteristic and let's really see
where we're going to play. Let's narrow the lines where we need to. Let's offer capacity if
we can up top if the -- if it's dropping from our return standards down below.

FINAL

And so I think it's likely -- here's a forward-looking statement. I think it's likely that market
conditions stay the way it is now and you'll see further declines in our cat volume as well.
Marine business is seeing improvements. But it's pretty localized to the jumbos like IGA.
Other marine and offshore energy is still challenging at this point.
Our facultative operation, which is now roughly $130 million, $140 million a year, besides
doing very well, is -- it's their risk selection and their attachment point management that
keeps their margins the way they are. They've been enormously profitable for us. And
even though the market's getting tougher, we don't see that waning.
What -- because we're -- we play on both sides, on the insurance side and the
reinsurance side, where it's tougher on one area, it's a benefit for the other. So reinsurers
have been enormously disciplined, probably since we've been in existence. But I think
more steadfastly so as the market declined.

Bloomberg Transcript

We're starting to see cracks in that as an industry statement across the board. And even
though cat pricing, for example, has come down, I think mostly because of supply and
how supply operates, we -- nevertheless, that can be an advantage for the insurance
group.
The insurance group last year was getting -- depending on whether it was wholesale or
retail property, was getting anywhere from like 7% to 12%. This year it's in the 3% to 5%
range. Nothing to write home about from a gross perspective. However, when you
compound that with the improved trends and conditions and cheaper pricing associated
with outward reinsurance purchases, especially from a cat perspective, the net economics
of an insurer's property book really increases dramatically. So even though some of the
economics declined in the reinsurance group's cat, it is partially offset by the increase in
ROE on your insurance group side.
Casualty lines remain competitive. There's two things happening, really. You've got ceding
companies not really willing to share the profits that are now emerging because of -- I'll
say hardening, not hard, hardening market conditions. After all, insurers have been putting
the screws to them for about five or six years and not willing to just return it in kind.
And secondly, because of that leverage, that they might want to keep more net, there's
more of a squeeze on proportional reinsurance to get another point or point and half of
ceding commission above and beyond cost, which tactically drops down to the bottom
line.
So you've got some of those going on. I can tell you from an Arch perspective that there
are those challenges. But one thing you won't be -- see coming is what the insurance
Page 9 of 14



Company N ame: Arch Capital Group L td
Company Ticker: ACGL US Equity
Date: 2013-09-10

FINAL

group takes advantage of, which is when we buy -- when they buy cat protection, it's not
just on the property cat side. There is a lot of cat absorbency within the quota shares that
inure to the benefit of the cat program and they do a great job buying that reinsurance.
So I think the thing that you need to know is, shifting from the insurance side that
purchases that and looks to leverage that to the reinsurance side, the reinsurance side
does not provide that. They do not bend on occurrence covers on the handful that have it.
So the insurance group takes advantage of that. But the reinsurance group does not
provide it.
Catastrophe pricing. You can just see on the relativity there that roughly year-to-date '13,
which takes the whole year, you can see that the horizontal green line says that the pricing
levels are roughly equal to 2006 after KRW and roughly equal to 1996. So it could fall a
little bit more. In fact, if I was to superimpose 7-1s on top of that. And if it doesn't change,
you'll see that line drop a bit more.
I think one kind of a summary summation of this is -- I almost feel like a consultant
because all consultants have four quadrants. We can't live without four quadrants.

Bloomberg Transcript

So here you've got your return over this 10-year period and the standard deviation
associated with it. And you want to be in the top left on these and that's where we are. So
you can see that we have high returns and a more predictable because of the lesser
standard deviation associated with it. So that's a lot of our peer group. Of course, on a
go-forward basis the function of mix and how we react to market conditions.
So before having a summary to -- I guess, Jay, we're going to go to audience feedback
first? Okay.
So here's the nutshell summary I think you should take away with. We've been disciplined
across the cycle. We -- I think we have overt evidence of being disciplined. We've dropped
our net volume in light of the businesses that don't hit return standards. We've dropped
our gross volume. And even more in some cases, which is more difficult. That's like
walking on a balance beam for our frontline underwriters because they're the one dealing
with the market contacts and the brokerage force day in and day out and have to
navigate that.
We've maintained a conservative balance sheet in leverage, as well as -- well, mostly
leverage. Our risk-adjusted returns have been strong throughout our period. and we take
pride in saying we're an underwriting company. That's what this is about.
If you look at the broad averages versus the McKinsey Study that looks at quartiles and
quintiles of performance overtime, the insurance industry that takes on Corporate
America's risk, just viewing it from the American perspective, you'd think would have
higher risk-adjusted returns. But that's not the case. The returns are inferior to the S&P,
number one. And number two, it's more volatile. So not as good and less volatile. That's
the industry average.

Page 10 of 14



Company N ame: Arch Capital Group L td
Company Ticker: ACGL US Equity
Date: 2013-09-10

But when you start looking at top deciles and top quartile, the difference isn't fun and
games and leverage. The difference isn't asset performance. The difference is
underwriting and that will always be the case. And that's where we place ourselves. That's
where we always want to place ourselves and we hope the way that you view it.

FINAL

So thank you for your time.

Questions And Answers
Q - Jay Gelb

{BIO 21247396 <GO>}

Thank you, Mark. Let's turn it over to the audience response system.
Okay. The first question is, if you currently don't own shares of Arch or are underweight,
what would cause you to change your mind? The options are listed one through five. And
why don't we give folks around 10 seconds to log in and we'll check the results.
Okay, results are in. And the majority of respondents, 57% saying lower valuation. That's a
high-class problem, Mark.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 6494178 <GO>}

It is a high-class problem. It is a high-class problem. Well everybody has -- would have a
different view of it. We actually anticipate as the cycle -- actually, irrespective of market
conditions. So whether the cats occur, managing the cycle, if it's a continued marginal
change in the market or a violent change in the market, we think we're going to come out
ahead and actually increase that distance between us and our peers on the multiple.

Q - Jay Gelb

{BIO 21247396 <GO>}

When you think about -- or in Arch the Board thinks about share buybacks, Arch seems to
be in a small class of insurers that actually thinks about it in terms of payback period. Why
don't you talk a little bit about that in terms of how you're approaching it on a valuation
standpoint.

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 6494178 <GO>}

Sure, sure. As a general rule -- we have these rules of thumbs that we go. We're not
boxed in by them. But as a general way we like to get a payback of the premium we pay
associated with the share repurchases over a three-year period of time. So our forward
look, it's not the historical look back, it's the forward look of what our returns would be
over those periods. So in a perfect world, if we were trading at 133%, that would imply a
10% compounded annual underwriting year return on capital. And if it was -- if we were
trading below 133% it would be a buy signal.
So right now we're trading at basically 146%. I didn't look today. But I know yesterday at
146%, which implies about a 13.5% return, pushing 14%. There's a couple of reasons that I
think from a general share buyback point, Jay. One is we seldom buy back in the Third

Page 11 of 14



Company N ame: Arch Capital Group L td
Company Ticker: ACGL US Equity
Date: 2013-09-10

Quarter because of wind season, firstly. Secondly, because of our mortgage insurance
and some other things that we have that we're evaluating we may have need for some of
that capital.

FINAL

But from a valuation perspective, which is the heart of the question, at 146% and a 13.5%
to 14% return, we don't think we're actually having our business at that at this level and
therefore unlikely we'd have Fourth Quarter paybacks based upon the valuation due.

Q - Jay Gelb

{BIO 21247396 <GO>}

Okay. Next question, please. The next question for the audience. Arch Capital is among
the few insurers/reinsurers that does not pay a common share dividend. Should Arch
institute a dividend?
All right. And the response here, two-thirds saying yes, one-third saying Arch's dividend
strategy is not important. And none saying, no, Arch should not pay a dividend. Any
thoughts on that?

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 6494178 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. I assume that the 63% all have pension fund clients. But we -- as a general rule we
view -- I guess two things come to mind. We view a dividend as shareholder
management, not capital management, firstly. And secondly. But to a lesser extent, it's
similar on a cash drain perspective because it's there across the years of the underwriting
cycle. That's why our capital structure isn't loaded with debt. We don't like to have
recurring outflows. We'd rather reinvest it back in the business.

Q - Jay Gelb

{BIO 21247396 <GO>}

All right, great. Next question, please. Early in 2013 Arch announced plans to enter the US
mortgage insurance market. How do you view this strategy? So let's get the responses.
Okay, definitely skewed towards positive here, 60% either saying meaningfully or
somewhat positive. Only -- or 30% saying more geared towards negative.
Tell us a little bit about why you entered that business, Mark. And how you see it building
from that on a go-forward basis.

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 6494178 <GO>}

Sure. Well if I view this as a pass/fail class with 60% being positive, I'd just have to say you
look like a smart audience. I -- now you've confirmed it to me.
Well we thought it was really a perfect storm to get into it. You had few competitors. The
ones that were remaining were damaged. You had rate levels increasing dramatically. You
had massively tightened loan underwriting standards to which the MI attaches. The
banking sector, the only people that could get loans were the people that didn't need
them. So there were a lot of characteristics like that.

Page 12 of 14



Company N ame: Arch Capital Group L td
Company Ticker: ACGL US Equity
Date: 2013-09-10

FINAL

At the same time, you had the FHA wanting to depopulate their market share. They're
supposed to be the insurer of last resort, yet they had roughly an 85% market share. And
they've been depopulating it. But they're still in the 60s. So we don't know to the extent
that that population is going to happen. But it's stated that they will.
So it's clear that the government wants to depopulate mortgage risk and they'd going
that in a lot of different ways. There's also talk of requiring mortgage insurance at a lower
level in some cases, which could increase the size of the pie available to the MI industry.
Also, the FHA depopulation is shifting from public to private. So you have a -- not quite an
oligopoly. But a finite number of carriers going after it, only some of which have -- are new
or have newer capital.
Additionally, we -- getting approved. We got approved on the (inaudible) bankruptcy core.
We're in the middle with the GSEs now and we would be the highest rated credit in the
space when you would think that a counterparty -- in this line of business counterparty risk
should be something taken seriously.

Q - Jay Gelb

{BIO 21247396 <GO>}

Thank you. All right. So with that, let's open up to the audience if they have any questions.
Yes, first--.

Q - Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

Just to follow up there, what's the timeline to get approval and (inaudible)?

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 6494178 <GO>}

Yes. It hasn't slid much. We've been saying the end of the year and we still think it's 4Q,
early 1Q. We're going through the GSE approval process. Up until recently we were really
Arch and GSE as creditor, now it's GSE as regulator. So we're going through that approval
process with them now. Haven't seen anything that should make a major speed bump. It's
just summer and trying to get government employees back in is -- we've just got to wait
for that to--.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Is there a minimum capital commitment (inaudible)?

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 6494178 <GO>}

We're really waiting for the final capital requirements. They are not yet stated. We only
hear whispers. We've been down in the DC meeting with the GSEs and the FHFA on
multiple occasions and they're still in the process of it. All we're really concerned about is
that any final capital standard is uniformly applied and it's a level playing field. And that
more onerous -- we're not even a new entrant given that we have an existing operation
with CMG, which is about $100 million a year. And PMI being the bank channel, actually has
all the infrastructure built in. That's part of what we're purchasing.

Page 13 of 14



Company N ame: Arch Capital Group L td
Company Ticker: ACGL US Equity
Date: 2013-09-10

So we still feel like it's on schedule. It might be a couple months slippage. But nothing
material. Nothing that's going to impact 2013 year in a revenue sense.

Q - Unidentified Participant

FINAL

How much capital do you think (inaudible)?

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 6494178 <GO>}

Well we'll do it -- well, we're going to have $200 million on day one because of CMG.
Asset exchange in kind, basically. It's -- market conditions continue, we will feed it as
dictated by the FHA, as well as the FHFA. So all I can tell you, it's going to be
commensurate with what their demands are, as long as it's applied in a uniform way and
not have uneven playing field on legacies versus newer companies.

Q - Jay Gelb

{BIO 21247396 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I'm afraid we're out of time. We're going to have the breakout session in the Bryant Suite.
So with that, please join me in thanking Mark Lyons for his time today and Arch Capital.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 14 of 14

