Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-05-28

S2 2013 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Kengo Sakurada, President
Shinji Tsuji, Director
Unidentified Speaker, Unknown

Other Participants
Jun Shiota, Analyst
Masao Muraki, Analyst
Natsumu Tsujino, Analyst
Unidentified Participant, Analyst

Presentation
Kengo Sakurada

{BIO 15149542 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

As was introduced, my name is Sakurada, the President of NKSJ Holdings. As was already
presented before, we had the earnings report. So I'm not going into the details.
For those analysts they are saying that please keep the parts which you usually know. But
since I have this presentation here I'd like to talk about important points.
We have four important points to tell you. As was announced in November, the
management plan and the progress and also NKSJ Group has the main pillar Domestic
P&C business. So what kind of improved profitability in the Domestic P&C business is
something I'd like to talk about. And also the future growth strategy. And also your
interest, the capital management.
This is the initial year of the management plan. In one word, compared to the time of the
establishment of the plan, owing to all of the effort, we exceeded our expectation.
As was already announced, this was due to the improved profitability in the Automobile
Insurance business; that is the major contributing factor. Also, the change in the driver's
grading system in the industry. And also products and also the premium rate revision
seems to be taking effect gradually.
Of course, we shouldn't relax right now; we really have awareness about the importance
of the industry. So what we can do in the industry and what we can do as a system is
something we have to pursue continuously.

Page 1 of 15



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-05-28

And also, Life Insurance business; we have cross-selling opportunities and that's less than
6% or so. That's something we have to be aware of.

FINAL

Also, the media ask about overseas strategy usually. And we have our own initiatives. We
have growth strategy for overseas businesses as well. So I'd like to talk about that.
As for capital management, we have the basic policy we have to stick to. And right now
we have a very favorable situation in the financial market. So we shouldn't really enjoy that
too much. We have to discipline ourselves in our capital management policy.
Also, the risk/asset balance has not really improved because of the market situation. So
we have to really strive for further effort. The points here today is the business strategy,
that's number three; and also number four, balance sheet in the presentation, is
something, as a CEO, I'd like to focus on today.
So please turn to page three for the overall consolidated result. The top line is very
stable; P&C 4.5% and Life Insurance 5.8% increase, respectively.

Bloomberg Transcript

Also, I think all the industries are enjoying the stock market. And because of that, the
capital management is improving and also the Life Insurance business is stable, as
planned.
So JPY104.7 billion of ordinary profit and a JPY43.6 billion of net income contributed to our
earning. That is a V-shaped recovery from the deficit of the previous year. However, what
is important in the consolidated result of FY '12 is the improvement of Automobile
Insurance and the asset management.
I'd like to briefly touch upon the Automobile Insurance. Please turn to page 11. This is the
combined ratio of the voluntary Automobile Insurance business. Because of the revisions
of the premium rate and the increase of premium income, in FY '12 year on year we have
improved by 1.6%.
However, the combined ratio still exceeds 100%; that is a great challenge for us so we
need to have some initiatives to improve the situation. And we are addressing this part as
well.
As for the capital management, please turn to page 15. The investment profit totaled
JPY159.9 billion. Compared to last year of JPY61.7 billion, it was an increase of nearly
JPY100 billion. As you may know, it was mainly due to our policy of stock reduction and
also by disposing of securities. We benefited from the appreciation in the stock market.
And the gains on sales increased.
The main intention behind the stock reduction is to reduce the risk. But we also need to
look at the impact on the annual PL. So looking at the market conditions, we try to sell at a
good timing, getting that sales. I believe for the fiscal under review, we were able to sell
at a relatively favorable timing.
Page 2 of 15



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-05-28

Our realized losses at the end of the first half inflated. But the loss was mitigated thanks
to the recovery in the equity market.

FINAL

Now, let me go over the earnings outlook for fiscal 2013, on page 20. This is a summary
of the business forecast on a consolidated basis. For the P&C business we revised the
product and the rate for the mainstay Auto Insurance effective April this year. And so
thanks to that, the top line should be boosted.
Investment profit is projected based on the market conditions at the end of March this
year. So if the assumption deviates from reality, then the projection also may deviate.
We also position Life business as a profit generator. And the Life profit is going to be built
up. This fiscal year for the ordinary profit we're expecting JPY81 billion and JPY34 billion
for net income.
The profit will decline year on year. But that is mainly due to the smaller drawdown of the
capital reserve, an expectation of less gains on sales of securities. So I would like to
reiterate that the underwriting profit is definitely improving.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now let me talk about our management plan, on page 28. It seems long ago because of
Abenomics, the management environment and the economic environment has really
changed.
Last year, in November, we have announced the revised management plan. I'd like to just
review some points of the plan. In this plan, Sompo Japan and Nipponkoa and the
integration of those two as a trader, we are going to go into the sustainable growth cycle.
So we have four businesses here, these business segments. And we have clarified each
business strategy for those four. Going forward, especially NKSJ Holdings will be the core
to build up optimal business or portfolio to enhance corporate value on a net asset basis.
More than last year, we'd like to exert our initiative of the Holdings Company, page 29.
These are numerical targets and the summary of that. So please refer to this bar again. I'd
like to skip explanation.
Next, page 30. This is the adjusted consolidated profit that is the indicator for the
numerical targets according to the time. In FY '12 the Domestic P&C business was minus
JPY8.9 billion; that was in deficit.
But there was a drastic recovery. And because of that the adjusted consolidated profit
doubled from JPY54.4 billion, that was the forecast, to JPY111.6 billion to achieve more
than JPY100 billion.
And this fiscal year the Domestic P&C is going to be in the black. And the Domestic Life
Insurance, even though slightly, we can maintain the higher level. So the adjusted

Page 3 of 15



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-05-28

consolidated profit would be JPY113.5 billion. However, looking at FY '15, the adjusted
consolidated profit of JPY200 billion would be the key. And that would be due to the
drastic recovery of the Domestic P&C business.

FINAL

Domestic P&C recorded JPY71.3 billion of deficit in 2011, when the business was at the
bottom. But has continuously recovered in 2012 and '13, by such effort as revisions in
Automobile Insurance. The business is taking steady steps for the leap in 2015.
Also, 2015 is just a transit point for further growth for going concern. By making full use of
the new system, we believe that we can realize further efficiency and productivity. The
next page, please.
So the P&C companies will be merged; for the purpose of Sompo Japan Nipponkoa we
are being ready. As was announced, the official merger will be September next year.
However, from April this year we have already started the practical integration. That
means for the same function for the two companies, for example product development
and payment of benefit. And corporate planning, one executive officer would be in charge
of the same function.

Bloomberg Transcript

And also, for 68 departments we have unified general managers. So one general
manager for Nipponkoa and Sompo Japan. And by October this year, for sales and also
the benefit services function, totally 152 branch general managers will be unified.
Also, we have 811 sub-branches. And we are right now examining the possibility of unifying
all the sub-branch managers before the official merger.
So before the official merger, we are really integrating those two companies. This is really
precedented. One person should be in charge of decision-making; that is, one well
system. That would not lead to only cost reduction. But also it would have a great effect
for decision-making to enhance the speed. And we are really feeling the effect. The
management meeting is held jointly as well.
So everything will be ready until the merger. The merger day would be an opening day for
the new Sompo Japan Nipponkoa. Next page, please.
I'd like to talk about some numbers; merger synergy and one-time cost. We expect the
synergy cost of JPY56 billion in 2015; that's at the time of the merger. Because of the
labor costs and the real estate cost, the synergy for FY '12 and '13 would cause a little
effect. However, we would see a real synergy effect from FY '14.
We appropriated JPY24.8 billion as the one-time cost in FY '12, for early retirement and
reorganization of outlets. The trend would be the same for FY '13. But the cost is
expected to decline. However, we expect to start the operation of the new integrated
system in FY '14. That leads to JPY75 billion of the system consolidation cost. That's the
system integration cost in FY '14.

Page 4 of 15



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-05-28

FINAL

Merger and systems consolidation are essential to have competitiveness. But we do
realize the concern in the market on the impact on the single-year P&L. That is exactly why
we practically started the integration for the earlier synergy. And are making efforts to
improve Automobile Insurance businesses.
To control the performance for 2014, the one-time impact should be reduced; the cost
should be absorbed; the cost for systems integration and the service in should be
absorbed. That is our responsibility.
The next is about the improved profitability of Automobile Insurance, page 33. Because
of the past deterioration of the business, we decided to raise the premium rate step by
step. In October last year, we revised the revision of the rating system; and also again in
April this year we revised both products and premium rates. The effect of the revision
contributed to the loss ratio of FY 2012. And we expect to see further improvement in FY
'13.
Still, business is in the red, including the expense ratio. We will have to watch the effect of
the revision of rating system for further revisions of products and premium rates to
improve the balance.

Bloomberg Transcript

We also need to strengthen underwriting. And promote delivery of vehicles to prime
maintenance centers. And active use of recycled parts, to ensure appropriate insurance
payments per claim.
Page 34; this is the update on the improvement as of the end of FY '12. This is about
Domestic P&C business. This is the improvement, going forward, until FY '15. When we
established the plan, we pretended the progress of the balance after adjusting the onetime cost for merger and natural disasters.
At the time, the forecast for FY '12 was minus JPY30.9 billion. But the actual result was
plus JPY144.4 billion (sic; see slide 35 "JPY14.4 billion"). The difference is due to the
impact of the improvement of Automobile Insurance. And as a result, the forecast in last
November turned out to be moderately conservative.
So that is the plus point for the management plan. So our better-than-anticipated FY '12
performance has given us a head start toward our target. But the hurdle still remains high.
So we will continue working to revise products and premium rates.
Next page; about Himawari Life. In the contract in domestic life insurance market, NKSJ
Himawari Life is growing steadily, leveraging strength of having P&C distribution channels
of the Group.
The annualized premium income increased by 14% in the past three years; especially
medical insurance, with high profitability, has grown by 30% in the same period. Because
we have protection-type products, that is our focus, because of the profitability. And

Page 5 of 15



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-05-28

especially Medical Insurance business is very good, MCEV has grown dramatically to
achieve JPY674.8 billion in the end of FY '12.

FINAL

Next page, please. In our Life Insurance business, the strategy is based on embedded
value expansion. We use MCEV, a highly reliable and transparent standard.
Since the Life Insurance merger in October 2011, the penetration of product strategies
emphasizing EV. And promotion of P&C insurance channels to sell insurance products, are
really taking effect steadily. Accordingly, the increase of adjusted embedded value
became JPY107.8 billion, after including experience variance and assumption changes.
For FY '15, we'd like to continue to win new policies by maintaining good product portfolio,
centered on protection-type products, to aim at the adjusted EV increase of JPY100
billion to JPY110 billion. We think we can achieve the goal.
Next page please, about Life Insurance as well. This is about products and channel
strategies. Weight of protection-type products and P&C channels are important because
of the profitability. After the merger in October 2011, such sales strategies in Life
Insurance business have been stably implemented.

Bloomberg Transcript

The weight of protection-type products in the annualized premium income is increasing in
FY '12 to 48% from 47% in the previous fiscal year. The weight of the P&C channel
increases from 59% to 62%. It's going to increase farther -- and it's going to increase
more.
The next page is about channel strategies. We especially focus on training of sales
representatives who can sell protection-type products, since P&C and Life Insurance
business need different expertise in some areas. So stably, we would like to foster good
sales representatives. And that should enhance our strength in the Group.
As for overseas businesses, next page please. There is no change in the overseas
investment strategy. We are not going into unknown markets. And we would like to
expand our business in the areas where we already have presence. We have limited
resources. So we would like to avoid spending too much resources. So it's very important
for us not to go into unknown markets.
In each country, we have different uniqueness. So we have to look at the uniqueness to
differentiate ourselves from the other mega P&C companies. We would like to deftly
move in the overseas market. That is how we would like investors and experts to view us.
In Personal line, we have important areas such as Brazil, Turkey, Malaysia. And in those
countries we would like to be a major player to establish stable business. And in the other
countries, we would like to focus on the deregulation about the investment to focus on
partnership and joint ventures.

Page 6 of 15



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-05-28

FINAL

Also in Vietnam and Myanmar, of course, we would like to explore the opportunities.
Anyways for overseas investment strategy, we would like to be selective and also, we
would like to focus to be active. There is no change in the strategy.
Overseas business is not only for M&A, as in the next page. We have assumed
reinsurance business in the overseas countries. So this was also indicated in November
last year, we will have rigorous risk management and we would like to develop the
overseas reinsurance business. For fiscal 2012, the net premiums from the overseas
reinsurance business assumed was JPY34 billion. By 2015, we'd like to grow this to close
to JPY60 billion level.
Now let me move on to the balance sheet items on page 42, please. The basic capital
management policy remains intact since the Group was established. Maintaining financial
soundness, improving capital efficiency, increasing shareholder return are the three
elements with which we aim to strike a good balance to increase the net asset value and
the enterprise value.

Bloomberg Transcript

To simplify how we are going to strike the balance between the three. In quantified
specific targets, we want rating of AA; ROE of over 7%; and pay out stable dividend. And
total payout ratio of 50%.
Please turn to page 43. Let's look at adjusted consolidated net assets. At the end of
March this year, the total amount was JPY2.3 trillion or JPY5,400 per share -- or over
JPY5,400 per share. It is a substantial increase on a year-on-year basis. And as you may
be aware, the reasons behind it, for one, was the increase in the unrealized profit on
stock holdings, which was revised to JPY250 billion. And also little less than JPY60 billion
of embedded value growth of the Life business.
On page 44, you will see the solvency margin ratios under the Japanese standard for the
three core entities. All are exceeding the regulatory requirement of 200%.
On page 45, you can see the status of capital and risk, based on the internal standard
economic value. In measuring the risk, AA equivalent confidence level of 99.95% of value
at risk is applied. The result is indicated by the graph showing the buffer between the
capital and risk of JPY700 billion. And the solvency margin by dividing the capital by risk is
146%.
The year-on-year capital increase was mainly driven by the increase in unrealized gains on
stock holdings. At the same time, by proactively winding down the business-related
stocks, we were able to avert an increase in risk. However, looking at the capital base, it is
still vulnerable to the fluctuation in the equity market. Taking the opportunity when the
market is robust, we would like to proactively reduce the risk by selling down the stocks to
build a firm capital base.
Next page is the investment portfolio. Let me start with the Domestic P&C business. The
general account is managed by diversifying the investment. And the savings-type account
adopts the ALM. We will continue to have a conservative management policy.
Page 7 of 15



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-05-28

General account, which represents 70% of the total investment, still has an exposure of
over 30% to the domestic equities. So we would like to facilitate a reduction of this
exposure. The breakdown of the foreign securities is shown by the pie chart at the
bottom right. We give considerations for balance of asset class and currency.

FINAL

The duration gap of asset and liabilities in the savings-type account is roughly a year. So
the risk is small. And the risk in rate fluctuation is significantly limited.
The next page is on the Life Insurance business. As you can see, it's mainly invested into
yen fixed income assets. The duration gap is also small and overall, it is a conservative
portfolio. As I have mentioned, we emphasized embedded value. So the main portion of
the product mix for Himawari Life is the protection-type policies. So for investment policy,
they will maintain a conservative position, without becoming too aggressive.
Next page please; this may be a concern to you as it is our exposure to the GIIPS
countries. Due to the stronger yen, the outstanding balance increased slightly. But it only
accounts for a little over 1% of the net assets. And it is well within the manageable level.

Bloomberg Transcript

The next page is about the financial guarantee exposure. In fiscal '07 and '08, the big
losses were caused by ABS-CDO guarantees. We have been gradually winding down this
exposure. And as of March 2013, all the financial guarantee we assumed was settled and
the ABS-CDO exposure came down to zero.
Now please turn to the next page. And this is the progress on the stock reduction. As you
can see, in fiscal 2012, from December when the stock market started to rise, throughout
the Fourth Quarter, we disposed our holdings proactively. The annual stock reduction
exceeded the plan of JPY127.1 billion by far and raised JPY197 billion. In the previous
business plan in which fiscal '12 was the final year, initially the plan called for disposal of
JPY300 billion. But the actual result was much higher having sold JPY370 billion.
The current four-year plan spans from fiscals 2012 to 2015. In the first year, in fiscal '12, as I
mentioned, we were able to sell a little less than JPY198 billion. Also this fiscal year, we'll
be watching the market and continue to sell down the stockholdings. But by closely
monitoring the market conditions. But under the current circumstances, we're hoping that
we can cut down the holdings by close to what we achieved in fiscal '12.
And last. But not least, I'd like to talk about the shareholder return. As we have already
unveiled, the annual dividend was lowered to JPY60. This was a reduction of JPY20. But
we would also conduct share buyback equivalent to a per-share dividend of JPY20. So
that the total payout will not change. For fiscal '13 and beyond, we'd like to keep at least
JPY60 per share. And we'd like to maintain a stable dividend payment.
And looking at the capital base, as well as taking a balance between investment for
growth and capital efficiency, we'll consider the magnitude and measures for shareholder
return. For fiscal 2013, we plan to pay an interim dividend of JPY30 per share, as we have
announced.

Page 8 of 15



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-05-28

This will wrap up my presentation. Thank you very much for your attention.

Questions And Answers

FINAL

A - Unidentified Speaker
Now we would like to receive questions. If you wish to ask questions could you please
give us your name and the company name, please? Please raise your hand.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

Muraki, Deutsche Securities. I have two questions. First of all, page 31 and page 32, this is
about the effects of integration, the practical integration. In the past, as I watched the
mergers of P&C businesses, after the merger the share declines. That's the tendency this
time. It's really unprecedented. You have active practical integration. So at which timing
the share would be adjusted? And when do you think it's going to be returning to the
appropriate level?
And page 34, you were talking about more than assumed improvement? I'm not really
sure if you talked to Prime Minister Abe about the consumption tax increase. If the Prime
Minister would decide on the increase in consumption tax from next year and onwards,
you have to incorporate that. How much impact would you assume? And to offset that,
what kind of initiatives can you make? Those two are the points.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Unidentified Speaker
About the share adjustment, well, the merger was not really all of a sudden. Already
March 23, we decided on the merger. And even before that, under the Holdings
Company, we were operating together. So I'm not really saying the impact would be zero.
But looking at the positive and negative side, I don't think there are so much impacts by
merging. I'm not really sure unless we operate. But at least in the corporate market from
the date of the merger, we are going to start the business; that's not the situation.
I think it's the same for the other companies to reduce -- a reduction of the strategic
holding stocks would have more impact. But I don't think the impact will be larger. It's very
negligible. I'd like to ask Mr. Tsuji about this, the consumption tax.

A - Shinji Tsuji

{BIO 16148256 <GO>}

As for consumption tax, according to the current midterm plan, it's 2015. And as for the
impact, we assume about JPY35 billion. In terms of P&C business, we have benefits to be
paid, for example, for repair of automobiles and also houses. And in terms of expenses,
we have fees and commissions for agents. That will be impacted. As for Life Insurance, it's
only commissions and fees for agencies. So for Life Insurance, it's limited. But as a whole
Group it's JPY35 billion.
When we look at the past increase of consumption tax. And how P&C business has
stressed, when we look at that it's the same, the balance of the Insurance business. And
also how we set the premium rate is important. Increasing consumption tax means the
Page 9 of 15



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-05-28

FINAL

citizens should bear the cost so we have to pass that on to our premium rate. As you can
see, the Automobile Insurance is our mainstay. And step by step we are increasing the
premium rate. And also we have the revision of the rating system as well.
So the balance of the Insurance business itself is improving because of the effort. So that
is the impact we estimate. But actually, in the practical world, of course we have to make
an utmost effort as a company to offset the situation. If we cannot absorb the impact of
the consumption tax, of course we have to pass it on to the final product. Probably the
interim earnings report would show the impact of the increase in consumption tax. And
after that, we'd like to examine what we have to do.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

JPY35 billion, that means 3 points' impact on the next fiscal year, plus 3% of the tax. And
3% increase?

A - Shinji Tsuji

{BIO 16148256 <GO>}

We are thinking about FY '15 for the estimate. So next April, 3%. And October next year,
2%. So actually about 4%, yes. In page 65 you have the rate increase and that is taking an
effect. Even so, the combined ratio of the automobile industry, as in page 66, it's more
than 100%. So even though we don't have the increase of consumption tax, you might
think about the increase of the premium rate. And by increasing the consumption tax, of
course, you have to use the premium rate to adjust the situation, yes.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Tsujino, JPMorgan. Regarding dividend, your current dividend is JPY60 per share. And for
the JPY20 equivalent you're doing share buyback. And last fiscal year when you made that
change, well, the market conditions and the industry conditions were something that you
would give due consideration to possibly increase the dividend again. But at this point, do
you have any changes in the dividend policy? Or, for the time being, are you more
focused on share buyback, because it's undervalued? What is your thinking behind
dividend policy? That's my first question.
And my second question is on the Life business. The new policy embedded value grew. In
the third sector insurance product, I think it was very strong in the past. So it kind of
slacked off. But overall the embedded value for the other sector policies increased. The
margin is higher on the third sector insurance. When you look at the product mix. And the
growth of the embedded value, what is your thoughts? Can you elaborate more on how
you are growing the embedded value, vis-a-vis the product mix?
And also, the Life business has been strong for the last two or three years. But in order to
make this a sustainable momentum, what kind of measures are you planning to
implement?
Page 10 of 15



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-05-28

FINAL

And my third question is about the consumption tax again; sorry to be persistent. I can
see a negative impact from the consumption tax. And against that backdrop, many
people talk about increasing their premium rate for the other lines. But you may be
thinking about the clients and making some conservative comments. But just this industry I
can foresee a very negative impact in the consumption tax hike.
So the companies in the industry is aligned; I think the industry-wide efforts must be made
as quickly as possible. But can you elaborate on your measures against the consumption
tax hike?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes, regarding the shareholder return, our policy for shareholder return is already
unveiled. So after deducting the adjusted EV of the Life business from the adjusted
consolidated profit, our medium-term goal is to pay out 50% in total back to the
shareholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

Since the establishment of NKSJ Holdings, for the first and second year we were making
losses. But we were still paying JPY80 per share. And for fiscal 2012, we changed the
policy of our shareholder return. And this is because, as we communicated with investors,
we came to understand that as you mentioned, if our stocks are undervalued we should
do more share buybacks. So we incorporated that as a part of our shareholder return
policy.
Also, in the past, we had always paid out JPY80 per share. But we reduced that to JPY60
and the difference of JPY20 was used to do a share buyback.
And at this point, the internal discussion of the shareholder return, at the BOD for
example, for fiscal 2012, we have made a decision to pay out JPY60 per share. And for
the difference of JPY20 we will conduct a share buyback as quickly as possible.
For fiscal 2013, regarding our dividend projection, as Mr. Sakurada mentioned, we will pay
out an interim dividend, JPY30. And the year-end dividend of JPY30. And as for share
buyback program, we have not made a decision yet.
When we changed to this shareholder return policy we made a commitment to pay out a
steady dividend of JPY60. And for the upside we will continue to do a thorough discussion
to see what is the best at the time. In June, we will have the annual shareholders'
meeting. And the BOD members have gone through the tenure of three years. So there
will be a reshuffle of the BOD members.
So for now, for example, when we announced our first half results. And we look at the
profit and the capital base at the time. And also the full-year projection. And when we
have a better visibility of how much is going to be the loss for the natural disasters, then
at that point we will reconsider the additional shareholder return above the JPY30 interim
dividend and JPY30 full-year dividend for fiscal 2013.

Page 11 of 15



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-05-28

FINAL

So we will be looking at the performance of the business and the capital base to make
the decision. And also potential investment opportunities at the time. And also, at this
time, we are going to do a share buyback for the first time after establishing the NKSJ
Holdings. So after the share repurchase, we will look at how the market and the market
participants will respond to that. And after looking at the outcome, we will make decisions
regarding the shareholder return for fiscal 2013.
And for fiscal 2014, the net premiums written for the Domestic business is going to be the
largest after the integration of the companies. So we will need the support of our
shareholders. So we want to be forward-looking in making the proposal for our dividend
policy in fiscal 2014.
And regarding the breakdown of the Life business, I think that can be answered by the
Secretariat. But on a nominal basis, last year and this year -- sorry, two years ago and last
year it grew by roughly JPY100 billion. But with the interest rate decline, which is not
reflected in the EV calculation. Also the genuine EV growth was a little less than JPY60
billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

For the protection-type, which is our main product for Himawari Life, that's how we would
like to grow the Life business, simply put, to make this sustainable; I think your question
was, what kind of measures are we taking.
When we look at the facts, the cross-sell ratio -- I don't know how convincing you feel this
is. But the cross-selling ratio is a little over 6%. And some may doubt that. One fact that
we know is that after the merger, after the integration of the two companies -- the two
Life Insurance companies have been integrated, we have the ex-Nipponkoa agents as
one channel. And the agents of the ex-Sompo Japan as another channel. But after the
merger, the growth of the Nipponkoa channel has been quite substantial. So in reality, for
the next two/three years we really want to solidify this channel strategy.
And looking forward, for the Life business when we think about the outlook for the Life
market, we can rely on the agent to offer the expensive product, because for those
products face-to-face encounter is important. But to offer different types of product we
also believe that direct sales is effective. We have DIY Life in our Group. And some of the
professionals, like the international planners love this product offering, because they are
unique.
So through the DIY Life, which is dedicated to direct sales, we want to grow the business.
And also Himawari Life, which leverages on the agent distribution channel, I think we can
strike a good synergy. We don't know if we want to integrate these two entities. But I think
these can be leveraged as different types of channels.
And as for your last question about the consumption tax, I get your point. But at this point
in the industry, regarding the consumption tax hike, there is no industry-wide effort to
discuss about this issue. And as for what to do going forward, because this is an insurance
policy, underwriting margin will be the principle. So this April we just raised the premium

Page 12 of 15



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-05-28

rate. So we need to take some time to give the considerations. So that's the only answer I
can offer you at this point.

FINAL

Q - Jun Shiota

{BIO 4127431 <GO>}

Shiota, Daiwa Securities. I have two questions. The first one is about reduction of stocks.
According to page 50, on the right side, the upper part, I'm not really sure how it goes on.
The upper part is real thing. And you have actively sold in the previous year. And in FY '13,
probably the tendency is the same. But the stock ratio about 34% of the general account
in FY '15 is going to decline farther, I believe. So if you have any target level, could you
please share that with us?
And in page 45, you have the internal solvency ratio. And the risk level by reducing the
stock. How much impact would you expect for FY '15? Could you please explain that, too?
My second question is about the overseas businesses. In this fiscal year, your plan is to
reduce profit and also, you are in the process for stable profitability. The President said
that deft operation is something you are pursuing; could you please elaborate on that?
Your target is a little bit less than JPY20 billion of the adjusted profit. Can you organically
achieve that, or do you need M&As, or for assumed business, would it have any impact on
that? Those two are my questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Unidentified Speaker
So first of all, about the stock. In the presentation material, we have page 43 to explain
that. That's the net asset after adjustment, consolidated net asset, as of the end of last
year fiscal year. And also the end of March 2013.
Reduction of stock equities, for example, how much % of the portfolio, or how much % of
the net assets? Well I think we should have the concept for that.
And please look at this page, P&C business. When you take only P&C for net assets,
JPY1.6 trillion, JPY1.5 trillion or so, that's the number. And as of the end of March, our
holding of the relationship stock was about JPY1.5 trillion. And as of the end of last fiscal
year, it was about JPY1.4 trillion.
We have sold the equities. But because of the market situation, even though we sold
about JPY200 billion as of the end of March, the market cap based actual value is
increasing, because of the market situation.
When we proceed with this selling, because this is a relationship stock, strategically
holding stock, we have relationship with those companies. So when we sell those
companies' stocks to reduce the number, we have negotiations. But the negotiations are
very tough, because we want to avoid the situation where we have some negative impact
on the policy business, Insurance business.

Page 13 of 15



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-05-28

FINAL

JPY1.6 trillion only for P&C, that's a net asset. I suppose about 70% is the target. Well I
think that's necessary. As we proceed with the selling for each fiscal year, to some extent,
we would like to establish a target for selling. And also, we'd like to have numerical
targets from 2010, 2011, 2012. JPY300 billion was the target for those three years. But we
have done already JPY370 billion of reduction in the midterm plan, for FY '13, '14, '15.
So for these three years, the reduction level, since we have done JPY370 billion in the first
half of the plan, we think it was drastic. But we still have some higher level. For the next
three years, we wouldn't probably go for JPY370 billion or JPY380 billion or so. But to the
closer level, we might have to sell more stocks.
For FY '13, for the single year, for FY '12 JPY197.8 billion was the reduction. And as I
mentioned before, for the remaining three years, we wouldn't go for the same level as
FY '12. But we might have to be closer to that. Otherwise, we cannot really catch up the
reduction of the relationship stock. And also the strategically holding stock. That's our
thinking.

Bloomberg Transcript

As for overseas business, before, I was talking about the comparison with the other mega
P&C companies. And we would like to deftly operate our business. We are in the process
for that; I think you have pointed out about that. And what you are saying is true. The main
cause is that we have a reduction of the top line. And also bottom line. The common
theme here is, compared to those days, we never thought about this kind of interest rate
reduction.
And another thing, especially about Brazil, we are, right now, estimating the cost for
merger. And also the costs for systems consolidation. And we might have to bear the cost
beforehand. But we are not really saying that we were not able to control every situation,
compared to what we estimated at first.
We are really trying to strengthen the overseas businesses in each market; overall, Brazil,
Turkey, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia, India. What we have to do is very clear. And we have
already taken an action. So this situation would not continue. And after making estimates
and analyzing, of course, we would like to take another opportunity to explain the
situation.
And about the stocks; by selling strategically holding stocks, how much risk do we have
associated. That was the question. To reduce strategically holding stocks, about half of
the amount we can reduce the risk. For example, if we sell JPY200 billion, JPY100 billion
would be the risk associated. And risk we can reduce.

Q - Jun Shiota

{BIO 4127431 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Q - Unidentified Participant
I just have one question.

Page 14 of 15



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2013-05-28

A - Unidentified Speaker

FINAL

Sorry, I want to make additional comment. Regarding the year-on-year change, some of
the media reporters would ask me for the difference in the absolute value of the
overseas business.
Last fiscal year, at the end, the actual difference, for example, (inaudible) versus Tokio
Marine at about JPY50 billion difference at the bottom line. But I guess Tokio Marine's
overseas business was successful, that Philadelphia Kiln generated over JPY40 billion in
contribution.
Also, Mr. Hirano said that it's a difference of how the acquired company was profitable.
Also we need to think about how we can be successful in M&A strategies. And I may be
repeating myself. But we are not pursuing size or absolute value in yen terms. We want to
go into a market where we are familiar with. And we want generate return after
amortization of goodwill.
So we are not looking at the profit value; we're more looking at the profitability. So playing
smart means we're focusing on the profitability. And I will refrain, at this point, from
identifying a particular country or market. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Any other questions from the floor? So now, I would like to close the Q&A session. Thank
you very much for your attention and participation.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 15 of 15

