Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2013-02-22

S2 2012 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Antoine Lissowski, Deputy CEO

Other Participants
Federico Salerno, Analyst
Ralph Hebgen, Analyst
William Eldican, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Good day. Welcome to the Full Year 2012 Results of CNP Assurances Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference
over to Mr. Antoine Goskey, Chief Financial Oﬃcer. Please go ahead, sir.

Bloomberg Transcript

Antoine Lissowski

{BIO 4384399 <GO>}

Hello. Good afternoon, everybody. I'm glad to present you the 2012 results for all of the
Company. If you wish, we can start with page three of the slide show, showing the robust
performance we had in 2012. We oﬀer diﬀerent ﬁgures explaining this performance. Note
that new money in 2012 was about EUR27.4 billion, which is slightly below last year's by
11.2%. I will have the opportunity to enter into the details of this relatively poor
performance.
Conversely, the revenues were up by 1.2 billion -- 1.2% at EUR3.1 billion.
Administrative expenses are ﬂat, or almost ﬂat, at EUR889 million, which results in an EBIT
up by 1.5%, up EUR2.2 billion.
The net proﬁt of the company is EUR951 million, up by 9% compared to last year's. And
the MCEV per share turns out EUR21.6 million, which is 17.5% of growth last year's similar
measure.
The return on equity for this year is 8.86%, at the same level as last year's. And the
coverage ratio in solvency term of the Company is just below 300%, 298% to be
compared with last year's 131%.

Page 1 of 13



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2013-02-22

FINAL

I will enter now in the diﬀerence explanations regarding this performance. First, our
activity in France. You know that it is split between two main lines, the Savings and
Pensions, which are governed by technical reserves. And the average technical reserves
were up by 2.4% last year, in spite of the fact that the new money was down in an
environment shaped by very soft growth and stiﬀ competition from bank savings
accounts.
And the new money from Savings and Pensions business was nevertheless positive
EUR145 million, which is in contrast with the negative ﬁgure for the market as a whole,
which turns up EUR3.4 billion for last year.
The second major business line is Personal Risk and Protection, which represents more
traditional, I would say, insurance business. And which the revenue last year was up by
3.2%, EUR4,489 million, which is remarkable performance in such a compare [ph].

Bloomberg Transcript

If we come now to the speciﬁc net insurance revenue in France, you can see there that in
2012, out of all the net insurance revenue was at EUR1.288 billion, which is slightly below
last year's ﬁgure. It is in fact a decline by 6.5%. This decline is mainly due to non-recurring
technical factors, notably the lowering of the regulatory valuation rates for group personal
risk and pension contracts. Actually our rates of the diﬀerent interest book decreased. We
had to add provisions, which explains this cost to our net insurance revenue.
If we exclude this aspect, the net insurance revenue is up by 8.6%. And you see there that
the Savings business represents ﬁeld free [ph] two-thirds of the whole, 66.3%, the Pension
business in France, 5.2%, and the rest is the Personal Risk and Protection business, which
is slightly below one-third of the whole.
In Latin America on page 6, we have very robust growth of our diﬀerent drivers. On the
left of the slide, you can see the net insurance revenue at current exchange rates, which
grew by 11.3%. And on the right you can see that including the moves in exchange rate,
meaning at constant exchange rates, the growth was about 19%.
The rev down oﬀ this net insurance revenue is indicated there. The Personal Risk business
represents three-fourths of the whole with 74.6%, the Pension business, 14%, and the
Savings business just below 12%, which is quite diﬀerent situation from the French one.
The dynamic performances by CAIXA Seguros are, on traditional business, you can
compare there the Protection and the Personal Risk performance, compared to the
market, which are at the same level. Yet, little set back on the Savings and mainly Pension
business, due to relatively poor performance at the beginning of last year. But we are
started to modify the policy there to get better production from this part.
And we are also new growth drivers in the country with Health business, which started last
year. And the Term Creditor Insurance, Personal Loans, which posted very strong growth
of 78% to be compared with 69% in the market. It is a new branch of purchases of which
we rely very much for the future.

Page 2 of 13



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2013-02-22

FINAL

On page 7, you are several tiers regarding our business in all our countries sans France in
Europe, mainly Italy and Spain, as we have decided to reduce our investment risk in these
countries by stopping the investment in govies. In those countries, of course, there was a
certain decline in average technical reserves, which declines by 6.9%. And on IFRS
revenue, which were down by 39%. It is entirely due to our response to the economic
crisis in these countries.
Nevertheless, the net insurance revenue is up by 1.4%, lifted by diﬀerent non-recurring
technical factor. And an improvement in the product mix, oriented more in risk than last
year's.
In general in 2012, we have a very narrow management of our administrative expenses.
And it results in a cost to income ratio which remained at 36.7%. And you see growth tiers
of our expenses in the world which were up by 0.4%, compared to the last -- to the former
year.
Page 9, you have the ﬁgure representing the growth of EBIT, which is up 1.6%, at EUR2.278
million. This EBIT is damaged a little bit by the lowering of regulatory factor I already
mentioned, the valuation of interest rates in our provision, which results in the fact that the
Personal Risk and Protection, Property & Casualty business was below 4.6% at EUR726
million.

Bloomberg Transcript

Nevertheless, the Savings and Pensions business and the management of our own fund
portfolios grew -- increased in the EBIT, which result as a whole in an increase -- a global
increase as already mentioned.
On page 10, I come back to the environment of frendiful [ph] market last year. And our
investment position. We had to face a very unusual situation, where low interest rates -interest rates stayed at historically low level. We have diﬀerent statistics showing even on
very, very long, variable times, we hit the lowest level, in fact for two centuries, which of
course complicated a little bit our investment policy.
To us to this we had also to face the euro zone crisis on the sovereign debt. What that
resulted in the forthcoming policy, we maintain the reduction of the euro zone selling
debt portfolios, which reach now just about EUR10 billion for the French portfolio, which
we consider at a level which is now sustainable for the future.
Conversely, we made an increased investments on corporate debt with top record of
EUR9.7 billion of new investments. And we also then some traded some of our investment
on infrastructure, real estate. And diﬀerent other sectors, among which investments on
ﬁnal form [ph] services sectors bonds.
The high level of liquidity mark was maintained over the year, was mainly due to the
necessity we have to be very selective on the risk on investment we take. And also to the
willingness to be prepared to face any drawbacks, any buybacks by our customers, which
in fact didn't happen. But aﬀected the market, the lapses aﬀected the market as a whole,

Page 3 of 13



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2013-02-22

FINAL

not CNP speciﬁcally. But we had to be ready to face a surge of lapsed rates, which never
happened.
We try, of course, to contribute to vehicles underlying our role as investors in French
equities and bonds, which two of these initiatives are remembered there. And as a whole
we like the fact that the balance sheet is signiﬁcantly invested in French companies for
EUR50 billion. It is a sum of equities and bonds issued by French companies. And EUR8
billion in French real estate.
If I come back to the revenue, after the EBIT we have three lines of diﬀerent sort of costs.
The ﬁnance costs were a little above last year's, EUR175 million (sic -- 157, see press
release), which is clearly the sign that the cost of indebtedness is in the -- as a higher
levels on the -- before the crisis. Income tax expenses also grew a little bit. It is due to the
growing importance of our revenues coming from Brazil, which are taxed at higher levels
than our European revenues. And of course, the minority interests at EUR310 million were
slightly above last year's. It is also due to very importance of the growth of our Brazilian
subsidiary, which minor share, then 47.5%.

Bloomberg Transcript

This all results in a recurring proﬁt, which is above EUR1 million, slightly below last year's.
And after we have diﬀerence speciﬁc items related ﬁrst to the eﬀect of fair value
adjustments on our portfolios, plus net gains on equities, property. And diﬀerent assets,
which represents EUR155 million of contribution to be compared with a cost last year of
EUR236 million.
And the non-recurring items consist in two speciﬁc expenses. One was the payment of the
tax, speciﬁc tax, to the French Authority, you have this on page 12. It is a tax due on the
capitalization of reserve for EUR102 million. And the second element being an increase of
our policyholders' surplus reserve.
There on page 12, you have the doable [ph] amount of these reserves at the end of last
year, EUR3,372 million versus EUR 2,886 million the year before, which is an increase of
about EUR500 million this year, of which one part, EUR162 million was on the income
statement on the page before. It is one of the non-recurring items, explaining the EUR271
million of cost. And the rest of the increase of policyholders' surplus reserve was
supported by our the portfolios of our insured Savings business in France.
As a whole, these technical reserves, these speciﬁc reserves, represent 1.55% of our
technical reserves, which is sort of reserves for safety buﬀer for the future.
The last thing I would like to point is that we have written down the whole goodwill CNP
on its subsidiary in Italy, CNP UniCredit Vita. We had bought this business in 2005. We
were relatively important to goodwill, which was very usual at that time. But as time
change. And we all read the ESMA recommendations, we have decided to write down
this goodwill on Italian business in order to get the balance sheet clean oﬀ this high level
of prices at that period.

Page 4 of 13



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2013-02-22

FINAL

On page 13, we get the new business margins of the company, which stay this year -sorry, at 11.6% to be compared with 12.3% last year. This decrease is due ﬁrst to the French
activity on the left. And this decrease in France was due to lower interest rates in France to
the relatively poor contributions of unit-link business, compared to former years. And also
to a decrease of production of loan insurance in our book.
In Latin America conversely, we had noticed very huge growth of the margin, which stay in
Brazil at more than 35%.
The decrease for the rest of the Europe of these rates of new business margin is mainly
due to the fact that we have decided to use this year the interest rates of the swap interest
rates, rather than govies. If we hadn't done that, the rate would have stayed around 15%,
rather than 7% as it is. I think that, as a whole, without this change in methods, the new
business margin of the company would have been at about 12%, rather than 12.3% last
year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Capitaux propres, or equity, of the company was at the end of the year, on page 14, at
EUR14.145 billion. You see there the eﬀect of write [ph] issues of last years, of increase of
subordinated debt. We made of the proﬁt, net of dividends, we also met [ph] of diﬀerent
fair value adjustments. Nevertheless, that represents an increase of about 18% of our
capitaux propres.
We have a similar increase, 17.5% of our MCEV. With the contribution of operations, with
well over of Value of In-Force. And in new business, which this year was at about EUR297
million to be compared with EUR362 million last year, the decrease being naturally due to
our French operations I've already indicated.
We have also, of course, a contribution of ﬁnancial and tax environment explaining the
growth of the Value of In-Force. In one word, Value of In-Force. And the global embedded
value of the company stayed at the highest level since the beginning of the ﬁnancial crisis
in 2007.
The return on equity on page 15 is ﬁgured at 8.86%, which is simply a way to show that the
very balanced structure of our business with French and Latin American businesses with
Savings and Personal Risks businesses with diﬀerent elements of subtlety results in a
capacity to provide regular revenues to our shareholders.
This capacity is also noticeable in the recommended dividend per share, which will be as
last year of EUR0.77 by share, which will be recommended at the Annual General
Meeting, as last year there will be a scrip option, which the shareholders -- members of
shareholders' agreement as has stated will use -- will opt to this scrip dividend.
The solvency capital requirement on page 17 is -- the solvency capital ratio is at roughly
300% to be compared with -- sorry, with under 30% last year. And without unrealized
gains we are at 112%. You know that we are very cautious about this sub-limit. And we are
very -- making a ﬁne tuning of this ratio over time. It will, of course, still be the case in
2013.
Page 5 of 13



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2013-02-22

FINAL

In terms of Solvency II, solvency capital ratio on page 18, we have a coverage ratio which
stay at 170%. This improvement is a result of reduction of our risk in terms of SCR, notably,
the market risk. And also an improvement of the economic odefense [ph] of the company,
among others, the increase of the value of Value of In-Force.
Now, we come to more strategic views. We like to, in align with fact that, we have an
important, sustainable growth potential, because the product positioning of the company
responds to very emergent, current demographic trends. And the growing social needs in
the diﬀerent countries where we operate. The long-term savings business, the retirement
savings. And protection against the hazards of daily life are clearly one of the
preoccupations of the customers we have, either in Europe or in Latin America.
And you see the breakdown that the Group net insurance revenue is correctly divided
between Saving and Pensions, which represent a short majority of these revenues. And
Person Risk and Protection, which represents a very large minority of these revenues.

Bloomberg Transcript

On page 20, you all see that our Group relies on two major markets. The French market
with 53% of our net insurance revenue. And Brazilian, which already represent 36% of this
revenue. Of course, it keeps continually being the most -- almost ideal situation, we've a
very leading position in the mature European market. And a very good, fast-growing
position in a very fast-growing Latin American market.
The ambition, which was outlined this morning by Frederic Lavenir, which he will give a lot
next week in London, is to create shareholder value by uniting the teams to deliver
proﬁtable growth in France and Europe. And strengthen our positions in Brazil and Latin
America, which is clearly the area of the growth for the company.
We have four strategic priorities, which are is not developed [ph]. But which are in the
next stages. First, develop and enrich our oﬀer in order to expand the partnership with
our two traditional partners, La Banque Postale. And BPCE, which still are the main
distributors of our products in France.
Second, to deploy our term creditor insurance, personal risk. And high-end savings
business in Europe. And to operate on an open model. That means to work with other
distributors than those are linked with us by capital relations.
Third, to build sales of employee beneﬁts solutions to very small businesses and local
public authorities. We have a very historically signiﬁcant partnership with mutual insurers
in France, on which we will rely to develop this aspect of our business.
The last being, of course, to strengthen our market position in Brazil and Latin America.
And to size if possible -- possibility to add new opportunities and acquisitions in Latin
America.
I will develop [ph] these four items which are on the pages until 26. I just underline in few
minutes, the diﬀerent ﬁgures you have in the appendices, where you ﬁnd in the ﬁrst
Page 6 of 13



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2013-02-22

pages the detail on new money. And revenues of the company in the diﬀerent markets,
France, Latin America, of course. And we -- this is the data on page 31, segment by
segment.

FINAL

We have on page 33, withdrawal rates as a percentage of mathematical reserve, where
you can see that in spite of the high-level of withdrawals in the French market last year, we
were still below the market on this respect.
The average technical reserve and their breakdown are depicted in page 33. And you
have also, starting page 35, breakdown of our revenues by origin, in order to help you to
evaluate the progress made on this respect.
The administrative expenses are on page 37. And after we have diﬀerent items regarding
our reserves on which I come back if necessary. After page 39, we have details on the
MCEV and its growth for this year. We have MCEV per share EUR21.6, only ANAV state
[ph] are EUR16.6 per share, which is match the both value of a share of the market.
And you have the value analyzed of this embedded value in the next pages with diﬀerent
data on the new business value. And the MCEV over several -- six years, the last six years
with diﬀerent elements regarding the MCEV calculation, which are on the next pages, new
business sensitivity. And so on.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have also provided the usual ﬁgures regarding our operating proﬁt and EBIT by
country.
The free cash ﬂow stays at around EUR600 million. If you want the amount of this new
reserve, you will reach an amount just below last year's operating free cash ﬂow.
The contribution to consolidated proﬁt oﬀ our diﬀerent branches of -- in Europe and in
the world explained in the next pages. I go through it quickly. And the ratio of EBIT
solvency capital requirement is as usual indicated on page 56.
We are also diﬀerent elements regarding the analysis of our net insurance revenue, page
57, 58. And the evolution of our average technical reserves by segment in diﬀerent area of
the world where we operate are on page 59.
The policyholders' surplus reserve on page 60 reminds you the two years I already
developed [ph] before. You have diﬀerent elements of recurrence analysis on our
liabilities therefore [ph]. And we have also diﬀerent elements regarding analysis of our
assets with unrealized gains of the company peaking at EUR26.6 billion at the end of last
year.
You have also in the next pages diﬀerent elements regarding our bond portfolio, the
corporate assets portion of the company. The bank exposures of the company, the assetbacked securities. And so on. And public debt exposure, which is precisely depicted in

Page 7 of 13



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2013-02-22

page 68 and 69. We have an average maturity of peripheral public debt portfolio in page
70.

FINAL

And also we have several accounting and fair value measurement methods we have. And
to ﬁnish with, to end with the structure in terms of maturities of our subordinated debt.
And diﬀerent elements regarding our rating. And the legend of the share of situation
since the IPO.
I am with the team of CNP which surrounds me at the disposal -- at your disposal to
answer any question you would like to raise.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Our ﬁrst question comes from Federico Salerno of MainFirst Bank.
Please go ahead.

Q - Federico Salerno

{BIO 2565091 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi. Good afternoon. A couple of questions. On the solvency, do you believe that a 112
ratio solvency is strong enough? Do you look at that closely, or do you think the impaired
note solvency is not very important? That's the ﬁrst question.
Then, can you say what the projects are for Brazil? Do you still plan to open the capital of
the company to third parties to expand in other markets? Is there any news on that front?
Then the last question on the addition of EUR162 million for the policyholders' surplus
reserve. Why that number in particular? Is there any reason? And that's it.

A - Antoine Lissowski

{BIO 4384399 <GO>}

The ﬁrst question was about our solvency ratio. Do we consider that 112 is suﬃcient? We
have a traditional policy of having the target of being below 110. Then, as we have
suﬃcient margin, we consider that the situation is compatible. It is clear that we've
increased our capital, resulting from the commitment of our members of the fact [ph]
shareholders. We will increase this ratio to 115. And it seems very comfortable.
The second question was about Brazil. We do not intend to now to reduce our share of
interest in the company. But rather to develop internally all by acquisitions its business in
Brazil, or Latin America. We have already made a very small acquisition of another
company in another region of Brazil in the CAIXA Seguros. And we are, of course,
contemplating other developments when they will be mature. And when they occur.
The third element being about the status of this EUR162 million PPE. Why to do that? In
fact, our target was to oﬀer a certain level of comfort in terms of global PPE. And we
thought that to be above a level 1.5% of mathematical provisions was right. The ﬁgure of
162 is rather contingent. But in general, the idea was to oﬀer about EUR500 million as a

Page 8 of 13



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2013-02-22

whole to this PPE, shared between what is made by the company itself. And what is made
by the portfolios of its policyholders.

Q - Federico Salerno

{BIO 2565091 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
Our next question comes from William Eldican [ph] of Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.

Q - William Eldican
Thank you. Hello, everybody. Could I just come back to the issues of why you decided to
skip dividend once again, again. It just seems to slightly contrast with your conﬁdent
statements you made on the security of your canceled [ph] position. But yet because it's
been bothering [ph] shareholers a little bit as well. Can you just conﬁrm this is from now
the policy will be to be paying a full cash dividend absent absolutely extreme
circumstances?
Second, could you just give us an update of your view for volumes in the French market.
And prospects over 2013?

Bloomberg Transcript

And ﬁnally, can you just give a sense of which of your biggest units, I guess mainly France
and Brazil, were upstream in capital to your holding company in 2012. And how valuable
those internal dividends were?

A - Antoine Lissowski

{BIO 4384399 <GO>}

Okay, the ﬁrst question was about scrip dividend. You asked to keep in mind that this year
in 2012 was a very speciﬁc year in the life of (inaudible) both he is Chairman of the Board
and the General Manager of the company. And the scrip being done for this year wasn't
waived for the members of the shareholder pact to show that we will back the
development of the Company in the next year. It was a way for them to express their
support to the new management of the company in its ambition to give lot our business in
Europe and in Latin America.
Of course, we do not ignore that the market in general is reluctant to do that. But we
consider that at our current level of shares to up the scrip dividend is a good investment.
Your second question was about --

Q - William Eldican
Your views in the Pension market for 2013?

A - Antoine Lissowski

{BIO 4384399 <GO>}

Yes. Well in fact it seems that the French market has a full start of the year reacted really
strongly. And it appears to people that know the French-backed system that for their life
Page 9 of 13



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2013-02-22

FINAL

insurance becomes again a safe level, not in absolute terms. But in reactive [ph] terms to
overt [ph] type of investment for personal -- for individual in France. There was an
important (inaudible) taxation of diﬀerent sort of investment. In fact, last year and so far,
life insurance is one of the elements which were out of this increased taxation.
Therefore, we think that the market will have a better outlook from last year's. But it's clear
the year is not over. I mean, maybe, announcement of by the French government of
diﬀerent ﬁscal measures is not over. And we will have also -- we have clearly to adapt if
(inaudible) increasing taxation. I underline that. So far, that no information about any
project regarding the taxation of life insurance is in France. The third question was about -

Q - William Eldican
Internal dividends, upstreaming capital (inaudible).

A - Antoine Lissowski

{BIO 4384399 <GO>}

Yes. We get (inaudible), which is the largest provider of reserves. We get 75% in terms of
dividends. It is a tradition settled with our Brazilian partner. And it is also a way to keep
some money on the premises in order to be able to ﬁnd an opportunity of growth.
Without having to increase the capital of a subsidiary, that means that we will have
enough capital in the company to (inaudible) in the forthcoming months if we ﬁnd one.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - William Eldican
Can I just come back on one point? If I understood your presentation correctly, you're
saying your main area of focus is in Brazil and Latin America. And you just seemed to have
said that those Brazilian operations have enough capital to grow. I'm still not clear why
your main shareholders want to put more capital into the business.

A - Antoine Lissowski

{BIO 4384399 <GO>}

Hold on (inaudible). It is clear, also, our solvency ratio out of unrealized gains, 112, is, I
would say, at the lower range of our estimated target. I think that's the French
shareholders of the company charging [ph] back consider. But it is a good approaching to
the year is a approaching [ph] through increased.
We likely [ph] believe the strength of the company meant [ph] to allow us to make any
developments of the record [ph] if that were possible. But would be rougher in terms of
internal development of new products or such a development. Among which we are in
the risk business. We can have projects that will use some supplementary capital this year.

Q - William Eldican
Can we then (inaudible) ex-capital gains. So we'll see ratios above 115% that we can then
lead back to a free cash dividend?

A - Antoine Lissowski

{BIO 4384399 <GO>}
Page 10 of 13



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2013-02-22

FINAL

We have no guidance on this aspect. It is clear that we will -- we'll reconsider the dividend
in such circumstances. In general, I must say, that it is not because we have two years in a
row a scrip dividend. But it is becoming a (inaudible) policy of the company. Last year, it
was not swear [ph] to a speciﬁc situation. This year it is sort of a welcome to the new
management decided by the members of the shorter facts [ph]. But it is not -announcement of a new structural policy. And not permanent option of scrip dividend in
the future.

Q - William Eldican
Thank you. Thank you very much.

Operator
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from Ralph Hebgen of KBW. Please go
ahead.

Q - Ralph Hebgen

{BIO 6297020 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, hi. Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my questions. I would also like to perhaps ask
about the scrip. Just in terms of what message this my send to the markets, because I
remember last year the core solvency ratio excluding unrealized gains was also moving
towards the 110% level. And then you had the scrip. At the time, you were saying, what in
practically was that it would not reoccur, a dividend with a scrip element, again.
And so, I'm wondering as the solvency ratio at the core level approaches the 110% again.
And you have the scrip issue once again, that stock [ph] looks, perhaps, send a message
in terms of capital management that if the solvency ratio goes towards that level, we have
to expect further scrip elements going forward in future. That's question number one.
And question number two is, just on the expense ratio. And I calculate this quite simply as
operating [ph] expenses divided by EBIT. I observe that was 28.1% in 2011 -- sorry, in 2012.
It was 28.3% in 2011. So it hasn't really changed. However, there is an eﬃciency gains -- or
an eﬃciency program in thinking [ph] your implemented at CNP. So I'm surprised not to
see the expense ratio come down. Would you be able to comment on that. And whether
that you think your eﬃciency gains, which you have is, perhaps, merely suﬃcient to oﬀset
expense inﬂation that you have? Thank you very much indeed.

A - Antoine Lissowski

{BIO 4384399 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you for your questions. Well regarding the expense ratio, I am sure that
Frederic Lavenir, our new CEO, will be delighted to discuss that with you next Monday if
you are there. It is clear that, in his view, it is just the start oﬃcial for run [ph], which was
launched during his predecessors mundate [ph] was just a part of the policy of expense
management, which will be much CNP like -- run the CNP like for the future. That means
that he will certainly put a certain stress on this aspect in the future. Therefore, I think that
the management of our costs enters in an area which will be diﬀerent from what you
extends to where we were before.

Page 11 of 13



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2013-02-22

FINAL

And on the other side, the scrip dividend you mentioned, like I already said, it was a -- in
fact, a congestion [ph] of two things. First, the real push made by the members of the
pack [ph] to the new manager saying -- okay, we are behind you, which can be also a
message from the point of view of the market. And also -- an additional consideration, I
don't know if it is merely present in the mind of people wrote. But here in France, people
consider that the start of Solvency II will not occur in 2014, maybe late 2015. But much
later.
That means that the focus will be made more on Solvency I ratios. And on the core ratio of
Solvency I more than before, which this puts a certain focus on this core ratio. And it is
clearly not our intention to push this ratio up to high levels, 115, 120. And so on. But we
consider that the range between 110 and 115 is the right range. And to be too near to 110 is
not very comfortable situation.
I remind you that at the end of last year, we were just below 114%. This year just above
112%. Okay. It is a ﬁne tuning of our ratio. But we remain cautious on the aspect. And we
consider that it -- it is a sort of compensation for the very, I would say, secure proﬁt [ph] of
the company to have very strong consideration to this aspect, which might be minimal for
other companies. But it seems for us, important.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ralph Hebgen

{BIO 6297020 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much for that. Just one follow up, because I was actually surprised
to see the core solvency ratio at levels of 112%. The subdebt included would suggest that
you have excluded a loan issue which is callable next year -- sorry, we are in 2013, in the
summer. Is that correct? So in other words, what is happening from a point of view of
capital management is that you have, on the one hand, retirement of subdebt, which is
basically replaced by a capital increase. Would that be a reasonable observation?

A - Antoine Lissowski

{BIO 4384399 <GO>}

We conduct -- we do have to be frank about issuing (inaudible) but we rather think the
program oﬀer issuing replacement debt, at least, during the next months.

Q - Ralph Hebgen

{BIO 6297020 <GO>}

Okay. Fair enough. Thank you very much indeed.

A - Antoine Lissowski

{BIO 4384399 <GO>}

See you, Ralph.

Operator
That concludes today's question and answer session. I would now like to turn back to Mr.
Lissowski for any closing or additional remarks.

A - Antoine Lissowski

{BIO 4384399 <GO>}

Page 12 of 13



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2013-02-22

All right. I thank you very much for all you common attention. And we'll be very glad to
meet some of you on Monday and Tuesday if you attend to our diﬀerent meeting. Choose
your way [ph] and have a good weekend.

FINAL

Operator
That will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation, ladies and
gentlemen. you may now disconnect.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 13 of 13

