Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

Acquisition of Friends Life Group Ltd by Aviva Plc
Company Participants
FINAL

Andy D. Briggs
Christopher B. Wei
George Malcolm Williamson
John McFarlane
Mark Andrew Wilson
Thomas D. Stoddard

Other Participants
Andrew J. Crean
Andrew J. Sinclair
Andy Hughes
Ashik Musaddi
Chris J. Esson
Edward L. Houghton
Fahad U. Changazi

Bloomberg Transcript

Jon M. Hocking
Marcus W. Barnard

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
John McFarlane

{BIO 1509370 <GO>}

Well, good morning, everyone, and welcome to the announcement of the acquisition of
Friends Life by Aviva. Also joining us today is Sir Malcolm Williamson here and Andy Briggs
from Friends Life.
On joining Aviva, I articulated clearly to shareholders that following a long period of
underperformance, Aviva faced a number of entrenched strategic issues. And we set in
motion a programme then to transform the company. You wouldn't believe it's actually
only two and a half years ago.
I think most would now agree that the transformation has gone as well as could have
been expected and shareholders are experiencing the benefits. Aviva today has a
stronger strategic foundation, board, and management team, as well as an investment
proposition that's resonating with shareholders.

Page 1 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

Now given that our organic prospects are sound, it may therefore have come as a
surprise to many of you that we're now prepared to undertake a transformational move
sooner than many of you might have expected. A number of factors contributed to this
decision. As a result of the strengthening of the management team and the speed and
success of the transformation programme, the board feels comfortable that
management is ready for an additional challenge.
An opportunity in core markets that substantially increases our cash flow, builds liquidity
and brings down leverage would be very attractive to us at this point in time. At the same
time, we're putting greater energy and drive into our True Customer Composite agenda
and a significant expansion of our customer base would allow us to add considerable
leverage to this particular initiative.
Now, there's a lot of speculation about wouldn't it be nice if Aviva was able to harness the
faster-growing markets very quickly. But the reality of the situation is that we're largely
concentrated in developed markets. Essentially, the United Kingdom, Canada, and France
add up to most of the company. And so, transforming, therefore, Aviva and our business
mix towards fast-growing markets can only be a medium term proposition. And,
therefore, for the near future, we need to enhance our position in core mature markets.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then, finally, we did need to find an effective, strategic and earnings enhancing
response in the UK Life sector following the Chancellor's decision on annuities. And so,
the opportunity presented by Friends Life not only consolidates Aviva's leading position, it
enables a much stronger dividend flow and balance sheet position than would otherwise
have been possible over the next few years.
It also offers Friends Life shareholders an attractive outcome that Malcolm will expand on. I
therefore commend this transaction to shareholders. And it's my pleasure to introduce Sir
Malcolm Williamson to you.

George Malcolm Williamson

{BIO 17580627 <GO>}

Well, thanks, John, and good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I think, before we get into
the meat of the presentation, I want to say a few words on behalf of Friends Life Group
board and to our shareholders.
We've come a long way over the last four years, bringing together three businesses to
create a strong and successful Friends Life Group that you see today, delivering both cash
today, in the form of cost and capital synergies and growing cash generation to support
our dividend, and cash tomorrow in the form of focused new business propositions in
markets where we have the scale and expertise to grow profitably.
All that has come from a lot of hard work and inspirational leadership by Andy over here
with Tim Tookey and (sic) [Jonathan] Moss and many others – Jonathan Moss, I'm sorry.
And I strongly believe that on a standalone basis, Friends Life would have an attractive
and growing future, targeting the opportunities in back book management and in the fastchanging retirement market.
Page 2 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

However, our philosophy has always been one of maximizing shareholder value from each
part of the group. And we've always been explicit that we saw further consolidation in the
UK Life market as both necessary and potentially attractive for our shareholders. So, we're
delighted today to be announcing this transaction with Aviva. It produces an excellent
opportunity to accelerate our existing strategy and to generate value for shareholders
faster.
It also gives our shareholders and our customers the opportunity to be part of the UK's
leading insurance, savings, asset management business, delivering additional scale and
efficiency, and a broader range of attractive customer propositions. So, I'm personally
delighted to have been nominated to join the board of the Enlarged Aviva Group as SID
upon completion. And I look forward to working with my new director colleagues to take
forward the group's focus on cash and growth.
And on that note, I'll hand over to Mark, the Group CEO.

Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well, thank you, Sir Malcolm. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us here. I
know it was extremely short notice this morning. And to those of you that are in
Singapore, good afternoon or good evening. I know Chris Wei is with you there, so I'm
sure him and the team can look after you and host you there. And, of course, a very
special welcome, as John said, to Sir Malcolm, to Andy, and our friends from the Friends
Life team.
10 days ago, we announced some terms of this transaction obviously because of the leak.
Now it's always a little bit irritating when you have to announce early as you can't fill in the
numbers. But, today, we are filling in the numbers, the synergies, the impact on the future
cash flows and the new dividend policy for the enlarged group. Now, Tom will then go into
more detail on the financials and Andy will talk about the rest now for the Friends group,
for the Friends shareholders and, of course, the larger UK Life opportunity.
First, I want to take you back a couple of years, to January 2013, when I started here. It
was clear to all of you and to me that Aviva had issues. I think we've come a long way
since then but we still have quite some way to go to reach anywhere near our potential.
We have a simpler group. We've got a more focused group. And I would accept that we
have certainly delivered more than what we said we would.
Now, I understand that the announcement was a surprise to many and indeed the best
transactions often are. But let me be clear. This transaction is absolutely consistent with
our investment thesis of cash flow plus growth. Cash flow is what our investors signed up
to. And if an opportunity comes up that delivers cash flow, then we should consider it.
Indeed, not to do so, I believe, would be imprudent.
Now, one of the questions that I've been asked is, will this transaction be a distraction to
the organization? I believe it's not a distraction. Indeed, it's quite the opposite. I see this
as a catalyst for the next phase of our transformation. So, think of it like this. If you were
Page 3 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

growing a garden and you go to the well each day with a bucket of – to get a bucket of
water, the garden can still be bountiful and green with the water you get from the well.
However, if you come across a garden hose that has all the water you need and you can
get the water faster with less risk, you would have to be foolish not to turn on the tap.
So, this slide here – I think this slide here shows the best summary of the financial and
strategic rationale. Now, I wouldn't do any large transaction purely for strategic reasons. I
think those are the transactions that often disappoint. It's got to work financially and the
financial rationale has to be compelling on both sides.
I've been clear and consistent with the market about the outstanding balance sheet
issues I wanted to address in the medium term. And, frankly, this transaction means we
can tick off those boxes quicker. To start, we expect this transaction to add around £600
million of cash flow to the group. Liquidity at the group's centre will also be substantially
higher at £2.4 billion. Leverage will be down. And that's another one of our targets to be
consistent with the Standard & Poor's AA range.

Bloomberg Transcript

I also note that last week, as an aside, that Friends has been put on a positive credit watch
by S&P because of this transaction. There are significant synergies at £225 million. And
we'll cover that in a little bit more depth later. And we also anticipate capital and other
revenue synergies. But we're not quantifying these today because, frankly, our work there
is not complete. We still have a lot of modeling to do. But I think you can be assured that
the impact is positive.
And, lastly, on this part, to give our shareholders clarity on our progress this year, our
board is proposing a 30% increase in our final 2014 dividend, taking our full year dividend
to £0.181 per share. This is ahead of consensus. Now we also are announcing our intention
to formally change our dividend policy to two times cover. That's on IFRS operating
earnings. So the deal stacks up financially clearly, but the transaction is also aligned with
the three parts of our strategic anchor that we spoke about in the investment day,
namely, True Customer Composite, Digital First and Not Everywhere.
We said we wanted to have scale in our key markets and then wanted to secure our
position as the British champion. Not because of any burning desire to be big or number
one. I mean, frankly, I couldn't care less. But the factors that every successful international
financial firm has a preeminent position in its home market. That gives you longevity and it
gives you security. And it gives us a strong base that we can then use to fund other
growth operations in our other growth markets.
UK is a good insurance market. It's our home base. We are proud to be a British
organization. We've been here for 319 years. And we will have leading positions in the key
growth segments here in this market. And, of course, we'll have a further 5 million
customers that we can use in our digital and composite strategies. And our new Digital
Head, Andrew Brem, it's actually, I think, your first or second day here today, so welcome.
Now, I've got a present for you.

Page 4 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

We've previously given you an indication of the size of the prize also for optimizing our
back book. And you saw that, I think, at our half year results. And our back book – we want
to increase cash flow here. And the Friends' expertise that have been on this journey for
some time will be invaluable. We'll be able to do that quicker with them than without
them.
So, now to asset management and we also have Euan in the room today. In-sourcing the
majority of the Friends Life £100 billion under management, we will produce a step
change in the scale of our assets under management for Aviva Investors.
And, lastly, on the side on the strategic part. Over recent years, it's fair to say that some
of our growth markets and growth businesses and growth segments in operations have
been constrained in their activity. This transaction certainly gives us the platform and
flexibility and cash flow to fund our required organic growth in those markets. I'm talking
about markets such as Turkey and Poland and Southeast Asia and China and also general
insurance markets, such as the UK and Canada. This transaction certainly helps there, too.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, here are the terms of the transaction on this slide, which you, I'm sure, – I'm not so
sure about this, but I'm sure you've now all had a chance to read. I'm not going to labor
the slide, but I'd like to focus on a couple of things, if I may.
Social issues become problematic often when two large organizations are brought
together. But, as you can see from today's announcements, we are aligned and we're
privileged to have Sir Malcolm joining our board as the SID with his experience and
acumen, a great addition to our board. Indeed, also, I'm delighted to have Andy up and
co-hosting with me today who is joining us as CEO of UK Life and as an Executive Director
on our plc board. Indeed, it was Andy and his team that were one of the attractions to me
personally of the Friends Life Group.
You'll also see in our 2.7, Nick Amin, who, I think, you all know by now, will take up the role
as Director of Transformation and Integration, a key role when we talked about synergies.
And Jonathan Moss from Friends has agreed to join the enlarged group as Director of our
back book businesses. He's got extraordinary experience in that field.
So, what will these businesses look like when they're brought together? When we bring
these businesses together, what will they look like? Well, these two groups are obviously
in respective stages of their own journeys. And I think they are a fantastic fit. An investor I
was talking to last week told me that they fit with almost surgical precision. And I think this
is probably so when you look strategically and financially. The combined businesses build
on the respective strength of each business whilst addressing each other's weaknesses, I
think that's unusual. But let's have a look, I guess, at a little bit more detail.
Now, everyone in the room has heard me say before that the primary role of our UK Life
business is to be a cash generator. However, the combination of Aviva and Friends Life
shifts the dynamic of our UK operations to be more of a balance between cash flow and
growth. But make no mistake, for our investors, it is in that order. Now, it becomes a cashgenerating machine, but we'll need to continue to feed and grow that machine. We are
Page 5 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

creating UK's leading insurance and savings business with access to up to 15 million
customers. And that gives us real scale and a competitive cost advantage. And Andy will
talk to you about that in some more depth.
Now, at our Analyst Day, you heard me talk about our message of driving a True
Customer Composite through the organization. And this really works here in the UK,
where, according to research, we are the most valued insurance brand. I think there was
some press about that the other day. And we also have an attractive digital proposition
with MyAviva. And Andy will cover more about the UK proposition in his section a little bit
later.

Bloomberg Transcript

And now, to synergies of the transaction. Today, we are announcing £225 million of
synergies. And these are obviously substantial. The integration is large by numbers, but
relatively modest by complexity. Now, there are three major areas to get synergies where
they arise, namely, the UK Life company. Now this is both the back book and the front
book to be clear. And we will use a best-of-breed approach. And we have a lot of
duplicate systems. We can take the best-of-breed approach in these systems. Investment
in management that I touched on as we in-source the majority of the Friends Life assets
that they have. And then the central spend, such as group head office. We have two of
those, that is the third area of duplication.
Now, I'll leave you to build your own models and do the analysis. But I think you should
walk away from here with the sense that these numbers are well within our depth to
achieve. So, I guess, the question will be, and I've been asked this question a number of
times already, why are we confident that we can extract these synergies when, historically,
there have been some issues and the synergies have, sometimes, proved elusive?
I think that's an entirely fair question, but that's also got a very clear answer. Well, for start,
both companies have a recent track record of getting success in getting the costs out.
And I would hope that with our results over the past two years that you'd give us the
benefit of the doubt. And I think this slide shows it as clearly as I can talk to it. At Aviva, you
can see on the left-hand side, we set ourselves a target to reduce our overall operating
expenses by £400 million by the end of 2014 – the end of this year. This year, at our half
year, we announced we were on track to achieve £568 million of cost reductions,
significant outperformance.
Now, if we look at our rationalization programme that Friends Life has been on, it has
been, I think, a little more finessed, particularly in the back book, where they have
collapsed funds, they have collapsed systems, they have outsourced where appropriate.
And the result of this has been almost £300 million of free surplus released between 2011
and 2013. So, we are experienced. We have the expertise, the experience and a track
record. But now, of course, we still have to deliver. I think I've said those same words two
years ago.
Now, you've heard me talk a lot about our ambitions in asset management. This
transaction provides serious scale to our asset management business with little cost. Just
to give you numbers, Friends Life has roughly £100 billion of assets and we would

Page 6 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

anticipate in-sourcing up to £70 billion into Aviva Investors. And our somewhat
conservative numbers, this should add approximately £40 million to earnings at Aviva
Investors. Again, I'll leave it to you to do your maths. Strategically, it's a significant step
towards our ambition of making asset management earnings a more meaningful part of
the group, but we still have much to do.
Now, I'll hand over to Tom in a moment. But before I do that, I thought it useful to
summarize the key financial impacts, I guess, of the transaction. We have talked a number
of times about our external leverage which is above our medium term target to be
consistent with the S&P AA rating. Quite frankly, our current leverage restricts our financial
flexibility. Now, standalone, we have a plan in place to get our leverage down to more
comfortable levels. And this year, as we've shown, we have made meaningful progress.
But it gets us there to our target on completion.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, the combination with Friends Life with this lower leverage takes us to 28% on an S&P
basis. And we see no further need to delever from there. Central liquidity would be
increased. And, together, we would have high economic capital surplus. You can see this
on the slide too. Now, Andy will cover efficiency in more detail. But suffice it to say this
combination gives us a competitive pricing advantage in the UK. I think that's hard for
others to match.
And, of course, cash flow. This has been the most important focus of the group. I've said
many times earnings hasn't been the issue at Aviva, cash flow has. And we expect this
transaction to add about £600 million to our holding company cash flows. So, what does
all this mean in about our dividend? Well, it means a number of things. Well, today, we are
announcing a 30% increase in our final dividend, implying a full year 2014 dividend of
£0.181 per share. And we are also moving our dividend cover to two times operating EPS
over the medium term.
So, let me sum up what it means in very simplistic terms. It means a high dividend. It
means a 50% payout ratio. It means a stronger balance sheet with more growth options.
And I think when you look at it in that context, it sounds like a pretty good opportunity to
me. It ticks all the boxes to deliver cash flow plus growth.
And I think with that, to take you through more the financials, I will hand over to our group
CFO, Tom Stoddard.

Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Thank you, Mark. Let me start by saying that I try to avoid using the word compelling,
which, I think, is overused. But rarely have I seen a business combination that is more
financially compelling for both sides than this one. The impact on Aviva is profound. It
improves our return on capital in our largest business. It reduces risk. It gives us more
funds to invest in growth and it accelerates dividends to shareholders.
Now, back at our Capital Markets Day in July, I said I was taking a hard look at our UK
businesses and was trying to raise sense of urgency around unlocking value in our back
Page 7 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

books. We need to do better here. The synergies we achieved by consolidating with
Friends Life will improve the return on capital in our UK Life business, where we've had
underperforming sales, and will enhance the prospects for Aviva Investors. This will
unequivocally improve our business and make us more competitive.
At the same time, we strengthened our financial flexibility in exactly the places where we
were weakest. Debt leverage is no longer an issue. An improved cash flow and liquidity
will now better match our earnings power. All other things equal, I would expect this
transaction to reduce our cost of capital going forward.
Furthermore, what may be less apparent from the outside will be the opportunities to
create balance sheet synergies on top of the operating synergies Mark outlined. These
should be significant. And I'll try to give you a better sense of how they can improve our
capital and cash flow later in my remarks. The overall impact is that the transaction will
benefit both sets of shareholders. On its own, Aviva is strong enough now to raise its final
dividend for 2014 by 30% to £0.1225 or £0.181 for the full year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me just pause for a moment to underscore that that's not conditional on the
transaction. But with the benefits of this transaction, we will be able to accelerate future
dividends and growth. As Mark said, we'll move over the medium term to a dividend
cover of approximately two times based on IFRS operating earnings per share as we
realize synergies from the transaction.
Moving to this next slide, the transaction brings our external debt leverage down to 28%
on an S&P basis within the AA range. While we may repay certain outstanding debt issues
from time to time, there is no longer an imperative to reduce debt further. The left side of
this slide shows the deleveraging impact on an IFRS accounting basis, including AVIF and
capital.
Following the transaction, we will measure ourselves relative to the S&P leverage ratio.
And post-Solvency II implementation, we expect to consider debt relative to our overall
economic capital. My final point here is this transaction has no impact on our plans to
reduce internal loan, which we previously agreed to reduce to £2.2 billion by the end of
2015. So, debt deleveraging will no longer be a drag on dividend capacity or reinvestment
in growth.
Combined group will be both larger and better capitalized overall. For historical reasons,
Friends Life has maintained relatively conservative capital and liquidity positions at its
insurance subsidiaries and holding company. In our due diligence, we concluded that
Friends Life's capital position is even more resilient than we had estimated from the
outside and its risk profile complements ours.
As you can see from this slide, the combination will give us more surplus with which to
withstand stress. And to illustrate, we've shown here a few of the previously published
economic capital sensitivities around interest rates and spreads, which will give you some
sense of our relative exposures, some of which are partly offsetting.

Page 8 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

You should also note that consistent with prior plans, Aviva will apply for Solvency II internal
model approval next year, while Friends Life remains on a standard formula basis. So, on
2016, we will be running on a partial internal model with Friends to follow.
Over time, we will transition Friends Life subsidiaries toward Aviva's capital management
policies and risk appetite thresholds. This may ultimately involve Part VII transfers to
rationalize operations. So, together, we'll avoid some significant costs simply by having
Friends Life transition onto the Aviva Solvency II internal model in the future.
As I mentioned at the outset, this transaction should create significant capital benefits
from several different sources. Some of these benefits occur naturally as a result of our
complementary risk profile and some take effort for management to achieve.
This slide should give you a feel for the potential diversification benefits, even within two
UK Life insurance businesses. Aviva has relatively less lapse risk, for example, and more
some other risks. Together, our balance sheet will benefit simply from the combined
spread of risk and increased diversification.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition, Aviva's further ahead than Friends Life in optimizing its capital management
policies under Solvency II. We've identified several areas where we believe we can
achieve capital benefits by adapting Friends Life to our approach. And, finally, as we've
demonstrated in the past, when we realize expense savings from the combination, there
likely will be opportunities to capitalize those benefits in the form of reduced future
expense reserves. Andy will speak more to these back book actions in his remarks.
So, my expectation is with capital synergies we should be able to achieve by combining
Friends Life with Aviva's larger UK Life operation should be significant, but there's more
work to be done here. And we're not quantifying them for you today. Over time, I would
also expect that we would look to rebalance the group by reinvesting capital generated
by UK Life into Aviva Investors, digital initiatives, GI, and other growth markets.
Moving on to the targets we set out on our Capital Markets Day back in July. You can see
that this transaction gets us there and then some. It will help us improve our operating
expense ratio with the benefit of synergies by approximately 2 percentage points over
time. It will add approximately £600 million of incremental cash flows once the £225
million of run rate synergies are fully realized. That brings our debt leverage back into the
range we want, as I mentioned previously.
So, our focus would be on integrating this transaction quickly and successfully. And as we
do so, we will develop new targets, shifting our emphasis toward reinvesting into organic
growth from our most promising businesses but we need to deliver the benefits of this
deal first.
Financial impact is positive overall for both companies. Once we realize the run rate cost
synergies of £225 million by the end of 2017, the deal should be accretive to cash flows
and broadly neutral to operating EPS. This does not give any effect to expected capital

Page 9 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

and related benefits of the transaction. We simply have better opportunities to reinvest
excess cash flows and we'll do so.
I should note that because of the amount of acquired value of in-force or AVIF, there will
be some accounting changes Aviva needs to make in order to better reflect the impact of
this transaction on our results. Unfortunately, for me, this will complicate my life in trying to
manage towards my mantra of after, after, after. So, in operating profit and operating EPS,
we will exclude the amortization of AVIF, as Friends Life does, so that operating EPS tracks
cash and our dividend payments more closely. But I'll also watch how we grow NAV, which
will suffer from the amortization of AVIF.
The point is that I'm after the same results our shareholders want in terms of operating
performance, real distributable cash, and growth in book value. We will remain disciplined.
This transaction is clearly good for Friends Life, especially in terms of credit ratings and
growth. S&P has already made positive statements in that regard. And, over time, we
expect the transaction to be ratings positive for the combined group. And, as you can see
from the bottom of this slide, value of new business will continue to be a key
performance indicator for us as well and as a significant figure for both companies.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now we've been considering the Friends Life opportunity as an acquisition candidate
since June and have now completed a detailed due diligence review. This has involved
dedicated teams of senior professionals complemented by outside advisors. I'm
obviously entirely satisfied with the results of that diligence process.
However, at the same time, I'd like to acknowledge that the Aviva of years past did not go
far enough in integrating mergers of General Accident, Norwich Union, and Commercial
Union. We're still affected by that legacy and continue to work today on rationalizing those
operations further. In fact, I should be clear that Aviva has pre-existing plans to cut cost
and improve the operations of its UK Life business without this transaction.
On its own, our UK Life business has become a star in improving its operating expense
ratio quarter-after-quarter. So it's important to recognize that the £225 million of
synergies we're announcing with Friends Life are incremental savings over and above
what we think we can get on our own from UK Life. We want to do better than the £225
million, of course. And we expect this transaction to serve as a catalyst for more ambitious
improvements of our UK Life operations. There's ample room to upgrade or replace
legacy systems and processes, while providing better service and outcomes for
customers.
We have a strong team to lead and a clear plan in place to integrate our respective
businesses. As Mark said earlier, Andy will lead the combined UK Life operations as the
business unit CEO. Nick Amin, our Transformation Director will be appointed as Integration
Director, also reporting to Mark. And Jonathan Moss will support Andy as Director of the
back book and Heritage businesses.
Andy will talk a little bit more about the integration, how we plan to bring out the best of
both organizations. But you should note that we've assumed approximately £350 million
Page 10 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

of integration costs with the costs and synergies spaced in over the course of 2015, 2016
and 2017. Nick Amin will bring his considerable project management skills to that effort,
coordinating with UK Life and Aviva Investors.
So, I'm confident of our ability to execute. The plan is not premised on a complicated new
IT programme or migration. The asset management synergies and certain other benefits
are straightforward to achieve. We've identified key risks and established contingency
plans. So, this is a great opportunity for us to take Aviva forward.
And on that note, let me turn the stage over to Andy Briggs to talk more specifically about
our opportunity together and the benefits for Friends Life.

Andy D. Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Thank you, Tom, and good morning here in London. Good afternoon to those of you in
Singapore. First, let me start by saying what an exciting opportunity, I think, this
combination represents. You've already heard from Mark and Tom about a number of the
benefits that this transaction brings to the enlarged group, creating the market leader in
the UK Life market. And I'll talk more about that in a moment.

Bloomberg Transcript

But, first, I'd like to touch on the compelling financial and strategic rationale for Friends Life
shareholders. From a financial perspective, for Friends Life shareholders, at the time of
our original announcement, the terms represented a 27% premium to our three-month
average share price. On top of that premium, our shareholders will also get a 2014
second interim dividend of £0.241 per share which is £0.10 per share more than last year.
And on top of that, the value share will be crystallized and settled which is a further circa
£220 million, thus removing this overhang for our shareholders. Going forward from here,
the strength of the combined organization would enable an attractive, progressive
dividend policy with the significant increase in the Aviva dividend announced today and a
target to move to two times IFRS operating earnings cover in the medium term.
Let me now look at this from a strategic perspective. We have consistently said that
standalone, we are confident at driving cash today through efficient back book
management and attractive growth through writing profitable new business. Delivering
this is key to supporting a progressive dividend policy. We've also consistently said that
there is potential for greater value for our shareholders through inorganic activity.
This combination provides the opportunity to accelerate the delivery of value to our
shareholders and accelerate growth from an enlarged platform to unlocking value from
the combined back book and cost synergies. Strategically, the benefits of the combination
are clearly strong. All in all, I believe this is an attractive deal for our shareholders.
But I want to focus today on the attractive opportunity for the combined group in the UK
Life market. It won't surprise you that my focus here is on cash flow and growth,
consistent with the focus of both Aviva and Friends Life. And as I'll talk through this, I want
to cover not only where we plan to play in the market, but, more importantly, what I
Page 11 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

believe we will have significant competitive advantage and, hence, we'll win in our chosen
markets.
In terms of cash flow, our first key area of focus is on the back book. Suffice to say, we're
really excited of the prospect of the substantial value that can be delivered to
shareholders from combining these back books, including capital synergies. Secondly, we
will have a significant scale advantage and, hence, post the delivery of synergies,
significant cost advantage, which I will evidence in a few moments. This will benefit both
cash today, but also support growth in the future.
Moving on to growth, I'm particularly excited by the attractive growth opportunity that the
combination offers. The deal creates the UK's leading insurance, savings and asset
management business, number one in corporate pensions, number one in protection,
and one in four retiring DC pension customers, all underpinned by an in-house asset
manager with a broad product set and an established track record.

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, scale, but not scale for scale's sake. Scales drive better profitability. While that alone
will deliver significant benefits to shareholders, there's a further opportunity, from a
customer perspective, to deliver True Customer Composite and Digital First propositions
across the 12 million UK Life customers and 16 million overall UK customers.
So, what I plan to do now is to cover each of these four areas in turn, starting, first of all,
with superior back book management. We will have a dedicated focus on the back book,
which will be the largest in the UK. We have a proven track record in driving value for
shareholders from the back book. And I'm delighted that Jonathan Moss will play a key
role in the business going forward, together with the expertise that Aviva have been
building in back book management under Mark's leadership.
This is a well-trodden path for us. And there are three key areas of focus for driving
improvement on the right-hand side of this slide. Firstly, costs, where process
simplification and cost synergies are the key areas of focus. Secondly, capital. While we
haven't quantified specific figures today, there are significant potential benefits, including
diversification of economic capital with general insurance and international businesses and
optimized reinsurance arrangements.
Just to give you a simple example. The biggest driver of the four elements of cost
synergies that Mark just covered will come from the back book operations. In an economic
capital world, a good proportion of these will be capitalized and added to the balance
sheet once the synergies have delivered. So, our cost advantage, which I'll come on to,
also delivers a material advantage in capital efficiency which our competitors do not have.
And, finally, there'll be revenue optimization benefits, in particular, the migration of assets
to Aviva Investors, which Mark has already covered and is clearly significant.
Moving on to our second area of focus, scale and cost advantage. The chart on the left
here shows the UK Life assets under administration of the enlarged group compared with
our peers. As you can see, we have a significant scale advantage with £215 billion of UK
Life assets. But like Mark, I'm not interested in scale for the sake of it. I want it to lead to
Page 12 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

material competitive advantage. The chart in the middle here shows the UK Life cost base
as a percentage of assets under administration for Aviva, Friends Life, the combined
group compared to our peer group.
So, the peer group is currently on an average of just over 50 basis points. The combined
group post the delivery of synergies will be at just over 40 basis points. And this takes no
account of cost benefits from asset management. And the synergies, as Tom just said, do
not include the cost efficiencies embedded in our current plans.
I'll leave you to do the sums. The 10 basis points of cost advantage on £215 billion of
assets is a material competitive advantage. However, clearly, that requires delivery of the
synergies. Fortunately, both businesses have a demonstrable track record of delivering
cost efficiencies over the last few years, with Friends Life Group delivering cost synergies
and other efficiencies equivalent to one-third of its combined operating cost base and
Aviva reducing its UK Life cost base by 28%. All in all, the combined business is
exceptionally well-placed to drive strong cash flow.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, let me now move onto growth and start with the scale leadership positions the
combined business will have across the core UK Life growth markets. What I particularly
liked here is the complementary fit of the two businesses. I'll start with corporate
pensions. Friends Life focus has been on mid to large corporates with strong employee
benefit consultant relationships. And Aviva's has been on SMEs. We will base the new
business proposition on the Friends Life market-leading scale platform. We've always said
that scale is critical in this market and there is substantial benefits from operational
gearing, grow assets and hold costs.
The combined group will be the number one player, with £39 billion of assets under
administration, more than twice the size of the number three player. Add to this the fact
that we expect this market to more than triple in size over the next decade which will
drive further benefits of operational gearing. And this will be a key driver of growing cash
and profitability for the group going forward.
Similarly, on protection, we have complementary product strengths with Friends Life more
focused on a premium proposition in critical illness and income protection with estate
agency partnerships, while Aviva has been more focused on term and healthcare with
bancassurance partnerships. The combined group will be the number one player in the
protection market by value of new business, which, of course, is what matters rather than
just market share.
Finally, in the retirement income market, the combined group will have one in four
maturing DC pension customers in the UK and will have a leading At-Retirement
proposition, leveraging the Aviva brand and the combined product suite and solutions,
again, a scale position, where the funds coming up to retirements in this market are
expected to triple in size over the next decade. To summarize, strong propositions in the
most attractive areas of the UK Life markets.

Page 13 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

The final area I'd like to talk about is the improved customer proposition for our 12 million
UK Life customers and 16 million overall UK customers. And I'm going to use the
retirement income market as an example to illustrate this. Following the budget, the
retirement income market will change significantly. In particular, I believe there will no
longer be a specific point of retirement, more of an extended transition.
Given the scale of our existing customer base, we are better able to understand how that
transition is going to take place and what's important to our customers. Some of our
customer research is shown on the right of this slide. As a result, we can deliver a leading
proposition in the middle of this slide.
Not only would this have a broader products offering, covering drawdown, annuities,
equity release, and a broad fund choice, including Aviva Investors, but perhaps, more
importantly, the multi-channel distribution approach, Digital First and leveraging the
combined strengths on customer engagement, which have been a key focus for both
groups, and then also working closely with corporates through the market-leading My
Money platform and advisers through the Aviva for Advisers platform.

Bloomberg Transcript

And that's before we even start to think about leveraging the full benefits of True
Customer Composite and make general insurance offers to our customers in their 50s
and 60s, which particularly attracts me, given my years in the general insurance sector. In
addition, there is the opportunity to sell AIMS and other investment management
propositions to our existing wealth customers.
So, to summarize, as I said upfront, I believe the rationale for Friends Life shareholders is
compelling: the financial rationale, the premium, plus the dividend, plus the value share
being settled; and the strategic rationales, the attractions of the combined group. The
combined UK Life business will be all about cash and growth, cash through superior back
book management and leveraging the benefits of scale to deliver significant cost
advantage, and profitable growth through scale leadership positions across the core UK
Life growth markets together with a strong customer focus across our broad range of
propositions.
Suffice to say, I'm very excited of the prospects of creating value through leading the
combined UK Life business and I look forward to joining the board of the enlarged group
on completion. In particular, a key integration principle is very much best of both. And I'm
confident that with the best of both teams, we will have the strongest team in the market.
I look forward to working with my new colleagues as we work towards achieving our joint
ambition to create the UK's leading insurance, savings and asset management business.
And with that, I'll hand you back to Mark.

Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

So, that's the detail. You've heard about the rationale. You've heard about the financials.
You now know the opportunity we have, I think, in the UK Life. So, in summary, if you put it
all together, we believe this transaction accelerate the strategies of both Aviva and the
Page 14 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

Friends Group. And it's the right strategy for that group. In my vernacular, I'd call it a highly
satisfactory transaction. But, for Friends, that gives an attractive premium, as well as
additional special completion dividend. And it really does provide a compelling strategic
future.
There are substantial synergies we spoke about this morning and that we'd been able to
quantify into which we expect to deliver with a high degree of certainty. You can see,
upsides exist from future revenue and capital synergies which we have not included in the
numbers today and that will take some more time to work through.
This accelerates our financial transaction of the Aviva Group. And it also creates an
important foundation for growth in our growth sectors of our business. And, of course,
add all that together and that it results in an enhanced dividend trajectory or what I like to
call it, cash flow plus growth.
So, with that, I should open up, I think, to questions. Now, it's going to be a little bit more
logistically challenging this morning as we have people in Singapore and here. Hopefully,
the Singapore logistics will work quickly and we can get them onto the screen.
There you go. It works. Okay. That's a good start. And with Chris Wei hosting it, maybe
we'll start with you, Chris, let's see if we can take a question or two there and then I'll
come back and take them down and we'll see how this evolves.

Bloomberg Transcript

Christopher B. Wei

{BIO 17014406 <GO>}

Okay, Mark. First hand up is Jon Hocking. If I can ask, actually not just Jon, but if you can do
me the favor of standing, quick introduction, where you're from, and speak into the mic
for the benefit of London, that would be great. Thank you.

Q&A
Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

It's Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. I've got three questions, please. Firstly, on the back
book plan for the UK Life business, you've got five funds, I think, you mentioned on one of
the slides.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

I know it's early days. I wonder if you could give us some idea of how many funds you
ultimately expect to have or whether there's any opportunity here to accelerate the cash
flow release from the RISA (00:47:38) which I know has been an ongoing issue.

Page 15 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

Secondly, on the asset management synergies, you've also got some existing
relationships there. I wonder if you could give us some color about how quickly you expect
to onboard those assets and the extent to which there were break fees you have to pay
and whether that's – I presume that's included in, I think, the £350 million number that you
mentioned.
And then, thirdly, given the better capital position you seem to be hinting at on an
economic basis, I wonder if you can run through some of the potential uses of excess
capital, I'm thinking maybe re-risking the investment portfolio, maybe shareholders' funds,
et cetera. Thank you.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Okay. Maybe to start the asset management back book. (00:48:22).

A - Andy D. Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I'll take the first two. So, it's too early to comment on plans in terms of number of life
companies in the UK. But what I would say is that the focus will be very much on our
economic capital approach to this. So, you're going to get diversification benefits bringing
two UK Life companies together. Tom's slide earlier on showed you where the risks are
different. That basically means diversification benefits as you bring them together. You
then can diversify the Friends' capital position against the general insurance and
international businesses as well.
And then the specific example I gave, in an economic capital world, as we save
maintenance costs, that capitalizes through into the capital base and is a capital
advantage. The cost advantage I covered earlier on, a material cost advantage over our
peers, also translates in terms of expense to which there's maintenance cost into a capital
advantage that we have over our peers as well and greater capital efficiency.
On your second question, £100 billion of assets in Friends Life Group, just under £70
billion of that is what I call discretionary assets where we decide where that money goes.
Three key elements to that. There's £19 billion in Friends Life Investments, our own inhouse asset management we set up a couple of years ago, clearly logical as an early step
to combine that up with Aviva Investors. The second sort of logical area to look is the £35
billion of assets we have with AXA Investment Managers. We've historically said that the
break fee on that money halves in September of next year. So that's the next logical step
to look at. And then there's about £12 billion of assets with Schroders which we will also
give some thought to in due course.

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Yeah, so just to pick up from there, filling a couple of blanks, Jon. We're not seeing
anything new on the RISA today. Again, we continually look at that. On the break fees,
they are included in the £350 million estimate on integration costs. And then in terms of
better capital management, again, we think it's significant. We're not quantifying the
amount. And I think what I'd also say is we're maintaining our discipline here. I've got a lot

Page 16 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

of colleagues that want me to invest that business in their own initiatives, but we're not
going to spend the money before we've realized it. So that will come over time.

FINAL

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

I mean, Jon, it does give us flexibility. And just on the capital, the thing with RISA, we still
have a lot of modeling to do right through the back books. And so we're not being
evasive this morning. There's just frankly a lot of work to do. What we do know, it's not
negative. Okay. So, we know that much. And we're not trying to fill in all the blanks in the
models today, but I think we've given a far bit of data that hopefully can help. Chris, can I
maybe take one more question there and then we'll come back to the room here for a
couple?

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah. Hi. Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan.

A - Christopher B. Wei

{BIO 17014406 <GO>}

Ashik?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Just a couple of questions. Hi. Good morning, everyone there. Just a couple of questions.
First of all, with respect to your liquidity, I mean, clearly, you are getting Friends Life, which
has much lower risk, but you're getting similar liquidity to your current position. So, netnet, you're adding a lot of liquidity in your balance sheet. So, where are you comfortable
with in terms of liquidity going forward? That would be the first thing.
Second thing, I thought – I mean if you're buying Friends, which is valued at low-risk fee
kind of business model, you would be getting a lot of diversification benefit with your
credit book, et cetera. But you haven't touched base a lot on the bulk annuity market or
annuities market, per se. So what are your plans on that? Because that's one growth area
which was not really focused? I can clearly see the opportunity in protection and corporate
pension. What about annuities as well, individual or deeper?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Ashik, if I can maybe start with annuities, we don't anticipate any change in our strategy on
annuities. As I've said many times before, for any particular price point, we seem to be
able to pick up as much annuities as we want because our brand carries a lot of weight in
that market. Clearly, we've signaled before our desire to reduce overall exposure to
annuities. And we said we have plenty of room for growth in the UK Life business. I think
that was shown pretty adequately in our third quarter where the UK Life business was up
19% despite the annuities.
So, you can see we clearly have avenues to turn on the growth where we want to. We're
pretty comfortable with where we are. We've said before we don't want to be in the
jumbo end of the market. We'll leave that to some other people. That's fine. We said we

Page 17 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

will do bulks in the small to medium part of the market where we believe there's healthy
margins. And that doesn't change. Okay. That provides a bit of color. Tom?

FINAL

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Sure. So, on liquidity, you're absolutely right that our liquidity position does improve pretty
substantially as a result of this transaction. And I think as you think about that going
forward, it has multiple elements for us. So, on the one hand, I'm working with John Lister
and Jason Windsor and thinking about strengthening our liquidity risk appetite, so that we
continue to maintain appropriate buffers. That means that our dividends going forward will
be much more resilient and stronger. So that's a good thing for us.
Our overall liquidity levels will be higher. We'll obviously apply some of that to fund some
of the transaction cost and integration cost here over the interim. And then we'll have
substantial additional liquidity and cash flow generation that we can reinvest in growth.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

I think you'll agree with that level of liquidity, it certainly gives much more flexibility, doesn't
it, which I know some of you had concerns about before. Let's turn it over for questions
here first and we've got a couple of mics. Andy?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

All right. Thanks so much. Andy Hughes, Exane BNP Paribas. The first on the expense
synergies. So, I'm a bit confused about what's the expense synergy and what's the hidden
cost saving that would have been coming out from two businesses had they continued on
a standalone basis. So, can we touch on what the expense saving pounds were at Aviva
and Friends Life to add on to the expense synergies because these expense synergies
presumably are not eroded by inflation? And as you've seen, they're coming through as
cash as the fee levels drop in these businesses. So, for example, Aviva's UK and Ireland
was 91 basis points.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

You're not charging 91 basis points on new inflows. In fact, if you look at the wrap
platform, it's substantially less than the cost savings after this plan is achieved. So, it's
clear, I think, with the expense that is coming in on the new business side, you need to do
something extra on costs. So, can you give us some idea about the cost?
Also on the capitalization of these. Obviously, you're showing it as an ongoing benefit to
cash. But a big chunk of it is capitalized, so could we find out about that as well? On the
TNAV calculation, I find it a bit odd that you've dropped the TNAV and saying the TNAV
has improved materially because, obviously, if Aviva was to go out and buy Aviva today, it
would report AVIF on the balance sheet and its TNAV will look perfectly fine. Just because
Friends Life has AVIF from acquisitions doesn't mean the leverage ratio is much better
Page 18 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

than Aviva's was historically. It just means that they're reporting much more AVIF in
tangible equity.

FINAL

And relying on the kind of S&P leverage ratio makes a group a bit more vulnerable to
market conditions because it's what's called soft capital, i.e., VIF and hybrid equity. I'm just
wondering what your view on that is as well going forward? Thank you.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Okay. It's quite a list, Andy, for someone that was confused. And maybe if I can just start,
first of all. So, we haven't gone out with any additional cost target simply. But what we are
saying very clearly and we'll evidence it to you later that we're saying the £225 million is
this transaction specifically. Now, it also does help us, in addition to that, do some cost
savings that we were going to do anyway that we can do quickly because – look at it like
this. You know I do turnarounds.

Bloomberg Transcript

And when you do a turnaround, you need a catalyst to get things done quickly. So, it's very
easy to look at a particular life company and see what needs to be done. You don't have
to be that good to work that out. The tricky part is getting people to do it. Now, last year,
we had a bit of a burning platform. And, obviously, we executed, I think, prior to the probably most people thought we would.
And this year, you see now it's obviously going pretty well. This provides us the impetus to
do it. But it provides us the impetus not just to do this transaction. It provides us the
impetus to do rest of the stuff in business we wanted to do at the same time. So, looking
at group, I've been very clear that though group costs were too high, I was clear at that at
the half year. And I'm simply going to address those. This allows us to do that in a faster
way and a more rigorous way than we could have done before. So, that's the way to think
about these synergies. I'm not going to give any more detail today about further
numbers. You have to make your own assumptions on that. Tom?

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Sure. So, just to pick up on that and to confirm what I've said before. We've got existing
plans to take our cost down and the £225 million is incremental to that. So, we're
maintaining our discipline there. In terms of capitalization of expense savings, we haven't
done any of that. So, again, our numbers don't reflect any capital benefits. We're looking
only at the operating impacts and any capital benefits would be to come and would be an
additional. And then, finally, on the TNAV and the quality of capital, what I'd say is the
value of in-force effectively counts as regulatory capital and is driving how we manage the
business and ultimately the cash flows and the dividends that we deliver to shareholders.
So, we think it's perfectly appropriate to consider the AVIF as good balance sheet assets.

A - Andy D. Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Just to pick up the point about the fees in the market falling. One of the key drivers of
that is generally some of the new business numbers you're quoting don't include the
asset management fees and some of the back book has commissioned on the back book
which is kind of on both the income and the cost side. So, it's not a like-for-like
Page 19 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

comparison. And I think the key point I was trying to make is that we expect to have that
10 basis points cost advantage. That's before the plans we already had. So, it's the extent
that others are going to bring cost down through efficiencies, we would look to do that as
well, as well as achieving the synergies on top of that.
A key driver of that is by taking the best of both platforms. So, if I look at my own
experience over the last three years at Friends Life, as we brought the businesses
together, we took a third out of the cost base. That was a key driver of the cash
generation going from less than £100 million to over £300 million. But, in particular, at the
same time as that, we led to substantially increases in the value of new business as well,
because basically you then got those lower cost as you're starting to drive the growth. So,
we've done this before. We know what we're doing. And we're confident we can do it
again.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

And then that market is all about scale. I mean, it's a scale advantage. You cannot beat a
scale advantage in that particular market. Andrew?

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning. It's Andrew Crean with Autonomous. Three questions. Firstly, the cost
synergies from bringing the two life companies together, I think, represent about 14% of
the two cost basis, which looks relatively unambitious in terms of that. Can you go through
some of the thinking which got you to that number?
Secondly, in orders of magnitude, obviously, you won't be able to do this absolutely
accurately. But if you took the £1.4 billion of free cash generation, which you are aiming at
by 2017, what proportion of that would be, I suppose, UK Heritage in Friends Life
terminology?
And then, thirdly, can you give us some sense of the potential capital synergies which
you've yet to bring through on the UK cost base? Because what you're doing is dripfeeding profit through as you bring down to the current cost base. Can you give us some
sense for, say, 10 basis points of cost what potential synergies or capitalized synergies
would be?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Maybe I'll take the synergies and hand over the capital and the other one. When you look
at the transaction and you've finally seen the numbers this morning, you don't have to be
overly-heroic on cost synergies to make it work. I think that's the first point I'll make. And I
think we have a history of more than achieving our results. It's about somewhat saying
23% of what we saw is the addressable cost base, okay. So, think of it like that – is to be
more specific rather than a total cost base. So, again, you would argue that is within our
gift to achieve, but that gives you a bit of scale. I think, that's probably helpful. The
Heritage book and the capital, who wants that (01:01:16)?

Page 20 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

A - Andy D. Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

FINAL

I'll just touch on the capital synergy point. So, one of Mark's slides showed the £225 million
of synergies split between the four areas. The biggest one of those areas, so over a
quarter, was the back book synergies, which is basically the maintenance costs on the
existing back books. So, you kind of take that and apply capitalization factor. And that's
how you start to think about the capital benefit as a result of the cost reduction, which, I
think, is what your question was. And, Tom, do you want to -

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

You saw some of that at our half year as well, by the way, as you know, right?

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So, only just to pick up on two points. In terms of the savings here as a percentage of the
addressable cost base, there's a number of adjustments that you need to make. Friends,
it does a lot of outsourcing of some of their operations. So if you look at the addressable
cost base, the savings number of £225 million equates to roughly 25% of the addressable
cost base. That includes some of the asset management that's been outsourced, but
doesn't include some of the insurance operations that have been outsourced in terms of
costs.
And then your other question about the excess cash flows and sort of how much of that
comes from the UK Life business. That's actually hard to estimate because as we look at
our sort of £800 million target for excess cash flows, that is coming from business unit
dividends that is a number of higher than that. And then we subtract interest expense and
centre cost against that. So, it's sort of hard to track exactly how much that is.
But you can look and see what we've been paying historically from our UK Life business in
terms of remittances. And then look at this – again, some of these benefits are coming on
the asset management side that would benefit Aviva Investors as opposed to Life. But,
again, that incremental £600 million is really coming here in the UK.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Maybe if we can turn it back to Singapore for a question or two and then bring it back to
the room here. Chris?

A - Christopher B. Wei

{BIO 17014406 <GO>}

Anything from here? We have one here.

Q - Edward L. Houghton

{BIO 17612475 <GO>}

Hi. Ed Houghton from Bernstein. Could you please clarify who is liable for the value share
and which set of shareholders? I'm just not quite clear. And, secondly, could you give a
little bit more color around the growth opportunities that you touched on earlier? Where
would you look to deploy excess capital in terms of growth and how? Thank you.

Page 21 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

I'll take the second. You take the first.

FINAL

A - Andy D. Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

All right. Good afternoon, Ed. Hope you're well. We still haven't had that game of tennis
yet. Ed and I are members of the same tennis club we discovered when we bumped into
each other recently. So, I'll take the first one on the value share. It's a liability for Friends
Life to settle.
So, the way to think about it is effectively the assets at Friends Life Group, just on the
point of completion, will go a bit down by £220 million or circa £220 million which is the
value share. So, it's a liability on Friends Life. So, from a Friends Life shareholder
perspective, ultimately, the price being received is having settled that liability which cost
circa £220 million. And so, Friends Life shareholders should view this as an additional part
of the value creation on this deal.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

And on the growth side, I mean, as you know, we're prepared to make the decisions
about reallocating capital across the group. And just to be really clear, that will not change.
We will technically reduce capital in some units if we don't think the margins are going the
right way or we would do it by geography as well.
I've also been very clear. As part of our Not Everywhere strategy, we're saying where we
want to be, we want scale, we want to be meaningful, we want to have a competitive
advantage. And so, to be specific, some of the areas that we would like to grow more
and, in fact, are growing, are areas such as Turkey where we have a leadership position.
You see we IPO'ed part of that recently, which is consistent with our JV partners' business
model. Poland where we have a leadership position, that's already a substantial cash cow.
And if you look at those two markets, they look like Asia did to me 15 years ago in terms
of insurance penetration, growth rate potential. Yet you can do things there and don't
have such competition for people. I mean I think they're wonderful markets.
What about Southeast Asia and China? I've also talked about those as growth markets.
And you're in the room with Chris today. Those are markets. We're very selective about
where we are in Asia. We've spoken about Indonesia with our JV with Astra Group, which –
it was the largest corporate entity in Indonesia with massive distribution. You look down
there now, you can see the sort of opportunities we have. So we're going to be selective.
And then you have a look back at the UK. We have been very clear about the – we would
like to put more of our operational expenses into digital. That's why we call it Digital First.
That's where we're going to invest. We have Andrew here today. We have a significant
digital operation. But I think we're in the Stone Age compared with some other industries.
And with the brand and the leverage and the customers, we now have 5 million or so
more Friends customers that, on the whole, aren't intermediated. And that becomes an
ideal platform.

Page 22 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

A - Andy D. Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Absolutely. And although – I mean, it's asset base, so it's not something you need to be
concerned about in terms of deploying capital into it, but the fact that the number one
player in the corporate pensions market which we expect to triple in size over the next
decade, scale is all important. And then having wanting for DC pension savers as our
customers, again digital being critical to both of these in a market which we again expect
to triple in size in terms of the assets coming up to retirement over the next decade. And
I think they're both attractive growth opportunities for the group, albeit there won't be
capital-intensive ones.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Our investment thesis is cash flow plus growth. I think the cash flow you can see is pretty
compelling. And we need to show the growth. But I think you know we have the
opportunities. And I think our results at half year in the UK and in France and in the
emerging markets – you've seen our growth directory. And no doubt we'll get questions
about that going forward and I welcome them.

A - Christopher B. Wei

{BIO 17014406 <GO>}

Mark, we have one more coming.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

If we can just flip back here first and then I'll go back to you next, Chris, if we can.

Q - Fahad U. Changazi

{BIO 15216120 <GO>}

Good morning there. Fahad Changazi from Nomura. You did mention that this transaction
gives you pricing advantage in the UK and the balance sheet is very strong and so on. I
take it you'll be looking to be more competitive in the protection market in the UK or the
market share is so big now that doesn't matter. You do plan to put any shares?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

I'd say we have the option. I'll leave it at that.

Q - Fahad U. Changazi

{BIO 15216120 <GO>}

And the other thing is I appreciate you're going to focus your strategies still in the SME
space, in bulks, but it is a very strongly growing market. Can we assume you could be
more competitive there in that particular niche?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Which part?

Q - Fahad U. Changazi

{BIO 15216120 <GO>}

You would be more focused on the SME side, the bulks.

Page 23 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Right.

Q - Fahad U. Changazi

{BIO 15216120 <GO>}

FINAL

And if we can expect to see more number of transactions.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Yeah. Well, I think you've already seen a large number of transactions in our last quarter. I
think we gave that figure out. My view on that is we've got to be selective. It depends
what happens with the pricing and the capital implications of that. And that becomes a
decision where we say we want to put more capital on that, on this. And that's a tactical
decision that we assess throughout the year. I think it's incredibly dangerous to go in and
say right. And we're not going to do that. We're not saying that they are all in one market.
The advantage of us is we can adapt it and I think we showed them in the third quarter
with 19% growth in the UK.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, we're going to be selective and we'll adapt it. It is a competitive market. The only
other thing I would say on pricing is – and we've seen this. We can see this online in
particular in the digital offer. For a similar price point, Aviva picks up more than its natural
market share. But the obvious reason is that it's no big surprise. It's one of those legacies
that we got left by our predecessors. The brand is outstanding. It's one of those strengths
of the business. Yeah. We've got a few legacies I'd rather not have as well. But the brand
is certainly one of them, isn't it? So, I think there's one on the other side as well. Was it
Chris Esson's hand up there?

Q - Chris J. Esson

{BIO 16208369 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning, everyone.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Hi, Chris.

Q - Chris J. Esson

{BIO 16208369 <GO>}

Chris Esson from Credit Suisse. Just a couple of quick questions with respect to, firstly, on
gearing and capital. That's clearly much better now. Does that give you a little bit more
flexibility in terms of narrowing the geographic footprint of the group and taking tough
decisions on businesses that perhaps haven't been as strong? And just on that, you've
allocated, I think, a lot of resources to cost reduction and turnarounds. And, historically, I
think, integrations are quite labor intensive. I just wanted to get a sense of the resourcing
across the group to deal with, I guess, the actions on that many fronts.
And, lastly, with respect to what this does to central liquidity, central cash generation on a
fully loaded basis. Does that in any way change the way that you think about capacity with
respect to various investments like bancassurance, renewals?

Page 24 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Okay. Tom will take the last one. I'll take the first one, just in geography. It gives us clearly
flexibility. You're right on that. But it wouldn't make any different decisions on the
geography to what we're already doing. We said not everywhere – said if we haven't got
a definable competitive advantage and we can't get scale in a reasonably short
timeframe, it's not the right market for us. And so, I don't think you'll see us making too
many decisions. But I think it's also fair to say that it does give us a whole lot of flexibility. I
get that. I think your point is well made. On the resourcing of integration?

A - Andy D. Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Sure. Yeah. I mean, I'll just come back to what I said before. Over the last three years at
Friends Life, we've delivered a third out of the combined operating cost base done,
delivered. We're confident we've got the resources and capability to deliver on this
integration.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

If I may just add to that as well, so – and I think Nick's in the room here somewhere who
most of you know. Nick is going to be the Director of Transformation and Integration. Nick
has quite a large team that's been involved in the transformation. Some of the heavy
lifting has been done. So we do have the resources we can allocate to that without much
disruption, frankly. And that's been a key part of our planning and one of the reasons we
announced that this morning, just to add some real clarity. I think Nick's licking his lips at
the prospect.

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

And just to finish off then, Mark, again, the last question on financial flexibility. Certainly,
this does increase our liquidity and financial flexibility, but it does not change our appetite
for bancassurance or anything else.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Yeah?

Q - Marcus W. Barnard

{BIO 2103471 <GO>}

Yeah. Marcus Barnard from KBW. Can you just say if you anticipate any competition
concerns? I'm assuming not overall across the group, but there might be some small
segments within the UK protection or group pensions in the market. And, second, can you
update us on what the plans are for FPI? I'm assuming you'll probably going to sell it but
just if you can update us there. Thanks.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Okay. Marcus, I'm certainly not going to talk to the regulators today. That would get me in
a great deal of trouble. But what I can say, you can assume we have done extensive due
diligence on things such as competition. And if you have a look, one of the interesting
parts of the group, it's complementary, isn't it? So, corporate pensions, as Andy pointed

Page 25 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

out, is not (1:13:25) very strong at the large end. We're very strong in the SME end. So, that
would appear to, I think, cover it off, Marcus. So, what's the second part of your question?

Q - Marcus W. Barnard

{BIO 2103471 <GO>}

FINAL

FPI.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

FPI. I know Chris is on the other line. Chris is very keen and looking closely at FPI. It's part
of the group. We weren't making any decisions on FPI yet, but Chris is very interested in
parts of it because it rounds out parts of our offer in Asia. But, like always, we have some
time to look at it, make the right call, see where we want to allocate capital with or without
this transaction right throughout both groups. That's something you do on a day-to-day
basis and that will continue. You're going to have an organization under some degree of
tension and pressure when it comes to capital management internally or you're not
managing it right. Okay. Andy (01:14:26)? So, no need to come over this side because I'm -

Q - John McFarlane

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

{BIO 1509370 <GO>}

Hi. Quick question on the customer service. Obviously, Friends Life has been known for
good customer service, Aviva potentially for less good customer service, if I can put it that
way. So, obviously, if you – perhaps if we sort of think about the amount of cost savings
you're putting through here, sort of 25% of the addressable cost base, plus the additional
cost savings that both groups were planning anyway, isn't it likely that the customer
service will deteriorate from the corporate pensions book and what impact will that have
because obviously that was the main attraction with corporates coming to Friends Life in
the first place?

A - Andy D. Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

So, let's be clear upfront. We've announced the decision today that we're going to run the
corporate pensions book off the Friends Life platform. So there will be no disruption for
those mid to larger employers, which, I think, is an important decision. That's why we've
been explicit on that today. The point about customer service is you get a win-win through
digital. So, in our industry, people don't want to spend ages doing their financial affairs.
They want it to be quick, simple, easy, and done accurately.
So, the focus will be around how we can automate and make things digital by taking the
best of both platforms of propositions that gives us a kick-start to do that. And, again,
talking examples from both businesses, but obviously I'm better placed today to talk
about the Friends Life experience. Our service standards have improved through our
integration and that's because we plan these integrations well and execute them well,
you end up offering the best propositions and platforms to customers in a more
automated way. It's lower cost. It's better for customers. You need skill and care to get
that right, but that's absolutely the goal we're set out with.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Page 26 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

And, Andy (01:16:15), on customer service, I also think it's always good to deal in fact. I'm
sure you agree with that. I'll give you a couple of facts. Our relationship Net Promoter
Score, which is ours versus the competitors underpins (01:16:30) the Net Promoter Score
is top quartile in the UK. Just to be absolutely clear. I accept a few years ago it wasn't, but
I can assure you currently it's top quartile.
Secondly, just look at the independent awards on the digital space. We are the, according
to an award, I think last week, was it, the top digital insurer in the UK. I mean, I think it's
dangerous to look in the rearview mirror, isn't it? I think it's better to look in a forward on
what the facts are, I would suggest. And I'd be delighted if you want to be a customer.

Q - John McFarlane

{BIO 1509370 <GO>}

I am a customer. I did use the word less good.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Okay.

Q - John McFarlane

{BIO 1509370 <GO>}

And a follow-on sort of on separating synergies versus ongoing cost savings. Obviously,
the two will be going out at the same time, as you mentioned. This transaction will be a
catalyst for you achieving your own cost saving goals across both businesses.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - John McFarlane

{BIO 1509370 <GO>}

So, the way you've sort of shown the synergies as being a cash benefit, should we think
of the synergies as being a cash benefit and the ongoing improvements as being
offsetting whatever loss come through from lower fees as the new business comes in at
lower fee level? Is that the kind of thing or will you be having operating earnings
improvement from the cost savings you're putting through as well on the ongoing
business?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Well, I think it's a huge question depending on the segment of -

A - Andy D. Briggs

{BIO 4311809 <GO>}

Yeah. I wouldn't want to speculate on what will happen to fees in different markets going
forward. What I would just reiterate is if you have a material cost advantage over your
peers, 10 basis points on £215 billion in UK Life assets, that is a material cost advantage.
You are going to be able to operate much more successfully and profitably in your chosen
segments.

Page 27 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Now, we had a question there from Andrew.

FINAL

Q - Andrew J. Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Hi. It's Andrew Sinclair from BofA Merrill. Two questions. Firstly, on tax synergies, firstly,
how should we be thinking about these and where are these on top of the tax
opportunities that have been previously mentioned by Tom?
Secondly, just on the True Customer Composite goal, Aviva will be increasingly lifeweighted after this transaction. I just wonder if you could elaborate on thoughts here and
how this compares to that 40%/40%/20% split that I think was mentioned previously. And,
finally, just on the £1.4 billion of potential cash flow, how much of this will be available for
dividends? Thanks.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

You take the first and last and I'll take the TCC.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Sure. Okay. So, first, on tax, there will be no change in our tax policies as a result of this
transaction. We'll be looking to, again, continue to optimize capital and harmonize our tax
position. Aviva has some favorable tax attributes but we're not doing anything differently
as a result of this transaction. And then in terms of the excess cash flow that's coming out
of this transaction, again, as I think Mark indicated, we're looking to pay some of that
dividend, some of that growth. It's all available but this gives us much more flexibility in
terms of how we position ourselves for growth going forward.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

And your, I think, second question on True Customer Composite, by the way, internally,
we now call it TCC. It's sort of become part of the abbreviations in the company. To be
able to grow effectively, you must first do it from the solo platform. And our strategy,
remember, was also – we said we needed to be British champions, secure our home
market and I think we certainly have done that.
Let's acknowledge though. It takes us – by the way, that weighting has never been a
target that I've put externally. Just as an aside, I think, there was something that was a slip
of the tongue somewhere but that was not a target we've ever put out. However, it's
clear we do want to over time wake the business. It's clear we do want more of the
business also in digital. And what this does is allows us a very large customer base that is
on the whole disintermediated that we can cross-sell our general insurance products to.
So, I can assure you that – I don't know whether Maurice Tulloch is here today. I am sure
that Maurice Tulloch's targets will be going up, just to add a little bit of clarity because –
and also Andy Brem and those sitting down in the office on the digital, same applies,
because the business case is compelling. Now, what can we get out of it? Frankly, we

Page 28 of 30



Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

don't know and I don't suggest we have all the answers today and it's going to take us
some time to work through it. And it gives us flexibility.
So, for example, if we wanted to build out our general insurance proposition in Poland, I
mean, pick a market, pick any market, well, you could do that. And the idea was balancing
up the group and that allows us to do it from a position of strength. It allows us to do it
from a position of cash flow and capital and earnings. And that just makes – gives us a
whole lot of options. Now, have we decided all those options? No. We need to focus on
what we're doing, which is integrate the things, get the cost out, get the dividend up, and
finish our financial transformation. And that's what we're here to do.
Andrew, do you – so no? Any on the other end or over this side? I think we're almost
done. Well -

A - Christopher B. Wei

{BIO 17014406 <GO>}

Jon's back again.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

So, Jon's back again.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Sorry. Just one last question. I just wondered whether given the extra liquidity you've got
now, you might revisit the endpoint for the internal loan or the trajectory of the reductions
(01:22:13).

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

Yeah. I think our plans are clear on that. This, obviously gives – like we've said today,
there's a whole lot of potentially positive capital benefits out of this today. There's a lot
more modeling and work to go on and we'll look at all that in the fullness of time, but little
early I think to be perhaps -

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Yeah. And just to be clear. I mean, we've continued to talk to our regulator throughout this
transaction. And there are no plans in doing anything differently than take it down at the
£2.2 billion at the end of 2015.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 6409810 <GO>}

So, I think, ladies and gentlemen, on that note, I thank you for coming in short notice and I
thank you for the time. And, as always, I look forward to reading your notes.

Page 29 of 30



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Friends L ife Group L td
Company Ticker: FL G L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

Page 30 of 30

