Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

Shareholder/Analyst Meeting
Company Participants
FINAL

Adrian O'Connor, CFO
Aki Hussain, CFO, Prudential UK & Europe
Barry Stowe , CEO
Brad Harris , Chief Actuary
Chad Myers , EVP & CFO, Jackson National Life Insurance Company
Guy Strapp, Chief Executive, Eastspring Investments
Jackie Hunt, Chief Executive, Prudential UK & Europe
John Foley, Group Investment Director
Lilian Ng, COO, Insurance
Michael McLintock, Chief Executive, M&G Investments
Michael Wells , CEO, Jackson National Life Insurance Company
Michele Bang, Deputy CEO, Eastspring Investments
Mike Wells , President & CEO, Jackson National Life Insurance Company
Nic Nicandrou, CFO
Tidjane Thiam, CEO

Bloomberg Transcript

Tony Wilkey, CEO, Insurance
Unidentified Speaker, Unknown

Other Participants
Abid Hussain, Analyst
Art Invenvi, Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Barrie Cornes , Analyst
Blair Stewart, Analyst
Bruno Paulson, Analyst
Chris Esson, Analyst
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Greig Paterson, Analyst
Jackie Cavanaugh, Analyst
James Garner, Analyst
Jon Hocking, Analyst
Lance Burbidge , Analyst
Mann Sisa, Analyst
Oliver Krisenblair, Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst
Page 1 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

Rob Plant, Analyst
Scott Russell, Analyst
Unidentified Participant, Analyst

FINAL

Will Elderkin, Analyst

Presentation
Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Good morning. Welcome to 2014 Prudential investor conference, which is the fifth now
under this format. And I think a number of you have attended, I feel, all five of them. And
we are very grateful to all of you for coming here this morning. We are in Singapore at an
important moment for the country. It's the 50th anniversary of Singapore next year. And
we've been in Singapore, Prudential, since 1931. So 83 years. It's a very important
presence for us in Asia.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have really the usual objectives, three objectives. The first one is really to give you
insight on our business, allow you to get closer to the businesses, the way we run them.
And you'll have several sessions. I'll go over the program in more detail later. But I hope
that we can meet that objective. Second one is really maybe the most important for me,
is to give you access to our staff and our teams.
We brought 36 people from Prudential from around the world. And we encourage you
very strongly to interact with them, ask them any question you'd like to or, not like to. And
listen to their answers. They are the people who make the Company and who deliver
those results that we present to you regularly. And the third one, a commitment we made
since 2010, which is not to leave the room or any room as long as you have questions to
ask. So this whole thing will last as long as you want; that we are here. And we are ready,
ready to address all your questions.
So let's start then. I will cover the usual points with you. I will give you an overview on the
group. Where are we? What is our performance today? I will then focus on Asia. Isabel
Mas [ph] challenged me yesterday. She told me how many charts do you have on the
Asian middle class? So you will find out soon. I'll do a few pages on the US, on the UK,
present the agenda. And then close with a few key messages.
So the group. The first thing I'd like to say is that we have a clear, unchanged strategy that
has been working well. This will be supported by numbers later. But we believe this
strategy has produced good results and we see no reason to change it. Although we
adapt it tactically from one year to another, it is fundamentally the same strategy and it is
focused on meeting our customer needs in our three geographies of Asia, the US. And
the UK. Maybe the most important word on this page is execution. And we didn't write a
sentence there. But it's all the women, the men in this room have a very strong culture of
execution. And if there is one thing in this group we are always focused on, it is execution,
to deliver growth in cash, which has been now our commitment for several years to
shareholders, to investors.

Page 2 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

So if we take the strategy first, we are -- the first opportunity we go after and the biggest,
the most attractive for us is the significant investment needs and protection gap of the
growing middle class in Asia. And really, every word in this sentence is important. It's
investment needs, it's a high savings rate region. Those savings need to go into vehicles
that produce return and a protection gap. The absence of a welfare system or social
safety net in those countries create for those who emerge into a middle-class a need to
buy insurance. They are mostly uninsured and so need to buy insurance.
The second one is of the baby boomers in the US. And we've talked to you about that a
number of times. Our average customer for VA in the US is 64 years old. So we are not
playing in the accumulation space. We are playing into the accumulation space for people
who hit retirement, need income in retirement. And to translate, we're 77 million -- to
translate the 77 million in a more practical number, it is 10,000 retirees every single day
for 20 years. That's what 77 million baby boomers mean. And they control $10 trillion of
assets today according to our estimate. So we see on the global scale, we see this as one
of the most massive opportunities.

Bloomberg Transcript

And finally, the UK, close to home. Which we know there is a saving gap but people need
to save more and they also need income in retirement. So this creates an opportunity
obviously for both M&G, our asset management business and our life business. It's very
simple. Three opportunities. We've always said we believe you can only win in business
ultimately if you create actual value for your customers. That's the only way to create
sustainable value for our shareholders. So we are very clear that, in these three situations,
we have the skills and the ability to produce value for our customers.
The best way to look at the performance of the life business -- we always say we're longterm business, we're long-term business, we're long-term business -- but because we
have managed every three or four or five years to change how we measure performance,
you all know it's very difficult to have a long time series for a life company. So I asked our
finance team to work. They worked quite hard and they produced this 14-year IFRS profit
chart for Prudential, 2000 to 2013. I'm not sure that you can get to that relatively easily.
But we're quite confident that these numbers are good. Because we had to rebuild them
for a period before the introduction of IFRS.
So what does it look like? At the beginning, it's not great. We are going down. At that
point I would describe Prudential as a traditional life company. We will come back to it. But
our first source of earning was spread. So we were basically a bet on markets, like many
life companies. And not a very good one, because you see when one market tanked, we
go down. I mean this led to a rate issue, as you know. And when we enter the next period,
where actually market recovered -- 2005, 2006, 2007 were some of the best years ever
in financial markets. So the same model applies.
You go down with markets, you go up with markets. And then you have the more recent
period. Which I think it's fair to say marked an inflection. And we'll talk today quite a bit
about what happened and why we were able to generate that inflection in the worst
markets ever. And I think everybody will agree with that. So the contrast with the
preceding period is quite stark, because we have outperformed a period where markets
were actually very, very, supportive of us. Really fundamentally we have created two
Page 3 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

business in that period, two material businesses. One is protection in Asia and the other
one is variable annuities in the US.
So if you brought Asia on this, it's very interesting also, you can see. And it's not as if we
started in Asia yesterday. We've had a material business in Asia for a long time. The issue
we had is that it wasn't profitable. During all those years where you have a flat profile at
the bottom, we were growing in Asia and growing significantly. So there's growth without
profits. And we then changed the model. And you'll hear a lot today from Barry and his
team about what they did and how they successfully changed the model to give some
impulse to that rate curve, some slope.

Bloomberg Transcript

And actually 50% of the additional profit created in that period comes from Asia. So that's
really where the transformation took place. When you started at GBP100 million, GBP150
million, you landed at GBP1 billion of IFRS profit in Asia. And that's an enormous
transformation. So if you look at that under a different lens which you are more used to,
we always go new business profit IFRS and cash generation. New business profit, group
level. And on the shorter time horizon, about seven or eight years, a very good
performance; trebled since 2006. You move to IFRS, 2.8, trebled again -- I'm speaking
French now. Trebled, too, in the same period.
And free surplus generation, which is really the -- we always struggled on cash with what
to go with. I went with free surplus generation, because for me when I look at the
business and I want to assess the value created in the business, that's really what it is.
After that, there's a question for remittance [ph] when it comes back on it. But as
shareholder, that value is yours. It's created a single business and it's fair. So all that has
allowed us to achieve our objectives.
Familiar with a chart on the left; we kept you half-year after half-year positive on this. And
we announced earlier this year that we achieved those objectives. But the one thing you
hear from us and you'll see from us always is that there is really no sense of complacency
ever in this Company. All those who work day-to-day with me know that I'm never more
stressed than when things seem to be going well; it drives me absolutely in a state of
panic. So there's no sense of -- so I say just to make sure that everybody remains
focused, we introduced new objectives even before we announced achieving the
previous ones.
So there is no -- we don't miss a step there. And we have some tension towards those
2017 objectives which are important, consistent with the strategy that we track and that
we work very hard to achieve. But I always count those in periods. We have 10 semesters
to 2017 and we've done three. So we are still in the first half. Not even in the first half. But
we are focused on delivering those objectives.
Now, let's move on to the macro environment. Big news flow. The most important thing,
really, is what happening with long-term interest rates. And we are living a strange period
where we all know there is a decoupling or potential decoupling between the US and the
UK on the one hand, who are contemplating different ways of getting out of QE. And

Page 4 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

Japan and Europe, who are about to engage -- who have engaged for Japan or are about
to engage with the European Central Bank in massive QE.
And I happened to be at the European Central Bank last week, I was -- two weeks ago?
Last week. I was asked to present, because Draghi brings together CEOs every three
months on the global investment trends. And he shared with us that he's worried about
deflation in Europe. And he thinks that today inflation expectations are still healthy but
he's very worried that deflation expectations become embedded. Because when you get
into a real terrible macroeconomic scenario of deflation, that we've seen play out in
Japan.

Bloomberg Transcript

So a lot of worry there. But fundamentally what we know is that it's lower for longer, to
use the sentence, it's lower for longer. We have to accept that long-term interest rates,
which are very important to us, are going to remain very low for probably longer than we
all expected. And we didn't want to have too many slides. I think you look at the threeyear forward rates, in tells you all the story. That really those expectations are now well
embedded in markets and everybody expects that lower for longer.
So what is our response to that? Actually, it's not very far from what we've been doing.
The first thing is focus on cash. Again, cash, cash, cash. In an environment like that, cash
becomes even more important. Both cash consumption -- so, capital allocation and cash
generation. Because where I showed several charts already about cash generation
because it becomes really everything. And to allocate your capital efficiently, effectively,
focused on capital efficient products. And you have to have a capital generative business
model. Because in the end you can grow your way out of any market difficulty if your
model generates enough capital period after period.
And finally, you have to take a prudent and conservative approach. We've always done
that. Our appetite for interest rate guaranteed products has always been limited. When
we write them, we write them in the with-profit fund [ph] so that our exposure there is
limited. We've kept a strong balance sheet. We have done a lot of de-risking, sacrificing
earnings to protect the balance sheet. So really we often say it's value over volume. I also
say it's balance sheet before earnings. And you will see that in different places in our
numbers and it's certainly something that Jackson [ph] does.
So if we run through quickly how we've done. Capital allocation; you will become very
used to this chart. It shows through a flattish capital consumption we've been able to
generate more profit. And opening with those jaws [ph] is part of how we create
headroom for the group in terms of cash and capital. The second view of this and possibly
our most important is the sources of earnings that you are used to: insurance margin, fee
income, spread income.
The one I really wanted to underline is for 2006. In 2006, fee plus insurance was 24% of
our earnings and spread was 37%. So when I was saying earlier, look, we were just like any
other insurance company in terms of our earnings when I showed you that the V curve.
Well it was true, okay? We were generating most of our earnings, like most European

Page 5 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

insurance companies, from interest rates and from spread. And that's been completely
transformed. Completely transformed.
If you look at today, protection -- I mean insurance plus fee is 64% versus 24% in spread.
so almost 2.5, almost 3 times in one period [ph]. That completely changes the way our
earnings behave in a given economic environment. And that's not fully understood yet.
But I think that's a lot of what drives that curve that you see going up in the 15-year chart
from a certain moment. We absolutely did it at the right time. When interest rates
collapsed it made us free. And finally, the focus, the discipline in capital allocation, capital
consumption. And the focus on cash generation gave us a free surplus generation profile
that is good and really even more pleasing that comes from every business unit.
Every recession is cash generative. And that's a good story and that's been our story. So
really, a story of I think the right strategy, being in the right market, executing with
discipline, being very aware of your external environment. And being able to deliver a
good performance, thanks to our focus on execution over a long period.

Bloomberg Transcript

So let's move to Asia now. We like Asia. We like Asia because we think it's a very attractive
region. It's a very attractive region because the fundamentals are strong. I don't need to
repeat them. But we believe the GDP growth is very strong. We have an outstanding team
in the region that executes very well on everything we want to do. And that has allowed
us to build best-in-class franchisees across the region and a strong track record of
performance.
So let's start with the fundamentals and GDP. This is our sweet spot. So it's Hong Kong,
plus Singapore, plus Indonesia, plus Malaysia, plus Vietnam, plus the Philippines, plus
Thailand. So it's seven -- Asia, basically. Plus Hong Kong. So it's seven countries. And this is
their expected economic growth. Frankly, it's going to oscillate between 4% and 6%. But it
is very comfortable. And thanks to the power of compounding, anything that grows at 4%
per annum is bound to become very big.
But it's important to remind ourselves just what are the drivers of that? It's a lot about
productivity of factors. It's a lot about demography. Demography overall in the region
remains very positive and very young. It's about productivity of labor. With education being
brought to places where there was no education before, you get a labor force that is
much more productive. And in simple terms for me, it's just the infusion of 21st century
technology in places where there is a huge untapped potential for growth.
And if I make a digression here, maybe I'm often affected by my own personal
experience in Africa and things like that. I have been to built roads. If you have not built a
road, you don't understand economics. Because really when you say the government are
going to put a road in this region in Africa; you go there, there is nothing. When I say
nothing, Africa is empty. There is nothing. You just drive 400 kilometers; you don't meet
anything or anybody. You put a road, you come back two years later, you see the villages,
the crops. You see something where there was nothing before.

Page 6 of 147



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

And often when we talk about GDP growth in emerging economies, that's all that's going
on. And part of the reason why we are so confident is that we know that if you put power
where there was nothing, the economic activity will appear. And that's how you realize
those types of growth. The reason why all those countries haven't got infrastructure so
much is because if you have the land, you have the space. And you have the sun, what's
going to produce economic growth is infrastructure. You put roads, you put telecoms, you
put water, you put energy, there's going to be something where there was nothing. An
entire region is going to start producing whatever you want: palm oil, corn, wood.
And that's economic wealth. And really the potential there is infinite and all those
countries have pockets of productivity of that nature that you can very easily tap in. Which
then leads you to the next chart. What we've tried to do here is get into the stock and
flow discussion. I think a number of companies have missed Asia because I think in terms
of stock. In the past, when I decided to join Prudential, I met one of my peers who said -within [ph] a very large European company, he told me, why on earth do you want to go
work for a small British company? And I said, well, it may be a small British company but it
has a leadership position in Asia. To which his response was, yes. But look at Asia: it's
small. Look at the massive assets we have in Europe.

Bloomberg Transcript

Absolutely true. But life is not about stocks. It's about flows. Stocks are the past, flows are
the future. And the winners are the people that win in the future, not those who have one
in the past. So what this chart does, it tells you that the $8 trillion is basically the increase in
the stock of wealth in Asia. And the $16 trillion is the new wealth created. So if Asia is
going to have add $24 trillion of GDP in the period, two-thirds of that increase are really
new, new wealth, if you wish, flows.
And the people who miss that basically miss the boat in Asia. Because if you are not able
to capture a significant part of those new flows, your rank can move down very, very
quickly. And when you look at the full formation, whereas Asia is 24% of the stock, it's 56%
of the flow from Asia. That's why it's important to be in Asia. Because if you are not in
Asia, you are going to keep shrinking and becoming smaller and smaller on a relative
basis. So that's for the big picture.
Now, Isabel, to the middle class laughter. The sweet spot middle class. Unavoidable but
important. We think today it's about 290 million people, 291 million. And we have about
3% market share on that. Our estimate is that by 2020 there will be another 112 million. I'm
never sure how we reach that precision. But anyway, 112 million exactly. Let's say more
than 100 million new entrants in the middle class. That's, with respect, 1.5 times the total
population of the UK. It's what we always say: this is a market where you get more and
more potential customers every day as the economy grows, as the economy develops.
So we are going to have, just as new customers -- again, back to stock and flows -- more
than 100 million individuals entering the Asian middle class in the sweet spot. So this is not
China, not India, this is just sweet spot in the next -- in that decade, which creates a huge
opportunity for us.

Page 7 of 147



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

I'll go quickly on the next one. You've seen them many, many times. This one you are very
used to. It's the protection gap. So those hundreds of millions of middle-class entrants are
uninsured lastly -- largely uninsured, against the risk of death, the risk of illness. And we
are an insurance company. So really it's a no-brainer. But if we design an affordable
product, it will sell and that they will be very happy to buy it. The next one is about a point
that Barry -- I don't know where Barry is -- has made many times. He always said, with
respect, there is no such thing -- for all the Asians in the room, there's no such thing as a
gene for saving. Asians save because they need to.
It's a precaution saving. They save because they don't have a safety net. So the other side
of a coin. Either they buy insurance directly that protects them against the risk or they just
build a nest -- an egg nest that protects them against accidents or something. And the
savings rates are really very, very, very large. And we haven't seen a change there. In spite
of increasing the level of wealth in the country, that behavior has remained. And that's a
big opportunity for us, because we have a spring can capture all those flows, manage
them. And give returns to those millions of Asian savers.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, on Asia, I want to finish on analysis that we have showed you before. What I've
showed you before was GDP per capita. So we tried to get closer to our industry and I
asked our team to do it with life premiums per capita. So this is the history of life premium
per capita in real dollars, in constant dollars, in the USA, how this developed. And you can
see actually a very interesting, flattish curve for a very long time, almost 150 years. Then
there's an inflection and it takes off. And we've put Indonesia, Thailand. And Singapore on
this chart just to compare.
So let's start with Indonesia. I have to do the multiplication every time. It's nine times.
Okay. In 10 years, it trebled twice and so the life premium per capita in Indonesia are nine
times higher in 2013 than in 2003. But they are still where the US was in 1950. And this is
why we are so relaxed when you all say, well, is the Indonesian story over? We don't see
why or how. We think that the upside is enormous. We'll talk again about it today. We are
taking into Jakarta. You'll have a chance to see it firsthand. But if you look at this from a
macro perspective, again it's a no-brainer that there is enormous headroom.
Let's take another country, Thailand. I was actually surprised by this one. It's even more.
It's 40 times; 40 times over -- and that's not the total market. It's per capita. So the
market has done because the population increases. So it's 40 times bigger in 27 years.
That's still again in 1970, still again at the beginning. And we've taken a welfare nation,
where we are here, Singapore. Singapore, it's 30 times. I haven't translated those in
CAGRs. But any market that grows 9 times in 10 years, 40 times in 20 years, 30 times in
20 years, this is the type of scale we always tried to convey to you when you ask us about
our ambition.
It's a bit difficult to say to an investor, well, we want to be 30 times bigger. People look at
you with a bit of disbelief. But actually in Asia you can deliver that, country after country,
time after time again. And we will never stop emphasizing that enough. Now, the other
interesting thing for me. And this is what we're -- Singapore is now above the US. And
that's something we also would like to debunk, the notion that in everything the West is

Page 8 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

the ceiling and people drive curve to wherever the West is. Well this is not the West. So
don't think that our production is capped by whoever, the US or the UK, it's not.
These are economies where the savings rate is at, an equal level of GDP per capita,
several multiples of what it is in the US. And I was so happy to see Singapore breaking
through that ceiling. So don't always imagine the future on just a reproduction of what
happened in the West, because it's not likely to be. So we are confident that it's going to
continue growing. We're going to continue growing very fast. And ultimately it's probably
going to overtake the West.
And on Hong Kong we have another chart actually proved it, because the Hong Kong
bubble is here somewhere. And I thought you might disbelieve us. So we are checking the
data. One, we think two countries have broken through the US level and maybe more will
in the future. And that's very interesting to think that we are probably on uncapped upside
there. Very positive.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we put all of them on a page and you get that. Whichever way you look at that, it gives
you the same type of message. We've done it for GDP. Here it's life premium. You can
see that when I cover growth escalator. And the direction of travel is known. The speed of
travel can vary. It will go fast one year and less fast another year. But the direction of travel
is well-known. And I always insist that I don't expect to see any straight lines anywhere.
These are emerging economies. By nature they are volatile. They will grow from one
quarter to another quarter up or down. But really given, again, the potential for
productivity gain in those economies we have no doubt that it's going to be good.
Now, it's not a surprise for anybody. Anybody can do the analysis. So I think it's a very wellknown. So we always come back to, okay, it's great to have this great opportunity. And we
are in the unique position to capture it. And for us that's a function of two things:
distribution and innovation. If we take distribution, the number of agents in the sweet spot
countries again, it's about 300,000 now, multiplied by 3 over six years. I cannot overstate
the importance of this. I hope over the years we've convinced you that this is very much a
supply gain. It's the ability to distribute your product that determines your growth. And
building that capability is an enormous achievement by Barry and his team. And in Asia
there is no shortcut to success. There is no shortcut to success.
The people who wake up now and say, okay, we want to be successful in Asia. Well they
probably will be successful because there's a lot of room. But it's going to take a long
time. You cannot improvise this. You cannot make it overnight. This was built over
decades. The ability to select agents, to train them -- it's a science but it's also an art. And
really, again, in Jakarta for those who go, you will really have the opportunity to see it.
We'll take you to our training center. You'll see the rooms where they are trained. You'll
see all the material. You'll see the challenge of training the trainers, who are very, very
important. That's a whole army that you have in there. It's not the US Pentagon. But it is
similar. And we claim that it is very difficult to replicate and it can only be built over time,
slowly, painstakingly. And it's a huge competitive advantage. It is not replicable.

Page 9 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

We've been doing the same thing in bancassurance. You see Standard Chartered that we
renewed this year. You see UOB, we are also very excited about because it's four times
bigger. And it was not -- and they had a life business before and they were not inactive.
So we've enabled with an infusion of our know-how to multiply their sales of life by four.
So great opportunity. Distribution; distribution power and the heart of this as our
competitive advantage.
And the other thing that we probably don't talk enough about is innovation. Because to
serve those customers, who are actually quite discerning. I always want to dispel the
notion that this is an easy market. Those customers to whom we sell life insurance are
also -- do also have they also have an iPhone 6, are very demanding customers, when it
comes to electronics, very demanding customers when it comes to cars. So the notion
that when it comes to financial services they are not, is not credible. The reality is that they
are sophisticated. They are highly educated. They are very demanding.

Bloomberg Transcript

And we need to continuously innovate -- and look at Bud Harris there and there's a lot of
people in the PCA team who will talk to you about that later -- we need to continuously
innovate to stay close to our customers and keep them happy. So health and protection is
a well-known story. That was pure innovation. And actually PCA is so focused on this that
we have an innovation index roughly, for AP and NBP, they tell us what percentage has
been from products created in the last 24 months, more or less. And that's more than
25% for both AP and NBP. That gives you a sense of the scale of innovation that is taking
place. And also its success.
If you bring all that together, you get really what we believe is a best-in-class franchise.
With nine positions -- nine top three positions in 12 countries. And it's really the result of all
those elements: the opportunity, the size of the opportunity, the growth. And the
capabilities behind to grow and capture this opportunity. So the track record Barry and his
team have is impeccable.
IFRS profit. You are familiar with this: six times; free surplus generation; very good also.
And this is what the business has created. As I said, the value is created and is there. Out
of that we have remitted I think GBP1.5 billion since 2006. And I know there's a lot of
concern on FX, et cetera. But we keep saying luckily we run a model where we have a
degree of flexibility on when we transfer that value from wherever it's created to a center.
But you should find some comfort in the fact that actually that value is there. And for us,
that's what matters. Then we can manage the repatriation of that to a center.
So if we close on Asia, robust fundamentals; disciplined execution, I've given a few
examples; Best In Class franchise; strong track record; remain very positive on the
attractiveness and the power of the region.
So let's move now to the US. You are familiar with this chart, too. I think in the US we can
say we have the right strategy again. In gray you have a VA with living benefits. You've
seen us ramp up very aggressively and opportunistically in 2008, 2009, 2010. And then
stay within a range from 2010 to now. And with the red being Elite Access; innovating
again, which allowed us to have a book. And you're used to this chart also on the right,

Page 10 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

which shows you that about 60% of the book was written below 1,400 of S&P. So it's a
healthy book.
But here, again, I'd like to talk about distribution. And we don't do that enough. The
reason why -- one of the key reasons why Jackson has been so good at executing,
making product changes, continuing to sell, is really the quality of its management of its
distribution. It's primarily an IBD, independent broker dealer shop. And we have the best
wholesalers in the country. We keep saying that. Hopefully many of you have been to
Jackson. But if we do another trip there we will again expose you to them. They are
absolutely brilliant.

Bloomberg Transcript

They also are the ones who made Elite Access successful, because a lot of people have
come up with clones of Elite Access or imitations. They haven't had the same commercial
success, because Jackson really has a unique ability to support the broker-dealers and
give them the product they want. Because the thing with a broker-dealer is you have to
give them good service. And I'm sure Mike can show you that. But the statistics of the
quality of service to a broker-dealers are simply out of this world; it's 99.x%. So the
relationship is very, very, very strong.
And the second thing is really the kind of customers they bring you. They work with exactly
the clientele we like in the US. People who will put $100,000, solid Mid-America, 65-yearold who put $100,000 in the VA and who are not just exercising an option because it is in
the money. There's a lot of discussion about policyholder behavior. A lot of that depends
on which clientele segments you target. And this is really part of our strategic and our
hedging strategy, is that we sell the product to people who have an actual need for the
product. And that then drives a very different behavior from what the kind of scare
scenarios assume a customer will do. And we have more and more evidence on that. I'm
sure Mike and Michele will talk to you about it. Innovation; Elite Access is really another
great example in the group. Really a great success. Six times from 2013 to 2014. I think the
story there is well-known. I don't need to spend too much time on it.
Let's move on to the UK. Our fundamental view on the UK has not changed. We have
always put up this chart that shows that the UK life sector is in negative net flows. We
believe that continues to be the case. We believe that is structural. We believe that the
winning segment in the UK is the asset management industry. We happen to have one of
the best asset managers in the country, M&G. And fundamentally, if we move on to a new
environment, what we believe at a high-level -- and Jackie will take you through that with
more detail -- is that in the UK, the limitation between accumulation and decumulation is
being blurred. That's really the central message. And it's consistent with the picture we
showed you earlier.
Increasingly you are going to see people using their accumulation vehicle for
decumulation for drawdown and for things like that. Now, luckily and back to innovation,
we have PruFund, which is our with-profit fund, which has been an amazing success. Which
from zero is now at GBP11 billion. Amazing inflows. It continues to be very strong. You've
seen our shares of -- and sales of bonds going up 30%, 40% this year. A very popular
product. We have life product, we have -- that we can then, in this new context, wrap into
a ISA and have play its role in that new context and do very well. But fundamentally, it's a
Page 11 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

game of flexibility and it's a game of the markets unifying, in which we think we have a
very strong position and we are confident that we will do well.
Finally, a word on M&G. The M&G story is also well-known. Often for an insurance
company-owned asset manager, a good KPI is external funds. They've done very well,
from 40% in no line. It's now 52% of the funds under management and it's basically
doubled through a crisis on the back of good investment performance, good
management with Michael and his team. So another good story for the group.
So to wrap up. And back to the agenda, this is what you are going to go through. You've
had me already. So after me you will have Barry, who must be somewhere in the back
there, who will take over and really launch the day on PCA, because it's a PCA day. Then
you will have Tony and Lilian, who will give you a view on -- a kind of country by country
view, because they have their finger on the pulse. They are in there all the time. And you
can ask them all the questions you want. Then we have Eastspring with Guy and Michele.
It's a real bright spot for us this year. We've seen the very strong flows that came in.
Eastspring is doing extremely well. We're very pleased. It's a great element for the future
of our strategy in the region.
Adrian, the CFO, will take you through the financials. Of what I've seen, it's one of the
best presentations I've seen on EV and IFRS. So for those of you who have an interest in
that question, you should stay focused. You won't be disappointed. It's really excellent.
Then we will do our first Q&A before lunch. And you'll get the carousels after lunch, which
we've organized by themes. You often ask us a lot of questions about our products: with
power products, with unit-linked products. We'll show you what their profile is like, what
they do for a customer, what they do for a shareholder. And that should be very
interesting.
We'll talk to you about our customers, the segmentation, what kind of products they want
and their evolution. What I call assuring quality growth. Traditionally it will be called
compliance, risk and compliance. But I thought that really this is really how we think about
it. Compliance -- we only want quality growth, i.e. we only want compliant growth. So Steve
Bickell and his team are in this company in Asia, the ones who ensure and make sure that
we have quality growth. And Steve knows that he has a line into me. If he has any worry in
any country about any campaign owner, he can call me immediately, because we only
want quality growth. And he's fascinating; I think you'll find the presentation very, very
interesting. We have a lot of focus on conduct risk.
I know that you have a lot of questions on regulatory risk. Part of the reason we are
relaxed is Steve and his team. And it's something we haven't talked about enough in the
past. But we have very strong capabilities in the field, to have another trail, to have sales
compliance data, et cetera, et cetera. He'll show you all that.
Then day two we'll do Jackson and the UK. Then we'll wrap up in final Q&A, lunch. And
then transfer to Jakarta for those who are going there or goodbye for those who can't.
And in Jakarta we'll have a very complete visit. As I said earlier, we'll go to our training
center, which is a huge operation. And you'll have an opportunity to touch first hand our

Page 12 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

operations in that country, which are in a way of a poster child of what we want to be in
Asia.
So again, to wrap up, if I had to leave you with just one chart, I'll go back to this one. I think
it tells a really interesting story of, now for a number of years, a very clear, unchanged
strategy pursuing three long-term growth opportunities. And we like each of those three.
We think they give us strength and diversification and good performance. But within that
story, Asia is absolutely central. And it's only for disciplined execution that we have
delivered this profitable growth. And we are very well-positioned for the future from this
position.
So without further ado, I'm going to let now Barry take you through his presentation.
Thank you.

Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. Good morning. Welcome to Singapore. Those of you that are jetlagged, I hope
you got a little sleep last night. I actually flew in myself from the United States. I was in
Nashville for the first time in 16 years for the Thanksgiving holiday. One of my GEC
colleagues told me this morning that, as a result, my normally very subtle Southern accent
is a little more pronounced. So I will try to eliminate syllables, which we normally don't do
in the South, at every opportunity so we can speed up the presentation a little bit. But
anyway, it's a pleasure to have y'all here this morning .
I want to start by talking just a little bit about the environment in Asia. As Tidjane said in
detail and very articulately, though, the fundamentals in this part of the world are very
strong. And while no one expects the Asian economies to develop in a straight line
trajectory, there is certainly something of historic proportion going on in this region. And
organizations like ours that have built the infrastructure to capture the opportunity are
doing well and will continue doing well.
However, as I said, it's not a straight line and what we've seen this year, particularly in
Indonesia, with all sorts of different issues around the climate, the weather that disrupted
us in the First Quarter, the political uncertainty that disrupted us through the second and
Third Quarter, the macroeconomic concerns, the macroeconomic concerns around China.
And what China's growth rate will be. And what impact that will have on the adjacent
economies here in Asia. All these things are factors and what you've seen as a result is an
industry whose growth rate has slowed a little bit this year. Still good numbers. Very good
numbers, I would contend. But it has slowed. So you should always expect this turbulence
to have impacts in the short term.
But as Tidjane said and as I would reiterate, we keep our eye on the future and on the
long-term potential of the business that we are building. And the potential for that
business has never been brighter than it is today. We will talk about regulations later in the
day. Steve Bickell, as Tidjane indicated, will give you -- will host a carousel session talking
about the regulatory evolution here. Again, there are examples in Asia where we get

Page 13 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

frustrated with things that regulators do or don't do in their efforts to build the industry.
But there is fundamentally some very good news around regulation.
First and foremost, regulators in Asia wear two hats. They have a dual responsibility
delegated to them by their respective governments. The first is prudential, with a small p,
oversight. They supervise us. They ensure that our businesses are customer-centric. They
ensure we are doing a good job. They ensure that we are stable, that we can keep the
promises that we make to Asian consumers. All the things that you would expect them to
do. What Asian regulators are also responsible for. And this is not the case with regulators
in some other parts of the world, is they are responsible for growing the industry.

Bloomberg Transcript

When the industry goes backwards, the government's view is that the regulator has failed
because there is a savings gap and there is a protection gap in every market where we
do business. The scale Tidjane showed you. The scale varies from market to market. But
the gap exists everywhere. And throughout the region, the attitude of governments is
that we do not seek to build government-funded, government-run social safety nets. We
seek to partner with private industry to create the social safety net for our citizens. So
regulators who are focused not just on ensuring that the industry is run properly and well.
But that it grows -- that has unique impact on our ability to partner, genuinely partner, with
regulators across the region.
Generally speaking, what you see happening -- and again, Steve will go into more detail -in terms of regulatory evolution are regulators becoming better at what they do, higher
quality outcomes from a regulatory perspective. But doing so in a way that is good for
consumers and good for shareholders. Most of what happens out here is a very sensible.
And for an organization like ours that operates already to a very high standard -- when it
comes to being financially stable, when it comes to doing a good job for our customers -we view regulatory change as a positive, as a competitive advantage. Because not every
organization that we compete with across the region operates to the standard that we
do.
And that brings us to the competitive environment, which is healthy. We compete across
the region with a variety of different companies, big and small, local and multinational. You
move from market to market -- Tony and Lilian will touch on this -- you move from market
to market and you will find that it is a different set of competitors in every place. The idea
that we compete with only one or two companies everywhere actually isn't accurate.
We've shown you this before and we'll highlight it again today. So that allows -- that
means there's lots of options in the market for product. And that means that consumers
can make educated choices. Rates of financial literacy are going up and up and up. So
consumers can make better choices.
How you interact with customers, how you innovate around customer interaction is
extremely important. And the carousel on customers that Anthony Shaw will lead today -Anthony is the CMO of our Hong Kong business; they are very good at this. We've
highlighted in the past for some of you the innovation that takes place around customers
in our Singapore business. But today we are going to highlight Hong Kong. And I think
you'll see some extraordinary work being done to ensure that we are listening to
consumers and responding to their needs.
Page 14 of 147



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

Also on the theme of competition, when we look at the organizations with whom we
compete, sometimes their definition of success is different than ours. And as we say all
the time, how you define success is critical to what your outcome is going to be ultimately
for shareholders. When you look at products that get sold, you occasionally see
competitors who clearly have a different economic view of their business than we do.
There are markets where we will periodically, in some markets frequently, see products
being sold that we just simply wouldn't manufacture because the margins are either low
or in some instances negative.
So you have organizations who believe market share is a strategic objective. We believe
market share is the outcome of a well-run business with a sound long-term strategy for
shareholders. Different points of view. But it doesn't slow us down. You also seat deal
economics. You don't see many true M&A deals where organizations consolidate,
because most people are not seeking to sell businesses in Asia. They are seeking to buy
businesses in Asia. But you do see, with some frequency, bancassurance deals or other
distribution oriented deals.
And there's one that everybody is talking about right now. And you will see us -- whether
it's that deal or any other deal that we look at in the region -- you will see us approach
those deals with enormous credibility, with a terrific story to tell about how we can
leverage those deals on behalf of distribution partners. And with absolute discipline. We
will not pay too much. We don't -- our view of these deals is we want them. We can do a
better job than anyone else with these deals. We don't need them, because we are also
very good at building our own distribution. And that ties in with this final point as well
about strategic imperatives. You see these deals that come to market and often our
competitors will go for them because it's existential for them. They have to have the deal
to survive. We just don't.
So looking at PCA today -- and the intent of the sessions that will follow, starting with Tony
and Lilian and throughout the rest of the day -- is to give you a detailed look at our
businesses. What you will see, I hope, is sustained market outperformance everywhere
that we choose to play, both -- whether -- our chosen sectors could be geographic, could
be product-oriented, distribution-oriented. But everywhere we play we are doing well.
Outperformance, we've always said is our objective. We can't dictate the macro
environment. We can't say that Indonesian GDP growth is going to go from 5% to 7% or
8%, driving more industry growth. We can't determine what's going to happen in China or
here or anywhere else.
What we can do is demonstrate that we are doing a better job of what we do and
maintaining discipline than anyone else. And so even in situations again like Indonesia this
year, where with effectively fight results for the full year in terms of sales, we've gained
more market share than in any nine-month period in the history of our Company in
Indonesia, because everyone else is going backward. It's not nearly as much fun as
standing up here and saying we grew 20% or 15% or whatever. But it is outperformance,
nonetheless.
We are well respected by governments and regulators and peers. I referred earlier to our
ability to partner with regulators. I know some of you have called on MAS here, OCI in
Page 15 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Hong Kong or others around the region. And hopefully they are telling you what they tell
us, which is that they consider us best in class. They think we do an excellent job. They
think -- in some markets, regulators tell us that they appreciate not only the role we play
for consumers but the leadership that we provide in the industry, demonstrating
discipline, how to run businesses for the long-term, not for the short term. That's a very
positive thing. First of all, we are proud of the relationship we have and it allows us to
grow our business in a higher-quality way.
We have some specific skills in the organization. And you'll see those on display during the
presentations today. I don't think that anyone in the region is better than we are. And I
think we are probably better than most in terms of building high-quality, highly
professional, highly productive agency distribution. Tony and Lilian will take you through
their presentation today focused on themes. And they will use specific examples from
specific markets. One of the things they will talk about is agency distribution. And you'll
find that not only does it continue to get bigger -- and it is big. And anyone who has been
to one of our agency functions knows how big and how enthusiastic it is -- but it's not just
getting bigger, it's getting better. All the time. And you'll see statistics that will bear that
out today.
Likewise, our bancassurance capability. There's no one in the region that has the breadth
and depth of both domestic banking and regional banking relationships that we do. We
have a presence in almost 16,000 branches across the region. We have a track record of
very fast activation on new deals and sustained performance on long-term, existing deals.
You'll see some details about that today. It is a core strength of our organization. Genuine
focus on consumer needs as we manufacture products. We are -- the history, if you go
back two or three decades, the history of our industry in Asia was all about product
pushing; manufacture a product, push it, push it, push it.
Today ours is a consultative model that's built around understanding what customer
needs and having a broad portfolio of products to meet those needs. So today, Tom
Urbanec, who runs our business here in Singapore along with Brad Harris, will do the
carousel on products. You will see our -- from a consumer's perspective, the performance
of a protection product here in Singapore as well as savings products in Hong Kong and in
Indonesia. So you can understand from a consumer perspective how these products
perform. And they perform very well. They are not just good for shareholders. They are
good for customers, as we've said many times over the years.
Tidjane alluded to Eastspring. Solid investment performance, rapidly improving distribution
capabilities. Number one retail asset manager in the region, ex-Japan. A very strong team.
Record inflows this year. It's a terrific story. So I'm really pleased that we have Guy and
Michele here today to tell you the story. It's a very solid story and it's strategically
important because there will be a point, at some distant point in the future, a generation
from now, when retail mutual funds, which currently -- if you look at how Asians hold
assets, the retail mutual funds space compared to the west is still very small.
We are number one. But we are number one in a relatively small industry compared to the
West. But consumer sentiment will change. We have no doubt about that. The industry will
grow. These products will become more and more compelling to more and more Asian
Page 16 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

middle-class consumers. And the fact that we have already the market-leading retail
brand in asset management associated with a market-leading insurance brand I think puts
us in very good stead, strategically, for the future.
The real reason I think to be here today is to see the team. Tidjane alluded to this as well.
One of the reasons that we've always been quite happy to allow you not just to come visit
for days like this but to come with reverse roadshow groups and visit our businesses here
or Malaysia or Indonesia or Hong Kong or Vietnam, Thailand -- all the different places that
various different groups have visited-- the reason we are happy to host you on those trips
and to have you meet our team is because we're very proud. Insurance companies have
two raw materials, as Tony Wilkey likes to say: capital and people. Everybody's capital is
the same. Some have more, some have less. It's just capital.

Bloomberg Transcript

It's what you do with it. And that's up to people. And what you'll see again here today on
display as you've seen the past is the most extraordinary team of insurance and asset
management professionals in this region. They are committed. They are focused. They
are driven on all the right metrics. And we have -- our ability to continue to attract and to
retain -- our turnover in Asia is one-half the rate of that of the industry. And we are very
proud of that statistic because people want to come here as an employer of choice and
they want to stay.
I also wanted to weave in something here today that is important to our business and that
you maybe don't normally hear about as much at an investor conference. And that's some
of our corporate social responsibility initiatives, which are driving an unprecedented level
of community engagement. We do some very interesting things. We've shown you our
cartoons in the past. last year I was able, based upon Nielsen ratings, to proudly proclaim
that in Asia we are not just one of the largest life insurance companies but that we are
more popular than SpongeBob SquarePants. Because we have this cartoon that runs on
Cartoon Network.
We continue to expand that program. We've added a program with the renowned boxer.
Those of you who are boxing fans will know about Manny Pacquiao; just want a fight in
Macau a few weeks ago. He is now the spokesman for our SAFE STEPS program on
National Geographic Channel. So he's become a regional spokesman for disaster
preparedness and recovery. There's an enormous amount of work here that involves both
the treasure of the organization. But also the time of its people. And that's extremely
important work that gets done. And it says something about the organization that we
invest in the communities in the way we do.
And that really brings us to our culture, because the willingness of the organization to
engage communities in the way it does says something about who we are. And that has
an important commercial impact that is very real. Difficult to quantify. But real, nonetheless.
So our view of culture is that winning is not enough. Everybody wants to be on a winning
team. But winning is not enough. That does not make a culture. What makes an
organization work, what makes an organization outperform is unity, is essentially having
everyone focused not just on a strategy and the tactics that support it. And not just on a
mission. But on a purpose.

Page 17 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

We very much view our organization as one that is doing well by doing good. That starts
with our commercial activities. The products that we sell solve problems. We sell them in a
very professional manner so consumers know what they are getting. And that drives -and you all understand the virtuous circle of life insurance, the social utility of what we sell.
The idea of going into a developing market and gathering savings and turning it into
investment in the community which helps the economy grow faster, creates an even
faster rising middle class. It's a virtuous circle.
So we are in an industry that cannot just say we are benefiting from the rise of an Asian
middle class. And that's normally how we characterize it, as an opportunity. The reality is
we are in an industry that drives the rise of the Asian middle class. And that's an important
distinction and we talk about that a lot. That makes a big difference. A purpose-driven
organization will outperform, as long as we execute relentlessly. And we do that too.
Tidjane talked about the discipline with which we execute and we are relentless and I think
you will see that, the commitment and the determination to do what we say we are going
to do in the presentations today.
Tidjane touched on innovation. Tony and Lilian and Guy and Michele and everyone who
speaks today will touch on innovation. That's a real driver of our success and an enormous
part of our culture. Living our brand values. We talk about always listening, always
understanding. We've been talking about that for years. In every interaction with every
consumer -- be it advertising, be it through an agent, be it through a bank distribution
partner, be it through a customer service contact -- we are always listening, understanding
the problem, trying to solve it. Everything we do. We don't talk about being big and
strong, because our brand is such that people know we are big and they know we are
strong. We talk about listening and understanding. And that's a much more compelling
message when you are trying to create a social safety net that benefits middle class
families.
Serving our communities. Again this has to do with the CSR work we do. And you see
some of the examples there. It has to do with just the very nature of our products. But the
idea that our products and our people and the mission of our organization is all about
making communities a better place to live is an important part of our culture and there is
the doing well by doing good. All of this stuff wrapped up is the secret sauce. It's the
ingredient that drives us. It's why, when everyone else is down 5% we are up 5%. It's why
people stay. It's why people want to come.
So what's our focus in the midterm? As Tidjane said I think at the full year results, we are
going to run the business. It's more of the same, just better. Our strategy is unchanged.
We've been doing the same thing now for several years. We'll continue to do it better.
We'll continue to do it bigger. We will not allow ourselves to become distracted from the
needs of middle-class consumers in Asia. That's what we do. We have some objectives
that we announced last year. Tidjane showed you the update there; we are on that.
We are looking at some new markets. It's important not to become complacent either on
the businesses that you have or the businesses that you might have in the region. So we
are looking at Laos, where we have a rep office; Myanmar, where we have a rep office;
Bangladesh, where we've had some initial visits to the market. Haven't come to
Page 18 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

conclusions on any of these. These are long-term project. But it's important to build for
the future and look at other opportunities to apply the core skills that the organization has.
Preparation for new bancassurance opportunities. I'm sure there'll probably be some
discussion about that today. We are the most credible bancassurance partner in the
region. We do this bigger and better than anyone else. We are well-positioned for any
bank partner. And we look at all these deals. We are not going to spend any time today
on brand and marketing as a distinct discussion. But you will see snippets of this
throughout the presentations. The incredible work that we do around building our brand.
The innovative marketing that is focused not just on our core customers, which tend to be
in their late 20s and into their 30s. But on the next generation, Facebook and Twitter
generation. And some of the stuff that our teams come up with is absolutely dazzling,
honestly. And it's having a real impact on the business.
Then most important, sustain the culture. What we have is an extraordinary organization
that outperforms. It's based on capability and culture and we will take great care that we
build both and nurture both and just don't mess it up, because our view is that this
organization, as well as it's done in the last seven or eight years, as Tidjane
demonstrated, the future is equally bright if not brighter. And we are very excited about
the opportunities ahead. And so with that, what I'd like to do is get the ball rolling with the
specific presentations. We'll start with insurance and, then a break. And then we'll go to
the asset management business. And we have a set change that I think has to take place.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we'll do that and then Tony and Lilian, come on up.

Tony Wilkey

{BIO 19184129 <GO>}

Good morning. Tony Wilkey, Ms. Lilian. For those of you who don't know us, we are
responsible for managing the insurance businesses across 12 countries. We've been doing
this for the last five or six years. Okay.
Since we last saw you in London I think 12 months ago, an awful lot has happened. So let
me just outline what you can expect from us today. Last year we took you through the
businesses, country by country. This year we are going to approach it more thematically
around our core competencies of distribution, training and development, product,
customer engagement. And as Barry mentioned, what we consider our most valuable
asset of all: people. As we go through this, we will drop down into a couple of countries to
give you some specific examples from what's happening in emerging markets up through
the advanced markets.
So let me recap by taking you back to last year. This is what we referred to as PCA's CV.
What we -- we'd love to be able to say that our performance is not in any way correlated
to external factors. But frankly, we can't look you in the eye and say that because there is
a lot going on. But what we are able to say is that we have consistently, resiliently been
able to outperform the markets year in and year out with profitable growth. But as I
mentioned at the beginning, a lot has happened in the last 12 months. But nothing has

Page 19 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

changed in terms of our focus, our commitment to deliver. The team in front of you today
is the team that was in front of you a year ago.
However, in the external environment, an awful lot has happened. You guys know this
much better than we do. And while there's a lot going on in the world, there's been a lot
happening in Asia. China's official PMI slid to 50. GDP growth is being called for 7.4%, 7.3%
for the year, which while strong, will still be the lowest in a couple of decades. Natural
disasters. Typhoon Yolanda, which hit the Philippines, caused an estimated damage $7.8
billion, wiping out nearly 3% of the GDP of the Philippines. The flooding that Barry
mentioned in Indonesia -- you'll see this if you're going on Jakarta -- the infrastructure
clearly needs work. But the flooding this year has been amongst the worst. So much so
that the government declared a state of emergency for 30 days in quarter one, where
the floodwaters rose to close to 1.2 meters in various parts of the country.

Bloomberg Transcript

The political landscape has been quite choppy as well. In India and Indonesia, hundreds of
millions of people went to the polls to vote. This voting period took 150 days and
spanned seven months. So clearly there were a few distractions in the streets. Thailand;
Thailand had another coup, the 12th coup since 1932. That's almost 1 coup every seven
years. And this year to date, this had an impact on -- one of the biggest components of
the economy there is tourism. And tourism fell by about 19% year-to-date. So that had an
impact. Hong Kong, our home -- you may have seen some of the headlines happening
right now. There's civil disturbances, students protesting. Limited areas of Hong Kong. But
there is some disturbance, the likes of which we haven't seen since -- I haven't seen since
I was a kid in Hong Kong in the 1960s.
And so, while all this has been going on, I think Barry mentioned this as well, the
regulators in Asia have been quite busy. Steve will going into this in detail in his carousel.
But just in the past year we've seen, on average, 47 new regulations every quarter. That's
almost 4 new regulations per week that we have to adapt the businesses to, just in Asia.
Overlay that with some of the global regulations coming in as well, like FATCA. And we've
been extremely busy on that front. The good news is -- the good news is -- and there are
many themes. But the main themes focus around customer protection and anti-money
laundering.
And we have a head start in this area, because being a UK European-based insurer, we've
been working on many of these standards for many years. So we are able to hit the
ground running. And we fully expect that this translates into a competitive advantage.
Regardless, today one has to adopt a mindset of real-time regulatory change. You have
to have the process, you have to have the people, you have to have the systems in place
to be able to respond quickly to the law of the land, which is nonnegotiable, while also
maintaining positive strong momentum growth in the businesses.
So there's a lot been going on on many fronts. Let me pull this all together as to how
we've done. So again, look at this in the backdrop of political upheaval in one country at
any given point in time, natural disasters at least once a quarter. And jolts of economic
volatility across the region. We have still delivered. No other company can demonstrate
this long-term and sustained outperformance. We've continued to outperform the market
now with 20 consecutive quarters of growth. That's five years. 20 consecutive quarters of
Page 20 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

growth, averaging 16%. On a year-to-date basis through Q3, we grew at double the rate
of the market.
So how do we do it? This is one of my favorite slides. Nobody else can paint this picture in
Asia on this scale. This is the beauty of our platform. This is the diversification of country,
of distribution, of product. I just mentioned about geographies. There is always something
going on environmentally, economically, politically. Diversification of distribution is really
important because different countries are at different stages of evolution, where
customers have different preferences for accessing our products and services. Products,
again, because different countries are at different stages of evolution and customer
needs are slightly different.

Bloomberg Transcript

What's changed over the last five years? We've continued to grow agency at a doubledigit rate. But we've grown bancassurance faster, because of our proven capabilities and
the opportunities presented. And because Tidjane told us to step change banca. We
normally do what he tells us to. You'll see the product mix flexes over time. This is due to
changes in economic conditions and changes in customer preferences. And for us
changes in country mixes. Nothing's surprising there. Never has this diversification been
more valuable than this last year.
So our growth story continues. And this has become a very big place. Today we have 20
million customers -- 20 million policies, I'm sorry -- owned by 13 million customers in 13
businesses in 12 countries. I say 13 businesses in 12 countries because in Malaysia we have
two businesses, conventional insurance and sharia, what we call Takaful. These customers
and policies are serviced by over 500,000 of the very best agents in the business, 1,100
active bank branches. And all supported by 15,000 of the best staff in the industry.
If you look on the right, you'll get some sense of the velocity or throughput in the
businesses. It's a big machine and every cog has to function at full speed on a day-to-day
basis. In just the few minutes we've been up here, if it's 20 minutes, 120 policies have
been issued, 80 new customers have been acquired. And over GBP800,000 of APE
issued; every 20 minutes. That's assuming that we work on a 24/7 basis, which is pretty
close to what we do.
Let me take you through a snapshot of country by country here. And again, I think it's
really important to emphasize again what Barry said. Market share and market rank is not
our objective. It's an outcome. Our objective is to build high-quality, long-term, highly
disciplined businesses. This picture hasn't changed fundamentally since you last saw it. We
continue to be big in Southeast Asia, in Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia. We tend to -- even
though it's not in Southeast Asia, we put Hong Kong in that grouping, too, because in
these four countries we are big in the country and we are big within Prudential.
In markets like the Philippines and Vietnam, we have leading market positions. We built a
really good foundation in these countries with fast-growing economies. Look at it a
different way. The combined population of Vietnam and the Philippines is over 200 million
people. That's like another Indonesia. Thailand, with the acquisition of Thanachart Life and

Page 21 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

entering into the long-term strategic bancassurance relationship with Thanachart Bank,
we've been able to double our market share in Thailand.
Cambodia is really -- demonstrates our greenfield capability. And as you can see, we are
off to a fairly good start on the market share. China and India we operate on a joint
venture basis, which is the law. In India, our partner is ICICI. And in China our partner is
CITIC Group. In both India and China, we lead the foreign JV markets. The North Asian
markets -- and you can see from the map that South Korea seems to have separated
itself from the mainland. Taiwan and South Korea are dominated by local players. These
are highly competitive, highly penetrated. And highly regulated environments. We don't
have huge growth ambition in these marketplaces. Rather, we operate on a niche
strategy, making sure that we maximize the profit opportunity. You will never see us
having significant market share in Taiwan or Korea.

Bloomberg Transcript

Barry talked a bit about brand. And while the brand is clearly morphing based on different
medium and different consumer segments in the region, we will never forget who we are
and where we come from. In many of the countries where we operate, English is not the
first language. So brands don't necessarily translate well. But logos do. And the iconic
brand of Prudence has given us tremendous competitive advantage in Asia. Some of our
competitors are finding it hard, it's almost like a barrier to entry not having established
brands in the region. We have been building the Prudential brand in Asia now for close to
100 years, which is close to unparalleled.
What does this mean? This means today that if you look at brand recall, either aided or
unaided, we are in the top decile in the markets where we need to be. But the brand isn't
just about TVC. It's not just about billboards. The brand is also built by daily interactions
with your customers through your brand ambassadors. For us, the brand ambassadors are
the 500,000 agents we have that we add to every month with another 20,000. Not
exactly something that is easy to replicate.
Okay, what can you expect from us? The shorter answer is more of the same.
Fundamentally, our battle plan has not changed. We continue to innovate, reposition. And
improve our product offerings. We will continue to build big and powerful agency
distributions. You'll see this in Indonesia. We'll optimize value from our existing bank
partners and grow with new bank partners where it makes sense. And we'll continue to
explore new market opportunities where our value proposition and value structure fits. As
we do this, we will continue to intensely focus on what you've heard us refer to over the
years as PEC -- persistency, expenses. And claims -- to make sure that the prophets flow
through.
But there's more we can do. These are our enablers that Lilian is going to go into in more
detail. It's more -- doing more of the same. But we need to do it better, we need to be
smarter. And we need to definitely be better than the competition. We're using more and
more data analytics. And this is real, this is not -- this is not buzzword bingo. This is not
Analytics 3.0, big data. This is real stuff that translates into revenue and profit. And
Anthony Shaw, as Barry mentioned, will take you through that in the carousel.

Page 22 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

We'll leverage technology more and more, not only on the front-end with point-of-sale
and customer applications but on the back-end to make sure that our data is secure. We'll
continue to differentiate the value proposition around products and services. This
compliance -- compliance is a part of our culture and is nonnegotiable. So we will continue
to operate everywhere in a compliant manner. And we'll do all this through the absolute
best-in-class people. We'll continue to deliver intensely focused on executional excellence
and with our usual humility.
As you know, agency is a core competency for us. This is a small gathering I think in
Indonesia that Lilian is going to take you through.

Lilian Ng

{BIO 4943480 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Now, I think we've demonstrated a proven track record in agency is the
consequence of our execution-oriented mindset. And I think the result speaks for
themselves. So for markets we operated in, growth in agency was 10% per annum over
the last three years. Growth for PRU agency outperformed the market nearly 4 times at
36%. So how do we do this? Now, we do this through expanding distribution reach in the
fast-growing markets, such as Indonesia and Vietnam. And through productivity gains in
the established markets of Hong Kong and Singapore. In the growing markets, we have
successfully recruit more than the industry. From only 20% of agency manpower three
years ago, we now have 36%. And in the established markets, PRU agency APE grew 6
times faster than the industry through superior productivity gains.
As an outcome, PRU agency is number one in seven markets. And I think you've heard this
before, this positioning is an outcome, not an objective. Our objective is to build highquality, high-disciplined agency force, focusing on MAPA -- manpower, activity, productivity
and average case size. Now, how we manage these drivers do differ country by country.
So to optimize performance we differentiate our agency model by country depending on
opportunities, the customer preference, regulatory environment. And our own strategic
intent in that market.
Now, in the growing markets, as mentioned by Tidjane, we have low penetration rate. So
there are opportunities using manpower for expansion. To grow scale, we use a mass
recruitment model and the key is activation of rookies, the new agents. We have a robust
franchise with the general agency platform to enable a fast expansion but at variable cost.
So what's been the impact? In Indonesia, we own two-thirds of the 300,000 agents in
country. And in Vietnam, our 50,000 strong agency represents a third of the market.
Now, both of these agencies are recruiting around 10,000 agents a month. But this is not
about just taking in bodies. The delivery or the effectiveness of the delivery is on the onboarding and activations of rookies. And we will talk more on this in a later slide. Now, as
markets evolve, we adopt a segmented approach with targeted recruitment. Now, in
Malaysia, we focus on Gen Y, as it has this young population. So we adopted a slightly
different approach to engage this segment. We have a Facebook page called R U Ready.
We hold recruitment seminars in Hard Rock Cafes. And we use lifestyle talks instead of
testimonials.

Page 23 of 147



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

In India, we have a big agency of over 110,000 agents. And we have divided the agency
into three big agencies, driven by productivity, activity. And also the case size. So the first
group is what we call Win [ph]. And these are the professional advisors serving the
affluent segment. The second group we call Grow. These are full-time advisers with high
activity. And the last group is called Lead. And this is our part-time agency. So each
separate agency has their own performance management, training. And compensation
and recognition program. Again, what's been the impact? In Malaysia, our record
recruitment has driven the agency to now 15,000, the second largest agency force in the
country but the most productive, having 1.9 times the market's productivity. In India, with
the segmented model, we are the only agency growing in the past two quarters.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, moving on to the established market where we have full-time financial advisors, we
use profiling to identify suitable candidates as career agents. We give them rigorous
training and development to ensure they are equipped for structured financial planning
and advisory. Quality metrics such as persistency, claims, product mix are embedded in
the contract maintenance, as well as the compensation. So these are actually in line with
the regulatory framework under FAIR in Singapore. And I think in the e-list [ph] guidelines
that just recently published in Hong Kong. Again, the impact in Hong Kong, we are the
number one agency and the most productive, even though we only have the secondlargest agency of 7,000 agents. Now, despite all these various agency models, our
agency management value proposition is the same: training and development:
performance management, tracking and monitoring and sales and services.
Now, face-to-face advisor servicing is still preferred by customers in Asia. And this agency
platform has allowed us to penetrate the markets broader and deeper with feet on the
street. Now, over the past five years, we have issued -- this is only for agency -- we have
issued 2 million new cases a year. That's 5,500 a day. We have recruited 215,000 agents
a year. That's 590 agents a day. And increased productivity by 11% per annum. So that's
nearly 1% per month. And this is assuming, as Tony said, we work 365 days a year. And for
those of us who know us, that's probably what we do.
So this performance is made possible because of our competencies in agency
management and also our delivery through a disciplined manner. And enabled by two key
aspects. Firstly, the use of data analytics to have a better understanding of the behavior
of our sales force for performance management. And secondly, embracing technology to
evolve our distribution, to remain relevant. So in the following slide I'll showcase this
aspect using case studies from two countries. First one from Vietnam.
Now, just some background on Vietnam. We have been in Vietnam since 1999, now 15
years old, market leader since 2007, 25% market share with the largest agency force. We
are one of the only two insurers in country with a network nationwide across 63 provinces.
Now, we've been able to sustain our leadership in agency through what we call a grow,
build. And nurture process. First, we grow scale. And how do we do this? We do this
through recruitment. And recruitment starts with what we call business opportunity
presentation, BOP. These are recruitment seminars where leaders invite prospects to
attend with a view to become a Prudential agent. Now, once recruited. these rookies go
through on-boarding training, OB, for licensing and activation.

Page 24 of 147



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

We digest around 10,000 recruits a month. So tracking and monitoring is essential. Now,
the effectiveness of BOP to OB process is track and monitor through what we call the
rookies metrics. 1/30 means selling one policy every first 30 days. And 3/60, three cases
in the first 60 days. Now, based on experience, we establish an efficient frontier for these
metrics. Now, any negative movement away from this efficient frontier will ring an alarm
bell and the team will review, re-ramp or refresh the BOP or the OB training. As a result,
we've strengthened our OB training over the year and devised specialized thematic BOP
and micro-BOP.
Once we get the people in we build out the agency force. And this is done through what
we call the 590 Club. Now, 590 is the milestone for achieving five cases in the first 90
days. Also, experience has shown 70% of our 590 Club members survive to either
become -- to be promoted to be a unit manager or become a core agent. It's like a fulltime agent. Now, commercially a 590 is tracked and monitored and we continue to
improve our post-OB training to ensure we have a sustainable pipeline to the core agents
and leaders.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now once we got out the agency force, we nurture it. We nurture our core and top-tier
segments. We've tailored compensation, training, campaigns, recognition and special
brands such as Pru Elite for our producers. Pru Elite is 7% of our agents in terms of number.
But contributing to 45% of our APE, with activity rate four times higher than the rookies.
Moving to our next case study right here in Singapore. I think Tidjane mentioned we have
been in Singapore since 1931. It's now an octogenarian. We have been a market leader for
the last five years with a multi-distribution platform. Now, the Singapore insurance market
is probably the most regulated in the region, especially with the introduction of FAIR next
year. There is also a rigorous licensing exam called M9A. And one has to score at least
70% to pass. So this is even more challenging than the actuarial exams.
So how do we sustain leadership for a very productive agency force in a very regulated
market? The answer, I think we've said that before, innovation. Innovation in agency
engagement to create agility. And we have a holistic digital platform for our agency to
drive outperformance. So for recruitment, we have an interactive career website for
candidates and we deploy both traditional and social media advertising to drive
awareness. What has been the impact? PRU agency outgrew market four times in terms
of manpower growth since 2012, with the highest net manpower increase.
Now, for training and development, we have a structured training and development
roadmap for financial consultants and for our leaders that is flexible and scalable delivery,
including classroom and e-learnings. We have a PRU coach which is a well -- rep-based,
comprehensive coaching platform for agency leaders for one-on-one coaching sessions.
Again, what has been the impact? PRU agency productivity is actually 1.4 times more than
the market. We are a leader in the regular premium space, ILP space, health. And the high
net worth segment space.
For sales advisory, we have what we call Pru One. This is an end-to-end financial planning
and point-of-sales tool from financial needs analysis to e-applications, e-submission. And

Page 25 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

e-issuance, untouched by human hands. And is fully connected with all our back-end
systems. The impact has been we have 100% utilization rates, faster turnaround time for
customer, productivity improvement for agency, expense efficiency in the back office. And
managing regulatory requirements on the balance scorecard from FAIR. It's also
recognized as one of the best planning and point-of-sales tools in town. And we have
agents from competitors asking to join us because of Pru One.
For performance management we have Pru Rewards, a digital, real-time platform to track
compensation and benefits for goal-setting and performance management. And for
communication we have Pru Message. This is a mobile engagement app with PRU's
messaging for real-time communication. Now, as you can see, the fundamental of agency
management has not changed. What's different is the digital delivery model, creating
greater capacity for our agents.

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, from agents let's move onto another of our key distribution platforms,
bancassurance. Okay, bancassurance is now in our DNA. And we upscaled it, as Tony said.
And absolutely core to our business. Now, we have a proven track record in driving value
to both single market bank partners and also multinational bank partners. The delivery of
this long-term value to both PRU and the bank is predicated on our win-win formula. And
the most and important is actually the strong collaboration and the alignment in value
across the two organizations. Now, our platform has enabled us to outperform the
market. So in the past three years, Pru Banca APE grew 22% per annum and the market,
12%.
Now in the next couple of slides, I will showcase to you our competency with our strategic
partners, starting with Thanachart Bank. Now, Thanachart Bank is the fifth-largest bank in
Thailand and has over 3.9 million active customers. It has a wide geographic footprint, with
over half of the bank branches outside of Bangkok. And the loan portfolio consists largely
of high purchase and housing loan. And they are the largest high purchase loan provider in
Thailand. Now, before our strategic partnership with Thanachart Bank, bancassurance was
supported by Thanachart Life and dominated by very short pay savings products and
credit protections.
On the day of the partnership effective in May 2013, 4,000 bank staff were already
trained and 15 products ready for launch. We have now rebranded Smile Car and Smile
Home and improved penetration rate for these into 70%. We have transformed the
branch sales to longer-term savings, with more protection and introduced medical
endowment. The result -- it's a win-win deliverable. For PRU, our margin improved by 28
points. For T Bank, their fee income margin improved by 30 points. Now, the fee income
from insurance for T Bank increased from 11% of total income for them before the
partnership to now 40% after the partnership. And from PRU perspective. And we
mentioned this earlier, this has propelled our status in the market. We have doubled our
market share, increased our ranking. And a stronger brand recognition.
Now, from a local bank partner let's move to a regional bank partner, UOB. In 2010, we
acquired UOB Life and entered long-term strategic partnerships in free market
Singapore, Thailand and Indonesia. Now, over the past three years, we have accelerated
distributions; we have now access to 63 branches and 1 million customers in Singapore
Page 26 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

and 146 branches nationwide in Thailand. We've progressively introduced products of
higher value for both stakeholders and expanded the partnership in Malaysia and China in
2011. And both have seen substantial growth.
Now, the way we created value is done in accordance to the bank segments. So we
launched the wealth banking with insurance embedded in the client proposition right from
the start. We have created in-house insurance specialists for the account banking and
privileged banking. We are now ramping into business banking and commercial banking
with the relevant product solutions. Now, each time we have deployed insurance
propensity models by segments using data analytics to drive value. And we continue to
deepen our customer penetration. We are now just at over 5%.

Bloomberg Transcript

What has been the impact? We've been able to double the longer pay products in
Singapore from 11% to 22%. Now, regular premium products constitute about 87% of
UOB's sales compared to 76% in the Banca market. UOB Thailand was the first to launch a
single premium ILP. And we are now moving towards a regular premium ILP, subject to
regulatory approval. Now, the overall outcome for this partnership has been outstanding
and I think Tidjane mentioned earlier APE volume being four times more since the
partnership. And this is driven by all-around performance, from productivity gain, about 1.5
times. And activity gain contributing the balance, 2.4 times.
Now, we cannot talk about bancassurance partnership without touching on Standard
Chartered Bank. We have been a partner with Standard Chartered Bank now 16 years.
And the partnership was renewed on July 1, 2014. Now, even before the renewal date of
July 1, we started to see record performance in June. And again in consecutive months
with record, even in traditional markets of the Taiwan, the Singapore. And Hong Kong.
Business plan and detailed action by country was developed jointly before the effective
date. And all 11 markets were operational on July 1. There were two new countries added
to this partnership. And both have been successfully implemented. India, where we have
wrote [ph] our online end-to-end application platform, there was 100% utilization rate by
the bank. And within one month, we are already at the run rate -- at the maximum run rate
with the bank's previous bank partner which they have been for the last 15 years. And
Indonesia, insurance specialist channel was fully established with a headcount of 36. And
we're looking to explore new markets such as Bangladesh.
Now, as strategic partners, we continue to integrate and entangle to enhance our
customer experience with the bank. The bank has actually launched integrated insurance
proposition across all markets to raise insurance awareness. We have deployed customer
analytic programs to generate more effective renewals. And we have seen an uplift of
15% on conversion. We have deployed technology-based tools and sales process and in
Singapore, when we deploy Pru One, Pru One as mentioned, it was the envy of the other
salespeople within the bank. We deploy online platform to engage and communicate with
customer. And we also create dedicated access points for SAP customers on servicings
and claims. And we continue to build out our e-learning and e-training platform.
Now, this strategic partnership has delivered 45% per annum growth since inception. And
with the commitment and value alignment from growth organization, we believe this will
continue to grow from strength to strength. Now, I mentioned earlier that we have a winPage 27 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

win partnership formula. And one of the factor is actually innovative and comprehensive
product solutions. So what does it really mean? Tony said earlier, one of key strengths is
our comprehensive product solutions for all seasons. And with the diversity of our country,
we have seen shifts within the product portfolio over the year.
Now, the general observations are the health and protection portfolio remains fairly
stable. And this is the core offering to our customers. Investment has declined. And this is
actually mainly impacted by regulatory change in India. We're seeing an increase in the
savings portion, as power [ph] products is being used by portfolio diversification in Hong
Kong and in Singapore, given its unique proposition, especially for the high net worth
segment.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now. when we refer to product solution, this is more than just the technical products.
Product solutions will increase sales support activities, packaging, communications, aftersales care and care and management, as well as delivering value to both customer and
shareholders. Now, product mix at the country level do vary due to customer needs,
regulatory requirements, market sentiment, shareholder risk. For example, where we
have opted not to participate in the intra-census [ph] products in near [ph] Korea and
Taiwan. And also market-specific.
Now, despite of all these nuances by country, the fundamental is to provide a
comprehensive product solution to cater for customer needs as their life stages evolve.
Now, typically life stages for insurance needs will start from young single and the journey
completes for retirees. We then map out the insurance needs for each of the life stages.
If I just take one example, married with young children, typically this will involve health
insurance, mortgage insurance, education savings. And starting to look at retirement
accumulations. Products are then developed and refreshed to serve the various life
stages. And actually a technical product could overlap across the various life stages.
Now, innovating product solution is critical to remain resilient in such a dynamic and volatile
market. And this is an integral part of our business. And our track record speaks for itself.
We are the pioneer of protection link in Asia. We're are the first to launch PRUmy child,
with coverage starting inside the womb. So this is definitely a full life stage coverage from
womb to tomb. We are the first to advance critical coverage from single pay to multiple
pay to early stage. And we are first to launch a PruBSN Ummah, a savings protection and
spiritual fulfillment, all in one solution, to support the spiritual needs for Hajj.
We also offered innovative, value-added services to our health benefits. We have
PRUhospital, PRUfriends in Indonesia, which I hope you will hear more about in the next
couple of days. We have PRUhealth assist in Singapore, which I will talk more later on. And
I think Tom will talk through as well. And we have PRUmyhealth Zone in Hong Kong, which
is an online health assessment test and coaching platform.
Now, I think Tidjane already put it in his slide. We actually measure the effectiveness of our
innovation using the innovation index. And as you can see, we have been managing this as
in excess of 25% for both APE and NBP. But more and more, innovation is now critical to
remain resilient and is also more and more driven by regulatory changes with the

Page 28 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

emphasis of customer protection. Now, products have evolved over the last decade. As
we mentioned, customer preference, economic cycle. And regulatory changes. Now,
before year 2000, there is a preference of spread products across Asia. Low level of
protection, less regulatory constraint.
During that time, investment linked products were introduced as a flexible alternative to
traditional product. Now, in some markets, they focus on investment linked. In other
markets, it's evolved to protection linked by packaging with health and protection
benefits. Post-financial crisis, we have seen more regulatory focus on customer
protection, the introduction of risk-based capital framework. Interest rates continue to be
low and market volatilities is now the norm. Now, with all these factors at play, products
are now more transparent and comparable. Insurers are shifting focus towards protection
and there is a greater visibility on investment return.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the future, actually starting now, success in product delivery is actually driven by
understanding customer needs and designing benefits and value-added service to meet
those needs, supported by brand value and investment performance. So actually this is
the exact core strength and value proposition of PCA insurance and the key to our
consistent and resilient delivery.
Now, the better we understand our customer, the better job we do in providing with
appropriate products and services. We have 13 million customers, 2 million new customers
a year, servicing 20 million policies. So that's actually big data and we collect big data in an
innovative way and invest it in capabilities. We then convert this data to a deep
understanding of customer end markets to guide the development of our customer and
marketing strategy. Listening; this is carried out during the customer journey from
acquisition to engagement to retention through the various touch points. We then dissect
the customer base across the multi-pool dimension to enable we develop tailored
propositions for our prime segments and also for our emerging segments.
Now, we segment across dimensions such as life stage, environment, attitude. And
affluence. And then identify segment-specific insurance needs so we can prioritize the
initiatives by their potential, with the outcome being understanding. Development of
tailored needs-driven customer proposition. So our credo of always listening, always
understanding, is the foundation of our customer strategy.
Now, how do we collect information and insight from our customer? An integral part of our
strategy is to measure customer satisfaction and then supported by regular follow-up
and-follow through for improvement on operation process. We actually started this
journey way back in 1994 and this journey is still ongoing. In 2001, we developed a
regional process for segmentation research and we've conducted more than 400
projects and spoken to over 100,000 customers. Some of you might have heard what's
your number campaign? The platform was developed for retirement accumulation and is
still in use today.
In 2008, we conducted a regional study using Net Promoter Index across 11 markets. And
since then this has been driven largely locally. Now, last year we established a region-wide

Page 29 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

customer satisfaction program called CSAT. This program established an organizational
discipline to discover drivers of customer satisfaction and loyalty. And which leads to value
for our business. Now, the key components are very simple, the 3Ms: measure, manage.
And monitor. Now, this program is implemented region-wide but adaptable by each of the
markets to reflect local flavors by preference, distribution. And most importantly, with
competitors' benchmarking.
Now, next I'd like to introduce you to PRU For You. This is a proprietary, interactive,
multimedia platform that enables our customer to provide direct feedback into our
initiatives. It was launched in February 2014 and it was -- we are the first insurance
company in Asia to develop a customer community contributing towards our growing
distributer preference by engaging customers using a new channel.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, at any point in time, 5,000 customers can participate and the community includes
customers from different demographic backgrounds, channels and product experience to
obtain feedback from a broad mix. Now, all the data from PRU For You can be integrated
to our existing database so we can carve-out individual and tailor-made proposition by
segment. Anthony tomorrow -- sorry, later this afternoon, will go through in more details
for you.
Now that we've collected data and we've listened to our customer, how do we turn this
into understanding to drive incremental business value? Tony mentioned earlier just a real
specific examples. We have developed a Smart Leads platform that takes the best
information available so that we can use it to predict customer propensity to buy, to stay.
And to leave. Very simple. The platform consists of three stage: leads generation, leads
execution, filtering. And refining. Now, this end-to-end mechanism actually encourages
more sales from orphans [ph], maturity recapture, servicing and claims. And new product
launch. We have deployed this Smart Leads in key markets and have seen about a 20%
uplift in conversion. Now, other than sales opportunities, Smart Leads can also be used for
claims fraud detection, where claims are being grouped by relevant cluster and dissected
by different permutation and combinations to look at trends.
Now, other than leads, let me talk through with you another example we see in Singapore
about how we listen to customers and develop a value-added service. In Singapore,
medical inflation rate has been very high, driven by rising costs in private hospital bill that
has grown 41% in the last three years. Public hospital bills have grown at 20%. Now, 70% of
the PRUshield customers we have currently utilize government restructured hospital. Now,
what we typically get is customers are calling our customer care hotline to inquire about
hospital bills and asking for help of medical specialists, which obviously is a customer care
hotline we cannot provide.
So turning all this data into understanding, we launched PRUhealthcare assist, which is first
in the market, manned by medical doctors and exclusive to PRUshield customers only. The
objective for this hotline is to provide assistance to customers in managing their rising
healthcare costs, give them referrals to appropriate healthcare service provider, explain
eligibility to claim, provide preferred rates for hospital charges. And give access to
specialists across the government and also private practitioners. Now, this is not just an
additional added benefit to our customer. It's also a claims management tool for us.
Page 30 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

As we always say, what gets measured gets delivered. The effectiveness and outcome of
our customer strategy is tracked through our customer KPI. And we monitor region-wide
customer retention, repeat sales. And net new customer growth. Now, the customer
retention metric is the most important measure of our ability to maintain an ongoing
relationship with our customer. Now, although different by market, we are able to achieve
a retention rate of about 90% over the years. Customer repeat sales KPI measures our
ability to strengthen and deepen customer relationships via existing customer.
Now, at the country level, the repeat sales vary depending on the overall level of
insurance penetration and the stage of development of our operation. Similarly, net new
customer growth KPI monitors the acquisition of our new customers and also differs by
market. Now, our customer centricity, built on always listening, always understanding, is a
distinct and strong competitive advantage for us. And this has led to us have being always
delivering with an immense growth trajectory, as Tony mentioned, 16% per annum growth
over the last 20 quarters. Now, this delivery would not be possible without our critical
enablers.
And now I'll pass back to Tony to talk about our most critical ones.

Bloomberg Transcript

Tony Wilkey

{BIO 19184129 <GO>}

Thanks, Lilian. The robust technology platform. Probably not what you'd expect to hear
about at an investors' day. But a robust and resilient technology platform is mission-critical
today. And we've been working on our back-end now for over 10 years, to standardize, to
build scalability and build security. It's not just enough to have efficient back-end
processing units; you have to have a cultural mindset of cyber resilience. And we've
invested a lot of time, money. And resources in developing this. And we are not
comfortable.
Never were the words of Andy Grove from Intel more appropriate: only the paranoid
survive. And that's not only our mindset in business but it's definitely our mindset in
protecting our data, one of our most valuable assets. Key to this is, we have two worldclass back-end data centers, one right here in Singapore and one in Hong Kong, that are
connected by secure, resilient networks across the region. So this is very important.
Continue to stay focused on this and nonnegotiable for any kind of data leaks.
I think this is perhaps the slide or the part of the business that we are most proud of. I
mean we are incredibly proud of the 15,000 passionate staff that we have around the
region from 40 different nationalities, all aligned with making Prudential the very best in
Asia. In my mind, our employer proposition is second to none. And that is evidenced by
the fact that in all our businesses, there is a line at the door with people wanting to join
this organization. Talent will always be in great demand. So succession planning is very
important.
Lilian and I go quarter by quarter into every single business and spend hours going
through what are the succession plans? Who are the people? What are the gaps? What
are you doing to fill them? Further, succession is a bonusable KPI for the businesses and

Page 31 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

the leadership teams. And we've done quite well. With retention across the -- you can see
from the pie charts, over 90% retention for our SMT -- that's senior management teams,
talent pools and high performers. 100% of our life CEOs have been groomed from within
over the last five years.
90% of our top talents are on SMT and CEO succession lists and 80% of our senior
management team are sourced from the talent pools. You'll appreciate this one. 48% of
our talent pool are women. This compares to global standards where typically senior
executives, females, comprise 25%. 48% of our talent pool are women. We didn't get
here by accident. This takes a lot of work. This takes a lot of passion and focus and we're
making good progress.
Let me wrap it up, because I can see we've run over with time. Hopefully we've
demonstrated our strategy remains the same. We are absolutely committed to continuing
to execute with the highest level of discipline, moving faster, doing things better. And
what you can expect from us going forward is, as we say at Prudential, always listening,
always understanding. But most importantly, always delivering. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Guy Strapp

{BIO 15272859 <GO>}

Okay. Good morning. We'll make a start. Thanks for a timely resumption from coffee.
We're going to change gears slightly and talk about asset management and focus on
Eastspring. And Michele and I will, in the next 25 minutes or so, take you through the
financial results of our business. I'll talk a little bit about investment performance. We'll talk
about the strategic imperatives, the drivers of our success. And in particular within that,
Michele we'll talk about our distribution capabilities.
So cutting firstly to a quick introduction for those that don't know Eastspring, we
rebranded the business about 2 1/2 years ago to give ourselves some distinct branding in
Asia. As we were focusing more on intermediary distribution, it became obvious that using
a Prudential brand caused confusion and indeed channel conflict. Because some of the
key distributor partners of ours also run insurance businesses and weren't necessarily
taken by the fact that we were trying to sell Prudential-branded mutual funds. Coupled
with that we didn't have the Prudential branding rights right throughout Asia and we ran
about six or seven different brands. We now run one unified brand throughout Asia, which
is very convenient.
We've been a standalone asset management business for about 20 years, although we
have a pedigree that goes back in association with the life businesses prior to 1994. We
operate in 10 countries; not exactly the same footprint as the life company. And we'll talk
a little bit about that. And we employ about 2,000 people. Probably you would count that
as about 800 in true professional capabilities. But we do some direct sales in some of our
markets' direct distribution, which accounts for the additional headcount.
So looking at the financial results. And firstly on client net flow for the nine months to
September, these were the numbers that were released fairly recently. Third-party on the
left-hand side, total flow on the right-hand chart. Third-party for the first nine months at

Page 32 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

GBP3.7 billion. That was a record for Eastspring, surpassing what was previously our
strongest first nine months of the year, which was last year. So we stood at the
conference last year in London and said that GBP2 billion was a record. We've well and
truly eclipsed that by 82% with GBP3.7 billion in the nine months to September.
You will note there a shift in investor preference more so away from bonds into equities.
Within that, though, if you decompose it, the appetite for Asian investors when they are
thinking about equities is more dividend or income or yield-oriented. So it's not there a
sign, I don't believe yet, that investors are truly embracing equities as a riskier asset class.
They are taking a little bit more risk by switching from bonds to equities. But they are
doing so by looking for income. And so we often have success with products that have
high frequency distributions, even monthly. So that's been some of the rotation there in
the third-party space.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've also had success with institutional wins over this year, particularly with central banks
in Southeast Asia and some key sovereign funds in both Japanese and Malaysian equity.
On the right-hand side, GBP7.9 billion to the nine months to September is also a record.
So the red on the right-hand side picks up the third-party flow. We have strong flow from
Asia. Before there is a question, why is the blue segment smaller, there was a regulatory
shift in Korea this year which limited in-house management of life insurance assets to a
cap at 50%. We had previously been in the 90% vicinity. So that took GBP1 billion out of
that blue chunk on that right-hand slide. So if you added that back in, life looks but he
similar to the last couple of years in terms of being a strong source of funds for us.
Then of course significant inflows in a rebalancing from UK life into developing Asian
equity markets, as well as Japan equity. So all in all, very pleasing first nine months for
flow. That translates into funds under management, which are also at a record level at the
end of September at GBP73 billion. We closed the year at GBP60 billion at the end of
2013. And so there's been a 22% pick up. About two-thirds of that is attributable to the
flow I just showed and about one-third to market. So markets have been a little kinder in
Asia, although it's been patchy. So equity markets that have performed strongly are like
the Philippines, Indonesia, India obviously.
But other markets have been more restrained. So Japan in fact is down this year. China,
disappointing. The Australian market is, I think to the end of November, down very slightly
on a US dollar weighted basis. So we haven't had a true free rise with the tide coming in,
in terms of equity markets. But they have been a little more supportive than last year
when in the second half of the year in particular some of the Asian markets were very
nervous about the prospects of tapering, after Bernanke announced that in the middle of
last year.
All of the flow and the FUM. And obviously the higher FUM on average that we've had
throughout the year has helped drive profit outcome. So in the first half of the year we
generated GBP42 million of profit, which is a strong result, up 24%. That's on a constant
exchange rate basis over 2013 same corresponding period. Apart from the FUM, I think
we've had a very sensible approach to managing costs. But this is not a cost constrained
story. This is a growth story. So I just look for prudent and appropriate management of

Page 33 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

cost, not driving bottom-line results by reining in costs which might allow us to continue to
grow and expand in this market.
We live and die by investment performance. It's our ticket to the game. It gets us in for a
seat. But then we have to do all the hard yards with our clients, whether it be institutional
clients through asset consultants, or the increasingly sophisticated distribution clients such
as the private banks, consumer banks. And the like. That's when Michele and her team do
a lot of the heavy lifting. But from an investment point of view, we just have to have good
numbers.

Bloomberg Transcript

This is a chart I've used previously that just shows, in a lumpy fashion, an overall scorecard
for how our investment performance looks. And what it's saying is, as of now, 66%
represents the aggregate score of the number of funds we have under management and
the asset weighted volume of funds measured against if they are benchmarked -- against
an appropriate benchmark, which would tend to be more the institutional mandates -- or
against peer group if they are retail. And so, something that's outperforming the
benchmark or is above median gets a tick. And similarly, if it's below benchmark or below
median, it's a cross.
So it simply means that 66% of our investment capabilities, our investment products, are
on sale. We are either bidding the benchmarks or we are bidding the competition. That's
what the graph on the left-hand side shows. It also shows that we finished last year at
around 55%. 2013 -- in fact, the second half of 2012 and into 2013 was difficult for us. We
are a value manager and there was some rather peculiar behavior in the Asian markets.
There was a flight to certainty, toward expensive utilities with dividend certainty. I think a
lot of that happened particularly around the time of Bernanke suggesting QE. So irrational
behavior supporting what we thought were very expensive stocks, or some of the cyclical
stocks that we found to be cheap remained very cheap. Those stocks have bounced back
into 2014.
And you can see that when you look in the right-hand table. If you see the one year
number in the middle for equities measured on the same scoring system is at 74%. And
that's picking up off the three-year result, which was down at 57%. So we've had much
better success with our equity numbers. Fixed income on the top line remains a core
strength. We are the market leader in fixed income, both in terms of capabilities, funds
under management. And the performance numbers speak for themselves. Probably
underscores why we have picked up four sovereign wealth funds in Southeast Asia in
fixed income mandates these past 12 months.
Turning back to what our business structure, our model, looks like. And probably a bit
more by way of introduction as well. On a left-hand side is the client mix. And we have a
very well diversified mix of clients. So the life business accounts for about 62% of the
assets that we manage. A less percentage of our revenue because of the fee rates, of
course, that we charge for some of the more captive nature of some of those assets.
Although there is a large chunk of assets there that are subject to open architecture. So if
you like, you could take the external clients at 38% and lump into that the 15% in Asia ILP
to get a real sense of the fact that our business is about 50-50 between traditional

Page 34 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

insurance assets and what is really third-party book of business, either third-party through
distributors or third-party through ILP, through the insurance company's distribution.
The asset mix I mentioned before, with a preference to investors moving slightly away
from bonds to equities. Not a big deal for us. We've been pretty much the last four or five
years a 50-50 house. 50% equity, 50% debt. There was a time, if we go back to about
2006, that we were probably more weighted 60% equities, 40% bonds. But there's been
an investor preference rotation away from equities, probably because of the financial
crisis in 2008, coupled with the downturn we had in Asian markets in 2011 when Europe
was having problems. So a rotation into fixed income. And there's also evaluation affect.
Equity markets here just haven't performed very strongly.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the right, another benefit of our franchise that makes us rather unique is the spread of
geography. Now, unlike the life business, when Tony and Lilian were presenting and
emphasizing Southeast Asia, the reverse is true for Eastspring. So only 15% of our thirdparty money comes from Southeast Asia. The rest comes from North Asia and India. So
where the mutual fund sales are happening today and tomorrow is in markets like Korea
and Japan and Taiwan. Now, ultimately and eventually -- I think Barry made reference,
probably the next generation -- but markets where the life company has a foothold and is
growing strongly today -- like the Philippines and Thailand and Indonesia and Vietnam, the
ASEAN countries -- they will become bread and butter for Eastspring. But that might be 10
years. It might be 20 years. And we'll cover briefly how we complement that. So our
mutual fund growth strategy is North Asia and our partnership with life, which we'll talk
about in a moment, is very much honed on Southeast Asia.
So we take the competitive performance. We put that up against a distribution franchise
footprint that is fairly unique in Asia. And we come up with a survey that shows for the
third year in a row, Eastspring has come out as the number one retail manager in Asia, exJapan. This is a survey put together by Asia Asset Management. They are a magazine
group here in Asia. Again, we are not striving to be number one for the sake of being
number one. This is an outcome of the way in which we run our business and focus on
executing around great performance and tapping the distribution channels that we can.
Importantly, not only from two years ago were we are coming off the number one
position. But over those two years we've grown our retail funds under management by
25% while the competition there -- Franklin Templeton, Allianz, Schroder's, etc., etc., have
grown by about 9%. So we continue to grow at a faster clip than our key competitors
while retaining. And in fact increasing, our lead in the number one spot.
I want to talk a little bit about our strategic priorities. Because I think that the emphasis
around those, the focus that we have on those, is helping us lead in the industry. And so
we put in place when I became Chief Executive a little over a year ago a set of priorities
around which we could operate as a franchise, focusing obviously on investment
performance. I said that's not negotiable. I've talked about investment performance. But
within that bucket, deepening our investment capabilities where it makes sense.

Page 35 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

We also have identified that our partnerships with life is critical. And Michele we'll talk
about that in a moment. As well as expanding distribution and in particular focusing on
North Asian opportunities. But other new distribution channels where we can find them. So
just talking a little out product investment capabilities, if you like, or diversification. Some
of the things that we've done over the course of the last 12 months -- and this is why I say
it's a growth story and we're not here to try and cut costs and manage expenses down,
because we are investing for the future.
So four years ago we put together a global emerging market equity team. It seemed like
a very sensible thing to do. Asia represents more than 60% of the MSCI Index. And our
figuring out was, well, if we've got that part of the emerging index in our backyard, we
should be able to leverage the other firms on the East Coast and in Scotland can run
global emerging market mandates. So we successfully added to that team. We've built a
very impressive three-year track record. In fact, I think it's a four-year track record as of
the end of this month. And they are just starting to take that capability out on the road.
Emerging markets perhaps in equity space is not the flavor of the month. But I think we
are nicely primed to have a high quality product, ready for when investor appetite returns
to emerging markets.
We are also -- and this is important where we stand with our life relationships -- building
out negotiated credit capability. So the life companies in Asia are often operating in
constrained capital markets. So in markets like Vietnam, where we own very large chunks
of the government bond index, we are almost a captive price taker. We go to the Ministry
of Finance. We ask for private placements; the MoF tend not to do beyond 10 years in
Vietnam. That gives us a duration mismatch. But by going into negotiated credit
opportunities we, A, get enhanced liquidity in many respects in some of these really
constrained markets. We certainly get transparency into the underlying securities if the
other options are investing in corporate credits and the like. And we're not paying the
privilege of daily liquidity.
So when we are dealing in secondary markets in Asia. And the secondary markets in debt
space have grown in depth over the past 3 to five years, both sovereign and in particular
corporate. But the privilege of investing in secondary market securities is paying for the
liquidity. The life company doesn't need that sort of liquidity, certainly not on 100% of its
debt book. And so, exploring opportunities in mezzanine debt, Asian loans and
infrastructure with a debt emphasis within infrastructure is a sensible thing for us to do
today for the life companies, for those reasons I've described. But if we do it well, then in
three years or five years we'll take some of these capabilities to the secondary market
ourselves. And we'll look either for co-invest opportunities or we'll just look to launch
funds and raise third-party money.
So it makes perfect sense for us in terms of partnering with life, helping them with their
investment problem. And also giving us commercial opportunities that might be more
realized again in three or five years. These are investment spends for the future. We just
did our first mezzanine debt deal in a Sumatran oil company about two months ago. We
did take a hedge on the oil price, in case I got that question. We're very close to closing
on our second deal in the mezz space. In Asian loans we've resourced and recruited both
credit analysts and experienced loan people. And in infrastructure we've hired two
Page 36 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

people, one to lead the team with a view that we'll start looking at deals into 2015 in
particular.
Added to that the importance of China. And we've recruited mainland credit skills. So the
dollar market in China has been important to us over the years. We've now added
renminbi capability around that. Again, in part response to a life demand for clients who
are looking for renminbi-denominated product. But in any event, that segment of the
market is going to become increasingly important for us. So again, an investment spend in
the future.
Then, finally, we are looking at multi-asset capabilities. Our new balanced funds were
popular when I started in the markets in the 1980s in Australia. And they are reemerging.
And probably, in a way, it's the way in which investors are thinking about segueing out of
debt, which may have run its course if we see higher -- if we see higher interest rates -but to pick up some equity exposure in portfolios in 60/40 mixes or the like. But to take
on more diverse exposures. And so we are having a close look at that in terms of adding
to the bench strength of the product.

Bloomberg Transcript

This is all and around what we already do successfully in terms of debt and bond in Asia -debt and equity in Asia. But it just underpins what we are trying to achieve in terms of the
vision for the future and investing for the future of both life company but for Eastspring
and for our third-party clients. I'm going to pass to Michele now. So Michele looks after
product, distribution. And marketing and across all of our channel segments. So primarily
of course life, institutional. And retail. And she's going to take us through partnering with
life and expanding distribution. So Michele?

Michele Bang

{BIO 16457509 <GO>}

You left me with five minutes so I'm going to have to zip through this. I'm going to review
two strategic priorities for Eastspring. One is Partner with Life; second is building thirdparty distribution. Life business, you will find out at the end of the presentation, is a
strategic core backbone to who Eastspring is and why Eastspring -- who is Eastspring. So
62% of our funds under management comes from our Life channel; split between
institutional general account money. And the retail money, which is defined as insurance
linked products.
Year-over-year, this client base gave us increase of 20% of our funds under management.
Three things key our meeting this client demand: performance, product. And client
service. Performance, Guy touched on just now. Product innovation is key when clients in
Indonesia want Indonesian equities; when Chinese clients want Chinese-denominated,
renminbi-denominated fixed income, it is critical that we provide those products for our
Life clients.
Client service. You heard Indonesia alone, 300,000 agents across 150 cities in Indonesia
alone. To provide service to our Life clients, Eastspring has to have the local footprint and
the training capability and the agency, tailored seminars and events, for us to be
supportive to Life client.

Page 37 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

Third-party distribution. This is where, in the end, you will find why we are very
complementary to Prudential Asia's footprint. As you heard, Life clients business is
dominant in Southeast Asia. Economic growth cycles, et cetera -- you know these figures
better than I do. In North Asia where the retirement savings -- our pool of assets are
based, we saw this coming through this year where 71% of the net new flows came from
Japan, Korea. And Taiwan. The flows are mixed between the sovereign wealth, institution,
insurance company. And retail.
You cannot be more diverse in client base than what we saw today. Institutional in Japan,
GPIF, the trophy client, globally largest pension fund, awarded us with the mandate in
Japanese equity. A European institutional client gave us mandate in Malaysian small-cap.
Fixed income -- various central banks in Asia have given us awards in Asia fixed income.
Those asset classes are growing; market is coming back to Asia.
Taiwan, you heard, is the most competitive offshore and onshore market. We remain very
well positioned in Taiwan as one of the largest retail managers.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now I would like to make sure that you walk away today understanding this footprint of
what does this mean for Eastspring. I've colored the markets in terms of size -- in red and
grey. And in size. So the gray bubbles -- Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore -are the largest pool of money. However, the characteristics of these markets is that over
half of the funds invested from clients in those markets are in overseas asset class. So
European equities, fixed income, et cetera, these are where most of our competition play
in, because that's what they manage somewhere else in the world.
The red markets, look at the size of the bubbles: China, India, Thailand, Malaysia,
Indonesia, Korea sometimes flips back and forth. They invest over 90% of their money
into domestic asset class. So when you are talking about dollar appreciating, depreciating,
QE2, et cetera, what do you think happens to those investors in those red countries? It's
not that they don't want to invest abroad. Some of these countries, the government
doesn't allow currency to convert. So they live 90% of the time in their own markets.
So when you look at our competition, you'll find it very strange that not many can have the
franchise we do in the red markets. Because in order to manage domestic asset class,
you must be able to compete with your local giants, with large distribution.
Eastspring is well positioned in the large retirement savings pools of money in North Asia.
Eastspring is very well positioned in the red markets, where currency controls will over
time evolve, mainly because of our Life partner. So this puts us in a very unique,
unparalleled position vis-a-vis our competition when you have regulatory changes,
governments who want to do passporting, that is great for us. Great for others.
If they don't, that doesn't matter to us. We are literally the Asian passport because we
have manufacturing, product, marketing, the entire franchise in each local market. So I end
just on time to leave you with a view of who is Eastspring. We remain focused on delivery.
We work 24/7. And we do not sleep at night. Thank you very much.

Page 38 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

Adrian O'Connor

FINAL

Good morning, or just about. And Brad Harris, who many of you know will be presenting
with me today -- and on Pete Lloyd's retirement last year, Brad has since become our
Chief Actuary, a vital role in PCA.
What are we going to talk about today? Not surprisingly, given that we've got 2017
objectives, it's going to revolve around free surplus generation and IFRS.
Three years ago at this event, I showed you the relationship between free surplus
generation and IFRS. I'm going to close that circle today by showing you the relationship,
the connection, or the link between embedded value and free surplus. That's the first part
of the presentation.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then Brad will come in. And then -- and in our reporting accounts every single year, we
show you year-by-year expected monetization. But how have we been doing against that
monetization? Brad is going to compare actual delivery against expectations. And to give
you some color, he's going to show you that at a broad product level to give you some
detail. And finally it will come back to me to bring all of that together. And see where that
leaves us on the roadmap to our 2017 objectives.
Believe it, or believe not, I have been in the insurance industry since before the term
embedded value was invented. So I've been working with embedded values. And all of its
iterations, for quite a number of years. For a period I spent with American companies and
as you all -- or a lot of you know, for financial reporting, American companies are almost
totally focused on US GAAP.
And in preparing for this presentation, I was surprised at how much I had forgotten about
embedded values; how much new I had to learn. And also I was reminded of the
elements of EV methodology, which drive me nuts, to be quite honest. Now peppered in
all that preparation were some fantastic aha moments. And -- which made the whole
exercise worthwhile.
Tidjane has put me under a bit of pressure today already. But I do promise each and
every one of you that from what follows, you will get some new insights, even for those of
you who have excruciating knowledge of the detail of embedded value. So with that, let's
get started.
With the traditional definition of embedded value, it is equal to net worth or equity -difference between assets and liabilities, plus the value of the in-force, the value of future
profits. What you don't see there is any mention of free surplus, free surplus generation.
So we're going to change that.
Okay. Net worth is made up of what we call target capital, the capital that we want to hold
in each local business. And typically that is 150% to 250% of the local requirement. What's
left is excess. And what we term excess is actually free surplus stock.

Page 39 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

We're going to do one more thing. We're going to add that target capital. And we're
going to add it to VIF, value of the in-force. And what you get is the value of future
monetization. What that means, present value of future free surplus generation. So in fact,
embedded value is all about free surplus stock and free surplus generation, completely
linked.
Let's put some numbers around that from the end of 2012. Embedded value, GBP9.462
billion, split up between GBP8.488 billion of VIF -- value of future monetization, apologies
-- and free surplus stock of GBP974 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

Just one last thing, before we leave the definition. I was privileged to work with a
gentleman in New York who I have called Steve Steineck [ph] who was a Chief Actuary
there for many years. And for the brief period I was with him at New York Life, he was a
great mentor. And I had this in my -- literally to this day. And it's quite a number of years
ago -- I have it in my mind's eye the day when I was talking to him. And he turns to me.
And he says -- it's towards the end of his career -- he said, I don't like embedded value. In
order to understand the profile of the in-force business, what I want to know is what is the
year-by-year expected cash flows. That has meaning for me, not the value. Now every
single year, as I said before, in our reporting accounts, we show those numbers
undiscounted, year-by-year expected future cash flow.
What drives the change of the growth in embedded value? And that's what we're going
to turn to next, by looking at 2013. Embedded value grew from GBP9.5 billion to just over
GBP10.3 billion. Now it's going to be easier to show how this works by looking at the
growth in the two components. The growth of the value of future monetization from
GBP8.488 billion to GBP9.120 billion; and then later, to show you the growth of free surplus
stock between GBP974 million and GBP1.185 billion.
So let's start with the change in the value of future monetization. So this, you've seen
before: the GBP8.488 billion at the end of 2012, represented by those future cash flows.
Five things are going to happen, five drivers. So let's go.
The GBP719 million disappears because it monetizes. It has actually moved into free
surplus. We expected it to monetize. It's monetized. And the second thing that happens is
all those cash flows move one year forward. So we discount them for one year less. And
that terrible word called unwind, that's what unwind is. So in our case, it's set average
discount rates just over 7%. And that adds GBP594 million.
Things don't turn out as expected. And without operating movement, which is basically, as
Lilian describes, PEC, persistency [ph] expenses and claims, plus target capital
movements of a very small number: GBP58 million. So at 7% [ph] of the initial value of just
over a GBP8.5 billion, or just under GBP8.5 billion.
Now, the biggie: all of the work Tony, Lillian. And each of the CEOs and all of their teams
add GBP1.449 billion last year. The most important, new business quantity and quality -critical -- making up 17% of the initial value of future monetization. And of course that
comes with an investment of GBP310 million, which you will see later.
Page 40 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

And finally, we have what we call non-operating. These are mainly the economic
movements. Negative GBP750 million, not surprising given the FX. And that is all FX. So
they are five components that get us to GBP9.12 billion. Each of the elements again -- and
as you can see, the biggie is new business.
Okay, that was one part. Now we're going to look at the change in free surplus stock from
GBP974 million to GBP1.185 billion. This will be quicker. There is a slide we saw before, plus
we've got one other -- one slide.
We've got the expected transfer, what you saw before. It was in value of future
monetization. It's now monetized GBP719 million. Return on the assets backing net worth
of GBP74 million; operating movements, GBP26 million. That investment in new business,
which we talked about, is an investment from free surplus stock of GBP310 million. And
then non-operating movements of positive GBP95 million.
At the last one, which is different from before, is dividend payments back to group,
GBP393 million, which brings it up to the total of GBP1.185 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, in summary, because there's a whole pile of reconciliation people in the room; so
here's a reconciliation of it all. Three columns: value of future monetization, which you
have seen before; free surplus, which you have seen before; and we just added them up
to show you each of the components of embedded value.
Now hidden in all these numbers are two more things: the components of our two KPIs,
the first one of which is free surplus generation of GBP509 million, made up of transfer to
free surplus, expected return on existing assets, those operating movements. And that
investment in a new business.
Second KPI that is there -- that is hidden there is operating -- EEV profits of GBP189.1
million. So that's a quick run through of the relationship between free surplus generation
and embedded value. And how it all hangs together.
With that, we're now going to change up. Brad is going to bring us through delivery
against expectation of monetization.

Brad Harris

{BIO 20251342 <GO>}

Thanks, Adrian. Good morning. I want to start out by going backwards to a slide that
Adrian just showed you. So again, this is year-end 2012. And this is our expected free
surplus generation in the bottom right-hand corner. And that's where I'm going to focus
for the next few minutes. And I am going to be walking you through the 2013 results. But
in a slightly different way than Adrian.
And I'm going to be answering three questions for you today. The first is what product
lines are driving our free surplus generation? The second, did we meet our operating free

Page 41 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

surplus generation expectations in 2013? And the third, given what happened in 2013,
what has changed of our expectation of free surplus generation in 2014 and beyond?
So where we would like to start is focusing on the cash flows again, the free surplus
generation in the future and where are we getting it. Now I'm going to divided into three
product lines. We have linked and protection riders; we have participating business. And
non-participating business. Now the definition of these are slightly different than some of
the numbers we are presenting. In other words, a lot of times we will pull out all of our
health and protection and show you what that sales is on its own. Because that way it
highlights our focus on rider attachment ratio and such.
What I'm doing here is the linked and protection, on the bottom in the blue, is purely the
linked-based policies and all of the riders associated with those. Because from a financial
movements perspective, you can't separate the two because it is the linked fund that is
paying for the underlying COIs and premiums on those riders.

Bloomberg Transcript

The participating business at the top is what it says. This is our participating business. In all
of our big business units, it looks something similar to what you're used to seeing in the
UK, with ring fence par funds and such. And in the middle in the green, this is our non-par.
So the nonparticipating, it's two main groups of product lines. The first are -- is all of our
stand-alone health and protection: term life, medical business, critical illness, hospital
cash, that type of thing. And it's also any type of savings product in which the Company
itself is providing the underlying guarantees. It could be a savings endowment product, for
example. So that's the definitions of the three different product categories that we're
going to talk through today.
The first one that I would like to highlight on is the linked and protection. So this
represents 60% of our expected free surplus generation across Prudential PCA. And
where I want to spend my time is on the GBP421 million. So at the end of 2012, we said -and what we put in our external numbers if you add up the three different product lines -is we said that we will make GBP421 million of free surplus generation in 2013. So the
question is, did we deliver that?
First we looked at operating side. And we have two positive results. First is we had a
positive return on the free surplus. So we have return on the free surplus that we already
had from allocated (inaudible) product line. And the second is we look any operating
assumption changes in variances.
So here again, we have a positive in 2013 compared to our expectations when we closed
out 2012. Now if you think of free surplus, it is really, in a very simplistic form -- it's a local
P&L. It is statutory-based, plus any movement in capital local [ph], our target capital. So
that is really a very simplistic way to think about it. And so the only two things that are
going to change in the variance within that particular year is if I am changing my required
capital within that, or if I have a variance that is driving cash flows. I pay more or less claims
than I thought; I paid more or less expenses than I thought.

Page 42 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

In the linked business in 2013, this was primarily driven from capital changes. So we had
some regulatory changes around the region, one of them specifically in Indonesia. They
changed the requirements of how the target capital -- how our capital was calculated. And
because of the types of business that we write, we released capital because of the new
regulations. So that is the positive that we have in 2013.
Once we had generated the operating free surplus, we are investing, as Adrian said, in
new business. Now again, the unit linked with protection riders is very capital -- it's not
intensive at all. It's very capital efficient. And because of that, we invested GBP146 million
in new business.
Now on the non-operating side -- so when we look at what's happened in the assumption
changes on your financials. And also what has happened on the variances. And we also
look at FX. If everyone remembers back in 2013, interest rates rose in every single one of
our markets outside the Philippines and Vietnam. In some, it was dramatic. The 10-year
government in Hong Kong was 60 BPs at year-end 2012. There's 231 BPs at year-end
2013. So we had a lot of movement that year. And everything is mark-to-market here.

Bloomberg Transcript

And so what you are seeing is again, there's two different items that are going to affect
the economic assumption changes and operating variances. And that's the mark-tomarket side. But it's also any changes in capital requirements due to maybe local statutory
valuation interest rates, for example.
Because this is a unit-linked policy, we are immunized from a lot of that. There's not a lot
of capital that we holding and -- because of the types of product it is. And at the same
time, the assets are separate accounts and so we don't get hit directly 1 to 1. So where
you are seeing driving the GBP19 million here is the fact that interest rates went up, bond
values went down. And our asset management fees went down. They were below our
expectations in 2013. If I look at FX, that is purely driven by Indonesia.
So all in all, we delivered our operating free surplus on the unit linked and protection
riders. We invested in new business. Then we had the market movements and FX at the
end. So then the question is these three areas, from an operating new business and on
the non-operating, how does that affect where we think we will be going in the future?
So the operating items come through as a slight negative in the future. And the reason is
you're holding less capital; you've released it in 2013, which means over time, you are
releasing less capital.
So they offset each other. If you look at embedded value holistically, they balance out.
You'll get a slight negative due to discounting. But here, you see the upfront changing
capital. And you see the difference in the releasing capital every year. So again, cash flows
are much better way to look at it. It gives you a lot more insight.
The second piece is new business. This is the value that we are expecting to gain from
the new business that was generating -- in the investment that we made in new business

Page 43 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

in 2013. It's a very substantial for the ILP products. Then the last piece, economic -- and
this is all FX-driven.

FINAL

So in summary, this is where we started the year. That was the changes of all three
combined. And at the end of 2013, this is our new expectations.
Now I'm going to move on to the next product line, which is going to be the non-par.
Focusing again on what we said at year-end 2012, what we expected to make in free
surplus generation in 2013: GBP200 million. From our operating perspective, again, we
met those expectations. We had a positive return on free surplus. And we had a GBP32
million positive assumption changes in variances.

Bloomberg Transcript

And this one is about half and half. About half of this is due to positive variances, mainly
driven from positive claims; and half of it is due to capital movement. So we had some
changes from the regulatory side. Singapore, for example, had a new MAS 319 coming
out. That changed the capital requirements. We had new reinsurance deals being
renewed and such. So there was movements on the capital side, representing about half
of this. But all in all, net our operating free surplus targets.
Investment in new business. This is an area that -- this shows a big difference between the
ILP products and non-par. So the ILP, we sell roughly just a little more than twice as far as
the non-par, using the definition that we have here today. But you'll notice that the new
business strain, the investment in new business, is almost the same between the two.
And that's because roughly the new business strain is almost twice on the non-par. And
that's because we're the ones making all the underlying guarantees. So we are providing
all the insurance benefits; all the investment guarantees and such are being held by the
Company. And because of that, there's more-capital intensive when you sell those
products upfront.
That also flows through the economic movement. So here, the mark-to-market, we take
100% of it. At the same time, you get an offset; because as interest rates go up, your
valuation interest rate goes up. And that helps on your liability side. However, again, this is
local statutory-driven. And they're not always in sync, 1 to 1. And so there's a lot of
smoothings and different rules in every single business unit, in which you will get some
disconnection between the market value of your assets and your liabilities.
And so what you are seeing here is the bond value -- because that's what we have
supporting these products -- went down as interest rates went up. And that was partially
offset by a reduction in the liabilities. And the FX impact is really nonexistent; and again,
that's mainly because Indonesia is where we had the FX changes in 2013. And this isn't a
key product line for them.
So now focusing on what happens in the future, given what we saw in 2013, again, the
positives that were released on the capital side in 2013 are now coming through as slight
negatives in the future. Some of the lumpiness is purely just caused by local regulations
on capital. New business on us [ph] is very strong. So we invest more on our non-par
upfront. But we are rewarded from that because we are the ones taking the risk. And
Page 44 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

that's where you see a lot of positives coming through on the new business side in the
future.

FINAL

Then the last piece, non-operating. And this is due to the fact that we took the one-time
market hit in 2013. But it means our expected gains in the future are higher. We have
higher fund earning rates. So that comes through on these products.
So in summary, we started the year. That's the changes of all three of them combined.
And that's where we finished the year on expectations for 2014 and beyond. And the last
one that I want to walk you through is par.
At year-end 2012, we expected to make GBP97 million in 2013 free surplus generation in
par. From an operating perspective, we are in line. This is probably the first time -- one of
the only times you're going to hear me say that negative is positive. So again, taking you
back to par -- so what you are seeing here on the par product is we make money. The
Company makes money when we distribute benefits to our customers. And one of the
key items. And where we distribute a lot of benefits to customers, is when they terminate
their policy. So when they terminate their policy, we will give them their benefits to that
point in time. So lapses actually drive value for us because if we have high lapses, then we
pay more benefits out. We get our share of those benefits when we pay it.

Bloomberg Transcript

What we saw in 2013 was we had lower lapses than expected. So again, this negative in
2013 is because we did not get our share of what we were paying out as terminal
bonuses. And such. But it makes more profit over the lifetime of the policy for us. So this is
a positive for us, even though it's a negative in 2013.
The investment in new business -- and this is where I'm sure a lot of you are scratching
your head, thinking it's par product; we shouldn't have any investment in new business;
the par fund absorbs all of that. That is true, if we look at the core markets like Singapore,
Hong Kong, of where it's more of a traditional UK style par product. But around the
region, all of our par policies are held accountable to local requirements -- local
regulations. And in some of those markets, it's different.
So for example, this is mainly driven by Vietnam. Vietnam is a fiscal year par, which means
every year they calculate profitability of that par. At the end of every year, you distribute
the profits between the policyholders in the par fund and the Company. So every year,
when you have new business going into a par fund, that holds down the surplus that year.
So what ends up happening as we as a Company are participating in the upfront new
business strain. So that's why we have the new business strain coming through here. It's
just a nuance of the different par funds that we have around the region, given local
regulations.
And again, because they are sitting within a par fund, you are not going to see any
movement due to economic assumption changes. And there's no real FX movement. So
as expected.

Page 45 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

Moving forward, this is the positive from the positive persistency. So it's much larger than
the negative that you saw in 2013's numbers. So again, it's a positive.
From the new business, there's the value of new business. Now, one thing that I want to
point out is that you'll notice that all of the other product lines, the new business started
out and it grew. And then it slowly shrunk down over the projection period. This one is
growing over the projection period. Again, it's because we make our money when we pay
the benefits to consumers. And a lot of those benefits are later on in the policy as it is
accumulating. So it's a slightly different profile than you are seeing on the other two
product lines that we have.
Then the last slide on this one, non-operating items. There is a one-year lag in par. So
what happened in 2013, as far as interest rates going up, the value of the bonds and the
par fund going down, doesn't affect 2013's distributed amounts to the policyholders. That
decision is made at the end -- at the beginning of 2014. And then we declare bonuses
around April 2014. So there is a one-year lag. And that's when you are seeing the
negatives. So the bonds went down in value. We will declare slightly lower bonuses for the
next couple of years as we actively declare those. But over time, with a higher fund
earning rate, that's where we get the positives. So that's the movement that you're
seeing here.

Bloomberg Transcript

So again, in summary, that is the combined impact of all three of them on the par
business, walking from year-end 2012 to year-end 2013.
So going back to the slide that I started with, this was our expectation of 2013 and
beyond, at the end of 2012. After 2013 has transpired, we have the changes in operating,
new business. And we have the non-operating side. I want to layer what we have just
calculated for each of the three product lines. And so we have an increase. We started at
GBP8.4 billion. Now, our total value of future monetization is GBP9.1 billion.
So all in all, what you are seeing is we delivered the operating free surplus in 2013 that we
said that we were going to deliver. And you also noticed that as Adrian said, the key driver
to future free surplus generation is new business. It's the profitable new business that we
are putting on the books. Then at the same time, you noticed the three core product lines
react and behave very, very differently to economic environment. And from a capital
perspective. And the diversification that we have across Prudential is a huge asset that we
have.
Thank you. Now I'm going to hand back over to Adrian.

Adrian O'Connor
Thanks, Brad. So now on to the last part of this section, the roadmap to 2017. And I'm
going to do it separately, with free surplus generation and then with IFRS.
Well as usual, a few definitions. While I talked to you before -- which I forgot to mention
was that we were talking about life insurance -- so the GBP509 million of free surplus
Page 46 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

generation that I mentioned before was for the life insurance. Our definition of free
surplus generation in terms of our target includes the profits after-tax from Eastspring,
which in 2013 was GBP64 million. So in 2013 in total, the free surplus generation was
GBP573 million.
Here is the roadmap. So the legend on the right gives all of the items. But they are the
same coloring as before, except for one item that you saw up here, right at the very end,
which is the gray bit. And that is the contribution from new business written 2014 to 2016.
Important to note, even though we don't know where all that is going to go, it is critically
important in terms of achieving our 2017 objective. And that number obviously requires
investment in new business, which is below the line. The orange below the line is
significantly investment. But not alone is it achieving the -- that investment achieves the
target or the objective in 2017; it grows the business on -- way beyond that.
Before we leave free surplus generation, just want to pause and talk further about the
importance of recent new business has -- the recent vintages of new business have -- on
this year's free surplus generation. The way I'm going to do that is by looking backwards.

Bloomberg Transcript

So from the previous slide, we've seen the blue lines are the expected monetization at
the end of 2011, with GBP674 million in 2012. At the end of 2012, we expected GBP719
million. At the end of 2013, we expected GBP801 million in 2014. It's just come up there,
go back to 2011; we wrote new business. That cost us GBP297 million. At the end of 2011,
we expected that investment in new business to generate GBP104 million in 2012, GBP123
million in 2013. And GBP120 million in 2014.
Roll the clock forward a year: 2012, business written in 2012, we invested GBP292 million.
We expect at the end of 2012 that that would generate, in 2013, GBP105 million; and in
2014, GBP129 million. And finally, last year, as we mentioned before, we invested in writing
that new business, GBP310 million; and expect this year, GBP116 million to be generated.
So if we add all those original expectations up, from the business written in the three
years from 2011 to 2013, GBP365 million is expected to be generated this year of the
current expectation of GBP801 million -- 46%. So recent vintages are critically important in
free surplus generation.
Now let's turn to IFRS operating profit. What I'm going to do is recap, because I no doubt
everyone has forgotten what I said three years ago. So I'm going to recap how we actually
-- the relationship with the bridge between free service generation and IFRS. And as I did
three years ago, we actually split up into two components: the new business part and the
in-force part, because it's easier to understand. So I want to just show you the starting
points as we -- GBP310 million and in new business investment. And GBP883 million
generated from the in-force last year on a free surplus basis.
There are four elements to this: tax for both [ph] tax; change in required capital;
something to do with the deferred acquisition costs; and then changes, differences in
each asset and liability valuations between embedded value and IFRS.

Page 47 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

So let's just quickly go through the new business. Tax gross-up, GBP42 million. It requires
capital to set up the business, GBP107 million. Deferred acquisition costs -- we pay money
to get to the business. A lot of it is commission. When you set up a deferred acquisition
asset for that, GBP142 million. And finally there is a difference, even at the beginning,
between assets and liabilities of GBP88 million. And mainly that's on the reserving side.
Leading you to IFRS new business strain of GBP15 million.
So let's look at the in-force. Similar contributors. But in different sizes. Tax gross-up,
positive GBP217 million. Change in required capital knockback, big GBP18 million. Now
we're amortizing those acquisition costs, negative GBP104 million. And finally differences
between assets and liabilities, between the two bases, of GBP76 million; leading to
operating profit of GBP1,090 million. Add all that together. You go from post-tax
operating free surplus of GBP573 million to pre-tax IFRS of GBP1,075 million. And my
simple way, as I say, there is a -- profits -- IFRS profits, even taking into consideration tax is
-- comes quicker than free surplus generation. The main reason, new business strength.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's look at the roadmap. Again, the legend on the right shows you -- is again the
difference between free surplus generation and IFRS profits, the same elements. But the
most important point -- you can see straightaway, the key element is free surplus
generation to IFRS. The key element is free surplus generation. And as we have said on
numerous occasions during this presentation, the key to free surplus generation is new
business.
To wrap up, three simple messages: firstly, embedded value is all about free surplus
stock and free surplus generation. Secondly, we have delivered against free surplus
generation expectations. And some. And finally, the quantity and the quality of our new
business is key, key to driving the delivery of our 2017 objectives. Thank you.

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay, let's get started now. No more slides. So thanks for sitting through the whole
morning. We have to Q&A sessions. We will have one now. And we'll have another one at
the end of the day. So I will --

Unidentified Speaker
Also within the carousel sessions.

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Yes, of course the carousel. I'm saying the formal Q&A session (technical difficulty). So we
aim to stop it 1. So we're only going to take a series of questions now. And knowing that
this is not your only chance, we can come back in more or less the same configuration
later.
So as usual, Robert [ph], you're going to distribute the questions.

Page 48 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

Unidentified Speaker

FINAL

Two ways to ask questions: raise your hand and then state your name, firm's name. And
then wait for the microphone; or you can even ask us on the app. So I'll wait for a show of
hands.

James Garner

{BIO 4126548 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning. James Garner from HSBC. I've got four questions; firstly want to talk
about India. Quite frankly, is there any hope for the Indian Life market which has some of
the lowest margins in Asia, thanks to regulatory overkill? And also the market is
dominated by LIC, which has several structured advantages. Do you think there's any
scope in the next three years of a regulatory loosening which could help your business?
And secondly related to India, can you give an update on whether the bank is forced to
become brokers instead of risk. And whether your insurance business could be subject to
premium limits?

Bloomberg Transcript

The second area of questions is on the Malaysian business. Can you give an update on
the likelihood and the impact if Bank Negara follows through with its threat to cut the
proportion of first-year investment link premium allocated to shareholders from 50% to
20%? It looks a strange initiative, given the regulator's ambition to actually increase
insurance coverage in Malaysia.
And just finally on Thailand, two questions here. First, is there any hope for the unit link
market there? It seems to be a structural preference for guaranteed savings products.
Secondly on Thailand, can you comment on the regulatory pressure which is now coming
on high-margin credit light products, which have very high margins; and just wondered
whether this would impact your business in any way.

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. Thanks, as well, when you said four questions, thanks for making the
brief. So well done
Seriously.
We don't disagree with a word you said about India and LIC. Yes. The market is
dominated by LIC. It's not attractive from a profitability perspective. We have always
looked at it as a long-term call option in the hope that at some point, the regulation would
improve and allow us to make a decent return. I wouldn't want to put a term on it. So you
said three years. I would not want to commit to a time frame by which that would happen.
But Barry and Tony go to India regularly and run the business. Do you have a view on that?
Your prospects for positive regulatory change in India?

Page 49 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

I wouldn't be hugely optimistic in the midterm. There's nothing happening to suggest that
the regulator will take a fundamentally different view. What they ought to be -- what we'd
love to see them thinking about is ways to put tax leverage around appropriate consumer
behavior to end this cycle that they seem to be in, where anybody with a net worth of a
few thousand dollars wants to put it all on a mutual fund, as opposed to practicing
sensible financial planning.
There is not enough control of distributors. Accounts get churned. So distributors do well;
consumers don't. They ought to be looking at ways to drive people to buy protection. And
they're not focused on that.
You contrast that -- everybody always compares India and China. You contrast it with
China, where the regulator steps in and does very smart things like shut down the whitehot deposit stripping in the bank channel. You basically shut it down cold. And then come
back a couple years later with a rule saying, you can actually now put insurance reps in the
bank branches and sell, as long as 20% of what they sell is protection, which is exactly the
sort of thing you would like to see regulators doing.
I don't know, Tony, do you want to --

Bloomberg Transcript

Tony Wilkey

{BIO 19184129 <GO>}

Yes. We just got back from India. I think we were there last week. And while the regulatory
landscape with IrDA is always complicated dynamic; you never know what's coming next.
Given -- we are where we are. But when you spend time with our business there, ICICI Pru,
everybody you talk to will say the same word: protection. That is the theme running
through the business. And we're going to do the best we can to build the protection
segment. It will be probably more around critical illness. But we're going to -- it's a very
different business than it was five years ago. It's much more efficient. The expense ratio is
better, the agency is much more productive. And so we will train them to sell as much
protection as we can today.

Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

And terrific leadership; Sandeep Bakhshi is the CEO. So he's just a terrific executive.

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

The business is excellent. The team is excellent. The problem is, we're very (multiple
speakers). So it's one of our lowest margin markets in the world. It's much lower, on a
nominal basis, than in the UK. So on a risk-adjusted basis, it's not good. The only reason to
stay is the hope of an improvement and who can [ph] develop a protection business. But
we think it's working. Because if you develop it, it will be big.
Okay, brokers and banks in India? Any --?
Page 50 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

Tony Wilkey

{BIO 19184129 <GO>}

We're not seeing a lot of activity. If you look across the competitive landscape, many of
the -- exclude LIC for second; so look at the private sector. Many of the JVs are actually
tie-ups between insurance companies and banks. So they are very reluctant to obviously
open up what it is they have to offer, where banks are unassociated with a life company -as was the case with Standard Chartered Bank -- we were able to come in, set up a
broker. And quickly get the flows going.

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Regulatory reform in Malaysia was the next one, the Bank Negara initiative. There's been
more meetings since then.
Do you want to give an update?

Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Yes the -- we're not crazy about some of the things they're talking about. It's very prodistributor. If you look at this whole -- and Steve is going to spend some time in the
carousel. And you'll get some detailed information on that. But it is very distributor-centric
regulation, which is not what we like to see. I'm not sure -- there's a lot more (multiple
speakers) to add to that.

Bloomberg Transcript

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Maybe I can add to that that we still think -- but outcome is quite unlikely for the reason
you gave. And it's in contradiction with the objective they are following. So certainly we've
made representations today. And made that point in the industry as a whole as well.

Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

The good news about the process that regulators in Asia go through, when they are
thinking about these changes, is there is close and real consultation. You're not presented
with things as a fait accompli. You saw that here in Singapore.
One of the best examples with the distribution review they did here, the fair review, which
started in a place that we would not have been happy with; ended in a place that we were
quite comfortable with. So we've gone through that process in Malaysia. There's still a lot
of work to do, to land this regulation -- regulatory change where you'd want it to. And
again, Steve will cover some of the specific details and feedback that we've given to the
regulator. And how they have responded to that, in the carousel session; but more work. It
needs to land in a better place than it is now.

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Page 51 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

We cannot overemphasize much. You said that in your remarks, Barry, that the regulator
considers that ensuring the competitiveness and the success of the industry is part of his
responsibilities. It's something we lobbied for very strongly in the UK. We managed to get
a sentencing below in the end. But clearly the behavior of a regulator in Asia -- there was
a trade-off made explicitly between customer protection and competitiveness of industry.
And that discussion always takes place explicitly every single time we take Singapore
under a fair review. But also on Blue Shield. We discuss absolutely everything.
So when something is going to be implemented, we will be in agreement. It's nothing
imposed on us between the industry and the government. And they are very transparent
about what we're trying to achieve, which I think is the right way to regulate. They call us
and say, this is the outcome we would like to have from a customer perspective. Can the
industry deliver that? Under what conditions; would do we need to do? What -- et cetera,
et cetera. So it's very -- that's part of why we're so relaxed about the famous regulatory
risks, or the way they approach it.
I think the next one was unit linked in Thailand, prospects for unit linked in Thailand. You
want -- yes, Lilian?

Bloomberg Transcript

Lilian Ng

{BIO 4943480 <GO>}

In Thailand, the reason why unit linked is not as popular is actually the tax benefit, whereas
if you actually buy a traditional product, you can match some tax exemption. And also if
you look at the Thailand landscape, it is actually now dominated by the big, local insurers
with the bank. And so what they normally sell are typically your saving, deposit,
replacement type products in the bank. And so there is no desire for them to actually go
and do investment in product. But that doesn't mean that's the case for us.
As I said earlier, we -- there's only three companies licensed to sell unit linked in Thailand.
And we are one of them. So we started with single premium ILP. And now we've got a
regular premium ILP with the regulator right now. So it's something that we need to
continue all be the regulated [ph].

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay. I will give you -- we will come back to you, if you don't mind, James. And where do
we go next?

Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Thank you. Sir Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. I've got three questions please. A couple
on the par business, then another one on the agency numbers you gave. So firstly on par,
what if you give us a little bit of a flavor of the par business by country? What sort of
guarantees are on new business, back book. And what the capital strength in the different
funds looks like in the different countries. That's the first question.

Page 52 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

Second question, the product mix -- although I can see the profit mix is very strongly
towards the health protection, you've seen the par mix share go up, given low interest
rates. Just wondered when you expected that to start swinging back. The asset
management guys were talking about (multiple speakers)

FINAL

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

So let me understand [ph]. you said the par went up and --?

Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

So the par mix has gone up during the crisis. I wonder when you think that's going to
swing back down to the normal mix, where you see more unit linked.
Then just finally on the agency productivity numbers, in Vietnam, the comment was made
that you've got 7% of agents producing 45% of the business. I wonder if you could give us
a flavor on whether that's typical, or is that something you see in the less-developed
countries?

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, very good. So you'll get a product workflow today, where we are going to talk
about par in more detail; but Barry, maybe Adrian, can give a high-level flavor of bread
[ph] with two type of par (multiple speakers) high-level?

Brad Harris

{BIO 20251342 <GO>}

Our par products -- and again as Tidjane said, I will take you in more detail into Hong
Kong. It is very similar the way that we manage par across Asia. And that is we keep our
guaranteed cash values low. So that we can have an opportunity to invest a little bit more
in equities to be able to provide a better overall long-term return for the customers. So
you are not going to see a lot of differences around it, other than what specific regulatory
differences in countries. But generally, that's the philosophy that we take across all of Asia.

Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

In the presentation that they are going to do this afternoon, the carousel, you'll see -they will show examples of what was illustrated at point-of-sale, what was guaranteed,
what was illustrated. And what the performance has been. And what you generalists
performance outstripping even the illustration.

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Real-life example. Actual products (multiple speakers) we use. It will be quite detailed.
Anybody wants to have a go at reported mix, going forward, predicting it?

Page 53 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

Adrian O'Connor

FINAL

We'll there's just one point. There has been a move to bancassurance. And
bancassurance, by itself, actually there would be more par there. So there is a permanent
piece there that will be par. They think there is a question mark as regards to agency,
where agency has moved a little bit more to par. And whether that comes back or not is -it remains to be seen.

Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

So the shift to bank. And the growth of bank is a major contributing factor. The view of
regulators -- and you have seen this with regulatory changes that have come about in the
past several years, they still look back at the crisis. And the think a lot of the misbehavior
was around products that they associate with the unit linked chassis. We never had any
issues because we were selling a very straightforward recurring premium unit link.
But some of the banks did get into trouble with other insurance companies. And so there
is -- you see new regulation come in. And in an environment where particularly the
multinational banks seem to keep stepping on landmines and so forth, their reaction is if
they see -- if they sense anything in the regulator's demeanor that suggests the regulator
is looking very, very closely at unit linked, sometimes the reaction of the bank is just to
step back and say, we can sell par.

Bloomberg Transcript

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

And don't forget about what happened in Hong Kong with unit linked. It's just an example.
I know it makes your life more difficult as you are trying to forecast our numbers. But
honestly, very hard to predict product mix going forward. It's close to impossible. It
depends on too many things that are completely outside our control: the macroeconomic
environment, the appetite for unit linked versus par. Interest rate objectives and policies
by country vary; what's going to happen to a dollar? It is very hard.
What we have is a broad product range. We are very confident about what type of
product is strong, at a given point in time, we have. So we will translate that into earnings
somehow. But to tell you ahead of time that the mix is going to go this or that way is very -.

Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

When we started the protection strategy in December 2006, I got a lot of questions
about how much should protection be. It was single digits when we started. I said, boy, if
we could get it to 20, that would be the optimal space. We are at 30. (multiple speakers)

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

It is what we control; what we don't control. That's one we don't really control.

Page 54 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

Agency productivity, is Vietnam typical of the other countries?

FINAL

Tony Wilkey

{BIO 19184129 <GO>}

How many hours do you have? I think what we tried to explain earlier was the reality is,
different markets are at different stages. So if you go to look at agency in a country like
Singapore or Hong Kong, by its very nature, where there are a limited number of new
agents that you can bring into the business, you must drive very high productivity. So you
will see activity rates -- activity is defined as selling at least one policy per month. In those
type of markets, you'll see activity rates in the 60% to 70% range. These are full-time
agents. They are educated. They've got MBAs; some of them are CFAs. This is all they do.
You go at the other end of the spectrum, like Vietnam and emerging markets, these start
off as part-time agency forces, where that related activity rate would be more in the mid;
to high teens. So it's a very different dynamic, dependent upon where the evolution of the
market is.

Unidentified Speaker
I was going to the app. But I see Greg is the inaugural user of the app. But he's got his
hand up as well. So why don't you, Greg, go in your own voice.

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Just be safe. Okay, we will go to Greg, then. Three questions.

Unidentified Participant
I like the humor. Yes, I will do two. But --

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

No.

Unidentified Participant
Just trust me, a bit nervous. Just one is -- bancassurance has been a strong driver. And I
was -- and you might not have an answer. But I was just thinking if you could update us on
Europe. You -- I think you were four years into the deal. How much do you view has been
created. And how much of the original intangibles have been amortized as points? Just so
we can keep track of profitability here.
And in that light, I think you've just -- you lost three bancassurance deals and your
comments, Barry, implied that you would be better under DBS [ph]. I was wondering if you
want to talk about the economics on the front end of bancassurance deals, how they are
going, who is bidding. And what sort of work is going on there.

Page 55 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

What is your question, exactly? Sorry.

FINAL

Unidentified Participant
So I'm just trying to understand the competitive environment for bidding for
bancassurance deals, because you've just lost three. Obviously someone bid very
aggressively. I was just trying to understand where the pricing is going.

Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

What you're saying is we didn't win (multiple speakers).

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

We were not the winning bidder in three situations. Is that what you're saying?

Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

It's just the bancassurance of where we are today and what the pricing is. Then just in
terms of product, is it fair to say that you've done well, implying that you've got big
inherited estates that allow you a competitive advantage? Which is good going forward; I
was just wondering if there's any regulatory threat there, or anything versus the US
players you are running out of a general account.
Then in terms of AIA and discovery -- the JV there (multiple speakers)

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Is that a fourth question?

Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Yes. It's just a follow-up to A and B. So B, on the product; AIA and discovery, rolling out JVs
throughout Asia, ex-China. That product differs from your hospital care, your critical illness.
And your major medical. I was wondering if you see that as a threat. Or you are going to
try and mimic that product? Do you just want to talk about that?

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay, let's try. UOB -- you want some exact numbers on UOB? As you know, we do not
disclose those types of numbers by transaction. And if I can just maybe step back from
addressable numbers. And we're going to think about the way the group is run is we write
business above the cost of capital. That's what we do.

Page 56 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

Now we sell through -- mostly one channel is face-to-face. There's a point where our
obsession with separating bancassurance and rates is a bit artificial. Because they put a
Prudential person in front of a customer. And that person sells. And sells a product that
has been designed and priced by Prudential; and if it generates value or not. And you can
see that in the total numbers. But we're not going to start disaggregating by (inaudible)
by UOB, by SCB. And give you a review on that, deal by deal. I think that's just not -- we're
not going to do that.
But we can give you -- we give you as much as we can in terms of AP, et cetera, et cetera.
After that, you get all the statistics by country, which has embedded in there what we
have done with the banks, et cetera. But there's a level of disclosure where commentary
just becomes, we believe, irrelevant to try to track quarter-by-quarter. When you are
down to the level of country channel product, what you are saying becomes really
irrelevant when we try to manage the business at the Asia level, taking into account all
those components.

Bloomberg Transcript

But we are confident, let's say, that it was a very good transaction. I can tell you in the
price we paid, it was not assumed that the sales would be 4 times by 2014 -- 4 times what
they were in 2010. The CAGR and the price we paid was much lower than that. So you can
assume it is very profitable. It is what we always tell you. I know it's a topic you like, trying
to assess where profitability of the book in all those deals [ph].
I can tell you with confidence, in every single deal, we've delivered much more than what
we had in the price we paid. That's why we're so comfortable that it was profitable. It was
a bit -- a lot of transparency in the pricing mechanism. We agree a business plan with a
partner. And that's the base on which we pay the upfront price. And in every single case,
we are way ahead of those business plans. So anything we do ahead of that is value for
you.
Sorry. Oh, you talked about where is repricing going. That's a complex question. Again, it's
very hard to make forecasts. Clearly, in spite of the skepticism of -- some people must
think it's an attractive thing, because there is more and more interest in those deals. And
more and more competition. Really not such a bad business to get. And competition
should drive prices up, probably not down. But then it depends if you are conditioned with
short-term or the medium-term.
I think there is a lot of froth right now, which is probably why you said we lost some
situations. I wouldn't describe them as losing. I think we bid the price we think those things
are worth on a risk-adjusted basis. And we were not the highest bidder. That's what we
can observe.
I think people will learn. I think that we've seen a lot of situations come back to market. We
have sometimes got later situations that we have lost in the bidding competition, because
it's not just about signing a check at the bidding; it's about delivering. We always say the
value of bancassurance for the bank is in the stream of commissions they earn as you sell
more and more policies. Sign a big check. And when you don't have the people in the

Page 57 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

branches to sell the policies, or the people you have in branches are not very good at
selling policies, it's not a great deal for the bank.
And if you could sell a Charter -- we are very pleased that the -- in their Q3, they actually
talked about us for the first time. We are very material in their earnings. And our earnings
are high quality because they're commission based. Banks are desperate for non-interestbased income. It's commission basis cash. And it's very material them. I think we made the
right decision going reverse -- renewing reverse. Because we have a probability to sell,
sell, sell; and pay them commissions every time we sell.
So I think some of the bidders will learn that over time, as they pay. And then are not able
to deliver. In terms of the banks, we also learn over time that we probably should not have
accepted necessarily the highest check. Because to get a check and then not build the
business in five, seven years later, when the markets have moved away from you, you
have to start again from scratch.
It's not an ideal position. And note that in a lot of situations, we have. There was a life
business; we said we built the (inaudible) life business. There was a life business in there.
But it was not very well performing. But we took over and improved. UOB also had its own
life business. So we are used to taking over situations where there is an underperforming
life business inside of the bank. And then taking it to a different level.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then the inherited estate, I'm not sure I understood the question. It was -- what was your
concern on NV rate?

Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

So I remember two years ago I was speaking to a CFO -- one of your competitors in Hong
Kong. And he was complaining about it proves offering very high guarantees. And he
doesn't know how they are making any money. And I explained to him that the inherited
estate was actually financing and commission. Because all -- a lot of your competitors
write general account business; and hence, the commission. So that's in a competitive
advantage. Maybe -- I don't know if the regulator might step in and say, wait a second,
you can't do that. I don't know.

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay. Adrian, do you want to comment on inherited estate, how we use it? The price?

Adrian O'Connor
Well the reality is, first of all, the guarantees are -- as Brad said earlier -- are actually quite
low. And we are actually into long-term investment. And it's a very high equity balance
ratio there. Yes there is a diff [ph] and most of the other companies could have a general
account. But we have just domesticated the business. And the authorities in Hong Kong
are quite happy with the way it's been segregated and set up.

Page 58 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

So I think this is going to be a long-term thing. I don't think there's going to be an issue
with regards to the regulators doing anything about it. Very happy with it.

FINAL

Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Quite comfortable with it. I mean, if you are saying that the fact that the policyholder fund
bears the expenses for commission to distributors, that's appropriate, because the
policyholders own the fund. I don't imagine a scenario where a regulator would step in
and suggest that shareholders should pay commissions on business they do not own.

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

And the question on AIA and discovery barrier, I don't know if you could --?

Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Yes. We think -- and I think we've demonstrated the health product is a core competency.
We like to keep for us and for you all the results of that health business. We don't see that
any JV -- potential JV partner brings us skills that we don't have. We think we know the
region, the health landscape and the region, as well or better than anyone else. Again, I
think our performance demonstrates that. So the economics of bringing in a JV partner
would not make any sense to us.

Bloomberg Transcript

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

We're going to do follow-ups later, just to be fair. I didn't allow James a follow-up. So we
will come back to you later, Greg. Maybe a final question before breaking for lunch?
(multiple speakers)

Abid Hussain

{BIO 17127644 <GO>}

Hi. Abid Hussain from Soc Gen. Just one quick question. Can you talk about the
introduction of a minimum state welfare provision across Indonesia? How that affects your
business. And are there any other governments thinking along the same lines?

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Thank you, Abid. Barry?

Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Most governments are thinking in terms of something. It's actually useful. So again, you'll
see the shield product in -- here in Singapore during the product session. Okay, we'll talk
about how the dynamic works. That's a product that is designed to supplement a low
level of state provision. That is effectively what would happen in Indonesia; be a very basic
level of cover.

Page 59 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

From -- in terms of driving the protection business forward, it's actually really useful,
because what you have is the government broadcasting to the population as a whole, this
is important. It's important enough that the government is going to step in and create a
low level of provision. But it is never enough. And so it will highlight for the typical rising
middle-class consumer to do something to supplement the very basic government
provision. So we like it.

Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

It's really a very important point. The more there is provision of healthcare and supply of
healthcare in a country, the better we do. So what it does actually -- it increases the
market. There will be more hospitals; there will be more investment hospitals. And
therefore, there is more infrastructure to look after our customers.
And the other contribution we make -- Barry was talking about why we like the business so
much. And its purpose. Frankly, it's paying back to the Indonesians. Remember, there is 2.3
million Indonesians insured by Prudential will actually lead to more investment in hospitals
and MRIs and machines that will then benefit the whole of Indonesia.

Bloomberg Transcript

When you talk to the hospital builders, people who want to develop hospital trends [ph],
one of the things that they look at is there a demand in this country that can pay for our
services. So it actually -- always going on some -- very focused on developing their
infrastructure, hospitals. It's just really vital. And actually what we're doing accelerates that.
And one of those hospitals are in there and look after a middle-class. They also look after
a broader population in general.
It's actually a virtuous circle. There is no tension there, between the public and the private
sector. It's not a threat. It's something we welcome absolutely everywhere.
Very good. Well thank you for your patience. We are after 1. So if you agree, we will stop
this session, continue the conversation this afternoon. And then come back at the end.

Questions And Answers
A - Unidentified Speaker
Welcome back. So we are ready for the round of Q&A. And we will take Q&A's both ways,
the old-fashioned way. And on the app. So fire away, guys.

Q - Will Elderkin

{BIO 3349136 <GO>}

Thanks, it's Will Elderkin from Goldman Sachs. You've talked a lot about the enormous
growth opportunities the group has here. Can you talk about margin resilience over a
similar time frame? You report IRRs of north of 20% in this region. I think you also referred
to aiming to write new business above your cost of capital. There's quite a big difference
there. And could you just talk about threats that we should maybe thinking about?

Page 60 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

FINAL

No. It's a very important point. I think several comments; the first one I will make is that we
don't make abnormal returns by any classical economic definition of abnormal returns.
The regulators have full transparency on the kind of returns we make.
I think on the risk-adjusted basis, given the volatility of this market the sale of [ph] returns
are comfortable. But they are not outrageous. And I think they are sustainable. Because
maybe we didn't say it explicitly. But all the things we talk about for us are sustainable
competitive advantages, as we used to say a long time ago. But with distribution,
definitely.
I should start with demand. I think on the scale of a firm -- an individual firm, demand can
be considered as infinite for any practical purposes. So that's a comfortable position.
When you get barriers to entry, because it is fine to be a big international company -- I
said when I showed the chart on distribution, the move to 300,000 -- 318,000 on the
sweet spot, I said there is no shortcut to success. But that's really how I would summarize
my defense of the margin. There is no shortcut to success. Building the distribution of
priorities [ph] takes forever.

Bloomberg Transcript

We are in valid position and -- maybe I shouldn't say this -- but actually the distance
between us and the others increases because there are many advantages to being so
big. Frankly you -- it is cheaper for you to hire. And you hire better people. So you win
twice. It is very easy for us to attract people. And frankly the aggressive, hungry people,
dynamic people wants to work for the leader. And you know in those markets, we are the
biggest regulators.
The distribution is momentous. It has been a real advantage in when you get referred
[ph]. But if you have no new entrants, you have no price war. And if you have no -- there's
no price elasticity. If you divided your price by 2, if you don't have a demand -- a
distribution, you can't sell, anyway. So there's no incentive for other companies to come
and undercut us. And hoping to sell more. It's just not going to happen. Your ability to sell
is a function of your installed distribution.
So to summarize, I think the product brings value to the customer. All the examples we
showed you on shield, the benefit to the customer are really important. The reason why
the product is valuable is that to get insurance for somebody who is uninsured in itself
creates a lot of value for the person who takes the insurance.
And it's really -- I love it, because it is really what I think -- what our purpose is, to quote
Barry. Insurance was created because there is an economic benefit. If you pool a large
number of small risks together, you get prices at a level where every individual consumer
has a surplus. And the shareholder can also make a return.
So it is really the kind of textbook case of the industry. In a virgin territory or even our
uninsured, you go in by mutualizing those risks; you create value. We can price it at a level
where returns for you are very good. And a lot of value is left on the table for our
customer. So that works. And then it's defensible.
Page 61 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

So I don't see that, as long as the penetrations, as they are -- the margins will be
sustainable. Then there are other things which I always talk about that drives the margins
up. It's really the operational leverage. Okay. All other things being equal, you're putting
more and more volume from the same platform. The platforms are scalable, relatively
low-cost. But drives our margins up every year.
Then there is the wealth effect. As I said, the same conversation in Vietnam gives you
$100 with respect to Vietnam. And in Singapore, $100,000 for the same input. So as
countries get richer from the same unit of effort, you get more and more money. And you
make more and more profit. So I think I'll stop here. But there are many reasons to be
optimistic about the margins.
I don't know if you want to add anything.

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

No. I think you covered it well. I think the --

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

That's not what he tells me when we do a budget.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Yes, no. The only other point to make, which I made in one of the -- in response to a
question in one of the -- in the product session is because our business is so heavily
focused on protection, look at a variety of metrics. Margin is only one of them. Our margin
-- people say, your margin is so much higher than everyone else's. Is that sustainable?
What does that mean? Are consumers getting a good deal? And it's because we write so
much more protection than anyone else. And protection, really in a lot of respects, a lot of
these products work more like general insurance than life insurance. So embedded value
is not really the right way to look at them.
We used the example of somebody paying us $100 a year for 20 years. If you look at that
product as general insurance product, assume for a moment there that it operates at a
90% combined. Then that $100 year over 20 years, that pays $2000; we pay out $1800,
get $200 of profit over 20 years. That's a 200% margin product. And people say -- their
heads explode. And say, how could there be a 200% margin product?
It's a 90% combined. It's a fair deal for the shareholder. It's a fair deal for the consumer. It
serves a valuable purpose. So margin is an interesting metric. But it's just one. Look at
others as well.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

We've actually stopped mentioning the margins in all our communication because of just
inappropriate return on capital is much more.

Page 62 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

A - Unidentified Speaker

FINAL

I'm just going to take a question that was left over from the app on the morning session.
This is from Jonathan Sheehan at Toscafund. It's on Eastspring. So it says, Eastspring
shows 10% CAGR on funds, flat margin. And 4% profit growth. So this implies minus-6%
revenue margin per annum, on FUM. Why is fee revenue under such negative pressure?

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

On Eastspring?

A - Unidentified Speaker
On Eastspring. So that's for Guy.

A - Guy Strapp

{BIO 15272859 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Well in general as a statement, we don't see a lot of the compression. I suppose the
only market where we do see pockets of fee compression is Korea. But whether be
institutional or retail, the stability of fees is pretty solid. In looking at that chart, you would
have to actually put it up -- it is -- there are some apples and oranges in here. Because
we're looking at the FUM on an AER basis which is the way we always report FUM and
flow. But the PBT is reported on a CER basis so there's a currency adjustment.
But probably the biggest factor in here is of course the financial crisis gave a low starting
point for FUM in a relative sense. But the impact on profit didn't come through until 2009.
So we had deteriorating markets in 2008. We start 2009 with a low level of FUM. And
where that through most of 2009. Markets rallied then towards the middle and latter part
of 2009, here in Asia. But the damage was already done. So some of it is -- it's really just
the statistics and the apples-and-oranges comparison. But no; fee -- surprisingly, because
fees are quite high in Asia, it's not a topic that is frequently on the agenda.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes?

Q - Bruno Paulson

{BIO 5278310 <GO>}

Bruno Paulson from Morgan Stanley Investment Management. We all had fascinating
sessions on products. We talked about par; we talked about ILP; we talked about
protection. What it didn't cover was actually the fastest growing bit of your product mix,
which is the non-par, non-protection. I see that was 4% back in 2009. It is now 8%. It's not
massive. But it is growing pretty fast.
So to be Greg-like and put the question in four parts: is it right to assume this business
method is less profitable? Where are you selling it? Why are you selling it? And is it likely
to continue to grow as a part of the mix?

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay. Barry or Tony or Adrian? Non-par, non-protection.
Page 63 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

A - Lilian Ng

{BIO 4943480 <GO>}

FINAL

A majority of that is actually combination of two. One is because of Thanachart Bank par
initiatives in Thailand, where a lot of savings products are what we call non-par. So this is
prescribed you. So we make sure we have assets to match it. And then we wrap products
around it. So that's part of it.
The second part of this is what we see as the universal life products where we actually sell
it through actually -- with supporting the bank partners at the very high net worth. So it is -and because this is the nature of the products -- so we classify as non-par again. So we
make sure there is underlying assets to match those products.

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Yes. The Thanachart business is good business. The universal life is -- it's not unprofitable
-- the economics of it are not really the issue. The issue is, as Lillian said, it is almost
exclusively a single-premium, high net worth product. And almost always premium finance.
So it's really just an interest rate arbitrage. We think it's a distraction for distribution. It is
not in our core activities. And it's really a phenomenon that is occurring only in Singapore.
And we very, very tightly control the amount of that that gets sold. We have competitors
who are very focused on this. It is 40%-plus of their sales for us. We cap it at 5%.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Exactly. We cap it explicitly just (multiple speakers) a lot internally.

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

And Tom is nodding and smiling back there, because we have been torturing him as
recently as this week, to shut it down.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

He get messages regularly from everywhere. From London -- where is the CRO? From
the CRO (multiple speakers).

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

We just don't like it. It's very tactical in nature. And we like products that make more sense.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Any product were you have to lend people the [ph] money to buy it is a bit funny. That's
what premium finance is, in this is kind of -- sorry. Yes. Sorry, Tom.

Q - Art Invenvi
Thanks. Art Invenvi, Credit Suisse. Your last quarter numbers, the North Asian countries in
particular had a strong pickup: China, Taiwan, Korea. I suspect some of them are specific
like Taiwan's load base, Korea's object [ph] marketing ban lifted. China has generally

Page 64 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

been strong. So just curious as to can we -- are you a bit more constructive on those
companies in terms of outlook? And is there any margin change at all in those countries?

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

FINAL

That's a fair question.

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Yes, some of that is SCB, is the SCB effect, recharging the relationship in places like
Taiwan; even in Korea where there's a lot of restrictions around bancassurance. The SCB
has picked up.
Do you want to talk about China in particular, which is actually really good story?

A - Tony Wilkey

{BIO 19184129 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

China is actually -- the growth is coming from multiple distribution. It's been fairly wellbalanced between agency banker. And the product mix is fairly well-balanced. We -- as
you may know, we changed the management team in China about two years ago. CITIC
gave us its best and brightest. And we've been able to galvanize the organization, move
forward with momentum like we have never seen before. With that, part and parcel, is
very important is because the relationship is so good with Citigroup, they are opening up
avenues for us -- opportunities for business with other state-owned enterprises. And I
think we feel very good about the momentum in China.

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Yes. It's just better leadership.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Anyway, we always prefer to underpromise and overdeliver. So we haven't been talking a
lot about China. But it's moving up. If you look at the last two, three years. And you can
relete [ph] table, the top four China has been moving up regularly. And it's a bit masked
by the fact that we only own 50% of it. If you doubled over China numbers, you would see
that it's becoming a material business in Prudential.
I think Taiwan is also a market where we're not necessarily negative. You know we had to
sell the agency. But we have always been looking for ways to maybe do some protection
there. So we think the potential is there. It's an attractive market in protection.
The one that we will never talk up is Korea.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Thanks. Gordon Aitken from RBC. Firstly, I want to talk about competition in the savings
markets, which still account for more than 50% of your sales. And just what are the
potential do you think for these markets to go open architecture as the markets mature?
And longer-term, do you see a threat from the large global asset managers?
Page 65 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

And secondly, on D2C, this is obviously a very immature market in Asia. And how do you
see it progressing. And what are you doing to prepare?

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. When you say open architecture, you mean agents becoming brokers? Or are you
talking about banks?

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

I'm talking about investment options.

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Investment. So in terms of consumers wanting more third-party funds or something like
that?

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Yes, they are using [ph] the administration. But there's a multiple aspect.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

I just (multiple speakers) don't see any pressure on that. I don't -- if you look at our unit
link, we -- overwhelmingly, we are selling product that are underpinned by Eastspringmanaged funds. But there are third-party funds in the portfolio. Agents want to be able to
show objectivity and show some other funds. The banks do, as well. So there are
instances where we are passing through money to other mutual fund providers. But it is
incredibly limited. And that is because the Eastspring funds are performing really well.
We've got a broad range of funds that suit the needs of consumers. And again, we have
just not felt an enormous amount of pressure there. So I'm not too worried about that.
The other question was --?

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Could you remind us, Gordon, what was your second question? Sorry.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

It was direct to consumer.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

D2C, yes.

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

So we were -- there were a group of us talking about this over lunch. And here in
Singapore, there is this aggregator website that the MAS has put out there that -products that allow customers to go on there and look at pricing. I think it's -- that ends up
Page 66 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

being kind of a useful tool for people to compare pricing of insurance companies. And
that is -- we're quite happy to have our prices examined compared to the AIAs and Great
Easterns. And Axis [ph] and so forth of the world.
What is the last time anybody in the room went online to buy critical illness insurance or a
long-term savings product? Fundamentally, these products are -- they are not bought;
they are sold. And people need advice. So our experience has been that when you create
mechanisms for people to buy direct, they just don't get utilized.
People end up reverting to an agent. Even if they look at the aggregator site and say, well,
I can see this product versus that product, versus another product -- what they end up
doing is calling their agents and saying hey, I've now got this data, what do I do with it?
What do you think? Because you can create tools where people can sort of do a financial
plan and so forth. But people still really need advice. And that is really even in the most
sophisticated markets.
Now start talking about a Vietnam or and Indonesia, where financial literacy rates are low;
people really just don't even know where to start.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

But really I think we are protected by the nature of the product and of the need. And we
have a lot of research that shows that at that point of sale, some people are probably
risk-averse really when they are buying critical illness or something like that. And we see it
on VAs in a different context in the US. If you think about your income when you are 90.
And you are a rational person, you're going to be quite careful. People want the advice,
they want the input. And frankly those who don't, you probably don't want as customers.
Because I think -- we're going to bet on their life expectancy.

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Yes, even in the United States, the kind of products we sell, people go online and buy
terms like buying auto insurances. It's kind of straightforward if you know exactly what you
want. But when you -- what has happened in the US for the sorts of customers -- the
equivalent sorts of customers that we serve here -- you look at their counterparts in the
United States, they are going direct. They're not buying through agents to the extent they
were anymore, because agency distribution is dramatically shrinking -- or buying at the
workplace. We're still getting advice from an AFLAC agent or something like that. They
are buying at the worksite.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay, we -- the lady there.

Q - Mann Sisa
Hi, it's Mann Sisa [ph] from Goldman Sachs. I cover the Asian insurance from Hong Kong. I
have a couple questions. One is that you said that you're disciplined about the M&A
opportunities. So how do you define disciplined? Do you have an IRR target, or do you
Page 67 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

have some sort of internal target that -- what is the cutoff line that we are not going to
proceed with this sort of an opportunity?

FINAL

And the second question I have is what is the repricing mechanism of some of the
protections products you have in the region. Especially probably in the critical units
category --

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Sorry? In which category?

Q - Mann Sisa
In the critical units category, or hospital reimbursement. Because I don't know what is the
data -- how much data you have had accumulated in the past, given the changing
demographic in the future. So what is your thoughts there and what is the risk
management measures?
And the third question I guess is that I find a free surplus teaching very useful. And you
talked a lot about how that is generated. But what do you see as the biggest variance in
the future that is going to create discrepancies from what you expected in the next 3 to
five years? Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay, no thank you. On M&A indiscipline, I think you are right; we do have internal targets.
But I am sorry, I am generally for transparency. But that is one we will not share with you,
because it would simply cripple us in M&A situations. So we're not about to share that. But
it is a reasonable hurdle. And I think it ensures that when we do M&A, it creates value. And
we think our track record variance [ph] is good, in terms of the deals we've done and how
we have made them profitable for the shareholder. Repricing -- we've had examples in
Malaysia.
And (inaudible), do you want to talk about it?

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Sure. So generally where you find -- first of all, we manufacture all of these products with
the ability to reprice. And we have done it -- I wouldn't say we do it frequently because we
-- I think we managed the products well enough on the back end. We price them well on
the front end. We've got good, credible data virtually everywhere. If we don't have good
data, we won't offer a product.
And -- but there have been instances where we priced (inaudible) we are just kind of
completing a 12-month process of increasing rates on a particular medical product in
Malaysia with how many --? Was it a couple hundred thousand policies? Rate increase on
about 200,000 customers; we got literally maybe 50 complaints, something like that. So
it is not a surprise to customers. They know it can happen. And we communicate very well.
So the mechanism is in place.
Page 68 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

Regulators know how this works. They approve the rate increases. So it's not a lot of
drama. It's genuinely on reimbursement products where you find that because there you - maybe you have gotten your projections on medical inflation a little bit off, or something
like that. You didn't trend the rates for new customers effectively enough.
Usually the critical illness stuff, that is really just incident-based. It's a stated benefit. And
incident rates are -- that data is pretty easy to come by. So you usually don't get critical
illness wrong. It is usually a reimbursement problem.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Just on that, I was almost pleased that we had an opportunity to do that. Because
repricing -- it's always in the contract. But there is a big difference between having it in
your contract and actually executing on it. Because I can tell you, salesforces generally
don't like it. So it takes a bit of nerve from the Company to actually implement it. And I
think PCA and the team did a great job in Malaysia. (multiple speakers)

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

No. It's the distributors go crazy when you tell them you are going to do it. We have had
this before, where they will -- you will have 500 of them show up at the office. And they
sign petitions. And saying we're going to lose all our customers and it's --

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It went all the way back to me. They look to me in London.

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Yes. And you get -- you literally get 20 phone calls out of 200,000 people or something.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

But it proves that we have the determination to protect shareholder value when we need
to. And we can actually execute it. Because otherwise it's (inaudible).
Free surplus, anybody? Adrian, the risks -- what is it vulnerable to?

A - Adrian O'Connor
Well in the end of the day, it's the growth rate in new business. That will dominate the
PEC, simple as that. It will dominate it. It could grow higher or lower, that's where it is
going to . (multiple speakers)

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

In a growing business like Asia, it's true. In a more mature business, they will be much
more sensitive to what happens in the in-force. But in growing business, yes. So it will
continue growing.

Page 69 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

Q - Rob Plant

{BIO 18317967 <GO>}

FINAL

Rob Plant from JPMorgan. Have you made a calculation of how much cheaper the product
on the direct platform in Singapore will be in terms of -- on the direct basis, a term of the
whole life versus what you are going to be doing on your tight [ph] agents basis. So in
terms of differential of pricing.

A - Unidentified Speaker
There wouldn't be a price differential, would there Tom? How much is it. 5%? (multiple
speakers)
Still not finalized. MAS [ph] has provided us some guidelines. And we are working with
them. But I think somewhere in the 5% or so range.

Q - Rob Plant

{BIO 18317967 <GO>}

That's hardly worth the -- that is not going to make anyone -- why would anyone be for a
5% discount? If we are at that sort of level, I don't think that's going to be an issue.

A - Unidentified Speaker
I don't think it will.

Q - Rob Plant

{BIO 18317967 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. So that would be --

A - Unidentified Speaker
And again -- and people want advice. They want to deal with an agent generally more
with -- either with their bank or with an agent.

Q - Rob Plant

{BIO 18317967 <GO>}

And just -- we've had the Standard Chartered numbers up to the Q3. Has there been any
hiccups or anything from the recent types of problems -- those kinds of charts as in Carter
[ph] in their own problems in the Q4?

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

No, quite the opposite. The volumes continue to be very strong.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

We can't give you Q4 numbers.

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

No, no, no, no. I'm talking about since --.

Page 70 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

He said Q4.

FINAL

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Oh, not Q4. No. I'm just saying the volumes -- well, we got this question at half-year.
Volumes have continued very strong since the renewal. We have talked about India, how
well that has gone. The issues that you're having at SCV, at a very senior level, I think are
just invisible to a retail banking customer in Asia.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Yes. It's really corporate bank. And I think the retail bank is intact really. So the people
we're dealing with --

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

But you know, foot falling [ph] branches is all fine. There's been no impact.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

You want to go Blair -- I promised to come back to James and Greg too, this morning. So
let's do Blair. And then we will go back.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Think you very much. It is Blair Stewart from BofA Merrill. Three questions if possible.
In 2013, the slides that were up earlier showed that you had free surplus generation in the
Life business of about $500 million. And you remitted about $400 million back to group
as an intergroup dividend. Your target is to double that $500 million, more or less. How
should we think about the relationship between free surplus and the amount remitted
back to group? Will it stay the same or will it change?
Secondly, will the development of risk-based capital regimes across Asia -- what will that
do to the amount of capital held locally, do you think? Is it going to be better or worse?
And on Standard Chartered, we have seen a bump up in volumes, post-renew. Was there
any change in the terms of working between the two parties, in terms of higher
commission rates that might have affected that? Or are you just so happy to get it
renewed that it's not really selling a lot more business?

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay, three important points, as ever. Look on remittances, I know sometimes we
frustrate you. But we have never published (inaudible) we never published remittance
ratios. And really it is deliberate because we want to keep some flexibility there. You said
this year, with FX moving all over the place, if we want to protect value for the
shareholder, we need to keep the control of when we remit. And how much we remit.
And I think that will, in the end, protect value for the shareholders.

Page 71 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

As I said, the value creation is in the generation of a free surplus in each of the markets.
After that, the question of whether we remit or not, sorry, that value is there. It was a
question of fungibility. But we want to be able to have some flexibility on that. Because,
frankly, some of it will be just value destructive. If the currency collapses 23%, you wait.
There is no need -- there's enough cash in the center; we have reasonable yield. We can
pay the dividend, it's not an issue. We store the value. And we will move it when
necessary.
So we don't want -- you will notice a subtle shift in all my slides of replaced remittances by
free surplus generation. It is not completely by accident, because I think the two are
different and we need to be explicit about the fact that the two are different. These are
volatile markets. We have always said this. These are emerging markets. So there is a
rationale for being a bit cautious there.
But before people get too worried, I really think that the dividend is completely safe, not
at risk at all. This is just our internal flow of cash. It's not such a big deal.
RBC, is it going to increase local capital levels or not?
Adrian, you want --?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Adrian O'Connor
Will first of all, Solvency I actually is -- in a lot of our markets is weaker than local RBCs and
solvency calculations as it stands in the majority of them. And in terms of where that is
going, it has already been very varied. So it's very difficult to know where that is going to
in up. But take Solvency I being the standard. It already is very strong.
We set our required capital -- which is over and above what the local requirement is -based on stress tests. We actually don't think about what -- we want to have capital in
each of our jurisdictions at levels that we want to keep it at, based on stress tests. So in
the end of the day, it will be a combination of where -- even if the local requirements go
up, that doesn't necessarily mean we will set our requirements higher again. So I think it
will be broadly -- if you ask me, broadly neutral. I don't see, in the short-term, much
happening.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay, I think our next question was what happened at SCB and why were sales so strong?

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Unit economics. The day-to-day commission that they get paid for sale didn't change. It's
the same

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

And the terms are little different in terms of the new agreement.

Page 72 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Yes. So it sounds -- maybe it doesn't make sense. But I think there was an element of
certainty, once the deal was redone for another 15 years. It feels like forever.

FINAL

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Nobody had any appetites to reopen the negotiation. Really it was so simple to say look,
let's stay in the same terms, please.

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

So it really is just sort of renewed enthusiasm and focus.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

It made life simpler for the Company. I'm going to come to each of you --to James
before. And Greg. And then move it to you.

Q - James Garner

{BIO 4126548 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Two questions on your China business. Firstly, following on from Manti's [ph] question, can
you provide some real color on how easy it is to accurately price and control the risks of
the very-high margin critical illness product teams held in China versus Indonesia? And
also the Chinese regulator has actually just removed I think the repricing clause which was
to get out for the long-term were some expected morbidity trends.
The second question, I would like some insights into what opportunities you think can
arise from the state councils (inaudible) document. It was released in August. Particularly
as a foreign JV, whether this will eventually translate into an increase in terms of
ownership, geographical and product line expansion. I guess you are in a great position
over some of the life insurance SOEs there, where you can actually cherry-pick business
opportunities.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Very good. Who wants to take --?

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Well I will say little something about morbidity in China and then turn it over to Tony and
Lily and others. Personally, I have learned a lot about morbidity in China, not just with
Prudential but in my previous life, by -- you do learn that markets have idiosyncrasies. And
you usually learn those lessons the hard way. Like for instance, you figure out that writing
juvenile coverage is usually not a good idea. Because national ID cards aren't issued to
children until they are six years old and -- so you don't have a photo ID. So you literally
have apartment blocks that go out and buy one policy. And every kid takes it to the
doctor. And you end up with loss ratios of 4000% to 5000%. So we learned that one the
hard way. So no juvenile.

Page 73 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

And you learn about how the two structure benefits. You look at the environment, the
climate issues they have there. And the fact that -- you've got in the more industrialized
provinces, you have 70%, 80% of the kids under five years old with respiratory issues. So
that -- there's something to learn there.
Critical illness is usually not hard. Critical illness -- again, it's a stated benefit for an
incidence rate. And so as long as you've got reasonable data in the market on what the
incidence rates are for a heart attack or stroke or Dengue fever or whatever it is, that is
usually not hard to get right. So you worry about cancer insurance, specifically. Broader
critical illness is easier.
Cancer insurance, you've got an issue with improving diagnostic technology that people
didn't price into products 10 years ago, 20 years ago. So people that have huge books of
single illness products have -- they will feel some heartache as time goes by.
But I don't know if you want to talk specifically about our products in China.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Tony Wilkey

{BIO 19184129 <GO>}

Right. I think on the State Council thing, what we're reading is that the State Council is
saying, this is going to be the decade of insurance in China, which we view very positively.
And our partner, especially CITIC, is very excited about this. I think what they are also
saying subtly is maybe bancassurance has got a little bit ahead of itself. And they would
like to see increased development in agency. And through agency, they would like to see
the sale of insurance or protection, which Barry referenced earlier, in some of the bank
models with minimum requirements. So we embrace that.
Related to that, we've taken our China team to Indonesia to show them the GA model -general agency model, which some of you may know, that allows very rapid low-cost
expansion. And we're looking to expand on that basis in China, which we are very positive
about.
I think in terms of branch openings and geographic footprint, right now, for the most part,
we are everywhere we need to be. There are no major holes in provinces in Tier 1 cities.
Maybe a couple of Tier 2 cities. But we are struggling to consume what is in front of us at
this stage based on the footprints.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

We have done the calculation. We have access to about RMB650 million, RMB700 million.
So he said two or three years ago, that will be enough. We kind of stopped the
geographic expansion and try to go deeper now.
But really back to your point -- the opportunity is obvious. They want to push consumption.
As Barry and the team have explained many times, people say because they have no
protection. So the obvious answer is to give him access to protections that are based
around consuming.

Page 74 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

So in terms of the strategic -- economic strategy of the country is very clear. And there's a
huge opportunity for insurance companies. It's a question of when, to what degree. And
(inaudible) I said that's the reason for being in China. Those facts are inexorable.
Accepting views [ph] when people have problems like that, the deal with them. So I think
China is getting with its issues.

FINAL

Greg. He's going to think I'd pick on him, otherwise. Then Murray, too.

Q - Unidentified Participant
I'm also a fan of the free surplus generation. But there's two elements of leakage going
on. There's contingent loans going back and forth below the line that don't come into free
surplus. And when you acquire bancassurance deals, you book the costs at the head
office center and in the (inaudible) the new business mix put in and generates free
surplus.

Bloomberg Transcript

I was wondering -- and I suppose it could jeopardize managements' -- in other words,
there's an incentive to actually go for bancassurance, et cetera, because you can actually
get the target part getting into new deals. So was wondering whether you -- what you
think about. Are the controls in place there? Do you need to change your free surplus
targets to adjust for the new bancassurance deals, et cetera? That's the one thought that
I was having. I just wanted to hear your thinking on that.
The second one is on Singapore, immigration is a potential constraint. I think we're going
into an election or something. And the government wants to restrict the amount of
people coming in. I was wondering how immigration -- what your view on that is. And
whether the theme on immigration affects any of the other regions, potentially Hong
Kong from China, etc.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay, okay. I'm trying to resist the temptation. But I'm not going to resist, Greg, to tease
you on that. I am still looking for an angle that you cannot turn into a bancassurance
question. laughing [ph]
I see Nick over there. Can we give the microphone to Nick please?

A - Unidentified Speaker
So on contingent loans, we don't do that, as a matter of course. This was something that
was done through 2008, 2009 on an exceptional basis. Because it's not an underlying, if
you like, organic generation, we didn't want it to claim credit for those when we took
them on. So that's why we reported the benefit below the line. If we included it in the
underlying operation of delivery would have been, candidly, cheating. As we repaid them,
we then mirrored the treatment below the line as well. And now we have repaid them.
There is nothing -- pretty much nothing left on the balance sheet of that nature. Now in
relation to free surplus, actually that -- every unit of sale that is in the upfront fees that we
Page 75 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

pay on banks, every unit of sale that is sold through a bancassurance -- one of the
bancassurance distribution is charged for that upfront fee. So the new business frame that
you saw in all the slides that either Adrian and Brad put up have their share of that upfront
fee. So that weighs against the target. And that's absolutely the right thing to do.

FINAL

It is treated like a kind of commission, if you like. So it's working against the currents [ph].

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

I really hope we can kill this issue. We've had this discussion 15 times. Where do you hide
your customer [ph] bancassurance deals? Where is it? Are you overstating your margins?
Are you -- no. We -- no
We, as we just said, we charge -- whenever you need soul [ph] the price of the deal -- we
say that really in the most emphatic manner. Hope we can -- sorry? I can't hear. Can you -?

Q - Unidentified Participant
Isn't it true to say that the amortization is not uniform. And it's done on an exponential
scale which you don't know what -- you don't amortize it uniformly over the life of the
product, do you?

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Nick is already standing. So go ahead.

A - Unidentified Speaker
It is indeed uniformly. It is per unit of sale. Now in a 10-year deal, you will sell more than 10
than you will in year one. If that is what you mean by exponential --

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

And it's a nice problem to have. We hope the sales will grow exponentially. So the
challenges will grow with the sales exponentially. It is really -- there is no magic there.

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

It's the accurate way to do it.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

I don't know how somebody hides hundreds of millions of dollars in accounts. We were
not hiding the customer deals. We have announced them every time. We can't hide that
much money. It just doesn't happen. I hope we have dealt with that.
Immigration in Singapore.

Page 76 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

A - Unidentified Speaker
I don't think it's a problem. I don't think it's a problem .

FINAL

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

It clearly -- no. But it's not going to affect our business, if that's the question. At the levels
where we operate, those types of immigrants are part of the business -- of a model, the
operating model of Singapore. It wants to be a platform for high net worth in the region.
The percentage of high net worth in our customer -- in our sales has gone from 9% to 11%
to 13%. And it's around 15% now. So it is increasing something like 20% per annum. And
that's the strategy of Singapore: to be a hub in financial services. And that goes together
with being relatively open to people who have money to invest. So I don't -- it's not a
particular concern for us. I think the populations that are concerned by those types of
measures tend not to be in our target clientele.
Mauricio, please. Sorry. You have been very patient.

Q - Unidentified Participant
I have five questions about bancassurance.

Bloomberg Transcript

The first question is for you, Tidjane. Every time we come to the region. And we heard
again this morning -- what we're hearing is about the good sense that lockout regulators
have here; the balance between should all the stakeholders that are involved in insurance
business.
I don't know if you can comment on this, how the intensity of the regulator in the UK has
changed recently? And I think that it's a bit off the table. But you mentioned a couple of
years ago or three years ago, in terms of potentially relocating the business. But I wonder
the way things are going in Europe and particularly the UK. And how things are going here,
whether -- what you think about adoption. So that will be one.
And the second one is relating to the successful operating model that you have in
Indonesia, that now you have exported in the Philippines I think is starting and is gaining
traction there. Where else do you plan to export that model? So what are the countries
that are compatible with that kind of solution?

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much. I think you would have done better sticking to bancassurance,
given the question you're asking. That would be easier to handle.
Look, you said it in your question. The regulation -- we like rationality. We think the
regulators in Asia are very rational. And really trade-off, if you wish, consumer protection
with Prudential regulation and the competitiveness of the economy in general and the
insurance sector, which is vital to the economy. I probably wouldn't say the same thing
about the UK.

Page 77 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

Relocation -- I think for the time being, as we've always said (inaudible) for the time being,
London is a good location for the group. We are driven by shareholder value. And you can
certainly count on us for it; but if that were not to be true, have contingency plans and act
differently. We're not emotional about it. We will do whatever makes sense for
shareholder value. That's the best I can say at this point.

FINAL

Indonesia -- that work will be transferred in addition to the Philippines.

A - Guy Strapp

{BIO 15272859 <GO>}

Sure. We like the general agency models for reasons you understand and would deploy it
where we are allowed to by the regulator. We have general agency model already in
Vietnam. We have in Thailand. Obviously have in Indonesia. I just mentioned that we're
looking at it in China. We will have to spend time with CIRC educating them. And if IrDA in
India ever gets there, I think it's something that would fit very well in that market. It's the
franchising of the business -- the local ownership. It's a win-win across the board.

Q - Scott Russell

{BIO 15107992 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It's Scott Russell from Macquarie Securities. Good afternoon. Just one question that I think
Barry was alluding to an earlier about open architecture. But this is more about insurance.
And agents becoming brokers. The channel mix slide showed that brokers really don't
have much of a slice at all of the sales. But I'm kind of interested in to what extent you see
that as a threat in the medium-term.
If we look to mature markets, IFAs, brokers have a big chunk of the insurance distribution.
And if you think about it from their perspective, they're going to be able to provide more
professional, independent, impartial advice from the customer's perspective. And IFA can
provide a complete overview of the market across all companies. So it seems to me that
at some point, it does get some traction.
But it probably needs the companies to get on board and support the brokers. And that
might be the answer to the question that you never would support independent
distributors -- independent brokers. So I guess if you could just elaborate on some of
those points -- to what extent the broker channel gets traction in Asia. And indeed might
be a threat one day.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

No. It's a question we discuss a lot internally. So anybody --

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Well first of all, I would argue with you over the idea that IFAs by their nature are more
professional, because I think our agents provide absolute world-class advice. So I
understand the point you are getting at. Doesn't it make sense to look at a variety of
different products?

Page 78 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

What you actually find when you get inside the head of an IFA is that probably 85%, 90%
of what he's selling is a single company. And it's the company that provides him the best
support. And so forth. You won't be surprised to learn that they -- if they have got a bonus
arrangement, or they get --

FINAL

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Or it has commissions.

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

That's right. So I would argue that actually the sort of discipline and structure that comes
from a tight agent model also has consumer benefit. Interestingly, here in Singapore, they
just completed the fair review which was a distribution review. And of all the different
things -- all the different dimensions of that that will ultimately be implemented, the one
that was actually most interesting, in some respects, is the fact that they did -- they are
taking action that makes it very difficult for independent distribution to grow. Because
what they are -- what Fair says -- what the MAS has said is any organization that is out
providing advice and product needs to -- we want it to be a serious, well-governed
organization.

Bloomberg Transcript

So what that means is if you create an IFA firm, a brokerage firm, we want a CEO who is
qualified, a CFO is qualified; and by the way, the CFO can't be the CEO, too. We need a
Chief Risk Officer, Compliance Officer. They are saying, we want real infrastructure and
that brokerage firm. And the economics don't work for the brokers to create that
infrastructure.
So what happens then is the people who had launched off and were trying to create
brokerage firms come back to their mother ship, if you will. So -- when you look at some
other parts of our world out here, we talked frequently about the fraud issue that we have
in Korea. The dynamic -- it is enabled by advanced commissions that is -- invariably, that
happens in independent distribution, not tight agents. So I think we have a long discussion
about whether IFAs actually are good for consumers are not.
If you want to --

A - Guy Strapp

{BIO 15272859 <GO>}

We haven't buried our head in the sand in regard to this is a potential emerging risk in the
future. But as Barry said, the regulators don't seem to be putting in laws or regulations
that support the further growth of IFA. We do some business with brokers in India. And -but only put in products on their shelf that we want to sell. Not the full array. But it is very
limited.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

It's a very important question for the industry.
Lillian, you want to say a word, or no?
Page 79 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

A - Lilian Ng

{BIO 4943480 <GO>}

FINAL

Actually, what we're seeing -- what the regulators are looking for is not [ph] customer
choice. They actually looking for custom protections. And what they do is actually they
want an insurance company to protect the customers. So as Barry said, they want a risk
framework; they will compliance offices. So instead of dealing with the book of firms, they
want to deal with the insurance company. And that's what we're seeing -- what the
regulators are actually encouraging.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

And I really think the general agency model is a big part of the answer to that. So I think
you are right. In a lot of markets, the industry is called a non-go, because you provide
relatively poor value product. It's very opaque. There is a space for a broker to come and
genuinely says that is creating value.

Bloomberg Transcript

What you want ultimately is to align the interests of the customers, of the internal majority.
And of a company. And I really believe that the general agent model actually does that.
Because these people -- are you going to Indonesia? Okay. If we take you to some of our
general agents, these are family businesses.
I'm a great believer in family businesses. They have a sister or brother-in-law or son. It's
like comparing it to McDonald's. If you are in the community and you are making
McDonald's, you're going to make sure that people don't get sick when they eat your Big
Macs. Because they live around the corner, they will be back, they talk to all of their
friends. You are part of the community. You want your McDonald's restaurant to be
successful in the long term. You're more incentivized to look at the quality so you don't
make people sick. But McDonald's itself.
And the GA is exactly like that. It is in the community. He is going to make all his money
from that community. He has a natural incentive not to miss sell, not to do things that are
going to destroy his franchise. He is not mercenary -- a transactional person who is just
going to do a deal, take the commission. And run away. He's going to be there when the
product delivers continues 10 years down the road, 15 years down the road.
And I love that model because it is really like an entrepreneur who is trying to maximize
the value of his business. And what he needs to do to do that is exactly what you want
him to do. So a lot of the disciplines and controls that you have to put in place in a
traditional adversarial distributor manufacturer relationship is not the. These guys, they are
Prudential through and through. They are exclusive to us. They will give us ideas, they will
make suggestions, they are incentivized to behave very well.
It's a great model. That's why Mauricio's question was great. We would love to have that
everywhere, because what it does is it works very well. Part of why Indonesia so good is
that really we are perfectly aligned. We've been able to scale up that model there. And
these people -- a McDonald's franchise is never going to work against McDonald's. It just
doesn't make sense. It's one and the same thing.

Page 80 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

So I think it's a good answer to an age-old problem that the industry has had. And it has
been intermediated in many places, as a result of not managing that well. It's a very
powerful model.

FINAL

Q - Rob Plant

{BIO 18317967 <GO>}

Rob Plant from JPMorgan. I think I asked this question in one of the product meetings but I
don't think I heard the answer. I don't think I'm going deaf. But on the meta [ph] shield,
there's only five license is currently in Singapore. Why is so few -- is that hard to get? Are
there restrictions because it's a new product?

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Tom, do you want to take that?

A - Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

There is no restriction, as long as you make the necessary application to the Ministry of
Health. I think the issue comes down to economics because it is a relatively low ticket size.
You need to have a lot of scale to make it work. You saw in the slides the level of service
you need to provide. Remember, we are selling is an industry, probably 30,000 to
40,000 policies a month. You need to be able to manage that and manage the claims.
And so I think the Ministry of Health also has a fairly high bar in terms of what they expect
a new entrant to be able to provide, either a new business processing for in claims
servicing.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay and Oliver, maybe you have a microphone? The gentleman in the middle, could you
give him a microphone please? Thank you.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank. What proportion of different countries in Asia government
debt do you hold? I was just wondering what you been able to do to derisk your position
there?

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Adrian, do you want to take that?

A - Adrian O'Connor
I would not --

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

I have a vague in my head but --.

A - Adrian O'Connor
Page 81 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

I wouldn't have all the detail off the top of my head. Vietnam, obviously --

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

FINAL

Vietnam --

A - Adrian O'Connor
Vietnam was the obvious one; we had long-term debt. We hold a significant proportion of
(multiple speakers) the longer-dated debt.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

But really, defaults on domestic currency debts our rare in economic history. At worst, you
run and inflation risk. But as long as you can print, these are not hard currency loans. They
are Vietnamese dong. So the default risk is extremely low.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the other point is it is a misleading metric, because well-managed countries have a
loan debt to GDP ratio. I know one place in the world where if you want to have a lot of
headroom to write and to buy government debt, you can go to eurozone, well above
100% debt to GDP. So we have to be careful. Debt numbers are 42% debt to GDP. That's
very good.
So yes, we end up being a lot of a low number. And you're going to find that in a lot of
countries with low indebtedness. When we become a big business, we end up holding -but in a way, it's good. We like those countries because we like countries with wellmanaged fiscal balances, where our deficit is not ballooning and the debt is not growing
too much. That's a caveat.
So we have bumped against that in a number of countries because they are wellmanaged. And we prefer that they don't have a lot of debt.

A - Adrian O'Connor
I would just add that if you look at page one on our -- tax was -- yes, it's GDP8.6 billion.
Shareholders, because there's a bit of shareholder, there's a bit of policyholders. So -- but
we give that disclosure of actual shareholder disclosure. (multiple speakers)

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

You know Adrian will give a lot of detail on that.

A - Adrian O'Connor
But it is still there.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

It's still there. We never take any disclosure that's from there somewhere.

Page 82 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

Q - Unidentified Participant

FINAL

Thank you. Just one follow-up. The amount of mainland business in Hong Kong is quite
significant for you. And I can understand why the Hong Kong authorities are very happy for
that to continue, subject to the rules of conduct that we talked about in the past.
What I'm less clear about is what the Chinese view of that is. And from your discussions
with the Chinese regulator and authorities, how do they feel about the amount of
business coming out of China into Hong Kong. Are they concerned about it? Do the
disruptions and protests in Hong Kong affect their attitude to that? So any color you can
give on what possible risks there might be from the Chinese side, rather than the Hong
Kong side.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Sure. The OCI -- the regulator in Hong Kong. And CIRC in China, talk all the time. And they
know exactly what the numbers are and have raised no concerns. I think the way to look at
the amount of business that has been written in Hong Kong or mainland Chinese. And
compare that to the amount of premium that has been written in China in the total
market. And it's such a de minimis amount. Nobody is really -- it's nothing.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

And I think that is the answer we have. It's small change. It's a big deal for us. But China of
this world -- it's not much.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Anymore? It's 5:20 so --

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Okay. So we have achieved our objective. No more questions for today. Thank you very
much. And we will see you a little later for dinner. Thank you.
+++presentation

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Well. Good morning. And thank you for giving up and making it this morning to the first
session. I appreciate that both personally and professionally.
One of the nice things about going this session is -- had a couple of days to talk to you
individually. And about what your interests are. And what we should or shouldn't talk about
in the session. So I'm going to focus most of my presentation on a couple of the slides.
And this is more reactive to some of the dialogues we had.
For some of you that asked these questions, you are going to hear some of the answers
twice. But I think for some of your colleagues, it was -- I would like to get this as narrowly
focused on the topics you are interested in versus the ones I'd like to talk about as I can.
Page 83 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

There's a number of you that don't know who Jackson is. Jackson has a variety of
business units now in the US. And I would say this is sort of the report card of what we
have built or what you own going into this point in the market. The life company itself is a
little bit over $200 billion -- about $207 billion now in assets. We're the number-one
provider of annuities in the United States.
You know, something Tidjane said and Barry said, we've never had a market -- I've been
here 19 years; we've never had a market share goal in that entire time. It's a byproduct of
the business plan. And I think that's a -- arguably, some of the biggest mistakes made in
the US market were people who pursued market share as a key attribute. So we've
stayed away from that. That said, I think we have a lot of the characteristics of a firm that
should be a market leader. And I'll come back to that a little bit through the presentation.
Curian is our separately managed account platform. Think of this as a VA-like product
without the tax-deferred wrapper. This is highly customizable mutual funds. You can do
the same sort of exclusions and fund management selections you would on a very large
institutional account. You can say, I don't want to own insurance stocks in my portfolio,
because my paycheck is tied to them, or I have a large position.

Bloomberg Transcript

You can say, I don't want guns; I don't want tobacco; I don't want whatever. And the Curian
technology can allocate that. When the advisors make fund selections, they can allocate
those -- your preferences, including tax preferences, through the fund manager
selections to a net portfolio for the consumer. They can tax harvest it -- very clever.
And the NPH is our retail broker/dealer network. It's a series of four independent brokerdealers in the US retail space. These are the people that are -- think of them as closer to
the franchisee model you would see in Asia. They are -- at the other end of the extreme,
the wirehouses we do business with, the Merrills, the UBSs, those are full-time
employees. If they generate $1 of commission, all of their bills are paid for them; their
administrative assistant's paid; their Wall Street Journal subscription; the office rent. And
they net between -- their growth gross compensation is based between 20% and about
30% of the commission they generate.
In the independent broker-dealer space, they pay all of their on the expenses. They pay
their own rent, their own the admin -- for that Wall Street Journal, etc.. And they generate
-- their compensation is somewhere between in the 80%s to 90%-plus % of the
commission generated. So very different model, very different culture. That's the space
we own broker-dealers in; it's also one of the spaces we've been very successful with our
product wholesaling.
But we own four of those firms. They are very profitable, very effective. Ton of M&A in this
space right now. A lot of private equity money, a lot of people that perceive product -theme consolidation -- we've seen this historically before. But we are not -- we are looking
at acquiring reps one at a time, not acquiring broker-dealers in this space at sort of -- on
this price point in the cycle.

Page 84 of 147



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

PPMA is our institutional asset management team. It's run by Leandra Knes and her team.
This is who runs the general accounts for Jackson. They actually run some money for Pru
UK, Pru Asia. And very capable team out of Chicago. We also now have consolidated
under Leandra what we now call JAG, Jackson Advisory Group: Curian; Jackson National
Asset Management, which is the team that looks at the subaccounts inside the VA; and
PPMA -- so all three of those legally in the US are registered investment advisors. So we
have aligned all of those under our asset team in Chicago. And it's something that,
candidly, I wish I had done three or five years ago. It's really -- we are seeing a lot of
potential out of that.
The results -- I think from the conversation the last couple of days, you guys seem pretty
up to speed on the numbers. So I'm not going to spend a lot of time here. But it's been, I
think, directionally and alignment-wise a very consistent performance for our
shareholders. I think we've said before in these meetings, you want to see some
directional shape to these three graphs: the level of assets in the Firm, the level of sales
or premium you are getting. And then obviously the growth in capital and distributions you
are making. A misalignment in them would suggest mispricing, a weakness in your model,
etc. So we are pretty pleased with the shape of these graphs and how they are growing.

Bloomberg Transcript

We're obviously managing the premium level on perspective, too, pretty tightly the last
three years. But generally these are producing materially above-industry sorts of numbers.
And I'm obviously very proud of that. And again, I'm not going to spend a ton of time
there. This is the one that probably got the most questions the last couple of nights. So I'll
spend the most amount of time here on the last one.
Not the economic outlook -- you know, short version of that, we are geared -- we hedge
rates both ways; we hedge equities. But our bias and asset of assumption, if you asked
us, is US rates rise at some point here. And probably quickly. So what you see tactically
from that is we are up in credit, down in duration on our general account. That's not news;
it's the same thing we said last year and the year before. But it is our view. And it's where
you see sort of our tactical bet in the portfolio.
We're staying there. We made a decision of a number of years back when Clark Manning
was here that we are not trying to get the team in Chicago to produce unique earnings
for you, okay? We actually made a conscious decision. We have an overused expression
that for us, the industry average is regression to the mean. We don't want to be average
on very many things in our business plan. It's not an industry that you look at and say, gee,
you really want to be like everybody else domestically in the States. Okay?
But on the portfolio risk, we made a decision that we would move it to an industry
average level. And PPMA is measured and managed to keeping very close to a very tight
risk model. And that puts pressure on the rest of the model to produce earnings
elsewhere. But you are not seeing outsized bets; you are not seeing particular unique
credit risk; you're not seeing them create new securities; you're not seeing them come up
with double secret investments that no one has ever done before. That's not their
mandate.

Page 85 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

But that does put pressure on the balance of the model to compensate for that, because
we have competitors that take more risk in the portfolio than we do. We just don't think
corporately that aligns with our role in the Group and our mandates. And we are
continuing that.
Competitive activity -- so, quickly, things change. Checking last night, 14 of our 15 largest
variable annuity competitors have said in the last 12 months they would like to do more
variable annuities. Some of you that attended these meetings for a number of years, that
number varies year to year.
I'm not sure what to read into that; we are not using them as a barometer of when we do
business or don't. But just to give you an idea, it's getting a little more competitive. You
are seeing some increases in pricing. You are seeing some new features and new
structures come to market. I think the best thing you're seeing of the market is a
continuation on expanding the level of risk a client can get offset.

Bloomberg Transcript

That's a very good thing. So you can -- you know, the sales of the traditional with living
benefit products are actually declining. But you are seeing a lot of different structures
appear. That's good. They are very sophisticated tools, used correctly. And that's a good
thing.
I think the general negative trend is the pricing on the products favors you as investors
more than it favors consumers. You are getting too high of fees generally in the industry,
too low of value. And directionally, that's probably the thing I'm most disappointed or
most concerned about with the US market right now. We cannot -- the value proposition in
some of the products we compete with just isn't there.
If you saw the SEC's last comment from four weeks ago, they're looking at the exact
same thing. They're saying, if you're charging these fees, what are you doing for the
consumer? Which is -- you know, they're a proper consumer advocate as a regulator. And
we welcome that workstream.
We think these products have a very good role in a consumer's portfolio. But they should
add value. So we're seeing a lot there.
Everyone -- there's a dozen Elite Access clones. I think, as of yesterday, 13 -- 12, 13. So
we're seeing everyone have one they are calling an IOVA. I'll give you some more details
on those in just a second. IOVA is a term an industry consultant coined. I think they got
$50,000 for that or something. We didn't give them any money. But they looked at Elite
Access and said, here is an investment-only variable annuity; everyone should have one.
So our competitors are all filing them. There's a dozen out; I'll show you the competitive
landscape on those in just a second.
The regulatory landscape -- a couple issues here. The global issues we discussed, I think,
pretty thoroughly at the event. The G-SIFI status, the structure, the European accounting,
the pressure in the US to be more open to some of those trends. There's still doesn't
sent seem to be a whole lot of openness to that. The 50-state model versus a federal
Page 86 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

model -- there's tension -- you know, the Office of Insurance Information has gotten
involved in the -- the Department of Treasury has gotten involved in the G-SIFI discussions.
So they are now a player. The Department of Labor is still looking at the role of
commission products in general in qualified plans. That's -- the announcement on that has
been delayed seven times, again, to January.
And these are all just things that we deal with. We've gone through contingencies for
each. So there's none of them on the horizon we are particularly concerned about.
I would say the political landscape issue that gives us the most -- that comes up the most
now when I talk to advisors and consumers is everyone assumes taxes in the US are going
up. And everyone has seen taxes in the US go up materially. The parts of the US tax that
used to cap out at a certain dollar amount now are open-ended. So when you look at tax
rates in the States from abroad, you may say, well, the absolute marginal rate on taxes
hasn't changed that much. All of the other taxes the consumer pays on their payroll have.
The state taxes have; sales taxes have. some are starting to look like VAT taxes in their
structures.

Bloomberg Transcript

So particularly if you are in California, New York, Illinois, very unlikely a consumer making
$200,000 a year is keeping half their money. So the tax deferral discussion is very much
at the forefront of the discussion on why variable annuities are popular again. And tax
control and allocation strategies for municipal bonds and all sorts of other investments are
very much a part of what reps are talking about to clients. So I think that's a tailwind for us.
It came up earlier, cyber security -- so Jackson has a pretty sophisticated technology. I
think we have, by a couple of independent measurements, the best in the industry. It's
certainly how we maintain our cost advantage and one of the key elements to it.
But everyone, including us, is concerned about breaches and hacks and things. You know,
without standing up here and defining for an online hacker who would be watching this
what we are doing -- I don't think that's a great idea -- directionally, you are seeing two
things. We have a pretty sophisticated barrier model, which is the rings they have to get
through to get to data. Then directionally where we're going is much more encryption, on
the assumption that at some point someone can get through any number of rings, to
oversimplify the strategy here and not get into specifics.
But we have every tool available from public sources. We think -- we have ex-criminals
who are consultants; we have ex-federal employees who are consultants. Some of those
people now think we are criminal in our behavior. There's a lot of intellectual firepower
you can buy in that space right now or lease. And we take that very seriously. I'm joking
about it. But we look at it very carefully. All of these insurers now domestically -- all of our
connectivity with consumers and the broker-dealers and things are based on that model.
So a lot of time and resources here. And I think our model rivals any of the best out there.
But there is -- the Group is very focused. And we are very focused on managing that risk.
M&A: the market is getting more and more interesting right now. There's more players.
You have the Japanese through Protective Life now. You have Ottawa Teachers' Pension
Page 87 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

sic; Ontario Teachers' Pension [ph], the Canadians looking to do bolt-ons. You have active
private equity firms. And I would say -- I was just talking to some folks this morning about
this -- that that's the folks who actually are trying to buy and establish a franchise that we
would see as a competitor or a peer.
Then you have the passive. And that's the private equity firms that are coming in and
saying, we are going to buy a block of life cash flows. And we're to have a third party
administer/manage it. This stuff looks pretty easy.
And we are far less concerned about those players. I actually think long-term they're an
opportunity for Jackson to buy those blocks back, because there's a little bit of work to
administrating this stuff correctly. And I think they will figure that out along the way.
But there are some good new players in the space. And there are all sorts of rumors on
what the return hurdles are, usually generated by investment bankers. I'm sure some of it
is true; all of it would pressure our pricing disciplines down if we listened to it all. We
obviously take it with a grain of salt.

Bloomberg Transcript

But that is -- the market is more competitive for M&A. We continue, as Tidjane has told
you in these meetings, we continue to look at targets in the US. And we have had
opportunities. But we're looking for a certain quality level. We have reallocated. And we're
back out there. But we're doing it cautiously and correctly. We want to make sure we do
the right transactions.
And it's one of the advantages of being part of the Group. We have the diversification of
the Group that takes away that time pressure to have to do something now or do
something you might not have wanted to do that you think was perfect. So we're looking
at a lot of different things. And that continues. But that space is changing.
You know, the private equity firms, I think, are the most interesting new entrants. The
conversations with them are fascinating. Some of them just see it as a levered play on
bonds. Some of them see it as an offset to a liability they have elsewhere. It's much more
of a financial engineering play than it is, this is a business that they want to own and
operate. So we'll see what they do to that space. But that's out there.
This probably got the most questions: the Elite Access space. So the consultant who
named the product is wrong. So they called it an investment-only, IOVA, space. I think we
are now the only Company that has an investment-only offering. All the rest have now
added guarantees, higher commissions, higher fees. I think we talked about this last year.
This is not a unique direction of travel for US life companies. The belief is if you raise the
commission, raise the guarantee levels, you can sell more.
This is not where I was hoping this space would go. But it's there. It's not affecting us. I'll
show you the results in just a second. But it is -- our argument back on why you don't want
the competitive structures you are seeing would be: we're seeing about a third of the
funds roughly go in the alts, balance going to traditional portfolios inside Elite Access.
That's a great allocation.
Page 88 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

They are typically using our managed models, where they are not trying to learn every
subaccount. But they are using an overlay that has a risk tolerance that's consistent with
what the consumer wants. So again, great use of the product.
But if you think about the nature of these products, the alternative asset piece -- they are
going to perform if they are well managed in a narrow range, okay? These are countercorrelated returns to the core portfolio. They are not intended to produce a 22% return if
the S&P is up 22%. They are intended to be sort of good single-digit returns that are more
consistent. So the fee load really matters. The fee load really matters. The structure of
this product -- I think fees matter more than just about anything we've ever done.
So I think the direction of travel, where if you are going to offer guarantees -- and I don't
think there's anything particularly wrong with the return of principal; we got asked this
question last night a couple of times. The first guarantee we're seeing is return of
principal if you die. That's not a huge risk behaviorally. Most people won't die to get back
their investment. So there's a natural hedge in their own behavior. That's not one that you
are overly worried about.

Bloomberg Transcript

But you can't necessarily hedge the underlying alt funds, depending on what they are.
Most of them are unhedgeable. So you wouldn't -- not all of them. But most of them you
wouldn't want to do that. And you certainly wouldn't price for it. So there's a little bit just
there of a bet. So you need to charge extra for that, the firms that are doing it. And they
are.
You're seeing withdrawal structures. Most of the withdrawal structures we seen so far are
renamed annuitizations. All VA contracts, all annuity contracts have an annuitization clause.
That's a regulatory issue. You can call it something else. But it's an annuitization clause.
And historically the United States variable annuity investors have annuitized about 1% of
the time. So would a slightly different version of annuitization change that rate? Possibly.
We haven't seen it yet. We don't think it's a particularly unique capability. We certainly can
do it. We'll watch this space. If somebody starts -- you know, if their product starts getting
higher utilization, we can certainly compete in that space. But we don't think that's why
they're buying the product. So we'll see.
But the product is doing well. The last ICI data has us, Fidelity. And Blackrock as the three
front-of-mind or top alt managers in the US when it comes to funds. Not tax-deferred. But
just period. So I think our wholesalers have done a phenomenal job of positioning the
investment proposition of this, training the advisors. And associating our name with the
diversification play -- which is, I think, a really good extension of our reputation.
It's a very hard product to wholesale. The advisors typically haven't sold very much of it. So
you are not going into a top advisor's office and say, instead of doing business with XYZ
mutual fund and their growth fund, let's try this alt. They need to understand why it works.
They need to make sure that when they represent it to their client, they know the funds,
they know the correct application.

Page 89 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

So we've spent a fortune, time and energy wise, on training and development. That is the
core to our wholesaling model is improving the advisor's business. We got way out in front
of this a year before we launched with training our own internal people. So they were fund
specialists. And they were credible. And it's an investment wholesaling proposition, okay?
So why does that matter? All right. Here's us. And I got challenged, I would say, politely,
last year on: wasn't I worried about a particular firm and their comments about how they
were going to take us out immediately? There you go.
There's Pru; there's Lincoln; there's Jefferson National, which came up on one of the
previous pieces of research on us. We are feeling pretty good about our market position,
not saying that someone is not going to increase those sales.

Bloomberg Transcript

The other that I would suggest to you is the percentage of sales these folks are getting
from their proprietary distribution outlets is very, very high. It's not a bad thing. But that's
where the majority of the sales today are coming from. Again, this is a very investmentcentric wholesaling proposition. And my argument to a number of you a year or two ago
was: this is one of the ways I can prove to you how good our distribution people are. This
is a hard product to wholesale. And it's a very good product. So I'm extremely pleased
with the job our folks have done.
Now, lots going on in the space. Broker-dealers are trying to figure out their correct place
for these, qualified/nonqualified, how many they want on the platform, is there limits on
the alts they will allow on a client at a given net worth level? And we are active in most of
those dialogues with those firms, because we're seen as a credible source. We are
training their reps.
I probably talk to 150 to 200 reps a month that are at training meetings we are doing,
teaching them about the correct use of these products. And we talk about our entire
product suite there. But they are mostly focused on Elite Access. And it's becoming a tool
for very top, very high producing reps. We're getting a lot of money that isn't coming from
variable annuities. We are getting a lot of advisors that didn't produce variable annuities
with their broker-dealers before selling the product or having done business with Jackson
before.
So the results from it are good for our broker-dealer partners. They're good for the
advisors. The products perform for consumers. And it's certainly good for us
diversification wise. But it's a lot of work. And I think it's a measurement of your
distribution capability with something you haven't done before. So that would be my -you know, are we worried about a dozen new competitors? No. Do I wish they would go
more investment-focused, less benefit; or commission-focused? Yes.
But we can deal with that. We'll deal with the competition. It certainly is competition.
There's some credible firms in that list. But we are okay with it. I'm sorry -- I forgot Met
and AIG. And there's a new one that's launching this week, rumored to have its first living
benefit, by the way, on an alt-based product. I think one of you owes me five bucks from
that, by the way, from two years ago.
Page 90 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

You do not want to put a living benefit, for the record, on a product you can't hedge. I
cannot believe that isn't somewhere out there in the general knowledge of the US
industry. But rumor has it there's one that's just coming out. I was hoping it was out while
we're here. It's not quite done.
Okay. So what do you own? All that's going on in the market -- is it a good market? Yes.
Tidjane hit the fundamental reason that you want us in the Group, which is: the Baby
Boomers need savings alternatives that -- you know, 10 to 20 years out. The
demographics are the ultimate tailwind we have. The lack of return for guarantee or lowrisk products, the implied risk now on a total return bond fund with a 200 basis point
move in rates -- all these things are making the choices in what people do with their
retirement rollover very, very difficult.

Bloomberg Transcript

So advice has never been more important. That is our space. If you talk to the advisors, it
may take us four or five meetings to get a client to do their first Elite Access ticket; it's
taking them four to six meetings with the consumer on a retirement presentation now. It's
up materially, because there's so much more going on. And none of the decisions are
obvious. Okay? They are not getting a client coming in and saying, what I really want to
own is a mutual fund that's S&P-centric at this point in the market. None of it appears easy
to the consumers.
So the advisors are earning their keep. That's a great climate for us. That is our space. You
know, as one of the earlier slides -- we have, by any external metric, the top wholesalers
in the industry. And that's rated by the advisors. There's syndicated research that shows
that. There's a little bit of public research that shows that. It's been true for more than a
decade. But it's absolutely true now.
One of the measurements -- someone asked me last night, everybody says that -- how
can I measure if a wholesaling team is any good? It's a great question. One simple one -and you know, acquisition costs are hard, because people put different things in
acquisition costs. So if you asked all of our competitors their acquisition rates, they are
somewhat comparable. But it's a little bit more challenging. If they have the top
wholesalers, they should be the most productive. If the product looks reasonable to you.
So if you simply take their total sales and their number of wholesalers. And you say, what
is their production per wholesaler? That will tell you the effectiveness of the wholesalers.
Now, if the product is mispriced, that's -- you want that number low. But if you think the
product is reasonable. And there's a lot of reasonable product out there, that's a very
easy metric that, if you've never looked at a distribution network, you can measure.
Now, on a self-serving basis I bring that up, because we have the number-one level of
productivity in the industry. And we have post-crisis. But it is a fair measurement of are
they effective in branches. The other way is talking to distributors. And some of you have
the opportunity to do that with some of your other travel.
Wholesaler turnover is another. But that's harder to get market data on. The ALM piece,
the pricing, we continue to do everything we've talked to you about there. I'm going to
Page 91 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

leave most of that -- the financial part -- to Chad's presentation, since we've got them
here with us.

FINAL

But there's nothing changing there in our risk appetite. There's nothing changing there
materially in the way we're doing things. There's a few additions of hybrids and things we
haven't done in the past. But it's generally working as we have said. And generally the
options to us are the same as they've been all along.
We continue to focus on being a low-cost player. But a high execution, high effective
execution player. I always worry about the low-cost metrics we have that are public,
because it would suggest we are doing things cheap; we're not. We have the best
technology. SQM has us the top service provider 9 of the last 10 years. And we're in with
the mutual funds. So that's not just the shallow end of the pool. That's with real -- a lot of
very capable competitors we are having to compete with. And we have a very good
service platform. You need very good technology to do that.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'll give you an example why. A client calls from Wisconsin. They're a broker-dealer; they
bought the contract 2008 -- say it's prospective, too. They bought it in a qualified plan,
meaning a retirement account; and they bought it from, say, Wells Fargo.
There's the state variation, there's the vintage we allowed that year; there's the qualified
plan rules for that broker-dealer. There may in fact be a third-party service entity that
they've contracted in between that has systems or policy rules. And from that caller ID
number coming in, we need to pop that up in front of our service person. So when they
talk to the client they talk to them specifically about what their options are. And they have
to be smart enough to know what they can or can't do.
So that's why the call-based route -- you know, the technology that routes calls to our
more senior people on VA and things is critical -- but you have to get that information in
front of them real-time. And given all the state variations we have. And the various years
we made product changes, that's a fairly complicated data management task. And you
also have to have really good service people.
It's amazing to watch them -- they are flipping through these screens, they all have at
least two, while they are talking to the client. And they are generally a screen ahead of
where the client is going to go. Okay?
Why does that matter? Because if you are the advisor, if we blow that service call, we
damage your reputation. So it's absolutely critical. It's probably -- from a brand point of
view, one of the most important things we do is maintain the service quality we have. That
is what the advisors want from us. And they want to make sure that we protect their
reputation, both in product quality and the way we deal with their client.
So we have a lot of money, a lot of design work, a lot of things go into that. And because
it's so efficient, it gives us a very low-cost platform relative to our peers. Basic disciplines - you integrate all the product platforms, you maintain the shortest number of systems
you can. We have a lot of stuff built in-house.
Page 92 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

But it's a very effective model. And measured, again, externally. And you can measure it
by basis points to assets; you can measure by employees to assets. We still have about a
quarter of the staff of our size of earnings or assets. But it's one of the keys -- the quality
has to be embedded in that. You could do it cheap but not do it well. And that would be a
different model.
Then the last one, reputationally: so we still don't invest in brand. I get asked, do we still
do the zamboni at Michigan State? We do. We still have -- there is still Lugnuts Field if you
want to come to -- Jackson Field. If you want to see a AA ball club in Lansing, be our
guest. We have a box there that you will share with the local Little League teams and
things that all of our -- any of our employees that coach we allow to use it. But those are
community-based activities.
Those of you coming to Nashville, you will see there's a historic theater in Franklin, the
town that our office is in, that most of the not-for-profits use for events. And it's got
amazing acoustics; we are one of the sponsors of that.

Bloomberg Transcript

We view that more as community service than we do advertising. We still aren't doing any
advertising. I think that reflects in the dividend. I think that reflects in the earnings. Our
competitors spent a lot of money in that line. And again, by any external metric, we are as
trusted as likely to fulfill obligations. We have the financial strength brand attributes when
they measure them with advisors and consumers we have of any firm in the industry.
Now, we don't have unassisted brand scores. So if you walked into LAX -- if you bounced
through there on your way home and said, what you think of Jackson? They would have
no idea who you are. But if they do business with us, our reputation holds with anyone's in
the space.
Why is that valuable? Elite Access. We had the trust of the advisors; we had the trust of
the broker-dealers to do something the industry hadn't done. And had we just done
something wrong, had we just damaged their reputation with clients or advisors, we
couldn't have come to them with a product like that, that they had never seen, that risked
their reputation again.
So there's a currency there for us to guard. But it's an execution-based currency. Tidjane
referenced that culturally -- that's who we are. It an execution-based currency, not a
brand-based currency. We're not buying that with television spots or stadiums or
whatever. But we are very aware of how fragile that is. And I think we are still doing things
that -- we still think constantly about protecting that capability.
Those aligned capabilities are what you own. I don't see anything on the horizon that
would suggest we can't deal with anything coming at us regulatory wise, competitor wise,
or market wise, with what we have.
There will be changes. I thought Tony's comments about the region were fascinating. I've
been over here three times this year. And the listing of all the things that have gone on
here -- and then just the consistency of results from our agent team. The similarity there is
Page 93 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

we expect things to change. We expect to have to innovate. We expect to have to build
new products. We expect to have to -- you know, the relationships will change, ownership
of broker-dealers, new competitors -- that's fine. I think we have the attributes we want to
deal with that right now. And we are pretty well positioned.

FINAL

So I'm going to turn it over to Chad. And then we'll come back at the end for a couple
comments and then Q&A. Chad?

A - Chad Myers

{BIO 2234559 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. So I'm going to take a few minutes here to go through a couple
topics. One would be just a little bit of an update on the balance sheet's sales kind of
aspects, since we're not in the earnings season yet; spend a little bit of time talking about
interest rate risk, which has been a big topic as we've been through some of our peers'
assumption reviews over the last couple of years -- what that looks like; and spend a little
bit of time as well on just our assumption review that we went through. And just give you,
again, a little color on that.

Bloomberg Transcript

So just starting off with sales: year to date we are up about 10% overall, most of that
coming from variable annuity sales. Elite Access, as Mike has mentioned, continues to do
well. $3.8 billion, up from $3 billion the prior year. And the P2 core chassis, kind of the dark
blue there, is running a little bit ahead of last year. As we've mentioned before, we have
actually front-ended sales in that product this year. So we're actually kind of tapering down
into year-end. So we would expect to see that percentage of sales kind of drift back
towards the 2013 levels by the time the year is all said and done.
So focusing on the overall fee-based type deposits. So we continue to see, as we
continue to move product away from the living benefit -- the core living benefit product,
39%, same year-over-year that we saw of our overall fee-based premiums and deposits
were into products that did not have a living benefit associated with them.
Moving on the right-hand side of this to just VA sales only, it's a third, which again is pretty
stable from last year. Most of that diversification coming out is -- again, the success we've
had with Elite Access, which -- you know, the red bar, which wasn't really there before a
couple of years back. And we continue to see a decent proportion of our sales going to
VAs with no living benefits, where product structured customers can choose the intensity
of benefits that they want. And we typically see somewhere in the 10% to 15% range elect
no living benefit. So that's the blue bar up there.
And so then you have got the balance there in the gray, which is VA with living benefit.
Now, this is getting to be a little bit more interesting a story than has been the last couple
of years, because we've actually introduced -- we first did it in 2013, where we started this
process. Then we've accelerated that this year. But we have launched some lower -guaranteed lower-fee product into the market.
And if you look at what the prototypical guaranteed withdrawal living benefit is, at age 65
it would provide the customer with a 5% withdrawal rate. That's kind of more or less
industry-standard. Back in 2013, we broke that apart. We actually made our core product
Page 94 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

the 4.75% withdrawal rate and had the option to buy up to 5%. And just this most recent
period here, this last product cycle in September that we went through, we launched in a
number of other what we call income streams with as low as a 4% withdrawal rate at a
relatively low fee, going in quarter-point increments up to the 5%.
As it stands right now, back to the capacity control I was talking about, we don't actually
offer this very day a 5% withdrawal rate. We will be reintroducing that in the new year. But
what that means is this gray bar now is starting to look a little bit more nuanced than you
would normally think of in terms of the risk associated with it. It's not all monolithic in terms
of the withdrawal rate. There's lower intensity guarantees in there. And in fact, we are on
track to have -- we'll probably get to the point where north of 50% this year, we'll have a
withdrawal rate of less than 5% associated with it. So some positive developments even
within the dreaded gray bar there.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving on to statutory reserves -- this is a slide we've shown before. Just a quick update
on this. So we continue to see the separate account type of products, the VA type
products gaining at the expense of general account as a percentage of the overall
balance sheet. You can see 1% of that is the 18 to 19 without living benefits. That's
effectively what's coming through on Elite Access. And then there's a 2% increase since
last year-end coming through in the living benefit space.
And breaking down, as we've shown you before -- you know, the red bar is up there, the
general account. Then you got the -- without living benefits, which is the 1% I just talked
about. Then looking at that 2% that we have got on the prior page of variable annuities
with living benefits, it's split evenly between two pieces. The 34% going to 35% is
effectively net flows. Our number-one market position continues to drive good net flows
into the product. So we've seen some increase in the percentage of the balance sheet
going to that.
The 12% going to 13% is actually market-driven. So as we've talked about previously, we
continue to see good market development. We actually offer a product that helps
customers participate in the market. So as the markets go up, our balances increase.
Those are very profitable contracts for us. Basically, that's just purely the market moving
up. So it's increasing fees. And the overall living benefit structure is more favorable to us
at that point. So that's a good development.
So moving into a little bit more of the interest rate debate here, this is a chart that should
look at least partially familiar to those of you who have been to a couple of these. But for
those of you that haven't, I'll just spend a minute. Upper left-hand corner: what this is is
the GMWB cash flows unhedged for the in-force book as of 9/30. So what you see here is
the base scenario that we lay out here is just a 5% gross return basis. This is, again, the
same analysis we've shown over the years.
You will see the guarantee fees coming through. Again, not the M&E fees, not the core
product -- just the guarantee fees associated with the product. You can see the gray bar
is very substantial. Not a whole lot of benefits, which, as we've mentioned, we have the
best positioned book in the industry. So it shouldn't be that great a surprise when the

Page 95 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

market is at all-time highs. And we're showing you a scenario with 5% gross returns that
we're not going to have a whole lot of benefits. Most of the ones that are out there are
more, say, longevity-based -- people who are living to 98 or whatever will outrun their
income stream.
But -- so what you see here is a net of about $6.2 billion of guarantee fees in excess of
benefits. So a very good position to be in. Not a whole lot different -- it's a little bit better
than what we've shown you before. But not a whole lot different directionally.
Historically what we've shown here is 20% to 40% shock down, just to give you some
color on that. But what I've done here instead is replaced the 20% shock down with a 100
basis point decrease in rates, just to kind of try to illustrate the point of where our book is
positioned differently than some others.

Bloomberg Transcript

So if you take rates down 100 basis points in this -- and remember, these are just
projected cash flows; this isn't kind of a risk-neutral, market-consistent type of analysis.
This is just a scenario. Take interest rates down 100 basis points. Basically what you are
doing -- you will affect the bond funds that are in the separate account. But that's not a
huge portion. That will generally be a slight positive to the account values today. And you
will lose something down the road in terms of reinvestment. So it still nets to -- over a 20year period, nets to nothing. And you are going to get a lower discount rate. So net-net,
what you see out of that is benefits haven't really changed. But we're discounting the
benefits and the future fees at a lower interest rate. And net-net it's a slight positive
within that. Again, not surprising if you think through it.
Then on the bottom right, this is again the traditional scenario we've shown, which is down
40% instantaneous shock. Then we grow at 5% thereafter. Obviously, very significant
benefits coming through there, again, on an unhedged basis. And -- but it's also
interesting to see that even in that down 40 we are still at a slight net positive PV of fees
over benefits.
So really what we're trying to highlight here is that interest rate risk in and of itself isn't
really an issue for our book as it stands. It's really still going to be driven off the down
equity scenarios. Now, within this the down equity scenarios can be exacerbated by lower
rates. And so it's that kind of joint probability outcome that we do worry about -- down
equities, down rates simultaneously. But rates in and of themselves are not really an issue
for us. And our hedging actually reflects this.
So digging in a little bit more, this really gets to be a function of where you've struck your
product structure. So if you think about it, in many of the competitor products these days - that which is being issued right now, what we see is typically a vol-controlled or a heavy
asset-allocated fund that won't exceed 50% equity, generally speaking. You will have a
relatively high fee structure, somewhere in the 300 to 400 basis point range all-in, with a
relatively aggressive rollup or guarantee type of structure.
So that's a relatively narrowly defined outcome product. You are not going to get a lot of
equity upside, because there's not a whole lot of equity there. Most likely what the
Page 96 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

customer is going to get is the income stream looks a little bit more like a deferred
annuity than it does a variable annuity. And within that you get something that looks like a
relatively, again, narrow band -- something that looks a little like a fixed income product.
So no big surprise, you ought to get a fair bit of interest rate risk in that under all
scenarios.
The second one we look at, which is more where we are at -- because there's equity
exposure out there, you have got various path events, as it happens. So if equities just
keep running and running and running, we're never going to have any benefits to pay. And
so interest rate risk really is not particularly relevant in that particular case. If you get a very
bad down equity scenario, now all of a sudden you've got a lot of benefits that are 20
years out on the horizon. And the level of interest rates matters a lot.

Bloomberg Transcript

So again, more of a conditional rate exposure there. And if you look across the
competitive universe, very different hedging strategies come out of this. So if you are -you know, there's one product out there that's gained a little bit of traction that's a bondonly variable annuity. So that's going to be -- there's no equity. So there's no delta to have
to worry about, no vega to have to worry about. You just -- basically, it's a big interest rate
play.
There's other competitors out there who actually have built the interest rate exposure or
have basically ceded the interest rate exposure back to the customer, because the fees
they pay or the benefits they get are dependent upon interest rates. So they don't really
have any meaningful interest rates to have to hedge. Then you get into, again, a situation
where we are, which is, again, relatively unique in the industry, where we have more of a
conditional rate exposure because of the structure of the product. So that's more of the
economics.
Then you get into some of the model assumptions. So the important one here is discount
rate versus the drift rate. When I say drift rate, just to make sure we are on the same
page, I'm just talking about the assumed forward path of equity returns. And with what I
talked about on the prior page, that's really just a discount rate aspect of it. But if you're
dealing with a risk-neutral, market-consistent -- choose your term -- model, then the drift
rate is going to be typically the risk-free rate, or typically swaps. So you are looking at -the forward swap rate is what you are assuming your central path is for equity returns.
And in a market-consistent world, you are going to assume if interest rates drop 100 basis
points, then so does the central equity path -- effectively 100% correlation. So you're not
just going to get the discount rate effect; you are also going to get -- you are shifting the
entire distribution down. And you're going to get higher benefits that come off of it. So
the choice of models that you are using is very significant in that, especially if you think
about it in the current environment, where forward interest rates are roughly zero in the
US. And certainly for -- you know, out several years and even longer than that out in euro
land and in some of the Asian markets as well.
So you are effectively assuming zero market participation or market upside. You are going
to have a 300 basis point, let's say, fee drag coming through there. So your central path is

Page 97 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

actually consistently in the hole a little bit more each year. So if you've got a more
conservative assumption set like that. And you shock rates down, then you get a bigger
impact. That's part of what we see coming through certain of the models, which I'll get
into in a moment.
Then policyholder behavior can actually be a knock onto that. So if you have a fairly
aggressive policyholder behavior function built under that, then that can exacerbate some
of the interest rate impacts on the drift rate.
So that's a high-level model. If we get into the actual accounting outcomes, which are
obviously based on models, what you see in terms of the financial impact of that is on
IFRS the discount rate typically is going to be a negative, because again, you are dealing
with this negative net drift rate concept, because it's a market-consistent type of world.
So starting with an assumed very low equity return. And then shocking off of that. So
typically speaking, lower interest rates have a negative financial impact. You will see that
come through below the line historically for us as rates have dropped. But also with IFRS,
because it's the market-consistent world, lower rates mean lower equity returns as well.
So there is a knock-on effect there that's actually even larger than the discount rate,
typically.

Bloomberg Transcript

Statutory has a different set of assumptions underlying it. So the discount rate could be
positive, could be negative. Depends on how in the money the benefit structure is. Equity
return is a nonevent, because it's based off of historical equity returns. There's no tie-in to
interest rates.
Then you flip over to EEV. The net of that can go either way, because you've got
offsetting impacts coming through. As the discount rate goes down, think about you have
got this embedded value that's now being discounted at a lower rate, higher PV. But the
equity return is also tied to interest rates, albeit with an equity risk premium. So it does
have negative impact. But not nearly as much as IFRS, because you are starting at the
much higher level of interest rates or assumed equity returns. Is that clear?
Now, when we think about the assumptions set under a market-consistent world or a riskneutral world of these, it's effectively a 100% correlation of equities and rates. It's a noarbitrage model. And I get why people look at that. But I think it's also important to keep
the historical context in play.
So on the left-hand side of this graph, what you see is past 50-something years of equity
returns and 10-year Treasury rates. And you can see there doesn't appear to be a
particularly strong correlation between those two. And in fact, if you look at the data, on
the right-hand side what I broke out here was if you look at daily returns for a consecutive
20-year period -- so basically all potential 20-year periods over the last 50-something
years, you'll get an analyzed 20-year equity total return. And the 20 years I picked
because that's about what our normal, average policy should be in place for living benefit
type policies.

Page 98 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

So what you see is on a mean basis, 11% type returns -- that's probably not a surprising
number to anybody. But correlation with changes in the 10-year Treasury is basically zero.
So we're certainly not seeing that.
So then you might say, okay, that's fine. But in the tails, clearly they have to be heavily
correlated. And what you see here actually is max return and the min return -- both
actually showed over that period of time negative correlation with interest rates. So again,
I think it's interesting context to keep in play when you're looking at something, for
instance, like an IFRS model that's more punitive on interest rates -- you just have to
realize what you are buying into in terms of the set of assumptions.
Speaking of assumptions: so the assumptions-setting process -- I think we've talked a
little bit about this in prior meetings. But basically what we do each year is we go through
a very detailed experience analysis. We create this tome of information that looks at every
assumption that we make on every product that we have.

Bloomberg Transcript

That process typically winds through in Q2. We look at long-term trends as they develop.
We compare those to our assumptions. We look at what we need to change. We make
small changes every year to a wide variety of assumptions. Some are positive; some are
negative. They all kind of net out to what they net out to. We have a working group that
meets just below the most senior management level to look at recommendations and
approve changes and such. And then that goes through our governance process, gets
implemented in Q4. So you'll see those come through in the year-end numbers.
Then we have a bunch of ongoing experience monitoring that we do as well, including, on
some of the more key assumptions, we do some ad hoc reporting and quarterly reviews
on some of the emerging trends. Because as we've talked about before on the VA
space, nobody really knows where all these assumptions are going to land. So on the
things that are more sensitive in the pricing, we just keep a very close eye on from period
to period.
So in terms of how things shook out for this review, or some of the highlights coming out
of it -- as we've mentioned on the Q3 IMS, generally speaking the assumptions were in
line with the experience that we've seen, with some slight adjustments here and there.
Probably the most interesting one is lapse, because that's the one I think we've seen
competitors talk about.
So what we have seen is lapse rates continue to trend downward somewhat -- the base
lapses. So these are not -- because, remember, just to set the backdrop here, we don't
have very many in-the-money policies. A number of our competitors have some deep inthe-money policies. So lapses matter a lot there.
So in the case where you have a healthy book, lower lapses tend to drive more fees, no
real incremental benefit -- increase in benefits. So they are, generally speaking, positive in
kind of the base-type scenarios. If you're already deep in the money, then that wouldn't
be the case. And we've seen some of that.

Page 99 of 147



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

But what we think we've seen in terms of our -- again, mostly at; or out-of-the-money
book is a little bit lower lapse, base lapse rates coming through, in large part because the
product that they currently have, which would have been a product sold anywhere from
yesterday to -- or actually, I guess, a year ago yesterday -- going back 10 or 15 years -there's nothing that you can buy like that in the market from any of our competitors. And
we're not selling you -- we're not churning the business over so that you can get a new
Jackson policy, which actually would be, again, as Mike mentioned, more highly priced
today than it was three or four years ago.
So I think what we're seeing is not so much that the policies are in-the-money from a
financial concept as much as there's just really not a whole lot of alternatives out there, if
people wanted to move their books somewhere else. So we did lower lapse rates a little
bit across some segments of some products. And generally speaking, what you'd see
there is, again, economically that's a net positive for us, because the book is very healthy.

Bloomberg Transcript

What you'll tend to see on the accounting will be mixed. So for instance, on IFRS, where -and I'm trying to move through this a little bit and not belabor this. So if some of these
comments I've made in prior presentations don't make sense, just catch me afterwards.
But on the IFRS basis, we don't get to count all the fees in the reserve. You can't have a
gain-on-sale concept in IFRS. So we only get to count about half the fees in the reserve.
Because of that, when you look at IFRS, what you'll see is lower lapses don't -- they take
account of any additional benefits you have to pay. But they don't give you the benefit of
all the fees that you would otherwise get. So they would tend to be modestly negative,
just as a general concept. Whereas the flipside, EEV, for instance, lower lapses will tend -because you are going to get to count all the fees. And you won't have as much in terms
of benefits -- tends to be positive. So really depends on the accounting metric that you're
looking at. But again, economically, which is where we like to focus, lower lapses at this
point in the cycle are actually somewhat positive for us.
Utilization -- what we've seen here is a little bit more efficiency on the part of
policyholders. As we have talked about before, we already assume a pretty conservative
level of efficiency within the GMWB policyholder behavior. So what we've generally seen in
the last year is people are actually holding off their first withdrawal for another year or two
relative to our assumptions, which isn't really a problem. Again, back to the economics,
we're collecting more fees were a little bit longer. But the policy is also structured such
that we are really indifferent whether they wait a year and get a bonus or start taking
withdrawals right now and don't get the bonus. So it's really an even trade-off from our
perspective.
But again, the accounting noise can be -- you can get a bit of accounting noise off of that.
Again, from IFRS you're not going to get to count all the fees that you'd get from those
extra years, whereas you'd count the utilization. So a little bit of noise there.
Then, finally, mortality: for the most part mortality has been really kind of spot-on where
we've set the assumptions. We haven't had some of the issues that we saw last year with
some of our competitors in terms of their mortality books. The only real change we made

Page 100 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

this year was between GMWB types. There is the living benefits. And then there's the
WBs that don't have the living benefits for a defined period of time. We saw some
differing mortality trends between those two blocks. And so we just broke those out. So
that's really the main background for the fee assumptions.
Generally we have a very healthy book, as we have talked about. Things continue to go
well. We are adding more and more good vintages for us. We don't really have any bad
vintages. But as we've continued to reprice the product to try to control capacity, we
continue to get better shades of good in our vintages. And as we continue to add more
of those on there, the market continues to do well, we see that come through the
financial metrics.
And so one of our favorites is the operating ROE here. You can see through the first half
we're in the high 20s on an unlevered basis, which is the red bar; a little bit north of 30%
after-tax ROE -- operating ROE on an assumed AA leverage basis, which is -- even though
our competitors are continuing to do a little bit better, we are still running about double to
peer group there.

Bloomberg Transcript

So very, very strong returns on the existing book, which has led to substantial cash
remittances, which I know everybody in the room is a big fan of. Post-crisis we've remitted
close to $2.5 billion in cash back to the center. So that's been, I think, very well received by
everybody. And we actually hit a new landmark this year. The dividend that we have paid in
2014 actually exceeds the purchase price that Pru paid for Jackson initially. So we think
that's a pretty good level of success.
So just wrapping up, again, strategic view of our product profile. We are looking to
proactively continue to manage the balance sheet and the risk within the balance sheet,
the quantum of risk within the living benefits. We have talked about we're in the market
for M&A to try to keep the life cash flows balanced and all that. That will happen as it's
available.
We continue to price conservatively; we have all along. We continue to be there now. As I
mentioned, policyholder behavior is generally in line with assumptions, with some small
tweaks that we do year-by-year. Very healthy in-force book; very effective hedging, which
has been a hallmark of hours for quite a long time; and ultimately strong financial
performance coming out of the back of all of that.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

So just a couple of final comments. One, I just double-checked -- we also did -- you'll see
another $100 million in dividend that went through today. It's just the health of the
business, healthy cash flow. I wanted to avoid the question from Blair. So I just thought I
would go ahead get it out of the way now.
But I think there's a -- the other sort of final point I would leave you. And it's -- it was from
one of the conversations the night before last. It was a great question. So are we a
rational leader for the market? Is it a reasonable assumption that Jackson has the position
it has now, given what it's done?
Page 101 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

I think it's a really good, really challenging question. I would argue a couple of things:
historically in the VA space. And in sometimes the annuity space, the market leaders in the
US were leaders because they took more risk. That was the defining characteristic.
When we were number 14 going into crisis, we had lower expenses than any of the top 10
players. We had better distribution and better service. And we had better product. I don't
think in any industry there can be a market leader without good product. I don't think you
can be a market leader without good services. It doesn't have to be the best product. But
there has to be value for the consumer. We absolutely have that. I think that's one of the
biggest challenges we give competitors. And it's one of the reasons we have to manage
our volumes the way we do. I hope you'll see more of that develop in the States.
But I am confident that what we've built have the characteristics for you that actually -- that
we've earned that position. We're not doing it from a risk discussion point of view; we're
doing it from a capabilities point of view. And I think it's a fair test of us or anybody else.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then just the last comment I'd say -- this was my 19th year here. I'm not going anywhere, I
don't think; you can ask Tidjane later. Depending on this presentation, this may be my last
meeting. We'll see.
But in 19 years, I've never seen in a group the capabilities we have now. And I know a lot
of you have known for a long time. But I think if you think about presentations you're
seeing in Asia, what you are going to see from the UK, Michael has seen with M&G, I don't
think what you see at Jackson is unique inside of our Group. So I think there's some -- you
know, you're seeing -- the stuff that people try to measure in the culture of the Company
is very visible across Pru.
And I think Jackson has got all of the DNA you see here. And we're obviously very proud
of what our colleagues are doing here and in the UK as well. So we've got time for
questions. But we are into your break a little bit.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Three or four questions now. And then --.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Take three or four questions. And then we're obviously here for the duration to answer
anything you want.
+++qanda

A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes. We can do it in the final wrap-up, where we've got an hour. So a few burning
questions now. Why don't we start with Jon?

Page 102 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

It's Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. Just a very simple question -- what do you worry
about? Because it seems to be going fantastically well. Where could it all go wrong?

FINAL

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Well I think the things that -- you know, I put a couple of them up there. I think the shortterm disruptions. I certainly worry about some of the technology issues. I think
reputationally, we've got to -- you know, that would be a hit for us if we had a Target-like
breach. And so that one bothers me.
I think the -- you know, we joke a lot and say it to new employees -- the scalability of the
business is based on the level of buy-in we have and the level of ownership I think you
see out of the associates. So our ability to continue to attract those sorts of people. And
ingrain them in how we do business. And what we value and things, I think, is a huge
challenge. I tell them that. I'm saying it, obviously, with cameras on.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think if you joined us 18 1/2, 19 years ago, people thought you were crazy. And you had
really thought through that decision to try and influence a company that was a small
player. And you wanted to have impact. You join us now, we're a very capable, big, safe
place. So that's one of my greater fears.
There's other -- but I'll tell you the other side of that. There was an email I got, as well: we
have our 47th wholesaler today that gets what we call a red jacket. It means they are over
$1 billion in assets raised with us. There's a lot of people in this organization that actually
hold the culture in pretty high esteem. So it's not like you are going to hire 10 people. And
they are going to hijack the model. But I do -- I worry about that one a lot.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Oliver?

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank. Two questions. The first is -- and we started on this
discussion last night. But you've got a cap on the amount of guaranteed business that you
sell. And you talked about sort of needing to make acquisitions in order to balance out the
business, in order to grow that guaranteed element. But equally, you're saying that
acquisitions are pretty tough, because you have got private equity (inaudible) with very
low hurdle rates competing for that sort of business.
So what happens? Do you just sort of keep that cap in place for as long as that as that
lasts, even if that's several years? Or is there anything else that might actually change
your view of volumes?
Then the second question is: you talked about reducing the guarantees on the core VA
product, as it were. How far can you push that? And what are you seeing in terms of
competitor action on that?
Page 103 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

FINAL

The second one first: we don't see anybody else creating it. If you think of our core
product offering years ago, we had an unbundled product when that was a unique
concept. So we see the offering multiple levels of guarantee as further unbundling. It
derisks for us. But it also has the impact of an advisory structure within a more
sophisticated solution for a client. So we see it as a tool.
It also gives us the ability to control sales without completely eliminating a product or a
feature on our advisories and risking those relationships to a competitor. So there's
multiple agendas it addresses there.
On the M&A, I think the other -- what I probably didn't get across well last night -- I think
the other reason for M&A is you own in Jackson a life and an annuity platform that has
capacity. It has integration capability, it has M&A capability. And it has material capacity.

Bloomberg Transcript

We can knock, as you've seen in the trades we have done -- we can knock the majority of
the expenses out of a target acquisition. So part of the reason to do that is to lever what
you've already paid for, what you've already invested in for technology and plant and
people. So we get more out of M&A than competitors; we know that. That's from
expense efficiencies, that's from covariance benefits, that's from the capital synergies,
etc.
But there is also -- you've already paid for the plant. So there's a -- part of the reason the
Group likes us looking at it is that. The other is the risk, I think, the diversification of cash
flows and the balance sheet.
Being part of the Group gives us much more latitude, as I mentioned earlier, on when we
have to do something. We get compared domestically to Pru and Met all the time. And
there's a compliment in that, given their size and ours. I still don't believe size ultimately is
a key attribute to success in the US. But both those franchises are well diversified.
They only compare Jackson. And one of my arguments endlessly is we are Prudential, too.
We can -- side by side we do very well as a group next to them. And even Jackson standalone can hold its own in most of those comparisons. But it is -- we are part of everything
going on here. So there isn't that pressure for the next meeting to get something done.
That's just not the nature of the mandate we have from Tidjane and the Board. It is very
much on quality of transaction and perfect fit. And we had options even this year that
we've passed on that somebody else will do. That there is no mandate to place X amount
of dollars.

A - Chad Myers

{BIO 2234559 <GO>}

So one additional thought on your second question, too, Oliver. If you think about it. So
what we're down to with the product we just launched or the new features we just
launched, our 4% withdrawal rate. That's the lowest one that we offer, again, pegged at
65.

Page 104 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

What's interesting about that is since we are the only Company that offers the investment
freedom type of aspect, where you can actually get equity participation on constrained
equity participation -- you go back to a year like 2013, when the market went up 30%. And
our average count was up in the low 20s% -- if you bought a 5% withdrawal rate from a
customer -- or from one of our competitors and got no equity upside to speak of; if you
bought a 4% guarantee from us, you are going to get enough of a step-up from the
performance.
I mean, a 25% increase in the market, which we've seen over the last 18 months, has put
you at the same place as you are with one of our competitors: 5% products at a higher
price point. So it will be interesting to see how that plays out and how much lower we
could go. It's really back to consumer demand. But we're seeing people take the 4%. Not
the predominant amount. But we're seeing interest in it.

A - Unidentified Speaker
One more -- Blair?

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Don't ask for more dividend, seriously.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I will keep it -- one for later, actually. 100 billion [ph] is not much.
Your ROE chart suggests that you are running an ROE around double the average for a
very competitive industry. And it's a regulated industry. I think a lot of people who don't
know the business just find that hard to believe.
Have you done work to try and explain the difference between yourselves and the peer
group in terms of analyzing where you've got that ROE advantage? Is it the expense
advantage? How much of that is expense advantage? How much of it is just charging a
higher price for a premium product, etc. etc.? Have you got any color on that?

A - Chad Myers

{BIO 2234559 <GO>}

Yes, I can give you some color. I don't have the exact numbers. But there's a couple of
different things going on there. One is you look at our balance sheet; we're more heavily
VA than anybody else out there. So if we had -- and as you know, we exited the life
business -- the new-issue life business a couple years back, because we didn't see
decent returns there.
So if you got 40% of your book sitting in your own originated life book that's at a high
single-digit rate of return, that's a pretty big anchor relative to what we've got. If you think
about the way we are approaching life, it's M&A. And the returns are much better than the
high single digits.

Page 105 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

We don't have a wounded back book on variable annuity. So everything we sold is
profitable. There's some companies that are carrying some pretty ugly stuff along. Even
though they've written off a lot of the E in that equation over time to help flatter that. And
we continue to see -- again, because we've matched duration well, we continue to see
good ROEs coming off the fixed annuity book as well.
So I think a lot of it is mix. Part of it just because we've done the business right. And if you
think about, too, the quality of the book, while we -- not only do we not have a broken
back book. But we've written more of the best priced product in vintages ever than
anybody else has. So from a mix perspective you would expect us to look a lot better.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

And the expense side is pretty straightforward. You've seen their Lansing operation. And
the headcount numbers and things. Those -- you know, we pay a fraction of the rent; we
have a fraction of the staff. The discipline, the IT platform lowers your -- it's a big number.
But it still lowers your IT costs relative to peers. And those all are key expenses for most
people's models on an ongoing basis.

A - Unidentified Speaker
All right. So we break for coffee. If there are any further questions, catch them off-line or
we will grab questions at the final wrap-up Q&A. Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

+++presentation

A - Jackie Hunt

{BIO 16204866 <GO>}

Thanks, Raghu. Good morning, everyone. What I thought I would do -- again, really, in
response, I think, to some of the feedback we've had, both formally through some of the
investor sort of consultation and then more informally in our interaction over the last few
days, is maybe give you a bit more insight into the UK strategy. I think there's been a lot of
questions around given the changing market, what is the strategy? What is the business?
What's actually happening on it?
And talk a little bit about market developments -- this is obviously highly topical for all
sorts of reasons. So we will share some initial observations with you on those elements.
I'm then going to ask Aki Hussain, CFO, to talk a bit about financial performance, maybe
give a bit more insight into what's actually happening on the ground in terms of the
results. And finally John, Aki. And I will take your questions just more generally.
So in terms of the strategy, I think it's worth being absolutely clear -- and I said this a year
ago in front of this audience, as well -- that actually the core strategy hasn't changed
inasmuch as it will remain being focused on capital discipline, on cash generation. And on
selective participation. I think these are really important principles for us as a business. I've
been in the industry too long and have seen too many people try to be waterfront players
and actually fail as a consequence.

Page 106 of 147



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

And I think for us, it's very much about really focusing on what is it that we do well,
Prudential UK? And how do we optimize that? How do we actually maximize the
shareholder value as a consequence of those actions? So I would say, really, very similar
basis; but in addition we are looking at some areas where we can grow based on those
particular strengths. And at the half-year results we talked a bit about some of the free
surplus generation that we are reinvesting into things like writing bulks in terms of new
business strength. And some new product and distribution propositions, more generally -but always with the mindset of actually knowing that ultimately this is about generating
value, generating cash and capital more broadly.
So when I talk about playing to our strengths -- what is it I mean? Again, I've touched on
this in the past. But I think it bears reflecting on, because it does give you an insight, I
think, into direction of travel of the business.
First and foremost we have a fabulous retail brand in financial services. And it's easy to
take it for granted. It's easy to stand here -- you heard PCA yesterday talking about the
strength of the Prudential brand. It is a remarkably well known, well trusted commodity,
both in the intermediary market and in the consumer market.

Bloomberg Transcript

And although we in the UK have actually invested very little in that brand in the recent past
-- you know, you compare it with many of our competitors, who maybe put GBP60 million
or GBP70 million-odd in per annum; we're doing maybe single-digit millions at most in
terms of brand investment. The level of trust and the level of recognition of what
Prudential stands for remains very high.
That makes it actually -- if we've got good products, good propositions. And we meet our
customers' outcomes. And their needs for a good return on the products they invest with
us, good value for money, that actually it becomes an easy sell -- whether that's through
sort of a direct consumer proposition, whether it's through vesting of our existing
customers, or whether it's through an intermediated proposition.
So brand and really leveraging the strength of those existing customer relationships -- and
we would have talked in the past about how much of our book comes from vesting
customers -- I'll come back to that in a second; relying also on good customer
propositions, which I think is something we do have to offer. And I'll talk a bit about
PruFund in particular in that light. These are the things that I think will help us deal with an
environment where there are both challenges and opportunities as a result of the amount
of market disruption.
I also want to talk a little bit about investment management. I think we are one of the
foremost multi-asset managers in the UK. We never really presented ourselves in that
way. But actually if you look at PruFund, if you look at our with-profits proposition, how it's
performed, it's really put together by taking PPMG, which is 35-odd professionals
reporting in through John Foley at the moment; putting together those asset allocation
capabilities in that part of the business alongside M&G, PPMA. And Eastspring capabilities
in terms of managing funds. And that's getting the sorts of customer outcomes that allow

Page 107 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

us to actually build some of the growth that you've seen in the first nine months of this
year.
So the market has changed immensely over the course of the last, probably, two or three
years. And I think, as with all things, you can see that either is a challenge or an
opportunity. I think it's always better to step into it and say. So what can we do against this
ever-changing market? Why do I think there has been considerable change? And we can
talk to a number of regulatory political drivers for that.
First of all, RDR obviously changed the distribution landscape very significantly. Secondly,
we had the removal of compulsory annuitization. And I'll come back to what this has
meant in terms of our numbers in a second. And finally, we've had the ongoing sort of
drip feeding of views around pension freedoms and how the market should develop
going forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

We're actually seeing that in terms of what's happening on the ground. And I think this
graph best illustrates it. So if you look at the left-hand side, our investments business, up
about 38%. Some of this is absolutely as a result of what we're bringing to the table. It's
largely off the back of, actually, our bond proposition, which is wrapped around PruFund.
And so very good customer outcomes, a real smooth return; the ability to use the strong
financial balance sheet, actually, to underpin that smoothing on some of the guarantees
has made that part of our business increasingly attractive. We're also seen other
investment type products, if I might call them that, like income drawdown and like
individual pensions growing in attractiveness over this particular period. It's up 38% over
the nine months.
Offsetting that has been the impact of the removal of compulsory annuitization. And
along with most in the market -- the market is down around the order of about 50% -- our
retail annuity sales have fallen a similar sum. So about 47% down.
If you look at those two sort of retail propositions, the investments versus retail annuities,
actually sort of nine months year on year, we're probably a little bit down on the previous
period. So probably about 2%. In the Third Quarter, actually, we were starting to sell more.
So we were about 5% up on the previous period.
So I think it would be fair to say that we've offset in terms of sales volumes, in terms of
top-line growth, the impact of that very significant change around the retail annuity sort of
compulsion through actually utilizing the strengths that we have, utilizing some of the
distribution. And I'll come back to that in a second.
We've also, as I set out -- or we were intending to do in, what, November/December last
year, focused on how we selectively participate in the bulk annuities market. And you can
see bulks -- they are up significantly over the same period year on year. And I will come
back to that in more detail.

Page 108 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

The thing I want to highlight. And I think we've said this. But it bears repeating, is that bulks
for us is not a replacement product for retail annuities. We had always set out our story;
we said it was a more attractive line to go into, we'd always be selective. We will be
disciplined about it. But fundamentally in and of itself, it was part of our plans prior to the
change.
Now market developments -- this is a slide I think Tidjane mentioned yesterday in passing.
If you look at what's happened to the market and why some will talk about it as being sort
of a once-in-100-year change, the UK savings and retirement market used to have two
very clear stages associated with it. You work for a period of time; you accumulated
assets in various forms; you came to a point in your life where you actually retired -- it was
a one-off transaction. And at that point in time, you moved into annuities or into a defined
pension benefit that was paying out for you. So it was very much a tale of two halves. And
if you look at how we participated, our activity was actually largely focused on the
annuities end of that particular market. So the retirement point of activity.

Bloomberg Transcript

What's now happening is because of pension freedoms, which directionally we're very
supportive of -- we actually think it's a great way in which to encourage people to save
more. And this is critically important in an environment where actually there's a huge
savings gap -- again, Tidjane referred to that yesterday. So we think directionally it's the
right sort of thing for government policy to be doing. But what we are seeing now is a
blending of accumulation and decumulation.
And that means that it is unlikely as we look forward that people come to a point in their
lives where they say, okay, that's it. I'm moving out of all of these accumulation products.
And we can actually crystallize it and put it into insurance as opposed to a savings-type
product at that point in time. So we're seeing increasing -- and some will position this as
innovation; I'm not sure it's terribly innovative at the moment. I think it's a natural evolution.
But we are seeing this sort of scenario, this outlook, whereby people use accumulation
and decumulation products -- very similar product sets, actually -- all the way through their
life stage, with only really the blend of how much accumulation versus decumulation you
have changing over that period of time.
Why is that important? It's important because it plays to our strengths on the savings and
investment side, creates opportunities for us. And I'll come back to what we've done
about leveraging those opportunities in a second and what we plan to do going forward.
It's also important because it creates opportunities around advice more generally. And I
know many of you, when we talk about market dynamics -- you know, the need or a oneoff point in advice has now, I think, receded; and actually what we are going to see is
people engaging more frequently with their providers. And that creates opportunities for
companies with good, strong brands who are actually delivering against their customer
proposition as well.
So in terms of numbers, this is an interim picture. What I've tried to do here is to say. So
we've had a bit of time now since the annuity changes were announced in March of this
Page 109 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

year. What are we actually seeing in terms of behaviors?
Five items, really, to pull out here. The gray bar at the top: we're seeing more people
taking cash in terms of the triviality rules. We expected that in large part; that was actually
what pension freedom was intended to accomplish, or the removal of the compulsory
annuitization. These are people largely with very small pots of money who actually, in
terms of what they could generate value-for-money wise, were probably not particularly
well served by the industry.
We're seeing a very large percentage of people actually deferring their decisions. And
these are active deferrals. So individuals who are saying, I know I'm coming to a point in
my life I need to make some choices. But actually I'm going to wait and see. I'm going to
wait and see what happens in April next year. I hear a lot about the guidance guarantee
that the Chancellor is talking about. I hear a lot about innovation. So let me see what
comes out.

Bloomberg Transcript

Some of these people inevitably will leave at that point in time. They may take cash; they
may choose to, for example, move into a buy-to-let mortgage -- a very topical issue
always in the UK. But many of them, actually, we believe we can construct propositions
that will be attractive to them to stay with Prudential, given the strong customer loyalty
that we do have.
And it's that blue bar I think in particular, when I talk about this being an interim position,
that no one in the industry could say with any confidence how they will react come April
next year. So I think the outlook, certainly from my perspective going into next year, is
somewhat uncertain around what will happen with those funds.
We've then seen an increase, 2% to 7%. So statistically significant, in terms of customers
who are choosing to move into other Prudential products. And in large part this has been
income drawdown. This is a product that has been advantaged by the rules. And again, I'll
come back to that in a second. We've seen the very strong falloff in annuities -- retail
annuities that I talked about, the 46 down to 25. Then also a reduction, interestingly, in the
people actually choosing to leave us to go elsewhere. So you have seen that fall from
30% to 25%.
So the long and the short of it is that we are retaining more assets. But with fewer people
seemingly making an explicit decision at this point in time. And I think the question going
into 2015 is: will they make that decision? Will they effectively act to go elsewhere, to
move into one of our products? What form might that be?
Or is this actually the new norm -- that without this kind of cliff edge, where people are
forced to actually make a choice, they will simply accumulate for a longer period of time?
In either event, I think this actually provides good opportunities, really, for us as a
business: to retain those customers, to build on their loyalty. And to ensure that they are
around for the longer term.

Page 110 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

So what have we done around our response? I talked a little bit about income drawdown.
If you look at the Q3 numbers, income drawdown up 128% period on period. That's really
off a very small base. So I think very promising.

FINAL

It's not a product, I would have to say, that we had very high on our development agenda.
So a number of people will say to me, were you surprised by the budget? Does it change
the strategy at all?
The simple reality is the underlying trends were foreseeable. So we knew that, effectively,
annuities -- people were questioning value for money. They were doing that actually
against a very low interest rate environment, significant amounts of quantitative easing
actually depressing those rates. And so consumers, politicians, media were saying, is this
actually the best way in which people should protect their futures?

Bloomberg Transcript

We knew that savings and investments products were growing in popularity. I think when I
first spoke to Tidjane and the Board about our strategy, our view as to what we would do
with the business, we thought we probably had three to five years to adapt. Actually, all
the budget has done is it's crystallized some of those risks in a much shorter time frame.
So we've had to respond more quickly. And I would say income drawdown is probably the
one area where actually we knew it would be part of the product set. We didn't expect it
to be anything like as popular as it is rapidly becoming.
So that's what's happened to date. In terms of initiatives, we talked at the half-year
around some of the investment into different propositions to set up what some of those
are. We're launching later this month another vision of our flexible drawdown product for
existing customers. We will be launching in 2015 the next iteration. And for a wider
customer base, which will be a flexible drawdown product wrapped around PruFund with
guarantees. And we have a very strong belief that actually the killer proposition, inasmuch
as there is one, will be some sort of growth income basis with an underlying guarantee or
smoothing associated with it.
We have also talked in the past about PruFund ISA; that's on track for launch in the First
Quarter of 2015. A much more attractive wrapper, actually, for our products, given the
increase in ISA limits. So these are tax allowances in the UK regime. They were moved up
to GBP15,000 as part of the budget changes. We've been focusing a lot also on how we
utilize more effectively Prudential Financial Planning. These are in-house financial advisors,
relatively small team -- 200-odd partners which can actually provide full-blown regulated
advice. And they've been moving much more into drawdown sales. We've been training a
number of them over that period.
So that's what we are doing to date. I want to talk a bit about PruFund. And I'll come back
to its components in a second, because I understand there are very different views and
understandings as to what the product effectively is.
Why is it critical for us? Well if you look at the growth across our product lines, two
observations I would make. The first is I'm actually delighted that we're not seeing very
strong growth in any one particular product type. I actually think an environment where the
Page 111 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

market is changing very quickly, where there's a huge amount of political and potentially
regulatory risk in the next 12 months, that actually being flexible and being diversified in
terms of the products, the propositions. And the way in which we actually distribute those
products and those options is actually critical.
So if you look at the bond market as a whole. So the first two blocks on that particular
slide, that's actually reduced over time. But our proposition is working really well. It has a
strong inheritance tax planning element associated with it. And given the performance of
PruFund, we've seen our onshore bonds grow 29% and our offshore bonds grow by 56%
over that period.
In addition we did make some changes to our individual pensions product to make it more
relevant, to make it more compelling. And those have actually generated significant
interest out of the market -- again, from a smallish base. But very promising in terms of
the 31% growth.
And finally, our dynamic portfolios -- again, 21% growth, about GBP19 million of AUM at the
end of that particular period. So we are seeing a strong series of wrappers around which
we are actually placing some of that product type.

Bloomberg Transcript

So this is really PruFund -- PruFund is a series of options, risk-weighted, for those of you
who aren't aware of it. And if you look at the left-hand side of the graph, you can see why
it is actually quite a salable proposition in terms of IFAs advising their customers.
If you look at it over the period of 10 years. And this is against one particular index, you
can see how it's outperformed the 52% -- play is [ph] 90%. Actually on a number of
metrics it's -- no matter how you look at the comparator, for a smooth product with some
sort of underpin associated with it, it has actually performed incredibly well over an
extended period of time for our customers.
Difficult to replicate this product. I think the question we will often get is: but can one of
your competitors come in and do it quickly? In the first instance, obviously, track record -the history is important in terms of being able to sell it. Then the second is the ability to
actually offer that smoothing associated with it is as a result of the estate and the capital
that sits therein.
So it's incredibly hard to get a proposition that would work from a shareholder
perspective in terms of risk [ph] returns, putting shareholder capital behind it that would
deliver in the same sort of way, whereas actually, because it sits within with-profits, we are
making good use of that capital as well. And so what you're seeing -- the right-hand side
of that graph is growing number of customers; the number of policies being the blue line;
and then AUM increasing up to around GBP11 billion as we stand today.
Looking a little bit at the bulks opportunity, we've talked a lot about the opportunity.
GBP1.8 trillion of assets sitting in defined benefit schemes as we stand at the moment.
There has certainly been a significant increase in appetite, increase in the pipeline. We put
that down to a number of factors. The first is that trustees, I think, are war willing and
Page 112 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

more interested, actually, in laying off some of this risk. They are more able, I think, to
actually take large scheme liabilities, to cut it into tranches.
We're seeing a lot of tranching of scheme liabilities, whereas in the past I think they
would've wanted to do all or nothing. So that's helping the market grow. Schemes are also
increasingly funded, if you compare them with the recent past. I know that's not universally
true. But certainly the schemes that we are dealing with are better funded today than they
were several years ago.
And also there is always a view that as interest rates -- there's a perception they are
going to start moving, this becomes a more attractive thing for people to do. So the
pipeline is incredibly strong. We participate at the higher end of that market. So if you look
at the over GBP500 million on the graph, even over GBP250 million -- you know, we'll talk
about being above GBP100 million; actually, the majority of our trades, if you look at them,
are sitting around the GBP300 million-odd mark.

Bloomberg Transcript

It's a part of the market where there are some key competencies that we bring that
others don't bring, necessarily. The first is strength in the brand and the financial strength
of the organization. So if you are a trustee, you are putting all your faith in the
counterparty you are dealing with, you want to know that they are going to be around.
You want to know that they are well capitalized. And we undoubtedly tick those boxes in a
way that some of our smaller competitors, some of our competitors particularly in
monoline space, simply can't actually do.
We also have particular capabilities around managing individual annuities. So we've got
over 2 million policies. And we leverage those. And that gives, again, trustees and
pensioners confidence that actually we know what we're doing in this part of the market.
Our administration works. We're geared up, actually, for the amount of administration
required more generally.
Now, we are very disciplined. We've talked about in the past selective participation. And I
think that's the critical element from our perspective. This is the area where we can flex
our appetite, where the Group is able to flex its appetite to put more money behind it -or not, as the case may be. And we do look at each deal off the back of four financial
metrics. And we've set those up there.
Why that's important is because I think if you are too singular -- you know, if we went only,
for example, for an IRR metric, the issue is you go up the risk curve. Your margins look
fantastic; your IRRs look good. But actually the risk may be much greater. So we do look at
these deals in a very balanced sort of way, to say: is it within our appetite, both in terms of
the funding, in terms of what it does for our financial metrics. And in terms of economic
hurdle rates that we require it to meet?
We have become much better and much more disciplined over the last few years. And I
thought this was actually quite an interesting slide to compare what we're doing today
versus what we would have done historically. So if you go back to 2008 -- an interesting
basis of comparison. We wrote, interestingly, about GBP142 million of APE. So almost
Page 113 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

exactly the same amount of business we've written in the course of 2014 to the end of
the Third Quarter. And what you can see is that that selective behavior, that financial
discipline, has meant that we are making about 2.7 times the profit margin. And we're
about 5 times more capital efficient.
So to my mind, this remains an attractive part of the market. Lots of you will say. So are
you going to be in it more consistently? Provided we can operate as we choose to, which
is selectively, with discipline, meeting all those risk and return requirements, I think it's
attractive. The pipeline is incredibly large. So the opportunity is undoubtedly there.
Let's turn now to some of the other business lines.
Pointing out sort of corporate pensions, corporate pensions is not an area we have been
particularly focused on growing aggressively. We do have a very attractive public AVC
book, our strategy towards corporate pensions is about maintaining their position,
maintaining our position in that market. Sales down a little bit, we did have one large
scheme in 2010 which has distorted that to an extent. But equally there were some
changes around the tax regime on the government side that degenerates some of that
dynamic.

Bloomberg Transcript

So this is an area which I would call care maintenance, we need to invest a bit in the
proposition, keep it fit for purpose, make sure that we are actually delivering what we
undertake to deliver to our partners in the space.
We did announce a few weeks ago that we were exiting our JV with discovery on the
health and the protection side. Health business is not a core business to us, UK market,
my view is you're competing against NHS, you're competing against other integrated
providers, it's a difficult market in which to make attractive margins.
And we don't have any particular skills or competencies. So I was comfortable exiting on
what were very attractive terms from our perspective. Protection, I think, is a little bit
different. So protection is an attractive market us, it does play to our skills and our
competencies. We've always written protection business onto Prudential's balance sheet.
So we do have the financial vector and the management capabilities to reenter that part
of the market, should we choose to do so. We've made no decisions but we are free.
Discovery can no longer use our brand with effect from Q2 2015 and we will be free to
compete, should we choose to do so.
And finally I would be remiss if I didn't mention Poland. From a small business started with
just over a year and a bit ago, it's going well. It's ahead of our plans for OTC [ph], 111%
growth. And for us I think an interesting environment in which to show that we can actually
build new businesses and actually generate value in the European context.
Now I said I would talk a bit about distribution. The pie chart on the left, I think, shows you
just how diversified that distribution is. And I think it's this diversification that has given us
resilience through 2014. You can see the heavy, the red bar being the intermediary

Page 114 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

distribution, quite a strong element of our comeback to why intermediaries are important
to us and why we continue to invest in that channel.

FINAL

But you also see bulks increasing in size, largely relationships with EBCs and various
trustees, you see PFP Direct-to-Consumer and advice model. And then obviously the
internal listings, the sort of darker blue if you want to put it that way significantly done in
what it would've been in the past given what's happened on retail annuities.
The intermediary markets, there's always lots of speculation about what has the impact of
RDR been, are the numbers of IFAs down or are they up, I think overall. And John can
shed more light into it; the number is definitely down.

Bloomberg Transcript

What we have seen is a consolidation of the smaller IFAs. And actually those tended to be
the more inefficient IFAs. And so what we are seeing is higher efficiency through this
channel. And you can see at in terms of average policy size which is up 14%. So IFAs we
are dealing with now, we've actually brought a lot of new IFAs to our products, back to
that in a second. But they tend to be larger in size and to be sort of advising in terms of
larger case sizes. That makes it an increasingly efficient channel for us.
And I think the fact that we supported IFAs through the process of RDR and the ongoing
investment into our proposition, which I will come back to in a second, has really been
beneficial in terms of that relationship. So I talked a bit about bringing new IFAs in. It's
always hard to get new data. But I think the Third Quarter people were saying to me. So
you know, how are you generating these additional sales on some of the savings and
investment products? And undoubtedly an element of that is just new distributors coming
to us.
So we've got on the order of I think excess of 400 new IFAs that are now selling our bond
product versus a year ago. And over 300 more IFAs that are selling our pensions product.
And we have been doing that really threw very basic operational processes of WebEx's
educating, supporting people as they change their own business models as well. I think
that's paying off.
Now I've set out here some of the recent awards we won. It's nice to win awards but
actually in terms of this particular forum, why is it important? I think if you look at both the
awards that we are winning, sort of the outstanding performer for five years, sort of
excellence, these sorts of things are an indication of how IFAs are increasingly liking the
prudent brand and how their loyalty to us is actually growing. These are all advisor awards
more generally.
And why is that? It is because when we set our minds, I think we talked a lot yesterday
about execution and delivery. We are a business that when we set out to actually deliver
something, it does it with discipline and does it with focus.
And we've been very clear that this is a core part of distribution, it's a part we want to
actually invest in. And as a consequence we are seeing the benefits of some of that
investment.
Page 115 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

Now the half-year, I talked a bit about our digital proposition. It was very pleasing to see
that actually we won an outstanding achievement for online service awards recently, I think
it have must been in November, October-November time. That's in the advisor space.

FINAL

So we took the decision over the last 12 months or so to actually invest in our advisor
proposition online. That's been recognized in the way in which advisors are actually
experiencing our service awards, which is very promising.
We haven't done the same to date on customer. And so, when we talk about the online
investment in digital, this is really about how our customers can interact with us. Much of
the advanced vast majority of our interaction with customers is now telephony-based or
face-to-face. That's the only way in which we can effectively deal with them.
So it is critical that we take some of the same skills and competencies, the focus around
being easier to deal with, being easier to transact with. And move that into the customer
space. And if you look at their investment and proposition roadway that we've put down
on the right-hand side of the slide, it is really about that part of the business.

Bloomberg Transcript

A few of you, I think, Greg, a number of others have said. But what are you delivering
when in terms of product and propositions? 2014, we talked about the fact that so many
more assets are moving onto platforms, this is an inexorable trend in the market. We have
launched an onshore bond on two platforms, true potential and centric [ph]. And we are in
very advanced discussions on another 10 platforms.
Like all things I don't think any of this is a silver bullet. I think this is making ourselves fit for
purpose to actually compete in the way in which our customers and our advisors actually
want to deal with us going forward.
So I think it's promising, the results have been great. It was actually interesting, I talked a
bit about our strengths and the fact that we need to focus what we are good at.
When some of the media came out talking about investment into new products,
propositions. And Prudential being back in the market, if you want to put it that way, I got a
number of calls from people who obstensibly are competitors. A huge number of calls, a
lot of emails. And really what they were saying is, you have a unique product in PruFund.
And we would love to be able to distribute it. We don't see it as competing in the same
place, where we can't actually compete because we don't have a big with-profits fund,
we can't provide the smoothing, we don't have the history.
And so when we talk about broadening distribution, it's actually pushing on an open door.
And often we've been pulled through it. It's more about being selective about how we
brought in that distribution rather than actually having to sell our wares in the normal sort
of way.
I mentioned in earlier comments that we are later this month delivering a new flexible
drawdown product for our existing customers. And again that's -- we will be further
Page 116 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

enhancing those with guaranteed elements in the course of 2015. And we talked a bit
about sort of PruFund (inaudible) and some of the other deliveries. So that's what you can
expect 2015 to 2016.
We do obviously have other things that we are looking at, some of you have talked to me
about variable annuities, you've talked to me about the need for longevity provision,
which can be tacked on to other products. These are all areas that we are looking at as a
business. But in terms of what we've actually committed to, that's the product and
proposition runway as it stands to date.
So with that I thought I'd hand over to Aki to go through some of the financial
performance.

A - Aki Hussain

{BIO 19739719 <GO>}

Thank you, Jackie. Good morning.
So turning to the financial performance of the UK, let me set out the theme for our
financial performance. It's one of robust new business, stronger and sustained profitability.
And predictable free surplus and cash flow generation.

Bloomberg Transcript

So with that in mind, I'll just take a few minutes and remind you of our performance over
the last nine months. So we just heard Jackie talk to you about the strong performance for
a range of our individual products.
Taking all of those together, you can see our APE grew by 20% in the first nine months of
this year to GBP648 million. Within that, retail sales fell only 3%, despite the market
disruption following the announcement of the pension's freedoms.
Indeed, the 47% decline retail annuities that we referenced earlier has almost already
been mostly offset by growth in bonds and pensions. In fact if you look at the Third
Quarter results discreet, as Jackie mentioned, retail sales have actually increased year-onyear by 5%, demonstrating the recovery in the retail topline.
In addition, both annuities are performing well and robust. They've contributed GBP141
million to the GBP648 million in the first nine months of this year.
The focus on and the clarity of financial metrics that Jackie spoke about earlier in the bulk
space is certainly paying off in both topline and profitability.
As well as the growth in the top line, we've also expanded the new business margins to
32%. And combining the sales growth and new business margin, our new business profit
is increased by 28% to GBP209 million. As well as the strong growth in new business, we
continue to deliver significant and stable IFRS operating profits.

Page 117 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

And what you can see in this chart here is that our in force business contributes between
80% and 90% of the IFRS operating profits in any given year. Providing a significant
underpinning and resilience to our operating profits.
The trend for IFRS operating profits and EEV is sustained through maintaining our financial
disciplines, effective risk management, managing persistency. And excellency and asset
management, with a multi-asset capability provided by PMG combined with the fund
management and stock selection of M&G, PPMA and Eastspring.
Turning to free surplus and cash. The story here is somewhat similar to IFRS. Our enforce
[ph] book of business generate significant amounts of free surplus.
The sustainable free surplus generation allows us to deliver a steady flow of cash to
group. And as you can see our payout ratio remains quite high. I think, over this period,
cash remittances as a percentage of operating free surplus remains just -- averaging just
under 70%.
And in fact by the end of this year, since the crisis, the UK business will have remitted in
excess of GBP2.1 billion to group.

Bloomberg Transcript

One of the key differentials in performance that you can see on these charts. And one
that Tidjane has mentioned many times before, is the declining amounts of free surplus
invested in new business. And you've seen the low point in 2013.
Of course, as Jackie mentioned, we are now allocating more investment in new business
stream, primarily to export bulk annuities but only where they meet the financial criteria
that we set.
So in summary, overall, we continue to deliver stable and resilient financial performance
underpinned by significant earnings from our in force book of business. We are seeing a
strong recovery in our retail topline, led by our with profits customer propositions which
are essentially not replicable in the market. We've seen our bulk annuity business improve
both profitability and capital efficiency. And as Jackie mentioned, we participate in the
larger and more complex centers of the market, where competition is more limited.
And we also continue to maintain significant financial strength in both the shareholder and
with profits balance sheet. And just as a reminder, at the half year our inherited state
stood at GBP7.5 billion. That's after adjusting for the impact of domesticating the Hong
Kong price business on 1 January of this year. And it's this balance sheet strength,
combined with the results of our earnings, which provides us with the flexibility in how we
respond to the market.
Now this was going to be a very quick canter through the financials. So with that I'll hand
back to Jackie.

A - Jackie Hunt

{BIO 16204866 <GO>}
Page 118 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

Thanks, Aki. I thought what I'd do then is just -- somebody asked me what are the four
things you would want people to take away.
I think the key things are retail sales, we've kind of dealt with the initial shock. In terms of
the outlook for the market I think there will be further disruption, we have to expect
political and regulatory sort of commentary in the lead up to an election, this is a highly
topical issue for all political parties. So I think 2015 we are going to have to be agile, we
are going to have to be nimble, we're going to have to respond quickly to it.
In terms of our core strengths, I think we do have a couple of things that I would highlight
the brand, diversified distribution (technical difficulty) the strength of our -- with profits
fund in particular and the consequential meeting for PruFund.
And in terms of the outlook, I think somebody made a lovely comment to me yesterday,
which I'd like to repeat if he doesn't line, which is he said you've got all of the components
there. And I would agree with that. I think in terms of what we have as a business, there's
some things we need to invest in. But actually the componentry is good. The big question
is how we actually use it to drive value over the coming months and years.
So that's all we were going to say. Then I think we've got plenty of time hopefully to take
your questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

+++qanda

A - Unidentified Speaker
Some Q&A specifically on the UK. So if you want ask question, raise your hand. Can I go to
John, please?

Q - Unidentified Participant
Two questions, please. Firstly on the -- with profits fund, I wonder if you could give some
color about how quickly the fund is running off now. And to what extent the cash base we
are seeing now is terminal [ph] bonuses from endowment maturities etc. That's my first
question. And second question on protection, I can see you've got optionality now postdiscovery. The barriers to entry recent protection are quite high, given where unit costs
are, etc. Are you going to be looking more at sort of group life or maybe niche areas of
retail protection?

A - Jackie Hunt

{BIO 16204866 <GO>}

So I think protection and I'll ask Aki maybe to pick up some of the cash flow questions. I
think you're right, I think that parts of the protection market where the barriers to entry
are high, I do think if you look forward, we expect some further shakeout of the market
more generally, I think that might create opportunities over the coming two, three, four,
five years. And I think we want to keep an eye on those opportunities.

Page 119 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

We've made no decisions about either organic or inorganic and we won't do it. We look at
it off the back end of the economic rationale at any particular point of time. So I wouldn't
rule anything in or out.
I would say we've actually got a fair amount of experience in this market, I think -- and I say
this as someone with very little skin in the game, the JV that was set up came from
nowhere to being a substantial player. And I think it proves that you can actually with a
good proposition, a good brand in particular, no question that the brand has been
fundamentally according to the delivery that you can actually break into any market if the
price is big enough. And that's the big question.
Aki, do you want to pick up the cash flow?

A - Aki Hussain

{BIO 19739719 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Sure. I guess I think about this in a pre-budget announcement phase and a post-budget
announcement phase. In the pre-budget announcement phase if you just look at the
standard sort of rate of maturities in the -- with profits fund, we would've expected a
decline between now and 2017 before it would then plateau given the current rate of
flows in and out of the with profits fund. But we are now seeing post-the budget is a much
more uncertain world, where as you saw in the chart that Jackie presented, persistency
levels are much better so funds are stating within the profits fund. My expectation, I need
it still quite uncertain, I would expect perhaps the with profits fund, excluding investment
returns to decline a little bit between now and 2017. But the uncertainty comes from the
fact that flows into the with-profits fund are increasing, you have seen that with the withprofits funds and pensions. And that will go against that underlying trend.
And persistency levels are better. So the world is just a little bit more uncertain now. And
of course, that will be correlated with the cash flows that we then receive from the fund
as well.

Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible) just in terms of the PruFund bonus rates, just to what extent has the surge in
sales been helped by the changes in the guaranteed rates. I wonder if you could give us
the history of the last few years how the sort of pricing is changed.

A - Jackie Hunt

{BIO 16204866 <GO>}

John, do you want to -- ?

A - John Foley

{BIO 4239156 <GO>}

Yes, I'll pick that up. The proof on this is different traditional with profit. So we don't
actually declare a bonus for PruFund. What we have is an expected growth rate. The unit
price is grown on the daily basis in line with that expected growth rate. That has remained
relatively stable actually over the period.

Page 120 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

We've recently announced into the market that we've turned down that expected growth
rate, that's as a result of our long-term view of the market outlook. But the actual rate at
which we are growing is relatively stable over that period of time.

FINAL

So it's not a traditional with profit. So there isn't an annual or revision bonus here. The unit
price is grown on a daily basis in line with our expected growth rate which is our long-term
view of returns to the fund.

A - Jackie Hunt

{BIO 16204866 <GO>}

I think this is a critical point. For our -- to our mind and I think the way in which is looked at
in an external market, PruFund is seen at a modern version of with profit. Because it's got
smoother. But actually in advance we say this is the expected growth rate, given your
particular risk waiting and that's quarter on quarter.
We do have the right to actually move away from that if market conditions are very
different. And practice we've never exercised that based on my knowledge. So I think
people are more certainty about what they're getting is much more transparent product.
And then it's also giving good returns more generally.

Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible)

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jackie Hunt

{BIO 16204866 <GO>}

It depends on your funds. So anywhere from 6.8 -- we can get you the most recent, it's all
published.

A - John Foley

{BIO 4239156 <GO>}

We actually have a range of PruFunds. So one of the developments we introduced two
years ago was to move away from we originally have cautious in the growth fund, we now
have a range of risk managed PruFunds that enables intermediaries attached [ph] so most
intermediaries as you know use risk modeling tools.
What we did was to create a range of PruFunds. And (inaudible [ph] intermediaries to
match their clients risk reward profile with a suitable PruFund read and the only thing that
changes effectively is the exposure to equities of the different PruFund that's allowed. By
definition, dependent on the amount of equity you got in PruFund, it will influence the
long-term return.
So you do get this range of expected growth rates.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thanks, (inaudible) Goldman. Just on the protection point, given the barriers to entry
there, is it sensible to think of Pru having a certain natural market share potential given
your brand strength and so on? And second, do you have any appetite to sort of enter or
Page 121 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

reenter UK distribution via bank channels? Because you don't seem to have a huge
amount or limit [ph].

FINAL

A - Jackie Hunt

{BIO 16204866 <GO>}

So in terms of protection, I think, yes, we would have a natural amount of market share,
comes back to the strength of the brand. We've only ever in the recent past, I think the JV
was originally set up as a 50-50. We were then diluted with the standard life healthcare
acquisition down to 25%. So it's very much a financial investment from our perspective in
that sort of way.
The reality [ph] is customers thought it was Prudential they were dealing with for a large
part. I would get the emails, there was no real, I think, understanding despite the
communication that actually we were a minority investor. So I think we naturally play in that
place, I think intermediaries as well would see us in that place as well.
That doesn't mean we think we have a right to anything, I think you earn your place on the
back of your products or proposition, your service. Then I think the second question. So if
you remind me what it was?

Q - Unidentified Participant
Banks.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jackie Hunt

{BIO 16204866 <GO>}

Oh, banks. I'll give some thoughts and maybe hand over to John. I think we are not
precious about distribution in any way, shape, or form. I think one of the big questions has
always been do we want to earn all our distribution? I wouldn't rule things out if products
can work and can be properly sold and advised in any particular channel. John?

A - John Foley

{BIO 4239156 <GO>}

I suppose in the banking sector, we obviously saw the change particularly coming up to
the retail distribution review. So what you saw move out of the market from a bank point
view is a lot of the branch base mass-market advisors and that was sort of circa 4,000 RIs
that came out of the UK market pre-RDR. And the banks are still active in Financial
Services is a bit of a miss, that disappeared from the marketplace. They are simply
operating at a higher end of the market, higher end of the customer basis.
Typically through Wealth Management propositions. And through our intermediary
divisions, we still have active relationships and active business flows that come from the
banks. And it may be in the post-April 15 world that that creates a further opportunity for
the banks. We've maintained their strong relationships with them throughout that period
of time.

A - Jackie Hunt

{BIO 16204866 <GO>}

And some are in the room actually.

Page 122 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

FINAL

Gordon Aitken, RBC.
You said that the pension assets in the UK were GBP1.8 trillion. My understanding is that
liabilities are GBP1.8 trillion on a full buyout basis. Just the asset supposed to decline in
corporate bond deals we've seen this year, I would've thought would be closer to GBP1
trillion. So given the average funding ratio that that one over 1.8 trillion would be materially
underwater now, just wondering what you expect the bulk market to do in 2015 versus
what was being a record year in 2014. That's the first part.
And related to that, second part is just thoughts on the proportion of active and deferred
pensioners, that would probably make about two thirds of that GBP1.8 trillion of liability
who will take DB to DC transfers and post April next year. And how affects the bond
market as well.

A - John Foley

{BIO 4239156 <GO>}

I'll have a go. So if I try and sort of answer the second question first in terms of active
versus deferred and people moving from DB to DC. So with our bulks proposition we only
write contracts for pensions and payment. So that's the market that we target, we don't
target deferred annuitants.

Bloomberg Transcript

So that would be outside the scope of where we operate. It's not within our risk appetite.
In terms of the DB to DC transfers, yes. That would affect the bulks market. But again, it
wouldn't affect the business that we target because these are pensions already taking
receipt of their benefits. So that doesn't have a direct impact on us.
It may affect the market size in due course. And we would deal with that as we do with
other parts of the business as well.
Regarding the funding levels. And how that might impact the market, I guess all I can say
is for 2015 the pipeline remains strong. In terms of the EBCs that we are talking to and the
deals that are potentially going to come to the market, they are as strong as it was in
2015 -- their 2014. I think this is really going to be down to whether these deals meet the
four financial criteria that Jackie set out. If they meet those four financial criteria, they will
move to due diligence and subject to that. And our risk appetite and group's risk appetite
will do the deals.
But at the moment, I think 2015, again, strikes me as being a reasonably positive year
when comes to bulk annuities.

A - Jackie Hunt

{BIO 16204866 <GO>}

I think that's a key point. We are more likely to be very selective then that the pipelines
going to run out, I think the pipeline is really strong. Given what we know is on the runway.

Page 123 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

A - John Foley

{BIO 4239156 <GO>}

I think it's fair to say in 2014 we turned away more deals then we actually wrote, we are
already seeing that come through for the prospective pipeline in 2015.

FINAL

Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible), Morgan Stanley, Investment Management. Looking at the pensions world, as
you said you've gone from this world of a single decision point to a much more complex
series of decisions.
So how are you planning to talk to customers in this new world? And what constraints do
you think you'll face, firstly, from regulators and, secondly, in terms of the risk of being
done from selling in 15 or 20 years' time when the rules change.

A - Jackie Hunt

{BIO 16204866 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I'll start and I'll ask John to pick up as well because he works with many of our peers on
some of these questions. So in terms of how we're going to talk to customers, I think we
will continue to talk to customers as we have historically. I don't think -- I don't foresee a
world where providers are allowed to talk to their customers and to talk them through the
options and possibilities.
The HMT is due to publish its guidance guarantee. You know they've been leading the
charge in terms of what that guarantee looks like, what form it takes. And it will be
delivered online form through them, telephone-based through TPAZ [ph] and face-toface through Citizen's Advice.
I think in terms of how we will sign post that particular service, there is a working group
through the ABI that I think John and his team are involved in we're looking at how that
happens so that will be an agreed process. The FCA has recently published its guidance
around some of these areas. So we are working through it.
I think it's a matter of getting greater clarity in some areas, the industry as a whole has
been pushing to say there are some areas of detail that we do need to have guidance
around. The FCA published something I think on last week sometime where they were
saying they should -- they were going to review in the light of the new freedom, they are
going to look -- review their handbook to say is it sufficient, is it adequate given the new
arena?
So I think it's going to be a developing framework, a developing sort of outlook. But I think
ultimately we will deal with our customers in the right way. We always do, we always have
in the past, we will continue to do that.
John, if you want to give any color to that?

A - John Foley

{BIO 4239156 <GO>}

Page 124 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

There is -- so, as Jackie said, the FCA did publish their paper in terms of guidance, the
signposts and the providers will have to do as I'm sure you are aware all providers will be
required to sign post the guidance. So the intention is that will be a separate
communication. So the treasury is very keen, should be a standalone communication as
part of the vast [ph] communications overall. We will sign post customers into that, I'm
sure as you are aware as well the guidance service will not be able to actually give an
individual recommendation.
It will not be able to give a product-specific recommendation; it will not be able to sign
post back to an individual advisor firm, or to an individual provider. So customers will be
taken through that process.
Our general view is that actually it will be positive for the industry overall because what it
will do will be to start to engage customers to actually think about this process. And what
it will do is present to them actually this is quite a big decision, it's quite a complex
decision and there's a lot of considerations. Therefore, we think customers are likely to
want to support and advice off the back of the guidance service. So there's one of the
advantages that Prudential have compared to a lot of providers as Jackie referenced in
the presentation.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have created. And it's been active for the past two years, our own regulator advice
service through that Prudential financial planning. So in terms of your question about the
selling, we are able to actually give personal recommendations through a regulated
advice force.
And therefore we can securely deliver regulated advice to clients that require that. Over
and above that, we will be providing information education which will support customers
(inaudible) investment again sort of the Jackie alluded to in terms of our digital investment
is to improve our online facilities to customers. So customers post-April will be able to
come, ultimately will be able to actually ask you through Prudential.
So if off the back of the guidance service they arrived at a point where they are confident,
comfortable about what they want to do. And they simply want an easy way to transact
that activity, they would be able to do that online with Prudential and (inaudible) services
that's available.
And again, on the capabilities we have, which is relatively unique in the market is, we have
a reasonably large voice operation, telephony-based operation, which helps customers as
well from an education information point of view, that should be able to support them
through that online journey if they want to. So we feel that we've got the capabilities to
cover the bases to help customers through that journey. And we actually think the
guidance service overall will actually be positive in terms of engaging customers more
actively in the decision-making process.
And we don't see it as a threat, we see it is something that will just bring more aware,
more informed customers back into the market.

Page 125 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

Q - Oliver Krisenblair

FINAL

Oliver Krisenblair [ph], Deutsche Bank. It's sort of more of a generic question. But how do
you expect margins on income drawdown (inaudible). I'm just sort of wondering whether a
basic drawdown policy effectively just becomes a very, very low margin product and it
then depends on what sort of guarantees extra products you can cross sell it.

A - Aki Hussain

{BIO 19739719 <GO>}

I guess our current expectations of margins are probably in the high teens to the low 20s.
I guess the important thing to remember is that these are with profits products. So there's
no shareholder capital being put down on this. So this is using capital that we already have
within the with profits fund and (inaudible) state. And this is an efficient use of that capital
which will generate returns for the shareholder.
So I think a margin of the lower 20s or high teens are the current scale is within our
appetite. I would expect the gross margin to rise as the scale of that business improves
and we are spreading this fixed cost across a much larger base of product.

Q - Chris Esson

{BIO 6194371 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Chris Esson, Credit Suisse. Just with respect to pensions, just interested to understand if
you have any views on the desirability of broadening or deepening position and corporate
pension market. And also interested in your view on whether there could be a potential
advantage to the stronger corporate pension players in terms of workplace marketing
and an erosion [ph] protection and gathering assets, which effectively drive future growth
and postretirement option.

A - Jackie Hunt

{BIO 16204866 <GO>}

My view, I come, I guess, from a much more pensions-focused environment. I think
corporate pensions is a scale game. I think it is operationally leverageable. I think very
much if you see the comments that we've made earlier about margins, there is a
relatively low -- you've got a good platform, you can have relatively low and fixed cost
base and actually been every pound you're adding to the topline the vast majority of that
comes through in profits.
I think the timing is critical. And I think if you look at where the big movements in corporate
pensions have happened, it's really been around auto enrollment. So in large part,
actually, the markets, a lot of the kind of large things that would attract you to the market
in the first instance, I think, is paid out of the course of last year and this particular year.
I think it is a much lower margin business but higher returns. So if really you focused on
return on capital you can make a good shareholder return because actually it requires
almost nothing by way of capital itself.
So (inaudible) GAAP I think is an attractive part of the market. It's not a part of the market
we have any particular strength or skills or capabilities that you would say would make us
an obvious winner in the same way I would say, for example, PruFund would make us in
Page 126 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

savings investments. I would never rule it out if there was another disruption, another
opportunity. Because I think it is -- directionally it's attractive, I agree worksite marketing
gives you an opportunity to engage with customers in a way that other pensions'
companies you don't often get the same sort of frequency. But I think it is about playing
the cards you've got is my response.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thanks very much. Just a couple more questions. Just trying to understand what happens
on deferral, what happens to the customer's monies, do they just stay as they were
invested or something else? And you seem to be implying that customers may stay with
you for longer.
Just trying to get a feeling for how you're going to engage with them to try and get them
to perhaps more attractive products for themselves and for the shareholder. Secondly, I
wonder how you're going to use M&G more to try and leverage that asset that you've got
in the New World.
And thirdly, maybe more comment than a question. But others in the market are buying
distribution, they are buying asset allocators, they are beefing up the platforms, they
really beefing up DTC and digital. I just wonder, you're doing some of that stuff at the
margin but I just wonder if there's a risk you get trumped by some of the others in the
market who are putting a bit more resource into the UK.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jackie Hunt

{BIO 16204866 <GO>}

I'll start maybe with your last question. Maybe I should bring a pen up here because I can't
recall all of them. So this question about DTC and broader development.
I alluded in the earlier comments to the fact that actually we need to invest in our
customer element of the digital proposition. We don't have a multichannel capability at
the moment, it's a very simple front end that I think many would've invested in. So in
actual fact moving towards more data C type interaction with our customers in the
medium-term is attractive. Undoubtedly I think if you look at where the market is moving,
you see considerably more people operating. And I know this is the Novartis, those who
have been in the industry a long time, we've been talking about a move online and a
move to individual execution.
It's actually happening now. We need to get the plumbing right before we are even in a
position to actually contemplate a move towards DC. But it is in our plans for somewhat of
a five-year timeframe. I think in terms of -- remind me again, the other --

Q - Unidentified Participant
It was engaging deferred customers.

A - John Foley

{BIO 4239156 <GO>}

Page 127 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

The engagement process we have at the moment. And we are looking to expand this. So
clearly we've got a large existing customer base. We start communicating typically six
months before the selected retirement date. This is one of the things to reflect upon
when we talk about deferment, the sort of the definition of deferment we use, (inaudible)
customer chooses to actually retire at their selected retirement date.
Now often when that contract was sold 20, 30 years ago, they chose a date in the future
which was typically 60-65, which might not necessarily bear any relevance to when they
plan to retire. So you have to be slightly cautious about the term deferment because it is
defined around a nominal data that is chosen. So when you do start communicating six
months before hand. And then communicated six weeks through our voice capability we
have, we actually communicate, we do take both inbound calls off the back of those
communications and we do outbound calling as well.
We do have referral processes from there through to our advisory business. And so we
are engaging customers throughout our journey up to their selected retirement date.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think the second element to the question that you asked is what happens to customers.
They stay invested in those forms. So again, it's this concept of almost it's a nominal date
from their perspective. So they are actively invested this chosen form that they announce,
they choose not to go at the slight through time and day, they will stay actively invested in
those funds and remain in those funds until such time as they do actually choose to invest
or retire at some sort of point in time.
So those funds typically are just staying with us and are staying actively manage
throughout that period of time.
I think you asked a question about M&G, I think you should know the vast majority of the
funds that we have are actually managed by M&G. Within the intermediary market, which
represents 50% of our sales. And intermediaries are aware that M&G effectively
managed assets we have behind, the -- really the investment proposition we've taken to
the intermediary market is around the multi-asset capability.
And actually, as part of that, the positioning is really around PPMG. So they are the team
that we actually get out, we put in front of intermediaries, with roadshows with
intermediaries. And we are demonstrating to intermediaries the asset allocation capability
we have through PPMG. The intermediaries are fully aware of the capabilities and a track
record of M&G as the asset managers who sit beneath -- .
So from our point of view actually we feel we get the best of both worlds. We can
leverage the PruFund, we can leverage the unique capability that we believe that PPMG
brings in the overlay, enter M&G's own activity in the market, intermediates are already
fully aware of the capabilities that M&G have as a leading asset manager.

A - Jackie Hunt

{BIO 16204866 <GO>}

Page 128 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

If I can add one thing I guess to just generally the kind of the tone of the questions, I think
there's a lot more we could do as a business. So actually if you look at opportunities,
there are a large number of opportunities and driving better outcomes-based products
really across the very strong capabilities we have in asset management and then some of
our understanding of customer needs and how they are developing over time.
I think if you look at some of your ancillary questions about how we interact with
customers, I think there is considerably more that we could do. We are cognizant of the
need to first actually deliver a huge change agenda in a business that actually hasn't had a
lot of change. And that's in part regulatorily imposed, in large part actually, through our
own desires actually to improve the business the way it contributes to the group, the cash
and the capital that it generates.
So I wouldn't say our plans. And I think you talked about at the edges, as being a lack of
ambition. I think it's a recognition of where we are today, I need to actually focus on
delivery. And to make sure that we actually do it in a measured and sensible way to
actually meet some of the requirements of the group as well.

A - John Foley

{BIO 4239156 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I think you also asked a question about sort of investment in modelers and platforms and
things of that nature. I think from our perspective. And Jackie alluded to this in her
presentation, we really see platforms is another distribution mechanism. So as you will be
aware, are sort of open-ended investment companies which is the dynamics portfolios
that Jackie referred to sit on all the platforms that are used by intermediaries.
The developments that we've put in place and we started with the current launches to
pull apart all the propositions onto those platforms. So rather than try and become a
platform supplier, what we are looking to do is to actually use the existing platforms, that
intermediaries use, as the way to distributing propositions to the market.
We started with onshore bond, as the tax wrapper that sits on the platform. And
intermediaries can use. Obviously within that wrapper and as a full open architecture
wrapper that we've put on there. But you got the Prudential funds and the subsequent
development we were doing is looking to put PruFund on the platform.

A - Jackie Hunt

{BIO 16204866 <GO>}

And I think we are out of time. I see Tidjane waiting there. So --

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

I'm sorry. I'm sorry. But I need to keep everybody on time. Thank you very much.
Jackie, you stay. Jackie, stay on stage. If I can have all the ED's onstage please. And I'm
sorry I had to enter of John, because he did a phenomenal job as Jackie explained in
enhancing our distribution. (inaudible) we don't have any seating plan. Enhancing our

Page 129 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

distribution of in the UK. There is no arrange -- there's no preassigned seating really. Feel
free to organize yourselves. No chair for Michael?
We are not going to take another break. I know that it's a busy day ahead of us, thanks for
sitting for so many slides, I have no idea how many we had. But it was a reasonable
quantity. And we've already had a number of questions and answers. So this is just a final
kind of wrap-up session, backstop to answer any additional or further questions or
comments or observations you may have.
So the floor is yours. Anybody.

Q - Lance Burbidge

{BIO 3978332 <GO>}

Lance Burbidge, Autonomous. A couple of group questions. First is on resurface
generation which we've heard a lot about for Asia. Because of solvency too, how are you
going to define that in 2016 onwards. And your 2017 targets, if you were to meet them,
let's say that you will in Asia, with a bit of growth in Jackson and M&G, you'll be generating
about GBP3.1 million of underlying free service in 2017. What are you going to do with all
that money?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Thank you, Lance. I think you should take the targets expressed in the world of 2012 which
is when we do find them. So we are not going to re-translate them. So it will be on the
same basis as the base on which we're deferring them. And my general position on 2017
is really not to engage really. As I said yesterday, we've done three semesters out of 10, a
semester is a long period. So I think we have quite a bit of time and work in delivery
before we worry about what we're going to do with GBP3.1 million. I think the general
(inaudible) the room gets bigger, we need to retain some of the earnings and the cash
flow generated to maintain constant capital strength. We need to reward our very patient
shareholders for the capital they give us and we want to deliver a growing dividend,
we've been explicit about that. And we need (inaudible) we need some headroom of
royalties volatile, all it takes is a few quarters of FX relativity in Asia for everybody to
remember that, we've always said we need to buffer in there, to absorb the volatility. We
are an emerging markets-focused company.
Someone told me around dinner yesterday that I sounded more cautious than in prior
years. I don't think that's deliberate, maybe if I had more time to do it. I always said those
markets are volatile in nature.
There's nothing new there for me. But we are in emerging markets focused company
which means that there is a degree of volatility which we are very comfortable with. We
(inaudible) but it means that we need to keep some headroom. So that I can say what I
said yesterday which is all the dividend is safe.
We cannot run our model and grow without getting everybody nervous, because as I say
our yield cannot be both low and volatile. We are relatively low yield stock. So your

Page 130 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

dividend has to be very safe and growing very, very nice. So that means we need to keep
some headroom.

Q - Unidentified Participant

FINAL

(inaudible) I got your message clearly last night about not focusing on 2017. I appreciate
the point, I appreciate there's a lot of risk between their data between now and then.
And I was wondering if I accept the proposition in -- I should obviously pull my focus in
short; term and I should be focusing on certain parameters. I was wondering what you
think investors should be focusing on to judge your performance in the short term, should
it be the Asian B&B, should be IFRS firms or what?

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Really we haven't changed our view. It's really around NBP, IFRS and cash generation. As
we have been saying for a number of years, if you look at the long period -- in an
insurance company I've always said if you release any of us free you can hit any target.

Bloomberg Transcript

If I don't grow, I can generate any amount of IFRS profit or cash. You saw that illustrated in
Indonesia where, if I remember correctly, profit was up 32% in the first half. And the rest
was flat.
So that dynamics is always at work. If you don't grow, you generate a lot of profit. This is
why we adopted the now very popular growth and cash model, it's almost sometimes we
feel like we didn't invent it. But anyway growth and cash. Because that's how you create
value over the long term in that insurance company. Otherwise you're in a high flow area.
It's very easy to generate growth and no cash, it's very easy to generate cash and no
growth. I think anybody can do that. I don't need a team of this quality to deliver the type
of performance.
What's difficult is to deliver both growth and cash. And that's why we put ourselves in a
kind of straitjacket of saying where's NBP, where is IFRS, where is cash. And you track that
over time and you will see that progression in the company. So we haven't changed on
that.

Q - Will Elderkin

{BIO 3349136 <GO>}

Will Elderkin for Goldman. Really a question for Mike. Is it fair to think of your business in
terms of net flows to assets under management. And is it really still going to be a growth
business, just given the math is catching up with you, particularly to find appetite for new
guaranteed business with every vintage. Just interested in your thoughts on that.

A - Michael Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

I do think the net flow number is a key metric. Over the years we've leaned on very
heavily to try and describe the quality of our book. I think the challenge with it post-crisis is
you actually have players that would want to be in net outflows, given the liabilities they
wrote. And the same folks doing buybacks and things. So it kind of tarnished an otherwise
Page 131 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

pretty good metric on the business value. And goes back to Chad's comment on
assumption changes. So we were having a dialogue one evening about -- basically every
relationship we have with client is profitable.

FINAL

So if they stay too long, that's actually a good thing for us and I had made the comment
that we actually would like them to stay until they die. And Chad corrected me, we would
actually like them to stay until the day before they die technically is the math on it.
But net flows are -- the behavior is better than we thought. I think that goes to product
quality, I think that goes to the quality of the sub advisors we have on the platform and
their performance clearly, that's where the performance comes from. The structure of the
contract and as Chad alluded to, talking about competitors, the lack of alternatives that
are better.
So one of the gains for us in net flows is we assumed a little more competitive market
seven to 10 years ago than we are seeing area and so I think -- I don't see anything
challenging our net flows; you do get natural withdrawals from a retiree, you do get
mortality, you get deaths. But you don't -- at the age of our book, I don't see them as
material to us being a growth play.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

I would still not describe it as a growth business. We've been very specific where we see
growth as an imperative. And that's Asia. We've been very explicit about the fact that we
think all the fundamentals for sustained healthy long-term profitable growth in Asia are
there and we spend the whole day talking about that. We want -- and as Mike said
himself, we don't have a topline growth objective at Jackson.
Yes. We want to grow the asset base and that's net flows. But in a market that is so -people have fond memories. That has had such issues in the past I don't think we will ever
commit to a growth target.
When we can grow. And we can grow profitably, of course we will do it. But you know, at
times we can slow down the growth, we can moderate it, we can play from one quarter to
another, depending on market levels and volatility to interest rates, who knows what
those things are going to do in the next 12 or 24 months.
So our appetite is variable, we've always said this. I think what we try to grow over time is
the bottom line. And the way to get there varies, depending on the market conditions.
So I wouldn't say it's a growth business. We've never given you a growth target for
Jackson. We only adopted those for Asia.

Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Jon Hocking, Morgan Stanley. I've get to a questions, one for Michael, one for Mike. A year
ago at M&G, I think Michael said it was difficult to see the firm repeating the number of

Page 132 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

blockbuster fund watch as we've seen. And you also struck a cautious tail on expenses. I
wonder if you could give us an update on how you see the outlook where we are now.

FINAL

And secondly, on Jackson, the M&A strategy, previously that's been historically speaking
to diversify the balance sheet. Given how much bigger the balance sheet is now, does
that mean this target acquisition size has gone up commensurately?

A - Michael McLintock

{BIO 1524907 <GO>}

Sure. Blockbuster funds, they come along once quite rarely, We've got one blockbuster
fund that is still blockbustering and we think that's still got potential to grow. It is true to
say that our retail sales effort is more concentrated and that it has been for some while
and I think that will still stay the same.
In terms of costs, the cost income ratio is -- last year I think it was 58%, we'd expect that
to drop just a little. We are investing heavily in office space, new offices and people. So
that cost income ratio would probably climb a little over the next few years as I'd expect.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

The second question --

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Michael McLintock

{BIO 1524907 <GO>}

On M&A targets. I think our capability and our capital domestically are obviously larger. So
there's sort of a natural growth there. Then we look at each one as a group, we have
those discussions target by target.
So I don't want to tell my -- I wouldn't want to give the market what our exact dollar
amount sort of targets are so I think that's probably goes to our competitiveness. But at
our current scale, obviously, we can do things that are bigger.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

I think that's right. And we have not real appetite as Mike explained, we have the
capabilities, it's just a question of finding targets on the right terms. So we are disciplined
but we are very keen.

Q - Jackie Cavanaugh
Jackie Cavanaugh, Putnam Investments. I actually have a question for Mike as well on the
same topic. You mentioned earlier in your presentation the comparison to Pru and Met.
Obviously in the US they're going through SIFI designation discussions now.
What if any impact do you think that has on Jackson in terms of the competitive landscape
in this space? Do you think the industry rises to the new capital rules for AIG, Met and Pru?
Or do you think it becomes a competitive advantage? And does it at all change your
appetite for M&A as you are discussing a concern around getting incrementally larger and
hitting that said hurdle or their target basically, putting a target on your back.
Page 133 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

A - Michael McLintock

{BIO 1524907 <GO>}

FINAL

We are there. as part of the group we are a G SIFI. So there's no -- we all spend a lot of
time talking about this. I think it is still very unclear where this goes.
The initial sort of capital metrics we see as they replied to the US have not been material
but you will have a lot more information coming out in the next 24 months. So we'll just
react to them as they go. The type of acquisitions we are looking at doing would actually
help most of those ratios. So there's not -- there's nothing we are looking at on the M&A
side for example that would change those much.
But if you just think about the solvency 2 experience, I think it's highly unlikely we would be
sitting here year from now with a clear view of what G SIFI will look like just personally. And
folks around here that spend a lot more time on it than I do, these things -- there's so
many people that up to cooperate in this and the US is yet to have a defined opinion. And
as you know one of those firms I mentioned is arguing they shouldn't be and -- there's
quite a bit of noise around the process. So I think we have got a ways to go. We are fully
engaged. Bob lives out with his team and Tidjane as well in an industry leadership role. So
we do -- we are very focused on it.

Q - Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

I got two questions, one of them is for Michael McLintock. Irrespective of what the group
is doing, I wonder what your thoughts are on the post-budget world with a lack of
annuitization, how much of an opportunity is it for a good asset manager to come in and
get some of those funds over management.
And the second question is on the US, you are running at a -- I think -- cash generation of
about GBP800 [ph] million. You're remitting about GBP400 million, give or take. You
talked about the extra GBP100 million today, just wondering what the thought process
was in deciding on the GBP100 million, why was that not GBP300 million. I'll leave it at that.

A - John Foley

{BIO 4239156 <GO>}

I think post-budget, what's happened is obviously in generality positive for the savings
market, for the unwrapped savings market that the asset managers access. It's very
difficult to boil it down to specific changes and prospects for a single firm such as M&G.
But the good old Income Fund, whether it's an equity income fund or in equity and bond
fund, that delivers a steady income year in and year out. And enables the investor to keep
their capital tracking inflation over the long term, looks to me to be a very sound product.
And one which is going to continue to receive a lot of demand.
So equity income, it's absolutely going to ruin the staple of the savings market in the UK, I
think.

Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible)
Page 134 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

A - John Foley

{BIO 4239156 <GO>}

FINAL

We are not changing the strategy, no. We've got a range of equity income funds, both UK
and global. We've got bond funds, we've got mixed funds. And we think that those funds,
provided they deliver the right performance, will sell in considerable quantity.
If you take the Global Dividend Fund as an example, that's a GBP9 billion fund, one of the
biggest funds in the UK market. That's delivered very steady dividend growth from a
diversified basket of international equities. Prospect for funds like that look as good as
ever today.

Q - Unidentified Participant
And Mike, where did you learn to pay your higher dividend?

A - Michael McLintock

{BIO 1524907 <GO>}

I was actually pretty proud of it a minute ago. To maintain the normal ratios we look at the
domestic operations we want the powder dry for M&A and we just felt we were at a point
where it was prudent to go upstream a bit more. For those of you that are new to this, I
think this is the ninth year we've had this discussion, 10th? (multiple speakers) I thought
you'd be happy with us.

Q - Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

(inaudible)

A - Michael McLintock

{BIO 1524907 <GO>}

I am retreating on this, our die?

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

It's a bit like the Bunker's Field [ph] discussion. We're caught between (inaudible) I
explained many times free service in a way all the states of the actual cash generation in
the US and a lot of the GAAP you see is just (inaudible), depends on where you put the
bar or when you (inaudible). So it's not -- I think they're remitting the right bond. But at
680 we are pretty satisfied. It's good.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Haram Zeeley [ph]. One question, now all the units are very successful sub; funding
businesses by their own. Maybe a little bit of what's the rationale of keeping the three
main business together?

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

The answer is so trite, that I almost hesitate to give it. But it just works very well. We have
grown earnings, if you take any period, six, seven, eight, five years, faster than any other
insurance company. So the structure over much criticized has had excellent delivery.

Page 135 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

But more and more seriously, they are cash generative, they are not self-sufficient is
something we have explained many times, if you take Asia for example, the size of Asia,
Asia would be a footsy [ph], very comfortable. Actually each of divisions now would be a
footsy, very comfortably. Cash generative doesn't mean completely sufficient. If you take - to one of Greg favorite topics, (inaudible) deals, we fund them from the (inaudible) for
instance. To Asia is not yet able to do a deal like SCV [ph] on its own. And if you wish
needs to build a capital base which would be stronger than what it has today.
So there are benefits to being in a group. And if you look at the balance sheet, if you look
at the rule that we inherited the state plays in our rating creative rating, there are capital
synergies across divisions which are significant.
So there are benefits to being together. And frankly I mean a pure-play theory, it's like we
(inaudible) according to that theory we shouldn't be -- every company should just be a
product line. In the real world it doesn't work like that. Diversification is extremely valuable
in a world that is random.

Bloomberg Transcript

I kind of smiled what I saw a note saying suddenly that oh, actually Prudential is $67 [ph]
and guess what, after very difficult -- oh the dollars are going to come back, that's good
for Prudential. So the reality is in the world that is very volatile quite random being
diversified the way we are has many, many attractions. If I close my eyes and I said ,what
do I want to be exposed to, do I want to be exposed to a US? Yes.
I think it's really from -- I don't want to say global but for a large international business, not
to have exposure to $16 trillion economy, which is for me the best performing in the world
and the best managed. It's just silly.
I think in the end you're going to sink into irrelevance. Why not have exposure to the US?
We have a great business in the US, we have huge exposure to the US economy, that's
welcome. Why not be exposed to Asia, there's absolutely no reason. And the UK is really
historically-based, gives us a brand, gives us a lot of positives around the world.
So really -- and I could say if I wanted to be facetious why be exposed to a Eurozone. No
reason. And we are not exposed to a Eurozone.
Then we are -- I could make so many jokes about that but I'm not going to start. But I
meant (inaudible) major Eurozone nation recently, I'm just trying to -- I won't name the
nation but it has a 57.5% of GDP as public expenditures. And I'm trying to tell him that he
needs to cut his expenditures and he was telling me no, you don't understand, we cannot
cut public spending because we need growth; when growth comes back then we will cut
public spending.
So right now, it's too difficult. I'm trying to explain to him. But if he doesn't cut public
spending he'll never get to any growth.

Page 136 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

So we spent two hours together and got nowhere. Absolutely nowhere. So I'm glad that
we are not exposed to that type of economies. And when I see what Drucovy [ph] did in
Indonesia, I mentioned this Drucovy to everybody, it's an example of political courage.
This man came in, he canceled the fuel subsidiary which has been a thorn in the side of
the Indonesian economy since the 70s, -- that's leadership. So we love being exposed to
the Indonesian economy.
That's our defense. We think we are exposed -- we are in the right places and we have
very good business in the right places and it's a source of strength, not weakness. I don't
see -- I don't want to sound bombastic but I don't see another insurance company with a
better geographic portfolio. I can think in my head I don't see one in terms of the balance
of different works. People are either not exposed enough to Asia or exposed to US or
overexposed to Eurozone or uniquely Asian (inaudible) diversification benefits we have
elsewhere. So I would say (inaudible) as we say in England but I think we have a very good
portfolio. It's working.

Q - Barrie Cornes

{BIO 2389115 <GO>}

Barrie Cornes. A couple of questions for me. First of all, you talked about the regulators in
Asia being largely supportive. Can you envisage a situation where they are less so,
perhaps some of the historic selling and selling practices not necessarily approved of
perhaps across the industry. Of the second question, one for Nick. Given the way the
share prices, any plans for a share split.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Barry, on regulation in Asia?

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Sure. I guess theoretically you could say you will have a regulator here or there that's all of
a sudden going to turn and focus on its role in a different way. But there's no evidence.
Certainly in any of the markets where we are present and there's no evidence to suggest,
there's no historical pattern of behavior that would lead you to believe they're going to
do anything other than try to do a better job of what they do today, which I emphasized
yesterday is really two roles. One is the small p prudential supervision, which they do a
good job of. And the other is focus on growing the industry.
I just don't see -- there's nothing that suggests they will take a different approach. To the
specific point on the selling, I think the customer centricity mindset of all of these
regulators already captures that. They are very focused on ensuring that parts are not
miss sold. You look at Singapore as an example.
For years and years, we have had a process in place where every agent or bank rep
before a product is proposed, let alone sold, must complete and file with the
underwriting insurance company with an application. A standard government-generated
form that demonstrates the full lease analysis was done. In customer -- there's a lot of
work that goes on about appropriateness, there were some issues around that during the
financial crisis with the many bond products and so forth sold through the banks. And
Page 137 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

we've never had any issues like that. But there have been some issues and regulators
have stepped up and insured that appropriateness receives more attention amongst life
insurance companies.

FINAL

So it would just -- I can't see a scenario where they would really just move in a different
direction.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Are you going to Indonesia, Barry? You should. You'll see there all the work we do on -(multiple speakers) that field is really very, very significant. It's big, it's something we're
very focused on.

A - Barry Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

The whole process of preparing agents to do a professional job for consumers, you'll see
the platform that delivers that outcome and it is thoroughly first world.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Suitability, etc., etc, etc. Anyway, yes. As I said, the only skill I've acquired as a CEO is the
art of biting my tongue. So I'm going to bite my tongue firmly and move to the chairs
between Nic.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

There's no compound. But thank you for asking the questions. The first time I've been
asked that.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

(inaudible) regulators that I'm biting my tongue and two chairs. Next question.

Q - Unidentified Participant
A follow-up. I just thought it would be interesting, PruFund is obviously a core strength of
yours and your chief competitor there isn't even I think to a less extinct, (inaudible)
general. Given that its merger's friends and they are going to consolidate those funds,
how do you see arguably there might be a strong position, how do you see the
competitive landscape? Have they been really competitive in the past, what's happening
there, what's your thoughts.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Jackie?

A - Jackie Hunt

{BIO 16204866 <GO>}

In terms of the actual proposition itself, we don't see them as key competitors. They are
actually quite different in the way they participated, they do have big with profits funds.
But actually in terms of PruFund's performance they are not on the same game at all.
Page 138 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

In terms of the outlook for the competitive environment, I don't actually see it as an issue
at all. In fact I don't know if I should be biting my tongue (multiple speakers) marginally
positive --

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

FINAL

I can give you some technical advice on that.

A - Jackie Hunt

{BIO 16204866 <GO>}

Distracted. So I don't think it will impact on our plans significantly.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan. Any thoughts on solvency too, what are you hearing from
regulators, other insurers, etc.. So any part of that. And secondly, do you see it to be a
nonevent now at least for Prudential and not over the sector here? Thank you.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

We are well advanced in preparation, we have internal model approval of processes
going on, it's going to unfold in Q1 or Q2. There are still technical issues and discussion,
implementation of matching address but and things like that that require a lot of specific
work and results. So the whole question of Asia.
I'm not going to bite my tongue on this one. I think -- anyway. Really, the whole thing is just
a bad idea. The notion that European regulators are going to opine on the entire planet is
mad. And we're going to have models. So anybody -- many of us I am sure have written
models in our life. We know what models are worth.
And suddenly they wake up and they realize that actually suddenly they have to opine on
the Philippines and Vietnam and Thailand. And of course, we are uncomfortable. But that I
could've told them before they started. So there is really a lot of kind of design flows in
this whole thing. And we are running into the issues that that creates.
So -- it is what it is. My own view is I think in the end there will be some kind of
compromise. And that's just the way -- it's like you do a huge model and in the end you
get the answer.
So that's where we're going to land. Because the Company is well-capitalized when we
do a reverse stress test and we do them regularly, we can break it. We can break it. So it's
well-capitalized, you can take any type of equity market decrease or spread exposure and
interest rates are down, the Company is well-capitalized. About start asking me to return
the capital. But it's well-capitalized. There's no excess capital but well-capitalized.
And -- I see you coming with (inaudible) hedging, it's well-capitalized. After that, you can
run models in every direction, come up with any answer. That's an economic reality which

Page 139 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

is what we really care about. But as everybody knows, I am not a great fan of the whole
field.
I think they should have gone for equivalence, I think that the people in the Philippines are
perfectly able to opine on balance sheet in the Philippines and regulators should rely on
each other instead of -- anyway. The pay to visit simply to a regulator in Asia he was telling
you -- he was really giggly and he was saying -- I asked him why they were here? The UK
regulator visiting some really far-flung Asian country of which we knew absolutely nothing.
And we spent three days there. And then on that basis we are trying to opine on that
market. It's just not sensible.
(inaudible) Europe as its worst for me. It's just not sensible.
But anyway, it's only taken 14 years, we're almost there. Before starting ICS.

Bloomberg Transcript

And I pointed out to one -- you have to go to all these meetings and I was telling him, you
want long-term investment from us, we have long-term liabilities relatively liquid, very
happy to invest long term. But what I ask for is a truce. I said, could you just like just try not
changing anything for 10 years and see what happens. Just try to restrain yourself. Don't
create a new VCR HLA ICS -- just give us -- say we're going to kind of the clues that you're
not going to touch the solvency regime for 10 years, you'll see what will happen to
investment and a lot of things.
You cannot want us to invest long-term and keep changing or moving the goalposts,
changing the rules of the game, changing everything. It's just -- I think it's very bad. I really
think it's bad for the European economy, I think it's bad for the EU, I think it's very poor
leadership. And that I'm willing to go on the record, it's a fact. I can back it up with facts.
It's just very poor behavior.
It's not great for the policyholders, because in the end all that uncertainty is paid for by
the policyholders and the economies.
Sorry. I'm not sure if that's the answer that you want. But that's my firmly held view. .

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Gordon Aitken, RBC. One of the UK government's sort of proposals is to find ambition or
(inaudible) CDC the idea being billed at a buffer and take more equity risk and is going to
be better volume for the customer.
It seems to me that is very similar to with profits. And I just wonder why anyone would sign
up to the government scheme where the first generation has to build this buffer when
you could buy what profits policy if you know you're already have the buffer and how you
take advantage of this?

Page 140 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

A - Jackie Hunt

{BIO 16204866 <GO>}

FINAL

I think if you look at it from a customer lens, whether it's CDC or with profits type product,
these meet customer needs around pooling of risk, getting better outcomes as a
consequence being able to take a stronger investment proposition. I think you see it in
some of the forms I talked about. I see why it is attractive from a consumer perspective
however it is defined.
I think actually if you then put that against the direction of travel, where actually all the
focus around pension provision has been on charge capping, it's very difficult to see how
one could get to a position where actually you would be comfortable as a provider with
actually making available a product where actually all the regulatory sort of oversight
seems to be going almost in the opposite direction.
I think you are right, I think that this question around first generation versus going into
existing with profits schemes is absolutely the right sort of observation. But I think against
the context, as I say, of the direction of travel, which is much more about commoditization,
individualization of risk, which is really what pension freedom gives you, all of these sorts
of elements, you would say actually defined ambition looks like an outlier. And unlikely
thing to come to fruition would be my assessment.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Anybody else? I'll come back to you. But I think you've had your share.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Bruno Paulson

{BIO 5278310 <GO>}

The US (inaudible) annuity business --

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

I'm not picking on you, I have to have my fun. From time to time. Sorry, Bruno.

Q - Bruno Paulson

{BIO 5278310 <GO>}

The US variable annuity business is very profitable (inaudible) the main problem is that the
fees were too high, which is a high-quality problem, I suppose. But clearly you have
constraints on the amount you can sell. It might be the rating agencies, it might be the US
regulatory, it might be your European friends based in London, or is it the Board's
appetite.
So what is the thing that's constraining the amount of stuff that guarantees yourself in the
end? And can you see a scenario where you are forced to sell less even though it's
remaining profitable?

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

I think part of the answer is in this room. We respect -- we've been working very hard on
all of you to get you comfortable with our rating business. It's been really a coalition of the
unwilling, if you wish, between investors who don't like the business, the regulators who -Page 141 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

there's a great proverb in France that says if the cat has been burned by water, he will
shiver at the site of cold water, which has never burned anybody. The appearance of what
hurt it -- hurt the animal -- is the same thing. Some people who think VAs [ph] blew up,
therefore VAs are bad. Which is just very -- again, very poor thinking.
So it's been kind of the -- it's terrorists [ph] from people who blew up because they
mispriced and misbehave and mismanage their risk. So the regulators are a bit burned by
that. There's a kind of halo effect affecting the -- on the Board level etc. If you ask me
personally, I have no problem. Because only (inaudible) difficult point writing any volume of
the business. Because you can -- I have to convince myself that's too good product to
write. Once you convince yourself that, normally our only concern should be the capital
you have. That's it.
The concerns we have are for me external, it's from lack of understanding of what we are
doing, the returns on capital are extremely attractive. Frankly we should be writing very
large business of volume of business. But then you have rating agency.

Bloomberg Transcript

So if the rating agencies are major -- a major block in this, because they consider it a
relatively low-quality business, BBB business to simplify things. And they will only allow you
to write so much of it whilst keeping your rating.
And I think -- these are the same rating agencies who felt that we were diluting our
balance sheet and our rating because we rewrite business in Asia. And of course the
Eurozone is so much more sensible as its own work to do business but every time the
weight of Europe turnover goes down, we're producing lower quality earnings and we
should be downgraded.
That's mad. Sorry. That's really mad.
We spend a lot of time explaining to them the quality of the business in Asia and they are
now starting to sound more positive on that. We spent a lot of time -- Nick spends a lot of
time with them on VAs trying to educate them, trying to get them to understand the
product.
But I really think it's a lack of understanding of a product at the heart of all this. And we are
pragmatic. So we have to -- there's also the notion at one point that it was out of control,
we get to control it ourselves. But it is also very popular among investors etc., I have no
authority over Mike and (inaudible) doing whatever he wanted.

A - Michael McLintock

{BIO 1524907 <GO>}

Do you remember we had a competitor that said we wrote $18 billion more than we
wanted to one year. There was more than a few of you that weren't comfortable with that
statement. You can't turn this off. I think we've demonstrated for three years, we can hit
the number.

Page 142 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

We have to debunk that. And it's -- sorry?

Q - Unidentified Participant

FINAL

(inaudible)

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

You are correct, it's (multiple speakers)

A - John Foley

{BIO 4239156 <GO>}

(inaudible) I think the top of the chest. That's not the point. We are looking at different risk
profiles here.

A - Michael McLintock

{BIO 1524907 <GO>}

Absolutely not. I wouldn't disagree with that at all.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So we like the business. Frankly we -- no, the reason we are limiting volume is not that we
don't like the business. If you don't like the business you shouldn't write it. There's no
other way. We just wouldn't feel right.
You can say it's a bad product so we're only going to write quantity X of it. It just doesn't
make sense. We think we are comfortable with the product, it's a good product, it is wellmanaged. But it's a long road. Everybody asked me remember New York in 2012, we've
been on this journey of trying to explain, explain, explain, explain, give more and more
transparency up to a point where hopefully someday everybody feels comfortable. So.

A - Michael McLintock

{BIO 1524907 <GO>}

Greig, or anybody else?

Q - Greig Paterson
There's been a decent number of financial conglomerates that have expanded worldwide
in different areas equally fast. And a good proportion have had regulatory and --

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

A good proportion I'm sorry?

Q - Greig Paterson
A good proportion have had regulatory and other issues in different geographies. At what
point do you think Prudential as an organization will have those compliance and
management issues?

Page 143 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

FINAL

That's a great one. Look, what we are trying to run is a simple model. I think complexity is
not necessarily a function of scale. We have four relatively simple businesses. I think you're
right. But (inaudible) people like HSBC are completely different level of complexity. 120
countries or 90 countries or 80 countries, we are not that. We are basically into two
countries. The US and the UK. Then with Asia, which is its own little conglomerate, Barry's
Empire. But even there it's 13 countries, 14 countries.
It's a reasonable level of complexity. (multiple speakers)
You need a bigger chair. He has a small group under him. We are very conscious of that,
very conscious of that. Very conscious of limitation of the human brain and, really, we try to
keep the company relatively simple. So although it gets bigger really it doesn't feel more
complex to manage. We are not multiplying the product lines, we're not multiplying the
geographies, we think about that very carefully. Something like Africa we are doing very,
very cautiously, it's under Jackie, there's much there, we have two countries. And really we
always have an eye to complexity.

Bloomberg Transcript

We always try to avoid -- it's just nobody is smart enough to do certain things. And I think a
lot of those organizations got in trouble because of hubris. It's just kind of size for the
sake of size, flat planting, all these headlines we are in X countries, we are not motivated
by that. We are not driven by -- what is it? We are not that narcissistic. (inaudible) run a
clean business and a relatively simple one.
I think it is a concern. Certainly it's something we think about over time, managements
stretch, etc., etc. We really run a simple model. I think it comes from the slides, when we
talk about the business, what we do, it's relatively straightforward. We want to keep it that
way. Frankly it's also more fun.
I think it's important we have a very flat structure, I think you can see the interactions
between people, it's a relatively small team, it's very straightforward. And we like it that
way, we don't want 10 hierarchical levels sub-zone directors and matrice organizations,
etc. Who is in charge of what. And we've been to. We went to a pitch for a banking deal, I
won't say where. But we were two. There like 24. It's a bank.
They give us so many business cards, head of retail, head of consumer retail, head of
insurance, head of banking retail, head of consumer banking, head of -- head of the
global world, retail, head of -- you don't even know who to talk to.
So that's bad. That's bad. And generally we go to meetings, there are two of us, when we
have a party. And we like it that way. It's like a wall of business cards across the table. It
just doesn't work. Greig?

Q - Unidentified Participant
It's actually (inaudible). I think you will enjoy the question. You spoke about the US and
(inaudible) the rating agencies. If you read the rating agencies report they referred back
Page 144 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

to the group and then back to the re-attributed state of $7.5 billion. And there's always a
threat that they could come along and done some changes.

FINAL

What gives me comfort is the fact that you've just done an attribution in effect and you
have to go through due diligence process and the government has to satisfy. Does that
mean that 7.5 is now safe and not subject to any kind of political change of perception or
stuff like that?
And a sub-question on that, it's just a clarification. Did Chad say they are about to launch a
product that has a 4% (inaudible) so, i.e., you are now off to two after the April and
September pricing changes which slowed sales, are you now accelerating (inaudible) US?

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

I'll take that one first. Chad, do you want to elaborate or (inaudible) (multiple speakers)?

A - Chad Myers

{BIO 2234559 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

There's no -- we actually in September already put a product out that -- at 4. At 425, at
450 and 475. And we don't have the five currently available. Part of it is to allow advisors
to do more sort of custom planning work and part of it is we can use it as a tool to control
sales.
But as we discussed at the half year, we are currently at a point where we are slowing
sales down in Jackson to make sure we hit our targets. And next year we are responsible
for getting it back up.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Just to clarify the language, it's not a 4% guarantee product (multiple speakers)
withdrawal rate. (multiple speakers) 4% guarantee would be that will sell it really well right
about now.

A - Unidentified Speaker
I was about to say, you've got an app?

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}

And my general answer to your first question is I don't think there's any place where one
can be safe from politicians on this planet. I will never say that they cannot come up with
whatever (inaudible). Seriously, I don't see any particular risk on that with profit front. But I
cannot foresee that they have a lot of imagination. You have to be cautious. Anymore?

A - Unidentified Speaker
You did it. Looks like we're done.

A - Tidjane Thiam

{BIO 7518525 <GO>}
Page 145 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

FINAL

Okay. Thank you. I think we've reached the point where if there's no more questions, I just
have to close this seminar and conference to say that I hope we've conveyed to you via
the enthusiasm we have about the group, it's really we believe a great company. Certainly
enjoyed very much running it. And I think the results have been good. And I think the
prospects are good.
As I always say also we cannot defy gravity, the world is what it is. But I'm totally confident
in our ability to manage through the various challenges that will come, no matter what we
do, there will be challenges. But this is a great set of great portfolio, great company, very
just doing very well. I want to thank Pip [ph] who really led the team and the rest of the
team, she's back there, thank you, Pip, for the organization.

Bloomberg Transcript

I have an apology -- personal apology to make. Actually really (inaudible) on the record I
can say. My favorite place in Asia to be is Indonesia. So I was looking forward to going
there with you. But I will not because I have to be in New York Saturday and there's no way
I can do that and be in Jakarta with you. So it's my loss. But I'm sure you will enjoy -- the
visit very much. And the reason I go to New York is not mysterious, it's just that I have to
speak in front of (inaudible) people and my pitch will be why insurance and banks are
different and why they really need out over (inaudible); we don't use leverage, we don't
engage in maturity transformation, we don't have liquidity challenges, capital is the last
part of calling insurance is to pay the last policyholders. And banks it's the first port of call
in the problem (inaudible) first. So asking insurance companies to have more capital is not
going to achieve anything because we have technical reserves, of try to give them a
tutorial on why -- I'm not too optimistic but I have to do what I can. And I think it's worth
the effort (inaudible) so I'll do that if you forgive me.
And my last thing is I promised Mauricio a surprise. Yesterday he was very worried. So it's
a slide I think if it's ready, can I have a slide please? Now, this was a picture taken in the
whole of the forces in hotel yesterday afternoon. A bit blurry because it was taken with -certain methods. But we know who is there.
So we will see you around. We have (multiple speakers) and we know where you live. So
thank you very much for your presence and see you next time. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 146 of 147



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2014-12-02

Page 147 of 147

