Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

S1 2014 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

David Cooper, Marketing and Distribution Director
Rodney Cook, Chief Executive Officer
Simon Thomas , Finance Director
Unidentified Speaker

Other Participants
Alan Devlin, Analyst
Barrie Cornes , Analyst
Unidentified Participant

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Rodney Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

All right. Good morning, everybody, and welcome to the Just Retirement Interim Results
Analyst Presentation. I believe you've all studied carefully the legal disclaimer. So moving
on. I think most of you already know that I'm Rodney Cook, Group Chief Executive of Just
Retirement, and for those on the telephone who cannot see the members of my team
here with me, I have Simon Thomas, our Chief Financial Officer; Shayne Deighton here,
our Group Chief Actuary; and David Cooper, our Distribution and Marketing Director.
Before I get into the detail, I'd like to make clear that I'm delighted to have the
opportunity to present our maiden set of results as a new public company following our
IPO in November 2013. And I would like to thank our hosts here at Deutsche Bank for the
use of their excellent conference facilities. More particularly, can I thank all of you for
joining us here today and also those listening on the phone.
So to have agenda for today, it is fairly straightforward. First, I'll walk you through some of
the issues and opportunities that we have for our Group and I will briefly touch on the
interim results, but I will let Simon, our Chief Financial Officer, go through them in much
more detail. I will wrap up at the end with the outlook for our company and some
comments on the market. And most importantly, also seek to answer your questions at
the end.
You will remember that we have a June financial year-end. So the references in this
presentation, except where explicitly noted, will be for the financial year and periods
commencing the 1st of July 2013 and we will try and highlight anything that is pertaining to
calendar years and I accept that that is a slight challenge because many other companies
have calendar year financial years.
Page 1 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

FINAL

So moving on, I would describe our first six months results as a very good solid start, not
spectacular, but good, nonetheless, given the challenging overall marketplace that our
results are also consistent with our expectations, which we've shared with you in the past.
Also clearly, in our first six months of trading the IPO in November, as I mentioned, was a
clear highlight for us. And we are very pleased to have attracted some significant blue
chip investors on to our share register. I think it is fair to say that our share price
movements did give us some gray hairs in the early days post IPO, but leaving that aside,
my team and I are delighted to be here once again as a public company, but also with a
much stronger balance sheet, which positions us well for future growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

In 2013, we spent a fabulous time, I must say, with you and with investors giving our
thoughts and views on the impacts of both the retail distribution review and the impact of
gender neutral pricing, both of which occurred at the end of 2012. And more particularly,
the impact in difficult legacy that that would give to the results of 2013, and of course, we
have seen that. Also as of the annuity market they added challenges which resulted from
purchase deferral and the rising share market, which tends to cause deferral of
annuitization, but also an important one, some of you may not have picked up on, which
was the passing peak of 65 year old males, the post baby boomers in 2012, and
therefore, in 2013, the number of males reaching 65 was just over a 8.5% lower.
Given all of those factors, we do feel comfortable having delivered growth in sales and
also in market share in each of the past three quarters, including this quarter, and that has
added up some reasonably robust trading in the first half. What is that the combination of
challenges for the annuity market in 2013, we are still confident that our longer-term
growth drivers for the individually underwritten annuity market risk we specialized are still
in place. Clearly, the number of people reaching retirement age will continue to grow and
an increasing proportion of those may be able to become customers of ours in due
course.
Our excellent customer service and our franchise with distributors have been bolstered
through the receipt of our ninth consecutive 5 Star award for outstanding service to
intermediaries, and to customers and that is unique in our industry. Pleasingly, last night at
gala dinner, our company was placed once again and that happens for the fifth
consecutive year in the Sunday Times Top 100 companies to work for, and that is a
significant achievement for an insurance company.
The other important development is we are now starting to benefit from the use of our
intellectual property as we expanded our underwriting skills of longevity, interest of small
defined benefit scheme de-risking and Simon and I will talk more about that going
forward.
I'd also like to later cover our -- the fact that we are heartened by the current level of
public annuity debate and then I'll cover some points on prognosis, which is our
proprietary intellectual property for underwriting longevity. Of course, if these things that
we will cover together do not answer the questions that are upper most in your mind,
then we will seek to deal with those in the Q&A.

Page 2 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

FINAL

Moving on to the next set of the charts, starting on the left-hand side, you will observe, of
course, our track record of substantial growth in annuity sales over the last five years.
However, given the significant fall in the annuity market I've mentioned in 2013 and the
most difficult comparative between 2013 and 2012, we are today reporting total annuity
sales for the half that are 14% lower than the corresponding 2012-13 financial year half. On
the other hand, you'll see with the gold section, the lifetime mortgages, a pleasing
increase of just over 49% in life time mortgage sales, so outside the sales effort by the
company just 4% lower half-on-half. Now I accept this isn't a positive number, but it is
consistent with the picture we outlined both in September and November of last year.
Moving now to the middle section, which is the IFRS profits, these numbers have also
been previously flagged to you. We are reporting an underlying profit number, which is 7%
lower than the corresponding half in 2012-13.

Bloomberg Transcript

On a positive side of the coin, our operating profit is actually 11% higher on a comparative
[ph] and Simon will explain clearly the difference and remind ourselves of the difference
between underlying and operating profits.
On a more pleasing note, to the right hand side of this chart, where our embedded value
has risen 12% on an underlying or pro forma basis over the last six months. So close to a
100 million increase. So taking these three sets of charts together, I hope you'll agree that
our financial results represent a respectable performance and a respectable start in our
first half year as a new public company. Given the difficult backdrop, which a number of
analysts, of course, have already covered in their reports of recent time and Simon will
take you through those financials in more detail shortly.
A couple of points on the IPO, as I said, I am delighted to be in a position to welcome our
new shareholders and owners, but that's not the whole story. You'll see here in front of
you on this page, the capital ratios and our increased financial strength shown here post
the IPO will enable us to continue the growth of the company and it also increases our
options with respect to how we manage our company's balance sheet. It also allows us to
consider alternate asset types, although it isn't our intention like some other companies
to be building new accounts, we're not quite that big.
And moving on, we are content to point out that with the current position in terms of our
balance sheet. But as we come to decisions on any chance of improving that we will, of
course, bring them to your notice. While I am on the subject of our capital structure, could
I recall here formally our appreciation of your support, not just in capital, but also in terms
of their advice and expertise by being a truly supportive shareholder of the company
during this growth phase.
Moving to the next slide, which has got four sets of charts and graphs. As you're aware,
and indeed, you can see on the top left chart our last quarter's sales and those three
prior quarters already announced to the market in calendar '13. While growing on quarter - each quarter, which is a positive feature, they are indeed lower than the corresponding
quarters in calendar 2012, which are highlighted here. This, of course, is also true moving
Page 3 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

FINAL

across to the total market on the right-hand side. It is also true of the individually
underwritten annuity market shown here in the blue and also the total annuity market,
which is the sum of the (inaudible) and the underwritten section below.
Can I remind you we shared with you our estimate of the pull-through into 2012 of
approximately 800 million in the total annuity market, which occurred in 2012, which could
reasonably have been expected in 2013. Correspondingly, for the underwritten market,
which we participate in, that figure was over 400 million. Without doing damned lies and
statistics, I think it is worthwhile to note that when you adjust out that 800 million of pullthrough, the total market is actually down 4% year-on-year rather than the public leases of
old numbers, which are much higher. And indeed, we adjusted likewise for the IUA
market, it is actually 4% higher on a year-by-year basis. So not quite as negative a picture
than the broad headlines would indicate.
In the bottom left chart, now specifically, referring to Just Retirement, during the second
half of the year, you will see and this is covered by our interim results, our IUA market
share has grown in each of those three quarters, obviously, above the minimum number,
which was the 22%, which was hit in the first quarter of 2013.

Bloomberg Transcript

So positive market share growth, I would highlight that this is getting its back up to the
30% to 35% range, which we've traditionally held. But I'd like to point out that we are not
managing the business through a specific market share figure. Now, while I'm not
promising, given the somewhat volatile markets that every future quarter will be bigger
than the quarter that comes before it. This chart does show a positive trend.
Moving across to the right, of course, it shows the somewhat greater resilience of the IUA
market vis-a-vis the total annuity market wider market. And that has led to some further
market share growth for us and therefore in the total annuity market we're now over 12%
market share.
Then moving on to the next set of slides, another four slides for those on -- four charts for
those on the phone. This is with respect to the market. We remain confident that our
longer-term growth story is in place. Even if the fourth quarter of 2013 was a rather soft
quarter, reminding everyone our main growth drivers are that shown on the top left, which
is an aging population demographic in the UK. And of course, a growth in defined
contribution pension assets. As I said on the top left chart, there are more and more
people aged over the retirement age and moving across to the right, these people are
bringing increased assets with them when they reach the retirement age.
But also bringing with them defined contribution pensions and with that the responsibility
for the individual themselves through retirement choices to decide, where they will invest
their money, where in, of course, in the past trustees would have looked after them and
they wouldn't have had to make choices of their own. If I can take the total annuity market
as a given, then I would like to remind you of the two key factors, which are important to
Just Retirement, but firstly, they are the proportion of retirees who access the open
market, and then of that proportion are the number who are then underwritten.

Page 4 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

FINAL

And despite the modest setback on the bottom left hand side, you'll see a small setback
in the open market over the last year. Over time, we do believe that more and more
retirees will take up their rights to shop around, and I think the first thing we need to for
them is, of course, take away the jargon because no one actually knows out there what
open market option means, and we need to alert them to their rights to shop around.
You'll see the individually underwritten annuity segment will also likely gain in share and
the fact that people are realizing by answering a few simple questions that they can
potentially get a better deal for themselves. The gold line on the bottom left and the light
blue line for those in color track the very significant growth in the penetration of individual
underwritten annuities clearly over the past five years on this chart.
You will, of course, see in the financial conduct authorities report, which was released just
a fortnight ago, it noted that around a quarter of annuities are underwritten by number
and just over 30% by value. Clearly, there is an opportunity, given that industry estimates
and we support these industry estimates are at around 60% of individuals given just
they're single independent stages would be eligible for some form of enhancements.

Bloomberg Transcript

Also, I think we've alerted you at some point in time healthy life may also need to be
underwritten medically and priced appropriately once cross subsidies come into question.
And I think you've heard me say before that individual underwriting may in future be the
new standard as opposed to non-standard. So I think the observation on the right hand
side is therefore that it is no accident that individually underwritten annuity business has
experienced a 20 plus percent growth compound since 2008. And that is ignoring the
split in 2012, that is a positive growth history.
So just before I hand over to Simon to take you through the details in the numbers, a few
comments on our continuing development of our proprietary intellectual property for
underwriting longevity prognosis. Phase 2 of the system, which we've taken you through in
some detail prior to now is actually still on track for implementation in the summer. As
you've heard us mention before, we have been using actively the outputs from prognosis
to deliver some quick wins already for our business in improving the accuracy and
granularity of our pricing.
You will also recall that we used the insights from prognosis research to refine and
strengthen our reserving prior to the 30th of June, 2013 year-end. Our longevity
experience continues to be in line with these insights and we have made no annuity
mortality assumption changes. So just to reconfirm our experience from longevity
continues to be consistent with the insight we gained already from prognosis and are
making no further changes at this time.
We continue to work closely with our insurers gearing up to move to use the prognosis in
pricing so that it is progressing satisfactorily. I think I would like to highlight that the work
on prognosis will never end. It will never be finished. We will continue to refine our insights
from the research, we will be piling on data and analyzing that as you know that dataset is
growing as well in advance of 15,000 person use per month and we will continue to use
our foresights in examining new drugs and new medical techniques and the likely impact

Page 5 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

that they will have on longevity. So the current focus for us interestingly is on the
examination of healthier lives rather than sick lives and we believe that will yield some
promising insights for us.

FINAL

So now, Simon, can I pass over to you and take the analysts and listeners through our
results in detail, and I'll come back later to share the outlook.

Simon Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Thank you, Rodney, and good morning. Before I start, I just want to echo Rodney's
comments about how pleased we are as we're presenting you today as a public
company. Good to be back. So we can go straight into the IFRS results. Like Rodney, I'd
view this as a solid start to the year against a difficult market background. We told you that
we thought 2013 was likely to be tough from a competitive position and that combined
with the supercharged RDR and gender effects in the first half of the prior financial year,
remember, this was always going through a difficult comparison.
However, I hope that you believe that we've been realistic in setting expectations. Now
just ticking up a few lines, under the circumstances we view a 7% drop in underlying profit
as a creditable performance. And on the face of it, more encouragingly, the operating
profit increased by about 11% over the period.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now you can see this was due to a better performance in the operating variances line and
where in the prior year we had some significant negative variance mainly relating to a new
policy, which I'm pleased to say has not been the case of this year.
If you also see further down the profit and loss account, the profit before tax has fallen by
42%. This fall has been caused by the difference in the line, the investments and
economic profits losses where we saw a real benefit in the prior years caused by some
substantial spread timing. In fact, I think it went down from something like 273 basis points
to 181 basis points in the fall.
So there is huge tightening in the prior year. That spreads tightening has continued in this
half year, but nowhere near the pace of the prior period. However, you can see we still
captured about 8 million pounds of economic benefit mainly caused by the spread
tightening and I'm going to come back to that later when I talk about the in-force profit on
the average basis.
The final thing I'd mention here is the finance and other costs incurred by the hold-co [ph]
of 18 million pounds this year. Now, this includes the loan interest and the preference
share coupons of about 14 million pounds, which cover the period up to the middle of
November, which of course is our IPO date. It also -- that 80 million includes about 2
million of costs for the IPO itself. But the key thing here is clearly as part of the IPO both
loans and the preference shares were consolidated into equity. So of that 18 million, 16 will
no longer recur in the future.

Page 6 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

FINAL

Now, moving onto the KPIs, starting off with total annuity sales, I should say on these
charts here, what we've tried to do is review calendar quarters rather than our financial
year quarters just to try and make things a little bit clearer. Now there's a number of ways
to look at it this.
Our sales in calendar Q4 rose to 351 million from 337 million in Q3, so an increase of
about 4%. However, you can see that sales were about 15% lower in Q4, when compared
against the all-time record quarterly sales of 412 million achieved in the equivalent quarter
a year before, which as we all know was caused by IFAs ensuring that the customers to
meet the new gender rules and the RDR factor. That's something we've talked about in
the IPO was to look at the sales trends over the longer-term.
And here you can see that our Q4 sales have, in fact, grown at a compound annual
growth rate of about 17% over the last five years. And this is similar, in fact, the growth
rate within Q3, which was around about 20%. So ignoring those exceptional peaks of the
super-charged 2012 figures, we think that our latest quarter continues to suggest that
long-term growth trends remain intact.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now on the next slide, I wanted to look a little bit more at sales in detail. And this slide
shows you the split of our total annuity and mortgage sales for the last six months. And
we're showing this just to be absolutely clear about the constituents for our annuity sales.
The chart again highlights the fall against the prior year, but it also allows me to break out
the new business (inaudible) one scheme in the first quarter of 3 million pounds and the
second scheme in the second quarter of about 2 million pounds. Now this is a promising
area. While they're using our IP to underwrite small DB schemes to allow them to de-risk.
Now this is starting to deliver useful sales and importantly satisfactory margins.
Now, given the recent lower annuity demand, having the flexibility to allocate capital to DB
schemes is an important mechanism for optimizing our returns. You may recall, that I gave
you prudent stay back in October that we booked our first case of 3 million, and I think I
said that we might expect another 3 or 4 for the rest of our financial year and for 30th of
June.
Now that original guidance is understating the possibilities and I'd like you now to think
about the DB sales to be more in the mid-30 million pound range for the balance of our
financial year. But I want to stress, this isn't going to be incremental to our year-end sales
target, and obviously, DB does remain a lumpy business. But we thought it was right to
give a little more detail on the pleasing progress we're making in this new market.
Now looking at the mortgages in a little bit more detail, I have to say the life-time
mortgages and the mortgage picture is unequivocally healthily. Calendar full sales were
up 43% compared to the prior year and up about 8% compared to Q3. This meant that
sales in the first half of our financial year were up almost 50% compared to a year ago.
Pricing has been sufficiently attractive tactically to relax our cap of 25%, compared to the
annuity volumes. We're up to about 30% at the moment, but I think in the next few
Page 7 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

FINAL

periods that will start to drift back down. But for the time being, we're very pleased with
the volume and the yield of this product and indeed, I have to say the yield has improved
over the products in the last three months, that's slowly been picking up month-by-month.
The chart shows you the market share. We're about 34% and loan quality remains strong.
We still have a loan to value of about 26% and maintained our record of never having and
incurring any losses drawn on no negative fee currency [ph].
Now, just turning to IFRS, new business margins. Unsurprisingly, the fall in annuity sales has
resulted in lower new business profit with a fall of about 9% compared to the previous
period. Now focusing on the bottom right-hand chart here, in October, our flagged
margins were under some pressure in the first part of our financial year in competitive
marketplace.
Now given the reduction in the size of the market, it's meant that more people are
fighting for smaller cake. It's not therefore surprising that we've seen a fall in margins
from about 4.7 down to 4.2 for the first half year. That's been helped a little by the
stronger life-time mortgage volumes we've been noting, but we've seen it landed around
4.3% for the first half.

Bloomberg Transcript

Overall, I'd say pricing remains competitive in the market, but there are clearly signs of
improving pricing, and that combined with the fact that we're writing more DB and what I
would describe as satisfactory margins, and with the lifetime mortgage yield actually
starting to drift up, we just need to be a little more positive on margins for the second
half of our financial year.
Now turning to in-force profits, in-force margins have been compressed as a result of
falling bonds grades. I guided that historically we've seen inflows profits of about 80 to
100 basis points on opening actual liabilities and it will be at the low end of this range.
While this is falling slightly further, as a result of the continued tightening of credit spreads
in the first half of our year during the period we saw spread tightening fall from about 181
down to about 149 basis points on this slot.
So this has led to a fall in annualized margin down to about 74 basis points per annum.
However, as we've noticed before, if we leave an amount here, you don't leave it entirely,
because the capitalized value of the spread tightening on the whole backlog comes
through in that 8 million of economic variance on the average P&L account.
Looking ahead, my good reaction is, I wouldn't expect this to fall too much low as spreads
have not seen significant tightening in January and February and secondly, of course, we
expect to run further margin on our surplus due to IPO proceeds, which only obviously
contributed about one month of return in the first half of this year during on the date of
the IPO.
Turning to final KPI of embedded value, the Group embedded value now stands at close
to 900 million pounds. This chart shows the bridge from a performer opening EEV, which
have included the IPO proceeds in there of about 800 million pounds and then shows the
effect of trading in the last six months.
Page 8 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

FINAL

Even excluding the fresh capital, the embedded value increased by about 100 million
pounds over the reporting period. The main contributors to this were the new business
contribution of 47 million pounds where margins have fallen slightly from about 7.5% down
to about 6.9% on an EEV basis. We expect the return on opening embedded value of
about 13 million pounds, some small experience adjustments, but also the non-material
benefits in the economic variance line of about 39 million pounds, reflecting further
spread tightening and rising property prices.
Now once again this EEV basis allows for best estimates in all aspects, other than, of
course, the liquidity premium, where we use CFO Forum approach, which takes the
spread to minus 40 basis points by 50%. So this implies to an -- this equates to an implied
default allowance of about 93 basis points built into the embedded value. Had we
adopted a more realistic default of, say, 50 basis points, this would have led to an
increase of the embedded value of about 70 million pounds. So our totally EEV would
have been around about 960 million pounds. (inaudible).

Bloomberg Transcript

Capital, as you can see on the next chart, our two main capital measures remain strong.
On the left hand side, we have the Pillar I, the ratio now stands at 222%. We've injected a
125 million into the life company so far and expect to inject a further 50 million in the next
six months.
This with half-year -- half year and has increased the ratio back up to around 240%. So
close to the pro forma figure we had in June '13. On the right hand side of the chart, you
can see our economic capital cover ratio, which has improved up to 188%. This is well in
excess of our minimum cover target and is slightly better than the pro forma figure at the
end of June.
This reflects the helpful economic changes in the period, partly offset by the dilutive
effect of writing new business in the last six months. Finally, on dividends, just to repeat,
our guidance was that had we been quoted for the full-year 2012-13, we would have paid
about 15 million pounds in pro forma full-year dividends split one-thirds, two-thirds
between interim and final. So this would have equated to a dividend of about to 2P for the
for the final dividend.
Our first payment will be a final dividend for the 2013-14 and it's going to be paid in Q4.
So I'll now hand back to Rodney to tell you about our outlook and some conclusion. Thank
you.

Rodney Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Thanks, Simon. Before I talk about own prospects, I want to just touch on and make a few
comments about the public policy debate, which has gained a great deal of coverage so
far this year. And for those on the phone, this is a slide with the Financial Conduct
Authority logo on it. Most of you will be familiar with the FCA's review and the report, of
course, was issued a fortnight ago today. And having observed of 80% of retirees who
stayed with their current pension provider suffered some detriment financially, that wasn't
Page 9 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

FINAL

any surprise that they highlighted strongly a real need for such a annuitants to shop
around.
So overall, we do welcome those findings and in particular the FCA gave some
prominence to enhance, or if you like, individually underwritten annuities, pleasingly. Those
findings are consistent with our own analysis of the market and I would like to remind
everybody that we at Just Retirement have been champion in this cause for almost 10
years now. And if we remind everyone that the word Just is not only, but it's fair treatment
for customers at Just Retirement.

Bloomberg Transcript

After all, our products do provide good value to retirees and typically they will gain 15% to
25% more than a standard writer would offer them. So we do welcome any initiatives,
which ensure that customers are treated fairly. Clearly, also if you can see in here the Daily
Mail, a number of the national media have launched their own campaigns, which are
continuing. However, we would like to make sure that the baby, meaning the good value
from annuities in general does not get thrown out with a bath water and the policy makers
can distinguish between those that are pricing competitively in the open market and the
others.
Together with other open market participants, you will see us seek to highlight those
differences. So that the annuity market itself is not painted. If I could quickly cover a couple
of other important points for the FCA, I highlighted, so firstly, most customers do not
shop around, so 60% don't. This is estimated financially to be the equivalent of
somewhere between 115 million pounds and 200 million pounds of loss pension savings
each year. And we believe that, of course, is significantly underestimated, because the
FCA did not seek to make an assumption about the proportion of those who fail to shop
around, who may have been entitled to some form of enhancement.
The FCA inferred also that those firms selling internal annuities did actually make more
profit than those selling external annuities and analysts, I'm sure that's an area that you've
already formed judgments on. Federal providers have also established retention teams
and sales practices accordingly and this is an area that the FCA specifically covered and
identified that they will spend more time investigating during their supervisory activities.
So the regulator has concluded as follows that further work is needed under their
competition objectives and duty under the Financial Services and Markets Act. They will
now be conducting an in-depth competition market study to examine retirement income
as a whole and can I highlight to you having had my one-and-a-half hour interview with the
regulator yesterday that they are taking this whole initiative seriously and more
particularly, they'll be looking both at the annuity and the draw-down sectors of people
moving into retirement.
And lastly, as I said, they will be examining sales practices and strategies for those
pension companies selling to existing customers. And we do believe that these processes
are likely to be helpful to our part of the market over the medium term.

Page 10 of 24



FINAL

Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

Turning now to the outlook. First, I would reconfirm that we have not changed our
expectations for our full financial year and in the longer term as I've highlighted
mentioning the demographics and so on, we believe the market growth drivers remain in
place. However, given the significant external factors at play, clearly, from the media, the
regulator and government ministers, we do not propose to give specific market forecasts
either on a quarterly or annual basis. I do believe each of you have written on this and
have your own views, both as to the timing and the likely impact of these changes that are
coming to the marketplace and what that will mean for the proportion of retirees that
firstly come to the open market and then subsequently become underwritten.
Second, as Simon highlighted, we are pleased that our defined benefit of de-risking skills
are starting to make a contribution to our business and we do expect that to continue. As
Simon said, we will not chase individually underwritten annuities, if we can get better
returns from small defined benefit scheme underwriting. Thirdly, while the margins in the
marketplace, as Simon mentioned, remained challenging, we will continue to use that DB
underwriting skills and the yield enhanced from our ability to write our own -- and originate
our own lifetime mortgages at strong yield enhancements we will use those two factors
to optimize our profit outcome in this challenging environment.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we remain confident that we at Just Retirement have a good set of products. Our
brand continues to grow in strength and reputation and unbelievably we feel that we've
got a positive regulatory environment coming to the fuller in which to operate. So that
does make us optimistic as for our shareholders and for the future of our company.
So I would like to now come to questions and I will take questions, if there are any firstly
from the floor. And if you could just wait until one of the Deutsche Bank colleagues brings
the microphone around if you can identify yourself and your question. And we're using
microphones, of course, so that our friends and colleagues on the telephone may be able
to hear the questions and we will after exhausting the question here on the floor pass to
those on the telephone. Questions?

Questions And Answers
Q - Unidentified Participant
(Technical Difficulty) (inaudible) from Nomura. You mentioned that you are seeing an
easing in annuity pricing earlier in this year, could you perhaps provide bit more color on
what's happening in the competitive landscape, if there are any specific reasons you're
seeing as surprising and better behavior from customers? That's question one. Question
two is I appreciate that quarters can be volatile, but would you say, we are in a steady
state now past the disruption we saw from RDR and gender neutral pricing and going
forward can we perhaps look at historic quarters to see how the trends have developed?
Thanks.

A - Rodney Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Okay. So the first question is the comment by Simon that the margins may have a chance
of improving, Simon?

Page 11 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

FINAL

A - Simon Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Yes. Just to flag there, certainly in the last few weeks, I think we've seen a slight
improvement in the competitive landscape. Clearly, I can't talk about individual
competitors and I'm not going to, but it has improved. However, I would just flag as well, I
wouldn't want to carried away by this. Things do change as you well know overnight in this
marketplace. But certainly, what we've seen in the last few weeks has been more positive
and I would also flag obviously combine that with the fact that we've been writing some of
these DB schemes at what I'd probably describe as satisfactory margins, and the fact that
our yield and our mortgagees is picking up, it does give me a confidence that our margins
will pick up in the second half of the year.

A - Rodney Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Moving to the second part of question which is, has RDR and gender flushed through the
system and are we now in a position to move forward with greater confidence. David
Cooper, our Marketing and Distribution Director.

A - David Cooper

{BIO 15219576 <GO>}

Thank you. Can you have me. Basically, we've been seeing the end of the -- we're
certainly seeing the end of the fact agenda. In fact, we saw those during the course of last
year. I think it's fair to say that we've seen the end of the effects of RDR in terms of the
disruption it caused. We're still seeing intermediary firms reorganize, regroup with some
consolidation to follow (inaudible) stable progress as opposed to a volatile disruption.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Rodney Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

If I can just add to that, of course, there were a number of IFAs who didn't continue post
RDR, so that hasn't recovered. The share market has continued to be positive and that
leads to annuatization deferral and I think the other important factor people may not have
identified is that there is no company statutory retirement age anymore. So most of you
would have joined companies and be told they expect you to leave at a certain age, the
government law on that across the UK means one has a specified retirement age and
we're getting increased numbers of people who are working part-time rather than retiring
and that will lead to some elements of annuitization deferral, because they're living off
their part-time earnings. So a number of factors there.
David, have you got a comment on we did alert the market to cases over 100,000 that
certainly differed significantly, are they starting to come back?

A - David Cooper

{BIO 15219576 <GO>}

Yeah, we believe so. It's certainly very early days in the New Year, that we do believe that
-- we've certainly not seen a reduction in activity from larger cases now.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Right. Next question.

Page 12 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

Q - Unidentified Participant
So the question on -- the question was on also (inaudible) quarter should progress or not?

FINAL

A - Rodney Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

I think if I can repeat my comment, I see that the external authorities or regulatory reviews
and government ministers interventions are too significant for me make a call as to the
impact and timing of those changes. So I don't wish to be drawn on giving a quarter-byquarter basis. What I can repeat, of course, is that we're content with the expectations we
set in terms of our production and profit through the year 30th of June, 2014.

Q - Alan Devlin

{BIO 5936254 <GO>}

Thanks. Alan Devlin from Barclays. A couple of questions. First on the DPA. Could you guys
see the opportunity, what part of market can you focus on and use your underwriting skills
and how much this could potentially be over time?
And then secondly on draw-downs and use of our 100,000 pounds, if draw down as a
rest to your annuity market that can provide annuities in general, more and more people
taking draw-downs permanently as opposed to temporary risk.

A - Rodney Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Two excellent questions and thank you very much.

A - David Cooper

{BIO 15219576 <GO>}

Yeah, on PPIs, we said out in the prospectus that we estimated a potential market for
small PPAs to be up to 1 billion -- north of 1.1 billion we said of market size and we stand by
that. I would stress though that is a new market underwriting individuals in small schemes
is a brand new market and five million or so [ph] to date during the modest proportion of
a billion, so that is our long-term expectation that help beat the market quickly.
In terms of drawdown, yes, we are seeing more 100,000 pound cases in about
drawdown. As we've said in the past, large cases formally relatively small part of Just
Retirement's business. Our focus has always been to the lower mid end of the market
where we see greater opportunity for enhancement and that continues to be the case. So
I think we will have some downward pressure on the size of the annuity market has been
company standard, not -- it doesn't have a great impact on us.

A - Simon Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

If I could point out to people who are involved in our analyst briefings and our distribution
math, you will see, of course, (inaudible) major self-invested personal pension provider
and drawdown provider is also one of the UK's largest distributors of annuities. So just
because the customer goes into drawdown, doesn't mean to say that they decided later
date and certainly for any customer over age 70 there are some strong potential benefits
to a newer size as opposed to continue to take investment risk on a dwindling capital
base.

Page 13 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

FINAL

So we do recognize the larger accounts sometimes going into drawdown. Importantly, we
as the company heard the strong message from Martin Weekly that he wasn't satisfied
with our industry's response to customers with small pension pots. And so for business
going forward, we are reducing our minimum annuity size to 2,000, which is the
government trivial pension pot size clearly if they review that which they are looking at
then we will follow their lead. So we are going to assist the customers that he believes are
not getting a fair deal.

Q - Barrie Cornes

{BIO 2389115 <GO>}

Good morning. It's Barrie Cornes from Panmure Gordon. A couple of questions if I may.
First of all, Simon, can you give little more clarity on the margins for now, perhaps going
forward on the DB, small DB schemes. And secondly, recent review came out with couple
of figure cycles with different responses what your views were on the take-up of the open
month [ph] reduction, which seems to be quite a bit lower than I thought it was generally
meant to be at about 40%.
And the other question is the size of the pension pots, which again, I was told from
reports that I read previously that there was sort of mid-20s and above and yet they were
talking in the review that's about 17,000 pounds, just wondered what your views were on
that?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Cooper

{BIO 15219576 <GO>}

Thanks, Barrie. I'm not really going to give you a breakdown of the margins on the DB
schemes yet, Barrie, we've only had two complete so far. But certainly, the indications are
that the margins we're seeing on this are satisfactory, which kind of gives you an indication
that they're likely to be higher than on the IUA in the current competitive market. While we
see it going in the future, it's a bit difficult to say obviously, but clearly, when we come
back I think we're coming back in early May to talk to you about the next quarter's new
business, we'll give you a bit more insight than what we've seen, but it's a bit beyond at
the moment [ph].

A - Rodney Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

In terms of the number, it's important to remember the differentiation between numbers
of the annuitants and the amount of annuity. So the regulator quite naturally tends to
focus on talking about the number of people who buys again or lost. So I think if
unmentioned only 20%, 25% of people get an underwritten annuity whereby value itself is
30%, so naturally, the people would pick a pension pots and who were advised by IFAs do
get a -- do get better value. David, the size of the pension pot being 17,000 versus
20,000-odd.

A - David Cooper

{BIO 15219576 <GO>}

Two points actually (inaudible) Rodney answered on IUA market. It's also important on the
open market. All the strategies we see from open market by customer, it shows around
50% of people don't shop around as opposed to the 60 that the FCA have identified. As
statistics coming from the ABI, where there can be a modeling of customers in the
number of contracts we have individually, so I suspect in this case that the FCA may have
Page 14 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

a more accurate hands on the actual number of customers who don't shop around what
they think is higher. In terms of the average case size, again, I think that's the FCA's
granularity data and that being the average of people not shopping around.

FINAL

A - Unidentified Speaker
The FCA has an authority to demand that you fill out very technically detailed forms and I
don't have the ability to send the same request around to my our competitors and ask
them respond. So I accept what I think is clear, Barrie, is that, it's majority of people are
not shopping around and we are hoping longer term that more will and we'll seek to be
competitive in the marketplace and capture some of those people when they choose to
do the shopping around. Questions?

Q - Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

Two questions on distribution. FCA criticized some of the sort of exclusive distribution
deals that have been signed in the annuity market. And if I'm honest, I get a bit sort of
model as to when exclusive deals sort of merge with restricted panels and (inaudible).
Now, I know you've said you don't do exclusive deals, but you're on an awful a lot of
restricted panels that you can just sort of explain the difference to help me out on that
and where you think things go in that respect and what sort of pressure that would be, if
there is any change to the rules around that.
Second question I've got again is on distribution. I think one of the criticisms that the
current distribution model in annuities is just expensive, particularly, for those will smaller
parts, and I believe there are some new sort of distribution routes that are quite a lot
cheaper. And so how that's progressing that what is your position on those?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Right. So, David, and just in case, David, you haven't picked up some of the analysts will,
of course, have heard from all mutual and announcement that they're acquiring Intrinsic
and the old mutuals distribution director's comments that he feels that panels are likely to
be restrictive increase in over the next five years. Of course, from our perspective all
mutually -- the annuity writer currently so we see that this is a positive step. Intrinsic is a
major annuity writer in the UK and having and having a strong supportive parent we see,
which also doesn't happen to be a competitive route we see as a positive feature. The
SEI size and restricted versus exclusive.

A - Rodney Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Yeah. The FCA case my belief is that the reference there is predominantly for tied
arrangements between insurance companies. So insurance company A decides that it
does not want to manufacture annuities, so it ties to insurance company B. And in doing
so, may claim that it now offers its customers a chance to shop around or move away. And
I believe that the FCA are suggesting that that is not ideal. And mainly the customers
believe that they have, in fact, got up best arrangement around, but, in fact, it just moved
effectively through a fairly solid pipe to another insurer.

Page 15 of 24



FINAL

Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

So, I think that was that reference. More generally, our experience in the annuity market
because remember, a lot of comments made around the advisory landscape or around
broader guys which a lot of is very solid investment. In the annuity space, the huge
majority of distributors whether they are restricted or independent of (inaudible) very
broad panels, by broad panels I mean they may construct a panel of annuity writers, but
those annuity writers collectively may make up 90%, 95% of the market. That is still called
a panel. So we have very little exposure to change of direction. That said, I do believe the
direction of travel is toward virtually all annuity distribution being close to whole of market
or broad panel, I think, they will be very little -- limited tie just because of the potential
customer Dutchman and also that reflecting bad on the advisors delivering the advice,
okay.
Sorry. Yes, there are a number of models being tested, there was a recent launch of a
non-advise annuity distributor who was offering service 100 pounds per case rather than
commission related to the premium size. It remains to be seen, which ones we are
supporters of all innovation in pioneering in this space because we do believe that the
cost of distribution and delivery should be brought down, but clearly it's important that the
quality prevails and this scalability exists.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Okay.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Unidentified Speaker
In the open market at the current time about 55% of our business flows from an advice
structure and 45% from non-advice. But it is true that continues to grow, so evidently in
the internal vesting market that is nearly all non-advice. So in terms of our total annuity
market, the bulk of people are not taking specific advice to their own personal
circumstances, they may be carrying through a guided process, but the regulated calls are
non-advise. The comments from the regulator were focused on websites and they are
keen to see certain standards applied to websites and we will certainly support the
development of knocked [ph] websites, so that the regulator is comfortable with the
service that is being offered.
Right. If I can now ask the operator to check whether or not there are any questions on
the phone.

Operator
We have some questions. Your first question over the phone comes from the line of
Gregg Pattinson. Please ask your question.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning. I'll give you four questions and you can choose which one you want to
answer. The first one is, in terms of court level, I wonder if you can talk about how they
have progressed in the first quarter versus last -- fourth quarter of last year, how
conversion rates have progressed. You also said you're getting into healthier lives, is that
Page 16 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

not the more competitive lower margin area, I wonder if that's going to have an impact on
margins. And third, I wonder if you want to talk about impacts of the resolution launch end
of last year and soft launch by Standard Life both in the large [ph] space, I wonder if you
have any impact on the market. Thanks.

FINAL

A - Rodney Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

If I can do the last two, Gregg, so, firstly, my reference to healthier life is for Just
Retirement to be ready when the standard annuity providers can no longer cross
subsidize their standard rates by taking money from poorer sicker people and giving to
richer, healthier people. So that is by definition a notion of standard underwriting on a
medical basis. Having also of course regards to the fact that they underwrite by postcode,
which we consider to be a closer, a different and somewhat blunder instrument.
So my reference to healthier lives is if the whole market becomes underwritten, we would
like to be able to provide a variegation, if you like, of people's healthiness because up
until now people have thought of Just Retirement as someone around the office annuities
to people who are sick. So we would be able in time to write the entire market on an
underwritten basis. So that's the reference to healthy. The court levels and conversion
rates, David, I don't believe that that's something we're commenting on until the 12th of
May, but do you have a point today?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Cooper

{BIO 15219576 <GO>}

No, I think that's exactly right. We would staunchly prefer not to comment on short-term
market activity principally because it's very commercially sensitive with regard to some of
our competitors only stand by the guidance for the full financial year.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Sorry, can you hear me? And just that when we were touching on the second half of last
year in terms of calendar, we're talking about first all the small players having exited -small FAH having exited the market, now the new age direct propositions were -- who are
struggling to get traction, and hence, we've seen courtly halls and conversion rates, I was
wondering, I'm trying to get a feel for -- to what extent the sort of new age (inaudible)
how the models have progressed and how they're going to fill head gap, have you seen
some progress or have you not seen any progress?

A - Rodney Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Yeah, I can't answer that, Gregg. I don't know if you recall, but in the analyst presentation,
pre-IPO, we put a chart up showing how distribution currently broke out between
traditional IFA news specialists and partners and price comparison websites. And then we
showed where we believe the growth -- where the winners and losers were. Since that
time, our actual progress has followed pretty much what that slide suggested, which is we
have seen a fall from traditional smaller IFAs as they've left the market, as they've
refocused their business on other lines. All of that capacity has been taken up by the news
specialists writers, largely comes straight on non-advice, but they are taking material
share which is a good thing, obviously, in terms of market capacity.

Page 17 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

A - Unidentified Speaker
But the other question, David, was friends, life, launch into lifestyle and if your
grandmother still alive--

FINAL

Q - Unidentified Participant
And standard life as well, both standard life, non-standard, you've done a soft launch and
we've done a revisit in end of October and November.

A - Rodney Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

In terms of those two competitors, we believe that they are broadly following a similar
strategy which is to attempt to offer their internal customers better terms to try and
retain, it obviously also helps with their own -- their external reputation in terms of being
able to offer some form of enhancement for owners. We've not seen any effect from
friends, any material effect in the open market, even though they have entered that now
and clearly, it's too early to tell that they've internally targeted launch at correct time.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you. Sorry, just a question, Simon, we got a mutual expectations for the full year,
what do think about profit, what are your expectations for the full year?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Simon Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

If I answer that so we are specific in not using the words sales, so our expectations and
the market consensus, both for production in total and also for IFRS profit, we are still
sticking to those expectations, Gregg.

Q - Unidentified Participant
So, your expectations and the current consensus conveniently coincide?

A - Simon Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Excellent.

A - Simon Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Any other questions, operator. Thanks.

Operator
I have another question from the line of Sheikh Musadi [ph]. Please ask your question.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Page 18 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

FINAL

Yeah, hi. Thank you and good afternoon everyone. This is Aashiq [ph] from JPMorgan.
Couple of questions. Just first of all, if I heard it correctly, you did mention that you're
looking to enter the small pot size as well, I don't know if I heard it correctly or not. But in
case, you're looking to enter a small pot size for floods and 5000 [ph], how should we
think about the margins on those kind of business? That's the second one.
Secondly, also you mentioned that currently it's challenging environment, therefore, you
are focusing on DB and lifetime mortgages. Now how long should we expect this to
continue and when should we start looking for things to go back to normal any color on
that? And thirdly on is there any regulatory pressure with respect to explaining the market
what the real margin and annuities, i.e., not just you're booking all the profits upfront,
majority of the profits upfront, but giving more color on how does the profitability look like
on more market consistent basis. Yeah, so these three questions that I got. Thank you.

A - Rodney Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, firstly, to the point on small pots except for one specific client, our current minimum
is 5,000 pounds. What I was suggesting is that we would make annuities available picking
up the criticism from the regulator that people with small pot couldn't even get an annuity.
So we expect that to be managed marginally by our business. So we don't expect that to
be profit-making and if anything very little in terms of the loss for margins, because as you
might gather, we are processing literally thousands of cases that we don't see it as any
additional cost in our administration.
If I could just cover off the run on lifetime mortgages and to clarify because there may be
some miscommunication there. Lifetime mortgages are our way of enhancing the yield on
our total portfolio. So we only offer lifetime mortgages from the proceeds of our annuity
sales, but it is a very secure asset back thing -- well, zero coupon bond effectively
because it's rolling up off the yield and the yields are more attractive. So that was the
reason for allowing it to move north of our normal 25% range. And also if you look in the
history of the document there that it does go up and down because an annuity takes a
completely different amount of time to complete the mortgage.
The defined benefit business, we would like to hope that that will be a continuing aspect.
So we could go over work two years ago we formed a whole new team within discussing
the concept of underwriting with actuarial consultants for more than a year and we now
have them at a point where they're willing to talk to small clients that there is an interest in
the underwriting concept to get a better deal for their clients. And so we would hope that
defined benefit underwriting will continue.
And as David indicated in our perspective highlighted the potential market all around a
billion inside. These are streams, which have up to a 100 million of liabilities. So I do think it
will be quite some time before old trustees treat this as the norm. If I highlighted much
quicker than the fact that we launched our business in 2004 and it's taken quite a number
of years to convince everyone that the right answer was underwriting for individual
annuities. We do hope that the actuarial firms will catch on somewhat quicker.
And Simon, can you talk on the real margins please?
Page 19 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

A - Simon Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Can you just repeat that part of the question again?

FINAL

Q - Unidentified Participant
Yeah. Sorry for being a bit confusing on this. In my view there's a perception in the market
that annuities currently make a huge amount of margin and that too, it's all upfront
because you get the premium upfront. So do you really believe it's a very high margin
business and if not, then what would -- is there any pressure in the market to think about a
new way of communication, so that market get to see that it's still a relatively good
margin, but not exorbitant margins. Thank you.

A - Simon Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Okay. Well, let me answer the last part of the question, but certainly in terms of sort of the
margins, I think you can see here for this half year we've been booking a margin of 4.2%
upfront. Clearly we've then recognized an amount of prudent margin over the remaining
period of the contract, which I think in some of the presentations we've been seeing
might go up to about another 8% on top of that, which we discussed as part of the IPO.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of how we feel about that clearly we feel this is appropriate in terms the way that
we recognize margin and the amount we're charging the client and the product that we're
giving to the client. Interestingly, I think if you compare this margin to some of the other
players, we possibly aren't operating near the market, you might see some different
patterns emerging. Let's put it that way.

A - Rodney Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

So just to pick up on that the regulators formal report actually identified that they thought
companies that wrote internal annuities were making much higher margins and I do think
both of you who follow those particular companies you see those margins being north of
10%. So on a like-for-like basis, in terms of declaring margin upfront, so we are
somewhere around 5% and they would currently be north of 10.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Okay. That's very clear. Thanks a lot for that.

A - Rodney Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Right. Any -- there's a question from the floor here before we come back to the operator.

Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible). Couple of little questions really. One of the observations from the review was
clearly one of mass consumer inertia, when something -- just wondering whether you, the
industry, or the regulators got any sort of bright ideas perhaps to tackle that, it's clearly,
clearly one of the major issues. You can kind of lead a horse to water, but you can't make
it drink, I think. One of the conclusions was lot of people were aware of their ability to
shop around, but sort of -- I mean, it's interesting I think.
Page 20 of 24



FINAL

Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

Secondly, one of the other conclusions with the review was that one of the ways it
focused was on the uplift, or potential uplift that some customers could get by going to
the open market. They didn't appear the except by reference to the internal vesting. Any
real review of the profitability return from capital that annuity companies make on the
businesses that they write. Do you think that Phase 2 of the regulator here as we've seen
already in the savings industry is to focus in on the actual returns on capital, the industries
making on (inaudible) to the lowest common denominator as that they can get into
savings market or pensions market.
Thirdly, just in terms of your bulk purchase, I was interested in how many whether these
schemes are coming to you and you're the only people sort of pricing the market and so
forth, or whether there is a real competition in that market, it's two players, it's a three
players, what sort of competition we're seeing in terms of people coming there?

A - Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

Right. Could I just quickly give out the last question first to clarify defined benefit. Clearly
as we said small schemes were not getting much attention on customer services. You all
know that there are companies that drive huge bulk annuity deals in the billions. So clearly
we identified this and also our colleagues at partnership identified miraculously the similar
time that this is an area where we could bring customer service and potentially our skill
set.
What we're actually doing here is on the, if you like, the 80:20 rule, 20% of the members
of the scheme will have more than 80% of the liabilities. So we do medically underwrite
the, if you like, 20% and then we underwrite on an occupational observation basis, leave
the other members. In the end, we do actually issue individual policies, so this is the
fundamental difference, this is not bulk annuities as you think about them in the past
where there is a billion pound deal with thousands of members.
So in the end, it is quite likely that all of these customers will become individual customers
of Just Retirement. So that's the subtle difference there are about -- there are two active
players in our sales and partnership also L&G and Aviva are participants in this area. As I
said, we would be delighted if all actuarial firms fully embraced this, but it's nascent and
growing market.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Does it come to you by IFAs or --?

A - Unidentified Speaker
No, no, actuarial --

Q - Unidentified Participant
The big ABC's.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Page 21 of 24



FINAL

Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

ABC's principally. So the one in terms of profit, I understand your question of the risk if the
regulator trying to drive margins to lowest common denominator. Obviously, we feel quite
comfortable at the moment being a 12.2 [ph] versus numbers of 10. So we see it being a
long way, in other words, impacting on other people. Also the real benefit of other players
potentially bringing their customers to an underwritten market even if they tend to
underwrite themselves. As see the opportunity for us to win some of that share where at
the current time, they're keeping 100%. So we haven't got the sense that we will win all of
their customers, but it would be the chance of getting some of the their customers.

Q - Unidentified Participant
You shouldn't have got me wrong there, I think, you're beneficiary from that by the way
for the reasons you described, but I was wondering whether you've got any indications
from the regulator, you mentioned you've just been chatting to the regulator whether that
was something that might be Stage II, I don't know if that's true.

A - Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

Well, obviously discussions between companies and the regulator is strictly confidential,
but not the actual concept of what they're looking at and as I indicated they were looking
at a number of factors including not just annuities, but drawdown, propositions, they will
be issuing in the next week, a comprehensive request for information to all those
insurance companies and all of companies will need to respond and of course profit
margin and sales practices are all part of their questions.
As you know, and you've got the great expertise in analyzing every company's accounts
and profits. As you can see, they're all slightly different and we know some companies say
they can declare all the margin upfront and we clearly show the split of our margin
between what we declare upfront and what we gain over the future lifetime of the
product. And I think we shared that during the IPO. Just to quickly conclude as time is
getting late, the consumer detriment and consumer inertia, I think the fundamental
difference is that this is a once in a lifetime purchase, you are now only to roll from your
general insurance relationships that people are shopping around every year at (inaudible)
on their car insurance.
When we have done extensive consumer research for annuities, customers would be
delighted to switch provider up to 20 pounds and when you tell them it's 20 pounds
every year for the rest of the life they are even keener, but equally other companies have
done research that said the customer likes (inaudible) helpful, that they decided to stay. I
think what the regulator is about he's switching the responsibility from the consumer to
have to do everything onto the providers. So for the avoidance of doubt just telling
someone I have an open market option walk in English, does that actually mean to your
next or neither or someone who isn't in this space. It means zero.
So we have to change the jargon, we have to put the emphasis on the provider to
respond with what they find out from the customer at the moment always doing is
prompting the customer to think a bit more and clearly that has filed. So the regulator
does have in mind and also the ABI was looking once again at their code to see whether

Page 22 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

they can improve the outcome, but I think we've got a way to go. Right. One last question
from the operator, if there is one.

Operator

FINAL

We have a further question from the line of Gregg Pattinson. Please ask your question.

Q - Unidentified Participant
It's just a technical question, in terms of the increase in your lifetime mortgages to 32%
versus the 25%, are you booking that additional profit in the margin or are you assuming a
25 in the margin and letting the residual come through as a variance?

A - Simon Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Gregg, it's Simon. Yeah, I mean, clearly, we have to back the -- we use the lifetime
mortgages to back in annuities and so therefore, there have to be the match when you're
writing the further annuities, so any significant amounts in excess would be left and so that
could be used to back their annuities and so on.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Well, secondly, I don't know if the worry that there's been a boost to the margin in the first
half of your financial year. You're just assuming 25 in the margin basically.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Simon Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Not significantly, yes, but obviously the yield makes the difference.

Q - Unidentified Participant
No, no, certainly. But are you assuming 25% in the margin.

A - Simon Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Well, typically, we would assume what we could use, which will be around 25% mark.

Q - Unidentified Participant
All right. Thank you.

A - Simon Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Okay. So the time has come to conclude. I'd like to thank you all both on the phone and
here in London for your insightful questions and I look forward to presenting an update of
our sales on the 12th of May. Well, thank you very much.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
Page 23 of 24



any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-02-28

Page 24 of 24

