Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

Q4 2013 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Albert Benchimol, CEO, President
Joe Henry, CFO
Linda Ventresca, CDO

Other Participants
Charles Sebaski, Analyst
Clifford Gallant, Analyst
Dan Farrell, Analyst
Ian Gutterman, Analyst
Josh Shanker, Analyst
Meyer Shields , Analyst
Mike Nannizzi, Analyst
Ryan Byrnes , Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Vinay Misquith, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Good morning. Welcome to the AXIS Capital Q4 2013 earnings conference call.
(Operator Instructions) Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Linda Ventresca. Please go ahead.

Linda Ventresca

{BIO 5930519 <GO>}

Thank you, Amy, and good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I am happy to welcome you
to our conference call to discuss the financial results for AXIS Capital for the Fourth
Quarter and the year ended December 31, 2013.
Our earnings press release and financial supplement were issued yesterday evening after
the market closed. If you would like copies, please visit the investor information section of
our website, www.axiscapital.com.
We set aside an hour for today's call, which is also available as an audio webcast through
the Investor Information section of our website. A replay of the teleconference will be
Page 1 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

available by dialing 877-344-7529 in the United States, and the international number is
412-317-0088. The conference code for both replay dial-in numbers is 10039141.

FINAL

With me on today's call are Albert Benchimol, our President and CEO; and Joe Henry, our
CFO.
Before I turn the call over to Albert, I will remind everyone that statements made during
this call, including the question and answer session, which are not historical facts may be
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the US federal securities laws.
Forward-looking statements contained in this presentation include, but are not necessarily
limited to, information regarding our estimate of losses related to catastrophes, policies
and other loss events; general economic capital and credit market conditions; future
growth prospects; financial results and capital management initiatives; evaluation of
losses and loss reserves; investment strategies; investment portfolio and market
performance; impact to the marketplace with respect to changes in pricing models; and
our expectations regarding pricing and other market conditions.

Bloomberg Transcript

These statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions which could cause actual
results to differ materially from our expectations.
For discussion of these matters please refer to the Risk Factors section in our most recent
Form 10-K, on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no
obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise.
In addition, this presentation contains information regarding operating income and our
consolidated underwriting income, which are non-GAAP financial measures within the
meaning of the US federal securities laws.
For a reconciliation of these items to the most directly-comparable GAAP financial
measures, please refer to our press release which can be found on our website. With
that, I'd like to turn the call over to Albert.

Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

Thank you, Linda.
Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining our call. On balance, we delivered a
good quarter and a good year, benefiting from strong diversifying growth, improved
pricing in many lines, lower cat activity, continued reserve releases and strong
performance in our equities and alternative investments.
After-tax operating income for the quarter was $159 million, and annualized ROE was
12.3% on an operating basis. Our gross written premiums are up 10%.

Page 2 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

FINAL

This is a product of our continued effort on two fronts. First, we've shown strong growth in
improving market segments, particularly in the US. And second, we are seeing ongoing
returns from the substantial investments we made in new initiatives of recent months and
years.
For the year, we reported a 13% increase in gross written premiums, a combined ratio of
91% operating ROE of 12.1%, and operating income of $633 million, as compared to ROE
of 8.2% and operating income of $422 million last year. We grew diluted book value per
share, adjusted for dividends, by 8% and returned substantially all of our income to our
shareholders through the repurchase of stock and a growing stream of dividends.
While it was a good year overall, we know we can do better. Our Second Quarter was
impacted by an accumulation of small and mid-sized global cats and weather events.
And this Fourth Quarter was adversely impacted by exposure to rising claims costs for the
US D&O business in recent accident years. I assure you that we are all focused on making
the changes in our portfolio as necessary to reduce the likelihood of these types of
issues.

Bloomberg Transcript

That said, it is a reflection of the strength of our Company that these disappointments
were easily absorbed without significant impact on our overall financial performance, that
we took the necessary actions to address them, and finished the year stronger than ever.
We face the future with confidence and optimism. Joe will take you through our results in
some detail, and I will return with market commentary and outlook.
Joe?

Joe Henry

{BIO 13390626 <GO>}

Thank you, Albert. Good morning, everyone.
During the quarter, we generated good results with an annualized operating ROE of
12.3%. In addition, quarterly diluted book value per common share, a key metric in
measuring the value we generate for our shareholders, increased by $1.20 per share, or
almost 3% in the quarter.
Our results benefited from a very benign quarter with respect to natural catastrophe and
weather-related losses, compared to the same quarter last year which was significantly
impacted by Storm Sandy.
In addition, the continued growth in our book of business and favorable prior-year reserve
development contributed positively to our results, but were partially offset by an increase
in large and attritional losses incurred in property lines effecting both segments, our
insurance US D&O line, and our reinsurance segment's agricultural line. The D&O losses

Page 3 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

incurred also led to an associated increase in the underlying loss ratios for that line of
business.

FINAL

For the full 2013 year, we produced underwriting income of $428 million and posted an
operating ROE in excess of 12%. Our diluted book value per common share increased by
$2.83, or almost 7% for the year.
Moving into the details of the income statement, our Fourth Quarter gross premiums
written were up 10%, to $826 million, with growth emanating from both of our segments.
In our Insurance segment, our top line was up $26 million, or 5%, reflecting a continuation
of the trends noted throughout the year. The Accident and Health line continued to
contribute substantially to top-line growth during the quarter, bringing the annual increase
in this line to almost $108 million.
Growth in our Non-US Professional Lines business reflects our continued global expansion.
Liability also continued to show growth, driven by the US wholesale excess casualty
market.

Bloomberg Transcript

These increases were partially offset by reductions in marine and aviation, which were
driven by some rate reductions and timing differences.
Our Property Line showed a decrease in gross premiums written, driven by the previouslydiscussed reductions in cat-exposed business, written through MGAs, a repositioning of
this book, which has now been completed.
In Reinsurance, our top line was up $47 million, or 27%. Growth was driven by professional
lines reflecting new business with a significant cedent.
New business was also noted in the property lines. These increases were partially offset
by decreases in agriculture and motor lines, due to negative premium adjustments as less
business was written by our cedants than initially expected.
2012 included reinstatement premiums related to Storm Sandy, which drove the current
quarter's decrease in the Property Catastrophe line, while Engineering was impacted by
the non-renewal of a large treaty.
For the full year, we reported gross premiums written of $4.697 billion, an increase of
$557 million, or 13%, compared to last year. Our insurance segment contributed $2.559
billion, an increase of 11% for the year, while our reinsurance segment increased by 17% to
report gross premiums written of $2.138 billion.
Our quarterly consolidated net written premiums written were up 25%, exceeding the
growth rate for gross premiums written. Similar to prior quarters, the difference is driven

Page 4 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

FINAL

by a number of factors, with changes in reinsurance purchasing in our insurance segment
having the biggest impact.
This included reductions in the quarter share session rates for significant portions of our
professional lines and liability books, a reduction in the cost of our property per risk and
property cat protections, and higher retentions for both property and Marine. Changes in
business mix with increased writings in lines of business where we did not purchase
significant reinsurance also contributed.
Our net premiums earned were up 10% for the quarter, with growth in both Insurance and
Reinsurance segments. Insurance increased by 18%, primarily driven by prior-quarters'
premium growth in the property lines and continued expansion of our Accident and Health
business.
Reinsurance growth of 4% primarily reflects the annual year-to-date increase in the
agricultural line. Our Fourth Quarter consolidated Accident year loss ratio decreased 23.3
points, from 86.4% to 63.1%, compared to the same period of last year, primarily due to
the decrease in the national catastrophe and weather-related losses mentioned earlier.

Bloomberg Transcript

The current quarter's loss ratio includes no significant natural catastrophe or weatherrelated losses, with a recognition of $5 million of weather-related pre-tax losses being
more than offset by favorable development of $10 million on losses related to weather
events incurred earlier in the year.
In contrast, the comparative quarter included losses of $303 million, net of
reinstatements, primarily related to Storm Sandy, which contributed 35.4 points to the
Fourth Quarter 2012 ratio.
After adjusting for the impact of these items, our current accident year loss ratio
increased by 12.6 points quarter on quarter. Increases were noted in both Insurance and
Reinsurance segments.
Excluding the impact of natural catastrophe and weather-related losses, our Insurance
segment current accident year loss ratio increased by 17.8 points. The increase was driven
by two primary factors.
First, we experienced an increased level of large and attritional losses, primarily in our US
D&O and property lines. Secondly, the recent claim experience observed in the D&O lines
has led us to increase our 2013 underlying loss ratios for this line of business.
Similarly, after making the natural catastrophe and weather-related adjustments, our
Reinsurance segment experienced an 8-point increase in the current accident year loss
ratio. This increase was led by an increase in large and attritional losses in our Property
Line business and large losses in our Agricultural line.

Page 5 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

Agricultural losses related to the impact of unfavorable weather conditions and
commodity pricing in the US, as well as natural catastrophes in India. A change in the
business mix also contributed to the increase, although to a lesser extent.

FINAL

For the full year 2013, the change in the current accident year loss ratio is less
pronounced. For the year, the consolidated accident year loss ratio decreased by 5
points, from 68.5% to 63.5%.
After adjusting for the natural catastrophe and weather-related losses, which contributed
5.4 points and 12.7 points to the 2013 and 2012 loss ratios, respectively, the current
accident year loss ratio increased by 2.3 points. The increase can be attributed to a
change in the mix of business, the increase in the amount of large and attritional losses
incurred relative to last year, and the strengthening of the insurance D&O lines.
Turning to loss reserves established in prior years, we continue to benefit from net
favorable development, which aggregated to a net $43 million this quarter. Short-sale
classes in both segments contributed $43 million of this balance, primarily reflecting
better-than-expected loss emergence.

Bloomberg Transcript

During the quarter, we continue to give weight to actuarial methods that reflect our
favorable experience for liability reinsurance business, which contributed a further $20
million of favorable development. Our Motor and Credit and Political lines contributed an
additional $18 million.
The favorable experience was partially offset by adverse development in our insurance
D&O line. Our total prior-year losses relating to Professional lines increased by $30 million
following adverse development in our Insurance segment on the 2011 and 2012 accident
years, US D&O business.
We've had a number of movements in our Professional lines book for the quarter and for
the year, and I would like to take the time now to review with you. First, as a broad
comment, our Professional lines reserves for the 2010 and prior accident year have held
up well over time.
We have only had to take specific actions with respect to a few claims related to the
credit crisis impacted business. This was the case in the Second Quarter of the year.
There has been no further adverse development in the 2010 and prior reserves in either
the third or the Fourth Quarter of 2013.
However, going into the second half of the year, claims started to trend up in our US D&O
book for 2011 and 2012. We made some adjustments to prior years, but these were not
material to our results in the context of overall favorable development for the Professional
lines portfolio.
In the Fourth Quarter, higher levels of claim activity continued. This caused us to perform a
deep dive into the entire US D&O book, the net result of which was an adjustment in our
Page 6 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

view of the loss experience for that book for 2011 through 2013.

FINAL

Again, during the quarter, we added $32 million to prior-year reserves and another $30
million to our full-year estimate for 2013. The $30 million Fourth Quarter addition
contributed 70 (sic; 7 points, see comments at end) to the Fourth Quarter loss ratio, but
only about 1.5 points to the full-year loss ratio.
We are comfortable that we have reacted quickly and prudently to the information at
hand. Our Professional lines book has nearly $700 million (sic $474 million; see comments
at end) in IBNR on $1.1 billion of net premiums earned for the 2011 and 2012 years.
And our 2013 year is currently reserved at a 76% loss ratio, substantially all of which is
IBNR. Our full-year 2013 favorable development was $219 million, which compares to $245
million recognized in 2012.
During the Fourth Quarter, our acquisition cost ratio increased by 1.8 points quarter over
quarter, from 16.8% to 18.6%, with increases noted in both segments.

Bloomberg Transcript

Insurance segment increase is primarily driven by reduced commissions received due to
changes in our reinsurance programs discussed previously, as well as mix-of-business
changes which were partially offset by decreases due to a reduction in the business
written through MGAs.
The Reinsurance segment increase is driven by a higher acquisition cost paid on certain
lines of business, which includes the shift in the mix of business written towards
proportional lines which carry a higher acquisition cost ratio.
The increases in general administrative expenses were primarily driven by personnelrelated expenses driven by higher headcount, as well as the professional and business
costs related to various growth initiatives across the company.
The increase in G&A expenses was more than offset by the growth in net earned
premiums which reduced our overall G&A ratio compared to the prior-year quarter. Taken
together, these items produced an underwriting income of $94 million and a combined
ratio of 92.5 for the quarter.
Net investment income was $114 million for the quarter, up from $103 million in the Third
Quarter, and up from prior-year quarter's $87 million. The most significant driver of the
increase was the contribution to net investment income by our Other Investments
portfolio.
Other Investments contributed $41 million during the quarter versus $32 million in the
Third Quarter and $15 million in the Fourth Quarter of last year. The majority of our Other
Investments portfolio is hedge funds, which benefited from the strong equity markets
during the Fourth Quarter and throughout 2013.

Page 7 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

Income from our Fixed Maturity portfolios, including cash and short-term investments, was
$78 million for the quarter, similar to last quarter's $75 million and $76 million in the prioryear quarter. Net investment income for the year was a $409 million, 7% higher than last
year's $381 million.

FINAL

Similar to the quarterly movements, the increase in annual net investment income is
primarily due to the contributions from our Other Investments portfolio.
In the aggregate, the total return on our cash and investment portfolio for the quarter was
0.9%. For the year, the total return on our cash and investments portfolio was 1.6%.
The positive total returns for the current quarter and the year were driven by strong
returns from our equity and hedge fund holdings, tempered by price declines on our
Fixed Maturity portfolio caused by rising global interest rates. Rising global interest rates
caused the yield to maturity to increase to 2.3% from 1.6% at the end of last year.

Bloomberg Transcript

We continue to hold a high-quality, well-diversified portfolio with cash and invested assets
totaling $14.8 billion at year end, consistent with the prior-year quarter and up $0.4 billion
from a year ago. The duration of our Fixed Maturity portfolio was 3.2 years at year end,
consistent with the prior quarter and up slightly from 3.0 years at the end of last year.
Throughout 2013, our portfolio maintained a weighted average credit rating of AA minus.
Net unrealized gains on the portfolio decreased by $5 million during the quarter and by
$240 million during the year to $135 million at year end. These movements were driven by
rising global interest rates during 2013, offset partly by the strong performance of global
equity markets and by spread tightening on the US high-yield corporate debt portfolio.
Our total capital at December 31, 2013, was $6.8 billion, including $1 billion of long-term
debt and $0.6 billion of preferred equity, comparable to $6.8 billion at December 31, 2012.
Our capital position reflects the net income generated during the year and preferred
share activity, which was offset by common share repurchases and dividends and the
decrease in unrealized gains and investments due to an upward shift in sovereign yield
curves during 2013.
During the Fourth Quarter, as previously anticipated, we restarted our Share Repurchase
program. In the last three months of the year, we repurchased 2.3 million shares for a
total cost of $113 million.
This brings our total repurchases for the year to 10.8 million common shares, or 9% of our
shares outstanding at the beginning of the year, at an average price of $43.61 per share,
for a total cost of $472 million.
During December 2013, we announced that effective January 1, 2014, our Board of
Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $750 million of the Company's common
shares. This effectively resets our repurchase authorization limits and allows us to effect
Page 8 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

repurchases under this new plan in open market or privately negotiated transactions
through December 31, 2015, depending upon market conditions.

FINAL

In addition, we also announced an 8% increase in the quarterly common share dividends
of $0.27, continuing our proud tradition of annual dividend increases for our common
shareholders.
Our strategic expansion opportunities continue to progress, and we remain optimistic
about our prospects.
During the Fourth Quarter, we launched our new third-party capital initiative named AXIS
Ventures. While AXIS Ventures did not commence operations until January 1, 2014, we
received investment capital from our third-party investors before the 2013 year end,
which has been reflected as part of non-controlling interest balances in our consolidated
balance sheet.
We continue to believe that our diversified global franchise and strong balance sheet will
continue to allow us to take advantage of market opportunities as they emerge.
With that, I will turn the call back over to Albert.

Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Joe.
Turning to market conditions. Notwithstanding the well-publicized reduction in pricing
trends, there remain reasonably good fundamentals in many insurance lines and markets
after three years of positive rate activity across many parts of our business. The US
remains the strongest market, driving almost all of our growth in 2013.
Average price increases in our Insurance business in 2013's Fourth Quarter came in at a
slower pace than that observed earlier in the year, with the overall portfolio showing great
change of plus 1%. For our International division, the rate as a whole in the Fourth Quarter
was down 2%, but the average does not provide adequate color, as the specialty lines
which comprise this division were typically mixed.
Of the 16 separate lines we monitor, 8 were up in the quarter, 3 were flat and 5 were
down, with the most significant declines not surprisingly in aviation, terrorism and offshore energy. For the full year, the average rate change was up 2%.
We anticipate pressure on overall rates for this division in the coming year, as the weaker
lines should continue their trends, while those that have exhibited pricing improvements
over the last three years begin to taper off.

Page 9 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

In our Professional Lines division, rate change was 1% overall, plus1%, but again with wide
variations by product and layer. For the US, pricing across all units was positive, with the
exception of site A coverages, where recent results have been quite strong.

FINAL

Rate increases on primary layers continue to be more consistent and higher, up 6% overall
for non-financial institutions and plus 3% overall for financial institutional products.
Excess layers across products in the US are up 2% overall. Bermuda excess lines continue
to experience low single-digit rate declines, in line with the trends throughout of the year.
A number of classes continue to suffer from excess capacity, including small
miscellaneous professional liability, large account E&O, and international professional
coverage for asset managers of private equity. On the other hand, classes which have
seen higher-than-expected claims activity in recent history, such as public company D&O,
are seeing much higher rate increases.
The general trends for 2013 Professional lines more broadly indicate the slow softening
for 2014. But we expect the increases to continue where they are required, including in
areas where we are taking corrective action.

Bloomberg Transcript

In our US division, all lines remain positive to rate change territory, with a plus 5% rate
change for the division overall, our 11th consecutive quarter with positive rate. While
pricing momentum has faltered in Property lines, we still achieved average rate increases
in the low, to mid-single-digit range, depending on class and geography.
Our Casualty business however continued with strong rate improvement at or near
double-digits. Submissions in this division remain up over 20%, and retentions are good.
While property pricing will likely continue to slow in 2014, we expect ongoing
improvement outside of property.
We continue to enhance the overall quality of our insurance book with solid rate adequacy,
strong underwriting discipline, while prudently expanding our product offerings to achieve
greater scale and diversification.
As to Reinsurance, the recent January 1 renewals reflected the supply/demand's
imbalance with a substantial increase in alternative capital, a larger equity base of
traditional reinsurers, and a strong desire to diversify the way from the beleaguered
catastrophe markets confronting greater retentions and reduced demand from buyers.
While the greatest impact on pricing was in the US property catastrophe renewals, for the
most part, declines match those already granted in the mid-year 2013 renewals.
More broadly, the overall market experienced margin compression in the face of
deterioration and pressure on ceding commissions. Against this backdrop, we leveraged

Page 10 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

FINAL

our strong technical capabilities and position with clients to write targeted business and
make some shifts in our overall Reinsurance portfolio. As a result, we believe our actions
offset much of the compression in industry margins.
Despite the headwinds, for the 50% of AXIS Re's 2013 expiring premium renewable in
January, excluding agriculture, we grew premium about 6%, roughly flat on an annualized
basis after adjusting for multi-year premiums. And we added more balance to the
portfolio.
About 13% of the expiring premium was non-renewed or canceled, but this was offset by
increases at renewal and new business.
The renewable base for our Agricultural Reinsurance line, which we introduced to our
product offering as we entered last year, is in excess of $120 million in the First Quarter.
This renewal remains very much in process and will be completed later in the quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

Despite some pressure introduced by declines in commodity prices, we are expecting
growth in this area from increase shares and new business in the US as we renew this new
product line of ours.
About two-thirds of our January 1 renewal volume is written out of our continental
European Reinsurance business, which sees more than 80% of its business renewal on
that date. There, we lost some volume to both less purchasing by many multinational
clients, as well as the withdrawal on our part where experience was poor or pricing
declined to unacceptable levels.
Renewal volume was up 2% on the back of a few multi-year policies, where we believe we
secured attractive terms. But after adjusting for these, we were down about 1% on an
annualized basis.
I think we did a commendable job in protecting the profitability of the book, giving up less
than 2 points in technical margins but reducing volatility with more pro rata and less cat
business.
Outside of Europe, we maintained premium volume overall. Cedants were quite
aggressive in pushing terms in price, but still discipline was generally maintained in most
lines of business and good relationships ensured continuity.
The ability to find new business, unless new to market, was a challenge. One observation I
would make is that there was a clear difference in the terms of engagements with core
reinsurers, as opposed to more generic or less well-rated capacity.
Core reinsurers, including AXIS, often benefited from earlier allocations and better terms,
while following markets often wrote business at lesser terms.

Page 11 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

FINAL

Going forward, we expect current market conditions to sustain through the year. On the
other hand, we do not expect similar reductions in property cat pricing in the April and
June/July renewals.
Recall that this January's renewal price reduction simply serves to give the January
customers the benefit of pricing achieved by other clients in last year's spring and
summer renewals. We are optimistic that rate reductions from here on will be more
modest.
Notwithstanding the evident increase in competition, we remain very well-positioned to
protect our book and our margins. We have excellent relationships with our clients and
brokers.
We continue to work on shaping our portfolio across multiple dimensions. And we are
more proactive in managing exposures and hedging risk through retro arrangements and
the use of capital markets instruments.
We are confident in our ability to navigate through this market.

Bloomberg Transcript

More broadly, underwriting excellence has been a hallmark at AXIS and remains our key
strength and differentiator in shifting markets. Our underwriters distinguish themselves by
their expert knowledge of their markets and their responsiveness.
We're investing heavily to enhance our strong underwriting culture and provide our
underwriters with the tools and resources they need to succeed.
We react quickly when faced with new data, as we did with our US D&O book this quarter.
But our goal is to reduce the likelihood of such events with enhanced data and analytics,
and dilute their impact with a broader, more diversified, more balanced book of business.
Our recipe for outperformance is straightforward: maintain one of the strongest teams in
the industry, reinforce the strong relationships we have with clients and brokers to access
and retain good business, use improved analytics and tools to optimize the portfolio, and
make intelligent use of hedging tools to further enhance risk-adjusted returns.
We have the capital and balance sheet to support our growth and ample earnings power
to absorb the occasional large loss and still deliver strong results.
It is a winning formula and one we intend to execute the benefits of our clients and
shareholders.
With that, we are ready to take questions.

Joe Henry

{BIO 13390626 <GO>}

Page 12 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

Just before we open up for questions, I'd just like to correct one thing that I said during
my prepared remarks and clarify one other point.

FINAL

As far as the additional $30 million of losses for 2013 US D&O, that was seven points to
the loss ratio not 70. I understand I said 70 -- it is seven points.
Also for the Professional lines for 2011 and 2012 years, we have $474 million in net IBNR on
earned premium on $1.1 billion. The $700 million was a gross number. So again, $474
million net IBNR on net earned premium of $1.1 billion of the 2011 and 2012 accident years.
With that, Amy, I'll ask you to open it up for questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Mike Nannizzi, Goldman Sachs.

Q - Mike Nannizzi

{BIO 15198493 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks. On the professional liability reserves, is there any consistency between what you
did here and the reserve adjustments you made, I think it was for 2005 and 2008, in the
First Quarter of 2013? I think it was 2005 to 2008. Thanks.

A - Joe Henry

{BIO 13390626 <GO>}

Mike, it's a separate issue. The reserve adjustments we made in the Second Quarter of
the year related to the credit crisis years. This relates to accident years 2011 and 2012. As I
said during my remarks, we have seen no further development on the reserves that we
set up in the Second Quarter, in the Third Quarter and Fourth Quarters of the year.

Q - Mike Nannizzi

{BIO 15198493 <GO>}

Got it. Can you give us a little color on what, is there a theme in terms of what happened
in the Fourth Quarter and what impacted 2011, 2012 and your decision to take the loss
ratio, the pickup for this year, the type of case? Anything that we can understand what is
underneath.

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

Mike, I understand. The development in our US D&O book this quarter was clearly a
disappointment. At the very least, we owe you an understanding of what happened in
terms of context.
Let me start by saying, our professional lines book, it is an important class of business for
us. Last year we wrote $900 million gross, $600 million net. It's a broadly diversified
portfolio by customer, by product, attachment point, geography.

Page 13 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

FINAL

We have made lots of money in that book of business over the years. We're rightly
considered a leading underwriter professional lines by our clients and our distribution
partners.
If you take that $900 million, I'd broadly categorize this book into three major sections:
miscellaneous professional liability, essentially E&O, financial institutions, and the US D&O
book. The issue at hand here is really contained within the primary component of the US
D&O book.
As Joe just mentioned to you, obviously within the financial institutions book, we had a
couple of cases go against us on the FI book, but the 2010 and prior has continued to
behave well overall. So what we had were a couple of isolated cases, but that really has
nothing to do with the actions that we took in the Fourth Quarter.
Again going back to the primary D&O book, we were never a large writer of primary D&O
in the US. However, in 2009, we believe that the stress of the industry presented an
opportunity to increase our penetration of that primary business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Since then, we grew the book from under $20 million in annual gross premium to the
current $50 million level. In these early years, we didn't see anything alarming in our
reported claims that would indicate we needed to take any kind of reserve actions.
However, as Joe noted earlier, we started to see claims pick up a little bit, actually a lot, in
the second half of 2013. Although we made some adjustments in the Third Quarter, in the
context of the overall book of business and the overall reserve for professional lines for
the 2012 and prior, it really was not material to us.
The Fourth Quarter really brought out some new data to us and we saw higher levels of
claim activity continuing. We performed a deep dive in the entire US D&O book, the net
result of which was this adjustment in our view of the loss experience for that book in 2011
through 2013. As Joe said, we had added $32 million to the prior-year reserves, and we
decided to add $30 million to our estimate for full-year 2013.
Obviously we are not pleased with this development. We have developed a
comprehensive action plan to remediate this book as quickly as possible, and it is already
in effect. We have made changes to our underwriting, our pricing, claims monitoring and
actuarial analysis of that book, and we will keep very close eye on it to ensure we get the
results we expect.
I believe we've responded to these developments promptly and decisively. We've
established what we believe to be prudent reserves so as to minimize the risk of
revisiting this issue in future periods.
I would also add that in performing our various analyses, we identified some positive
indications in other parts of our professional lines book for the 2011 and 2012 years. As

Page 14 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

you would expect, this is a broad book. And a broad book of this type would give you
both good and bad news emerging within the diversified portfolio.

FINAL

However, consistent with our established practice at AXIS, we believe it is still too early to
take any action on these favorable indications. So all you are getting is the bad news here.
We are taking the situation very seriously and we are taking firm action.
We must also remember that this issue is contained to a $50 million book within a
profitable and probably-diversified $4.5 billion Company. Notwithstanding making what we
believe to be prudent adjustments to our estimates, our Company still reported a
combined ratio of 92.5 in the quarter and 91 for the year, and operating income of over
$600 million.
This is not good news. We are not happy to talk about it, but we are going to confront it.
We're going to take care of it and we're going to put it behind us.

Q - Mike Nannizzi

{BIO 15198493 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Got it. Thanks for that. My question is, do we know, obviously you have a big book, it is
very diversified, lots of different places, geographies, placements and towers. But is there
an underlying trend that we can say -- oh, that makes sense, that is US D&O, that is clearly
limited to the primary layers.
So that is why whatever this trend it is, it's not relevant to the international book,
reinsurance, higher working layers. Something, so we could say -- oh, it makes sense that
it is in this one book and then decisive corrective action has been taken. We don't have to
think about how this is relevant to other books?

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

Mike, that's a very good question. I think the answer here really lies in the composition of
that book. As I mentioned to you, it was a small book that we were growing. Frankly, the
composition in terms of industry concentrations, in terms of experience, is not a proxy of
the industry.
In fact, the fact that it isn't a proxy of the industry has served us well in the early years. We
saw no frequency of severity in 2009 and 2010. In 2011 and 2012, as we were looking at
the industry, going through the Chinese reverse mergers, we were looking at M&A
defense.
We were observing all of these issues happening in the industry, and we were seeing no
evidence of that in our book. When you have a book that is not the proxy of the industry,
sometimes it works for you and unfortunately sometimes it works against you. What
happened was, it worked for us by and large, through 2012.
What happened in 2013 was that the severity of frequency that we were seeing was really
hitting our books. We were seeing a lot in tech, we were seeing a lot in healthcare.

Page 15 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

FINAL

As I said, we did the deep dive and we said this is a small book, about 400 accounts here
for about $50 million of premium. The average limit is about $10 million. What we did is we
made a modest increase in the assumption of frequency of severity of that book.
Again, if you take a look at this book and you assume that this book has had a little over
$100 million, 400 accounts, if you simply add about three full-limit losses per year, that
explains the entire increase that we have done. It is a small book. Honestly, we
underestimated the volatility of the small book, and we should have accounted for the
greater volatility inherent in a small book.
As I mentioned, three additional limit cases a year account for the entire increase in the
reserves. That is what happened here. With regard to the other book, I think it is a fair
question, why is that not an issue in your other book?
The other book is supremely well diversified. On average, the limit that we offer are
significantly lower. It is really diversified by class, by industry, by country.
I think that the totality of that book really behaves in a very different way than what is a
small relatively un-diversified, relatively unbalanced book with regard to the industry. That
kind of composition works for you in certain markets, it works against you in others.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Cliff Gallant, Nomura.

Q - Clifford Gallant

{BIO 1854853 <GO>}

Thank you. Actually, that last answer was pretty thorough, I appreciate that. I was curious
about when you said you did the deep dive during the quarter, if there was any more
granularity about what kind of trends you did see, that might be useful to think about that,
that line of business.

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

Again, I think, as you might imagine, we have been scratching our head on this one. This is
simply a change in the assumption of the severity, of frequency of severity, and by adding
a couple of cases a year.
Because the frequency that we saw in 2013 basically says we have to reevaluate our
assumption of frequency of severity for that portfolio as a whole. We just said -- you know
what? We need to assume we are going to have a little bit more bad luck in that portfolio
going forward and we reflected that in our loss picks.

Operator
Josh Shanker, Deutsche Bank.

Page 16 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

Q - Josh Shanker

{BIO 5292022 <GO>}

FINAL

A couple of things which are related. I want to talk but the business mix issue and also talk
about growth trajectory for accident, health and other smaller businesses, and ultimately
their affect on the trajectory of the expense ratio.
Obviously they are small right now, but still the expense ratio is higher than it was a year
ago. When should we start expecting some amelioration in that number? And what longterm plan or short-term plan are you thinking about as involves business mix?

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

A couple of things that I would say. If you look at our expense ratio, one is we are clearly
seeing long term, and I think we should expect to see long term, an increase in the
acquisition expense ratio for the Company for two reasons.
We probably had a lull in our MGA business last year. As you know, we have been
repositioning our MGA book overall. We're now growing it back up again, and MGAs
generally have a higher acquisition expense ratio.

Bloomberg Transcript

Were also ceding less reinsurance and we get less benefits of ceding commission. So you
have that. I expect that trend will sustain.
With regard to the G&A issue, let's take A&H in particular because that is a large enough
book to discuss on its own. We've said all along we needed to be in excess of $300
million worth of earned premium to be able to leverage those expenses across the book
and achieve a combined ratio below 100.
I do not have a problem with achieving a technical ratio in the low to mid 90s. The issue is
it taking that infrastructure that we are putting in place. As we have said, our expectation
is that by the end of the year we will have reached that balance between earned
premium on the one hand and technical margin and overall expense.
I will also say that as a general practice, Josh, we will always have a handful of new
initiatives and we will always invest in new offices. This is the R&D of our business. The
R&D of our business is bringing on people, establishing a presence, building.
So right now, and ice have said this before, we still have challenging expense ratios in
Canada and Australia, as we are expanding that area. You have heard that we bring on
new teams. In fact, we just recently, this week we announced that we are bringing on a
new healthcare team.
We are not going to be writing a dollar of business with this team before the middle of
the year at the very earliest. And it will be a slow growth as we go through that. That is
going to continue going forward.

Page 17 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

FINAL

The overall expenses of the Company, in my mind, are likely going to have another factor.
That factor is investments that we are making currently as we transition from a small midsize Company to a larger Company.
We have some short-term investments that we need to make, to make that transition,
including investments in IT, including investments in how we are delivering our services
across the organization. I would expect continued growth in our expenses as we make
those investments, many of which cannot be capitalized, over the next couple of years.
As we are looking at our numbers going forward, we are optimistic that the investments
that we will be making over the next couple of years start to provide a meaningful
investment in terms of bending down the cost structure of this organization in future
years.
Is there anything you wanted to add, Joe?

A - Joe Henry

{BIO 13390626 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, Josh, two things. On A&H, our gross premiums for the year were about $269 million,
which was slightly above our plan. The mix of business between insurance and reinsurance
was about 30/70, but as we move forward Chris and team expect that, that actually will
move towards more of a 40/60 mix, with a lower expense ratio.
Just to report on what happened during 2013, the G&A expense ratio for A&H itself came
down by 7 points. Even though A&H is a bigger part of our earned premiums and had a
higher expense ratio, over time their expense ratio will come down. I do not know if that
helps at all.

Q - Josh Shanker

{BIO 5292022 <GO>}

It does. On the loss ratio side, you mentioned business mix, I assume the business mix
change is largely a decline in aviation aerospace and an increase in casualty? I wanted to
understand what is driving the -- I realize obviously, there is the through nine months 2013,
you increased the loss pick there for the professional lines. But on the business mix, is that
principally what you are getting at when you say that the loss ratio was higher based on
business mix change?

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

I think that is right. I will expand on that just a little bit, Josh, but that is a very good point.
One of the things that we are looking to do here is to significantly increase the capital
efficiency of our book and reduce the volatility.
There are a number of lines of business that we have introduced recently that are very
steady lines of business, but with higher loss ratios. A good example would be A&H, which
is a very steady line. That is contributing, in fact, to the growth in the loss ratio for the
insurance industry.

Page 18 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

Another area that you will see that we have grown, is we have grown the motor book in
the reinsurance area. Again, that is a high loss ratio, low expense ratio, very stable book
of business.

FINAL

We have added just last year in the reinsurance area, over $100 million of agricultural
reinsurance business, most of it quarter share. Again, that is a higher loss ratio business.
All of these, and I want to parse the two of them, because you can argue that the lines
that I have just discussed are high loss ratio but low volatility. You also have casualty, which
is high loss ratio and higher volatility, so I wanted to make a point of distinguishing
between the two.
Yes. We are seeing very good growth opportunities for us in our US excess and umbrella
book. That is clearly a higher loss ratio business, but that is approaching very attractive
profitability levels. All of those things are creating a shift in the mix of business to a slightly
higher long-term loss ratio, but also significantly reducing the volatility of the book.
I want to give you one more piece of data. Over the last two years, Josh, we increased
our premiums by about 15%. Over the same last two years, we reduced our shares
outstanding by 16%. We have been able to grow the book, diversify the book and return
all of our profits to our shareholder as a result of having a much better capital efficiency in
our portfolio.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Vinay Misquith, Evercore.

Q - Vinay Misquith

{BIO 6989856 <GO>}

The first question is related to the US D&O book. If I heard correctly, you have $50 million
of premiums. As you mentioned, the loss is up by $30 million this year. So there seems to
be a 60-point charge on the combined ratio.

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

Absolutely. As I said, this is an unbalanced book. If you have a $10 million line, three fulllimit losses is $30 million. The problem with that book is that it is small and it cannot
absorb an increase in the frequency of volatility. That is a real issue.
Again, I think what is really important is that when you have over 20 different portfolios of
professional lines across the Company, some are going to perform a little bit better,
some are going to perform a little bit worse. But the totality of the portfolio, when you get
the benefit of the balance and the diversification in that portfolio, that totality of that
portfolio continues to perform very well.
As I said earlier, we saw a lot of positive indications for 2011 and 2012. We chose not to
take them. You are getting all of the bad news and none of the potential good news. We

Page 19 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

think that is the right thing to do.

FINAL

We think the right thing to do at this point in time is having identified the issue that were
made significant actions on the underwriting side, on the claims monitoring side and all of
the other issues. Our underwriters are working very hard to rebalance this portfolio.
They're obviously going to be looking very strongly at pricing, at mix, at everything else.
In the context of it, this book, 2011, 2012 and 2013, is going to have very unattractive loss
ratios. We think that those unattractive loss ratios are prudent.
We can't guarantee anything, but we have done everything we could to make sure that
the likelihood of this thing hitting us or hurting us in 2014 and on, is highly unlikely. Think we
are taking all of the right moves, including taking prudent view of what those years might
be.

Q - Vinay Misquith

{BIO 6989856 <GO>}

Okay, that's helpful. The second question is, looking at -- I think the full year accident year
loss ratio, ex cat, is a more appropriate way to look at things. That was hurt by higher
property loss both in the insurance and reinsurance segment, and higher ag losses this
year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Looking forward to next year and looking at where pricing is going, should we see flattish
margins next year versus this year? How much of a negative impacted did ag and the
property losses have on full-year losses this year?

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

Good questions, Vinay. I think the first thing that we need to say, because I don't know if
we actually made it clear enough, is we actually had a very profitable year in ag.
But all of the losses came in the Fourth Quarter, as there was some adjustments in
premium, there was a significant premium reduction after we got the final board[ph] from
our clients. We did get losses coming out of India, and then we had a small as well,
excessive loss in the US piece.
Net-net, we reported a profitable underwriting year in the ag book. It is just that the
losses succumbed in the Fourth Quarter.
With regard to the property book, there's always going to be some volatility. One of the
issues that comes across here is that in the reinsurance side, we actually had very, very
favorable property experience, ex cat, in the Fourth Quarter of last year.
So it makes the comparison year over year actually unattractive. But that speaks more to
the experience in the Fourth Quarter of last year as it is this year. Again, there's a lot of
volatility that you would expect in a book of our size.

Page 20 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

FINAL

Going back to your core question, we have benefited from some pricing increases in
excess of half our book, I would say, last year was showing rates at or better than trends.
Certainly that will be a positive issue there. There is going to be continued volatility on the
property side on a normal basis, on the cat side on a normal basis.
I would say that when I look at all of our book year over year, on a price basis excluding
volatility, overall there is probably 1 point of deterioration year over year in terms of the
price of profitability of the book. But that alone is not going to be directive, because the
volatility of the book of the business, the construction of the portfolios, will very likely have
more impact on our ultimate results than that 1 point on a price basis.

Q - Vinay Misquith

{BIO 6989856 <GO>}

The one point includes the property cat in the reinsurance business, correct?

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

The property cat is a separate issue, because it is a volatility issue. I would say, all in, as I
mentioned earlier, I think the reinsurance book is somewhere between one and two
points of margin that we're giving up in the book.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the property book, as I said, maybe one point, all in. I'd say in the construct of our
book and the change in the mix of our business are likely going to have more impact on
the forward-looking numbers.

A - Joe Henry

{BIO 13390626 <GO>}

Vinay, it is Joe. A couple of things to follow up on that. In terms of agriculture profitability
during the year, the technical ratio which is basically losses in acquisition costs was 93-3.
So we had an excellent year on a year-to-date basis on agriculture.
In case anybody is curious about the accident year loss ratios, and we focus more on year
to date than quarter, on the insurance side the accident year loss ratio went up 3.5 points.
If you look at what that comprised of, it is comprised of a mix of 1.1 points and cost or
experience of 2.4 points.
The mix of that, the mix is really driven by A&H, and the cost was really driven by the
professional items that we discussed. On the reinsurance side on a year-to-date basis,
the accident year loss ratio is up 1.3 points. That is a case of mix actually declining by
about 1 point and cost going up by about 2.3 points. Both of those issues, mix and cost,
are related to ag.

Operator
Ryan Byrnes, Janney.

Q - Ryan Byrnes

{BIO 16902592 <GO>}

Page 21 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

As you guys shift away from more capital-intensive lines of business, how should we be
thinking about capital management going forward. In late this year you guys repurchased
about 93% of operating earnings through dividends and repurchases. How should we
think about that going forward?

FINAL

A - Joe Henry

{BIO 13390626 <GO>}

Ryan, It's Joe. We've really not changed our outlook as far as capital management is
concerned. We are going to continue to repurchase shares equal to our operating
earnings, less dividends, if the conditions are favorable to do that.
Our PMLs have come down, you can see from the supplement, the financial supplement
disclosure. As Albert was mentioning, we've grown the book of business and that brings
additional reserve risk to it.
To a certain extent some of the PML reductions have been offset by increase in reserve
risk. We are standing pat. If the opportunity presents itself, we will get active again. But
overall we are not changing our strategy.

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Ryan, if I may, there's a statement that you made that I have to correct. We're not moving
away from capital-intensive lines. They are a strong part of our book, we have got great
experience and a great history of positive results in that line.
What we are doing is we are adding to that book of business. We are growing in lines that
diversify the book. We are growing lines that don't add a significant amount.
I want to make it very clear to everybody on the call, we are not moving away from those
lines. We are an experienced market, we are a good market for those lines. We will
continue to participate in those lines.

Operator
Meyer Shields, KBW.

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

When you look back at 2013, to the property and attritional losses over the full year, would
that qualify as average, above or below?

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

Obviously on a cat basis, we had a below-average year. There's no doubt about that. I
think on a property-type basis, what I would say to you is, it is probably a little bit above
average. But what happened to them is the frequency, or the distribution of those losses,
was not average.

Page 22 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

As you know we had a real clumping of those losses in the Second Quarter. But when you
look back at the full year, which ultimately we have to do, it was just a modestly aboveaverage year for property. For property losses.

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

FINAL

Just a quick question, did you buy back any stock in January of this year?

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

We did not buy back any stock in January of this year. We are waiting for our window to
open up in the next couple of days. As Joe mentioned earlier, we have not changed our
stance with regards to capital management.

Operator
Charles Sebaski, BMO Capital Markets.

Q - Charles Sebaski

{BIO 17349221 <GO>}

I had a question about the credit and political risk. Seems that it has been growing pretty
much this year and came down a little bit. I'm wondering if there's anything specific? Or
global events? Or how the book has played out?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

You are right, we have had increasing revenues in that book. We have had some good
opportunities. We have expanded the book to include more project finance, for example.
A better fit with the opportunities that we have been seeing in 2013 as compared to our
appetite.
That has really been the issue. We feel good about the quality of the book. Interestingly
enough, the total exposure in the book has actually gone down year over year, as the
exposure assume the prior year's continues to go down.
I would say that the underlying risk in the portfolio is down year over year, as the old
business is running off. But we have put on some attractive new business, and it is okay.

Q - Charles Sebaski

{BIO 17349221 <GO>}

Regarding the new healthcare team that you are putting on, I wonder if we could get a
little insight on where in that market you are looking to play. On the smaller, larger side?
What kind of outlook or expectation you have for size. Or any additional thoughts you
might want to share on that new plan.

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

As you know, we recently recruited a new team. It goes without saying that this team is
highly regarded in the industry, significant experience, presence in both the market as well
as the industry.
Page 23 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

FINAL

What I would say is that what we expect to do here is build a very broad book of risk.
We're going to go to doctors, doctors' groups, hospitals, health care service
organizations. It will generally be low-limit primary mostly. What I want to do here is take it
at the appropriate pace.
We have literally just brought on the team. The first thing that we are going to do, is we
are going to go through confirming all of the assumptions that we made. We're going to
develop the business plan. We'll look at the brokers, and we will come back at you with a
more defined plan for that business.
But we can't do that when they are busy working with other people. We are happy we got
them on board. We're going to be working internally to develop the right plan. If things go
as we expect, we should start to write business in the summer.

Q - Charles Sebaski

{BIO 17349221 <GO>}

The question was more along the lines of do you see opportunity? Is it in the large
hospital, large doctor groups? Is this on the smaller end and the spectrum of insured's out
there that you obviously saw a market opportunity for? That kind of piece of it.

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. That is right. I think one of the things that is very interesting is, we have to recognize
that with the evolution of the Affordable Care Act, there a lot of changes happening in the
industry. We believe that will, in fact, create some new opportunities that may not have
been there in the past.
When you look at very experienced, I think physicians groups, hospitals, allied health care
facilities, individual physicians, that will generally be the kind of market that we will be
going after. Limits will generally be kept low. Obviously we will be looking very much at
securing that business in those states that have a good track record with regards to
litigation or liability.
It will be a surplus lines facilities. We've got all of those things planned properly. As you
know, this is an industry right now, this is a market right now, that is undergoing some
transition.
We did not bring this team on board to write a whole lot of business over the next six
months to a year. What we did is, we brought this team on board so that we could expand
our offerings of professional liability. We have a very well diversified portfolio. We do
accountants, we do lawyers, solicitors, insurance brokers, security consultants, architects,
engineers, a whole slew of them.
We think that this is a large market. We think that this is an appropriate addition to our
portfolio of professional liability cover. Obviously the less I would say a 12 to 24-month
plan and much more of a longer-term plan to expand and diversify our professional
liability practice.

Page 24 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

Operator
Dan Farrell, Sterne Agee.

FINAL

Q - Dan Farrell

{BIO 4935961 <GO>}

Can you expand a bit more on your strategy for reinsurance purchase in 2014 following
some of the changes that you made in 2013?

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

Sure. We have made some -- let's just go through the changes are made in 2013, just for
putting in context here. Like many people, for a long time we used to buy a lot of
individual towers, by low down on individual towers. That was great for protecting the
individual result of anyone book of business.
What we found, when we did a further analysis, and again I go back to my point, the
secrets to improving the results overall is enhanced use of analytics in optimizing the
portfolio. When we did all of that, what we were looking at is that we were ceding away
lot of our diversification benefit.

Bloomberg Transcript

It just made a lot more sense for us to retain more of the individual towers in our various
businesses. We discussed that with you all in our Investor Day presentation, Mike Steel,
our Chief Risk Officer, went through that with you.
The first thing that we did, is we said we can afford to buy more. Of course, because we
wanted to be prudent, we also put an aggregate cap on those treaties, so that if we got
hit with too much frequency, we've got some protection on that. We thought this was the
right opportunity to do that.
In some cases, we actually increased quarter share reinsurance purchases for some lines.
And in other lines we decreased quarter share protections from some lines. The last thing
that we did was, as you know, we issued a CAD Bond in July providing us with $200 million
protection for aggregate US losses in excess of $1 billion in the year.
Another thing that we did, is we started to take more opportunistic use of ILWs and
capital market instruments to shave some of the peaks of our exposures. We are now,
this year, also going to use a little bit of retro in our reinsurance book to further manage
the profitability of the book and further manage the volatility of that book. We regularly do
reviews based on our best estimates of where the book is, the volatility of the book and
where it is going.
My expectation is that you will see in 2014, some more modifications here and there
across our reinsurance purchases. As I said, I think you will see for the first time, the
purchase of a little bit of retro in our reinsurance book. But I think the major shift in
approach happened in 2013.

Page 25 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

Operator
Ian Gutterman, BAM.

FINAL

Q - Ian Gutterman

{BIO 3106649 <GO>}

First, can you quantify within the quarter, I know you gave the year, but within the quarter,
how much impact the non-cat property and agricultural losses were?

A - Joe Henry

{BIO 13390626 <GO>}

Bear with me a second here.

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

Let me just go through the loss ratio information right now. Just bear with me.

A - Joe Henry

{BIO 13390626 <GO>}

Could you repeat that question to me to make sure that have it right? Because I've got
some numbers in front of me. Just repeat that, please.

Q - Ian Gutterman

{BIO 3106649 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Sure. The comments in the press release, and I think in your prepared remarks as well,
about Q4 and reinsurance having an increased accident year due to the property losses,
the non-cat property losses plus the crop losses.

A - Joe Henry

{BIO 13390626 <GO>}

Right. For reinsurance in the quarter, we had an 8-point change in the accident year loss
ratio. Some of that was due to mix, a very little piece, but most of it was due to the cost
or experience. Within the cost or experience, property was 5.4 points and ag was 3
points. That's in the quarter on reinsurance.

Q - Ian Gutterman

{BIO 3106649 <GO>}

Perfect, thank you.

A - Joe Henry

{BIO 13390626 <GO>}

On the insurance side, if you need that, it was 6.1 points in the quarter.

Q - Ian Gutterman

{BIO 3106649 <GO>}

That was all property?

A - Joe Henry

{BIO 13390626 <GO>}

Yes.

Page 26 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

Q - Ian Gutterman

{BIO 3106649 <GO>}

FINAL

Got it. Okay. Great, thank you. On the D&O, Albert, you obviously gave us a lot of color. I
was hoping to push for a little bit more.
Can you give us a little bit better idea of where these claims came from? You mentioned,
I think, some medical, some tech. I'm looking more specifically, where were you attaching
on these?
Were they normal attachment points for you? Were they high, were they low? Were they
side A, were they side B? Were they derivative cases, were they security accident cases?
What additional color can you give us?

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

Two from column A and one from column B. The real issue there, this is a primary book,
so it attaches low. What we get hit on in this second half of the year was a higher
frequency of securities class actions on the primary public D&O book. As I mentioned, we
did have a heightened number of cases in the tech and healthcare parts of the portfolio.

Q - Ian Gutterman

{BIO 3106649 <GO>}

Okay, so this is traditional, this is the kind of stuff I would see in, say, the cornerstone data
or whatever. It should correlate to those kind of cases?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

It is. As I mentioned earlier, the issue with our portfolio is that because of its distribution by
industry, it has not historically been a good proxy for the industry.
As I mentioned earlier, at the risk of repeating myself, some of the cornerstone data that
is available, a lot of that stuff we missed. We missed because of the way the portfolio was
constructed. Unfortunately, we did get hit in the second half of 2013.

Q - Ian Gutterman

{BIO 3106649 <GO>}

Okay. Then your plans for renewing that? Simplistically, if you're adding $30 million of
claims on a $50 million book and you already had, I assume, a non-serial loss ratio book, it
would seem to imply you're at over 100 loss ratio in this book. Which would suggest you
are using a lot of pricing or to non-renew? Or am I misreading that?

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

You're absolute correct. The loss ratio is in excess of 100 and our corrective action plan
includes a combination of a number of issues. One of which is clearly we need to push
price in a number of areas. B, we need to revisit the premium to limit balance in the book.
We think, in fact, that where we look at what is happening in this book, we have here what
could be the core of an interesting book. But where it is right now is between and betwixt.

Page 27 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

FINAL

We think there's an opportunity for us here to be more focused on exactly the kind of
distribution we want on this book. We think that actually with a greater number of risks in
that portfolio, we will actually get more balance. It is getting the distribution, which is more
reflective, if you would, of the industry and getting a better balance.
As I mentioned to you in terms of my market comment, these are difficult markets. We
are getting price increases in there, but we are going to have to work a getting that
balance. Until then, we're going to make sure that we are containing this book so that it
does not hurt us in the future.

Operator
Mike Nannizzi, Goldman Sachs.

A - Joe Henry

{BIO 13390626 <GO>}

I think we lost him, operator.

Operator
(Operator Instructions) Mr. Benchimol, would you like to make any closing remarks?

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. Again, I want to go back to my opening comment. On the whole, it was a good
year, but certainly there are things within this year that we are not happy about.
I believe that we took the right actions to take care of it and continue within 2013. We will
take action and we will report to you on our progress as the year continues. Thank you
very much and we will speak with you shortly.

Operator
The conference is now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may
now disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily

Page 28 of 29



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-02-05

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 29 of 29

