Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-11-10

Business Update Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Adrian Gore , Chief Executive Officer

Other Participants
Francois du Toit, Analyst
Larissa van Deventer, Analyst
Michael Christelis , Analyst
Risto Ketola, Analyst

Presentation
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Discovery Corporate
Announcements Teleconference. All participants will be in listen-only mode and there will
be an opportunity to ask questions after today's presentation. (Operator Instructions)
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Discovery's Chief Executive Officer, Adrian
Gore. Please go ahead, sir.

Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

(Technical Difficulty) and good morning everybody. Thank you for dialing in and thank you
for the time. This call is in relation to the strange announcement we did just 50 minutes or
so ago, and I'll speaking I guess about 15 to 20 minutes or thereabout, and as you've
heard, we'll be very pleased to have questions if there'd by any.
We have put out a slide show online and I am (Technical Difficulty) page two, and just talk
about the number of pages, I only expect to do the too complex and (inaudible) this is an
important day for us. We are announcing that Discovery has acquired the outstanding 25%
of our British business from the Prudential. The purchase price is GBP155 million and the
partnership takes largely the formula on which the put and call options that are enshrined
in the shareholder agreement (Technical Difficulty).
(inaudible) just going to turn to slide number two and make the point that I think the joint
venture has been a remarkable partnership between us and the Prudential. It really was
gained in 2007 with both health and protection entering into the market. I think the
seminal moment in the evolution of the joint venture is 2010 when we effectively acquired

Page 1 of 12



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-11-10

FINAL

Standard Life Healthcare, and in return for that, grew our shareholding in a joint venture
from 50% to 75%, as you can see, in the middle of slide number two.
As part of that transaction, because the Prudential became a minority, it became
important to give them some flexibility and so we agreed upon a call and a put call and
put that was to happen in 2015, in which we would have the ability to call the 25% and
although we have the ability to put the 25% to us. It is important to say that since that the
evolution of the joint venture, I think has exceeded the expectations I think for both
parties, it's bigger and it's more complex. I think the relationship has been excellent
between the parties and it is fundamental that both of us felt that to work for the put it
call option to trigger in 2015 given the nature of the relationship and the (Technical
Difficulty) doesn't make sense.
So over the last year or so, we have been negotiating and working with the Prudential in
order to get the right Life path going forward. If they decide that in that process, we
consider the number of different alternatives, not just the put in the cone in fact, the
Prudential considered by us in the joint venture that based on our aspirations ultimately
we say from opposite line up by the outstanding 25%. And that's exactly what has taken
place. So this in the sense happens now and not in terms of the put and call agreements.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me move to the next slide and just to make the pace of what we are trying to do here
now. I will be brief, but it is worthwhile saying that we do believe the UK offers the
considerable opportunity for Discovery and for our specific business model. And as you
know, it's a fairly fundamental part of our strategy that's taken primary marketing and we
have that confidence that (Technical Difficulty) in the UK market.
As you can (Technical Difficulty) like any developed markets that is suffering from
complete demographics and the social implications of that placing social (Technical
Difficulty) under pressure. People are living longer, they're living longer in PruHealth
(inaudible) continues to rise about general price inflation and some even great
complexities that make insurance, health and life and other forms frankly a central part of
society.
Having said that, you can see that the insurance system hadn't responded to serving the
really macro trends affecting the market the fact that, millennials have different
expectations of institutions and these are a very different sense of institutional power of
our financial crisis et cetera. But I think the core thing for us and I think if you follow that
you will notice that, our strong belief in the fact that insurance systems done the fact that
the nature of risk has changed. That today the developed market is 80% of risk is still by
behavioral, last half choices that lead to non-communicable disease, it's more than 50%
of the driver of mortality is on that course.
At the same time, because behavioral, we know that people are rational in terms of how
they make choices and to the extent there is very little response in the insurance
industries around that. Our very strong belief is that the Discovery model, the use of
incentives and behavior change and passing that into (inaudible) life and health insurance
offers a unique opportunity and a unique business model. And as our last time reviews I

Page 2 of 12



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-11-10

FINAL

think in the context of the UK, we see great receptivity of the model, and to an extent
going forward, there has been a lot of work within in the Discovery organization around,
disciplined process of netting out what is really a shared value model. The idea of using
incentives to get change, the actual surplus from that better behavior being clawed back
into incentives and (inaudible) to shareholder et cetera and getting really a pure shared
value cycle.
Our very strong completion is on slide number four that that has the opportunity to
change the market by offering lower prices, achieving better selection, creating good
behavior and driving both better value for our customers, and importantly, better value for
shareholders as we illustrate on slide four.
Turning to slide five, ignoring the macro trend, at a micro level, we have a strong belief
that the strong opportunity to get superior profits and return on capital from both the
health and life insurance market. In the context of health insurance or PMIs, as it's called in
the UK, it's relatively lighter on capital. It is an industry that wrecks around (inaudible) that
is robust, about 7 million people that are covered in that market with a market growth that
is not (Technical Difficulty) and our concern is to gain market share. We only have 500,000
or so lives and makes this considerable space to grow into.

Bloomberg Transcript

But I think what is exciting is that if you get better selection, better pricing, dynamic
underwriting et cetera, you have the ability to get (inaudible) effect on the return on
capital. So the slide number five, on the left hand side, illustrates that a 1% reduction in
claims draws a 5% increase in return on capital. We think that the ability to have superior
returns on capital is present in the health market.
In the context of life insurance or protection, as it's called, the opportunities are vast. It is a
very, very large market. As you can see from the slide, on the right hand side, the UK is
third large market .Globally at the same time it's a market that is largely commoditized
and therefore, if you can achieve better price points, differentiated value propositions, we
believe we can see opportunities (Technical Difficulty) superior profits and growth is real.
So at sort of a micro level, I think (Technical Difficulty) very strongly in what we set out to
do in the evidence over the last number of years.
Turning to slide number six, I think it is important to give you a sense of the confidence we
are building of what are going to achieve in the UK. I have made the point that the last
number of years have been important for us. Illustrating that on the slide, you can see the
strong new business growth, you can see the operating profit emerging just after 2011.
But importantly, you can see the quality of the business, and I think that reflects the quality
of the business model. We managed to bring loss ratios down and lapse rates down in
the context of PruHealth's lows in the industry. You can see a similar trend in the context of
PruProtect in terms of claims levels and lapse rates. And I think very importantly, over the
last few years, we've managed to really get Vitality into a position of strength, visibility
and considerable engagement as we've tried to illustrate through the bottom of slide
number six.

Page 3 of 12



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-11-10

FINAL

Just two specific comments on each of the business lines. In the context of PruHealth, I've
just made the point, you can see it on the left-hand side, that the market clearly has a
fairly long tail, but it's fairly -- that's kind of a strong oligopoly at the top end. There is
considerable market share for us to grow into, as you can see.
As I've just mentioned, we've done, I think, very good work on the quality of the business.
But on the right-hand side, we've made this comment in a number of our results
announcements, we really have been laboring under a number of administrative systems
and structures. We acquired Standard Life Healthcare, taken us a number of years to roll
through into different technology (inaudible) change blocks of business et cetera.

Bloomberg Transcript

But as you can see from the chart from now through the next year and to the following
2016 year, we will be on to one administrative system, considerable amount of expenses
will drop off, and therefore we expect by 2015 to 2016, 100 million to 150 million of
additional profitability to merge from really the removal of this burden of a number of
technology layers. And so essentially [ph] the PruHealth was a differentiated product
offering with the quality of the business that it had and with a far more efficient chassis
that has great potential to make significant profits.
In the case of PruProtect, turning to slide number eight, I would say that our confidence
levels are very higher, the ability to disrupt the market. On the left-hand side, we have
followed a different distribution strategy to many of our competitors. And I do believe that
that is because of the 12 face to face distribution channel that now touches 8,000
brokers, that together with the differentiated product offering (Technical Difficulty) not just
excellent distribution, but some of the really powerful networks that offer great potential
for growth going forward.
But I think the seminal issue for the PruProtect business is on the right-hand side. Late last
year, so approximately one year ago, we rolled out the, what we call the Vitality
Optimiser, really the dynamic underwriting and dynamic pricing model that has driven
Discovery Life. It has taken us some time, as I think I mentioned in our result presentation,
to get us to what it needs to be in a foreign market. It required codifying mortality curves,
moving them to reinsurance structures et cetera.
But really what it gives us in a market that is commoditized, as you can see on the righthand side, with lower price points, really pricing selection, that really prices in the better
lives, creates the right kind of behavior and brings down lapse rates for the better lives.
And to an extent, it reverses the very dynamics that take place in the traditional life book
where you tend to latch for the better lives (Technical Difficulty).
And more into the Optimiser, turning to slide number nine, that has been pretty
fundamental in the evolution of PruProtect. In the left-hand slide of chart number nine,
although it's a discounted premium, it starts out lower, but irony is the average premium
that our policyholders are buying is 30% higher than we've had on the traditional. The
number of ancillary benefit (inaudible) which drives a lot of profitability is 20% higher. You
can see on the bottom left-hand corner that now maybe 44% of the business is in fact is
integrated to Vitality through the Optimizer.

Page 4 of 12



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-11-10

FINAL

And then on middle part of the chart, which I think is important, you can see the rapid
market share gain that PruProtect has managed to achieve. And so while, a number of
units that we were kind of languishing in the tail of the market today, we are the third
largest writer in the IFA channel and we are quite close to the second and the
considerable growth opportunity.
On the right-hand side, I think you can see graphically the rapid and exponential growth in
the number of policyholders of PruProtect. And I think we believe the business really is
embryonic. This is one playout of the product and there is a long way to go. And so,
combination of the two has given us great confidence about what PruProtect can do.
On slide number 10, I'm not going to dwell on this, but it is important to make the point
that our business supported very substantial Vitality chassis besides the technology and
the methodologies and the pricing. (Technical Difficulty) version and many, many
companies in the UK, we developed a very, very powerful Vitality chassis and network that
really bodes well for a lot of things that we'd be doing, and in the process of next week
we'll be rolling our additional products as part of the launch of the new brand and the
launch of the new products that are really pivotal on the Vitality capable (Technical
Difficulty).

Bloomberg Transcript

So what I am trying to make we are developing [ph] for both is just to make the point that
the Discovery composite model Vitality linked to both health and life. I think is taking
shape very, very well in the UK. And that has given us the confidence to drive in terms of
what we try to achieve there.
Turning to the slide number 11, it is important to say that one of the critical things going
forward is building brand equity, the close part of this transaction that we will be changing
the brand away from the Prudential. Over the last 18 months or so, we have worked hard
in terms of building the Vitality brand. You will probably notice that in some of the certain
things like Britain's healthiest company that we've done those kinds of things. but we've
been lot more visible about the line, the Vitality and that sort of strategy (Technical
Difficulty) et cetera has worked remarkably well. We stepped up the pace quite a bit with
going with the premiership and that poses a whole bunch of opportunities and not only
just in terms of visibility, but in terms of our DTC campaigns et cetera.
And so, the research we've seen has meant with the -- has allowed us to conclude that
the Vitality brand and what it stands for it has achieved considerable cut through in the UK
market, and that too has given us not only confidence on the way forward, but an
important brand, an important brand pillar upon which we intend to build.
I will turn to slide number 12, just as important to talk about strategic thinking. And it really
talks to the question of why from our perspective we moved quicker than the call and the
put is laid down in the shareholders' agreement. As I said at the offset, there are
negotiations and instructions between ourselves and Prudential have been remarkably
good, and therefore the discussions have been about how both parties should go
forward and get the right kind of like path [ph].

Page 5 of 12



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-11-10

From our perspective, our reasoning is essentially the sooner we do, the deals are better.
And the four distinct things I thought I would mention, the first is brand. Of course, the
Prudential brand is an incredibly powerful asset and it's a remarkable brand, but in reality,
for us hiding behind it is not a long-term solution. As we're so cut through in the Vitality
brand, it became clear that trying to brand Vitality with the Prudential in a sense is
inefficient, and to an extent, given the amazing cut-through that Vitality is getting, the
longer (Technical Difficulty) inextricably linked to the power of the Prudential, and that
would remove our ability forever to really get away from it. So the important asset of
Vitality and its brand potential means that sooner, we do it the better.
The second point is the balance sheet. While PruHealth is written -- the health insurance is
written on a license inside the joint venture, we've written the protection business inside
the Prudential's balance sheet, on the Prudential's license. What this has meant in practice
it's really a bifurcation of the balance sheets of the joint venture where in effect, all of the
protection business, product approval, its governance, its reserving basis et cetera, are
determined by the Prudential because it's on their balance sheet. Now while that I think
worked in a start-up phase, the truth is that's not really fit-for-purpose for an institution
building on its own. And so bifurcation of the balance sheet had to be addressed sooner
than later.
In terms of funding, one of the (Technical Difficulty) of the initial joint venture was that the
Prudential, through its balance sheet, funded the start-up acquisition cost of the (Technical
Difficulty) at the outset, that was of course a very important asset. Having said that, given
the tax changes, a lowering of interest rates, the funding is not -- is not that efficient and
we replaced at a lower cost. At the same time, the scale and success of the JV has meant
that it has its own ability to raise funding from other sources like FINRI [PH] et cetera that
presented a lower cost to the existing funding. And so to an extent, the funding became
something that was not necessary going forward.
And then the fourth point I think I would like to mention is just potential expansion going
forward. The joint venture as it was structured had a fairly restricted scope of business,
only life -- only protection and PMI and really restrict any other scope of business. So if you
think of the Discovery composite business, all other areas like long-term savings and
other that we may go into over time.
And essentially when you go through, it became clear that in essence the current
structure had to change. I would also say the last point on slide number 12. It's an
important one, is that the price of the 25% is formula driven, and of course the bigger the
business gets, the higher that price tends to -- the higher that price is. And (Technical
Difficulty) the rate of growth of the business that exceeds the cost of funding. So the
sooner the purchase is done, based on this formula, of course, the better it is for us in
that respect.
And so I would say in conclusion that we felt that given our aspiration and given the
structures that were there that it makes sense for us to acquire the 25% and move
forward.

Page 6 of 12



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-11-10

FINAL

Turning to slide number 13, this is a very important point I would like to get (Technical
Difficulty) the Prudential on transition of the platform [ph] going forward. The business is
hugely complex and both parties felt that we need a very smooth, careful transition to
make sure that shareholder value is maintained, and of course, policyholders and other
stakeholders are treated properly. So there are a number of facets to the transition, all of
them required close collaboration with the Prudential and I think that's scoring the very
good (Technical Difficulty) we have with the Prudential.
On the brand itself, we will be transitioning immediately essentially from the Prudential
brand that will take place next week from the 17th in London. You will see more of it going
forward, but we have made the strategic decision to use the Discovery brand at the
corporate level, but in fact, the insurance entities will be branding Vitality, Vitality Life and
Vitality Health. This has been based on a lot of research that we have done over the last
number of months and I think some of the smartest thinking people in the UK around the
cut-through of Vitality, the centrality of the mechanism and the message that Vitality is not
just a program anymore, but in fact the entire insurance products really revolve around
how Vitality works with pricing and makes it different.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the balance sheet itself, we will continue to use the Prudential balance sheet while the
licensing takes place for the life insurance business in in the JV. So what will happen is that
new business will continue to be written on the Prudential balance sheet and over time
when that licensing processes is done, we will then start writing new business on the new
license and then over time we'll shift the existing block that sits on the Prudential balance
sheet, over time we anticipate that in the three to five year period to shift on to the
Vitality business in the UK.
From a funding perspective, the Prudential will continue to provide funding for the existing
block of business and that will only be transferred once the entire existing block is
transferred into the Vitality business in the UK. So to an extent, the Prudential will support
the existing business in the UK and Discovery through our resources, FINRI and other
structures will (inaudible) that funding as required as the business grows.
I think the strength of the life part is that it makes sure that things are done properly and
appropriately, all stakeholders are taken care of, but I think critically, given the rapid
growth of the business, it doesn't interfere with anything on the ground. Bear in mind that
operationally and from a management standpoint, it's an entirely stand-alone business
controlled by Discovery. So these very (inaudible) behind the scenes is essentially
business as usual on the ground. So I think what we managed to achieve with the Pru is a
process that's good for all parties and I think that is important.
I am going to wrap up with slide number 14, just very briefly, the economics. As I've said
acquired the outstanding 25% meaning that going forward, Discovery on 100% of the
businesses in the UK. We paid GPB155 million. From our plans, we estimate that only
GBP155 million -- we should return between 15 -- we should earn between 15 and 20%
return on the capital, but of course, the real aim of acquiring that is to liberate other 75%
that we own already and to really to drive that going forward.

Page 7 of 12



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-11-10

FINAL

From a capital perspective, we are funding the purchase price and the regulatory capital
out of existing resources and some debt, but and we are comfortable that we do not
need to raise capital for this particular transaction. I must point out that Discovery is
involved in a number of growth initiatives and over time we'll continue to revaluate that
capital plan. And then finally, just to make the point on earnings itself, the business is
growing rapidly. We anticipate by 2016, we estimate that the business can generate in
excess of ZAR1 billion of profitability.
So let me end there and just say that it is an important day for us, a lot of work and
planning over last year has taken place to get here, and to express gratitude to our team
and certainly to the Prudential for a process that I think has gone very, very well.
I am going to end then. If there are questions, we are very, very happy to take them.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Michael Christelis from UBS.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Michael Christelis

{BIO 15233664 <GO>}

Hi, guys. So it's just three questions. I apologize, the line was pretty bad, I am not sure if I
misheard or if you perhaps already said this. I mean, is there a period of time over which
new business will continue to be written on the pre-balance sheet? That's my first
question. The second question, just in terms of accounting for this transaction, the value is
significantly lower from what I can see than your puttable interest value in your balance
sheet. Can you maybe just talk a little about the impact that, that has on the current year's
reported earnings number?
And then just in terms of product expansion, you touched on, I think. I mean, are you
looking to launch things like Invest and Insure into that market or what could we expect in
the near-term as far as new products in that space? Thanks.

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Michael, thanks for the questions. Yeah, you are correct, in the case of new business, we
will continue to write new business on the Prudential license while the Life Insurance
license is being obtained for the business. Once that license is obtained, we expect it to
be 12 to 15 months or thereabout. Once the license is there, we will then write new
business on the new license obviously. The new business that has been written on the
Prudential business will essentially from the part of the existing block that will then be
transferred over time on to the license.
The second question is on the accounting. You are correct, the put option and the
accounting treatment, all that took into account the long-term projection of how the
business might play out, and it does create some distortions because of the value that we
are paying is lower than -- that determined inside that put option calculation. So it will
Page 8 of 12



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-11-10

FINAL

show us some excess earnings this year, but in fact, I'm pretty sure we are set up to
reveal a proper normalized earnings that will allow in the complete [ph] comparison yearon-year.
The third point is really just at this stage I think largely epidemic. I think we have all real
opportunities for some of our other products in Invest and Insure that come to play out in
different ways in the UK. There are a number of, I think, opportunities in different ways
that we can think about, but at this stage, it's a point just to make clear that before we're
completely restricted to follow it and I think given that we have that now opening the
opportunities will present themselves, but there's nothing planned immediately for that.

Q - Michael Christelis

{BIO 15233664 <GO>}

Are the Pru restricted from launching new protection products or not?

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

The Pru cannot use its brand in the protection space for a year. So what they'll do is up to
them and that follows from the transaction.

Q - Michael Christelis

{BIO 15233664 <GO>}

Perfect. Thanks, Adrian.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Our next question comes from Risto Ketola from Standard Bank.

Q - Risto Ketola

{BIO 4929572 <GO>}

Yeah, good morning, Adrian. I'll also ask maybe three questions. First of all, in terms of
funding this ZAR2.8 billion, can you give me some indication of how much will be from
internal cash resources and how much will be new debt issued and maybe whether you're
going to be using the preference share in South Africa or are you going to raise debt
offshore?
The second question is that ZAR1 billion of earnings you showed in the last slide. Is that
pre-tax for the UK combined operations or net earnings? Maybe just a little bit more
clarity on what the ZAR1 billion refers to? And then the last question it sort of follows up
on Michael's question, because Prudential mentions in its release that they will be looking
at re-entering the protection market, so it's basically the use of the brand for one year to
only non-compete in place?

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks. The first one is, I think, approximately 50-50 on funding of the 2.8 billion
debt and internal resources. We continue to look how best to go forward on that, but at
this stage, it's about 50-50 between the two and it's entirely onshore at this stage.

Page 9 of 12



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-11-10

FINAL

Second point is the estimate of profitability is really the operating profit, I was illustrating,
and then the third point, the only restriction on the Prudential is -- the two restrictions that
can't use the PruProtect name in the protection space, because it's a name that we built
up with them and they can't use their brand in the protection space for 12 months. Those
would be the only protections essentially that we have.

Q - Risto Ketola

{BIO 4929572 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Our next question comes from Larissa van Deventer from Barclays. Please go ahead.

Q - Larissa van Deventer

{BIO 20764470 <GO>}

Thank you. Good morning. Just one question from my side. You previously had the use of
Prudential's balance sheets and license until 2020. You mentioned 12 to 15 months to get
the new license in place. Any related financing arrangements and anything else? Will that
all end at the end of the 12 to 15 months as well or do you have alternative measures in
place that will have play out in 2020?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Larissa, I hope I am interpreting the question correctly. We will continue to use the balance
sheet for the existing block for a number of years. So there is two pieces in place. One is,
once the license is approved, we can then transact new business on our own license, but
the existing block will probably stay with (inaudible) transfer for a number of years, we
expect three to five years. So I am not sure I'm answering the question. In effect, it's
actually quite simple, I think. The existing block (inaudible) by the time we get our license
stays there for a number of years and is transferred. A new business starts in our own
license from the time that the license is approved.

Q - Larissa van Deventer

{BIO 20764470 <GO>}

And any loans that you have between, yourselves and Prudential?

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Well, the main issue is that the Prudential has funded the acquisition costs of the -- that's
part of using their balance sheet in effect, but they had inside the reserve structure
funding for the existing block of business. That will remain in place, so essentially, that
funding will continue to support the business. And at the point of the transfer to our
license, whatever funding is left or whatever funding hasn't unwound by that stage, will
need to be paid back, but in fact on our calculations, it's probably very negligible. It's likely
that that funding will have run down by that stage.

Q - Larissa van Deventer

{BIO 20764470 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Page 10 of 12



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-11-10

Operator
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from Francois du Toit from JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Francois du Toit

{BIO 16128719 <GO>}

Hi guys. Sorry, I'm -- can I ask you a question that I think has been asked? So the 4.7 billion
Prudential policyholder debt or negative reserve funding, that will effectively need to be
repaid when your license gets into place. And is that -- am I understanding that correctly?
Or if not, are there any events that could force the early repayment of that debt?

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

No, Francois, let me explain that. The 4.7 million -- the 4.7 billion negative reserve
effectively is the acquisition cost funding of the existing block that's been built to-date,
right? That will not -- what happens is that will only need to be repaid once that existing
block is transferred on to the new license. So even though our license hopefully will come
particularly next year or so. Then debt transfers likely take three to five years, right? As
you know, if you look at that existing block on its own, those negative reserves unwound
part [ph] which is certainly in the UK and therefore if it's four to five years out, it's unlikely
that much of that 4.7 billion will still be there. And so the 4.7 billion funding will remain, but
it's likely to run down. So on our projections, it's unlikely that any of debt needs to be paid
from Discovery resources.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Francois du Toit

{BIO 16128719 <GO>}

Okay. It's a fairly big amount of debt that's increasing through ongoing funding. I would
just maybe request that some disclosure around the payback period for that gets
disclosed as -- similar to the sort of disclosure you give after a negative reserve payback
in the annual report, I think that'd be very useful.

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Francois du Toit

{BIO 16128719 <GO>}

Just also on the -- can you maybe disclose or will you put out some announcement maybe
what the financial impact on your TNAV and your NAV and earnings at some point in time?

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Yes. (inaudible) and Ricky Farber will be giving you detail on that quite soon, on all these
issues.

Q - Francois du Toit

{BIO 16128719 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Page 11 of 12



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-11-10

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Thank you.

FINAL

Operator
Thank you, sir. Adrian, at this time, there were no further questions. Do you have any
closing comments?

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Just maybe to again thank you for dialing in and listening. And just like -- a lot of detail on
these [ph] what I've said, I hope that's clear that will be available from our teams as we
move forward. Maybe just to end with, it is an important step for us and one we are very
excited by and let me thank you for listening once again. Thank you.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of Discovery, that concludes today's conference. Thank
you for joining us and you may now disconnect your lines.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 12 of 12

