Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-07

Q2 2014 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

George Quinn
Martin Senn

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Martin Senn

{BIO 3241585 <GO>}

Welcome to Zurich Insurance Group's Results Presentation for the First Half of the 2014
Financial Year. I'm pleased to report encouraging progress across the group. I'll make a
few comments on our ﬁnancial performance before turning to an update on our strategy
execution.

Bloomberg Transcript

First, our ﬁnancial performance. Business operating proﬁt for the ﬁrst six months of 2014 is
$2.6 billion, up 15% from the prior year period. Net income attributable to shareholders is
up 14% at $2.1 billion. While still early in our three-year plan, we're on track against our
2014 to 2016 targets.
Business operating proﬁt after tax return on equity of 12.5% is within our target range of
12% to 14%. Zurich remains very well capitalized, with solvency currently considerably
above our AA target range. Our Z-ECM ratio was 128% at the end of March, but is likely to
have moved closer to the top end of the target range as we allocated more risk capital to
investment management in the second quarter.
Cash ﬂows have remained strong and we project that full-year cash remittances will be in
the excess of $3.5 billion, ahead of 2013. In terms of implementing the plans we set out at
the Investor Day, naturally, most of the actions we have taken in this last six months are
laying the groundwork for the next few years.
Nonetheless, we have provided some additional information on how volumes and
proﬁtability break down by our priority markets, as well as extra data relating to the
Farmers Exchanges, which we do not own, and we will evolve what we disclose over time
as our actions start to move the needle on our ﬁnancial metrics.
Coming back to our progress to-date, we have made an encouraging start to our plan
across each of our three strategic cornerstones. The process of prioritizing investment in
distinctive positions is at an early stage. Nevertheless, we have completed much of the
preparation for future investment in priority markets in each of our customer segments. To
give you some examples, in Corporate, we have established consistent customer
segmentation across Global Corporate and Corporate Life & Pensions.

Page 1 of 12



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-07

FINAL

We're well on track to meeting our plan of 100 new common customers across these two
business by year-end. We have also implemented regional initiatives to increase product
density levels in Global Corporate.
In North America Commercial, we have completed a big data pilot to generate new
insights, developed two new predictive models, segmented the customer base in what
we believe is an industry ﬁrst in the commercial mid-market space and achieved higher
conversion rates based on a new broker model. We're now transferring this knowledge to
our commercial business in Australia, with other markets to follow.
In the retail space, we have completed our customer segmentation across ﬁve European
markets so that we better understand customer needs. We're aligning our business plans
with these needs to ensure we make the right investments in 2015. We have also
extended our exclusive distribution agreement with Banco Sabadell in Spain.

Bloomberg Transcript

As we showed at the Investor Day, the majority of our capital is allocated to businesses
which are generating a good return. Our priority here is to build on strong and proﬁtable
positions. However, around one-third of our capital is allocated to our manage for value
businesses, which for various reasons have lower proﬁtability. Over time we aim to
change this picture, improving proﬁtability and reprioritizing capital deployment.
As we expected, manage for value returns in the ﬁrst half of this year are not that diﬀerent
to what we showed at the Investor Day. However, as I will explain shortly, we have taken a
number of important steps in our GI business and in evaluating our options in Global Life.
It has to be our aim here to show tangible progress in our ﬁnancial KPIs over the threeyear plan period.
In relation to growing our operating earnings, we largely completed the streamlining of
our organizational structure above the business unit level in July. This process is intended
to speed up our decision making and optimize our governance, but is also expected to
deliver annual cost savings of $250 million by the end of 2015.
And as part of our initiatives to enhance investment returns, Investment Management has
completed the objective of deploying additional risk capital in the second quarter. And
we also have already invested, or committed to invest, $1 billion in illiquid assets so far this
year.
Turning to progress in each of our three segments, starting with General Insurance. Gross
written premiums in our priority markets grew by 4% in U.S. dollars and 3% in local
currency, adjusted for a non-renewed fronting contract.
Despite some evidence of increasing competitive pressures, we saw good growth in
Global Corporate, as well as in our Commercial insurance operations in U.S and UK. Gross
written premiums in our priority retail markets were broadly ﬂat, with growth in some
markets, but with overall volumes impacted by some re-underwriting in Brazil.

Page 2 of 12



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-07

FINAL

As you can see from this slide, our priority markets continue to account for the majority of
our GI operating earnings. We reported good growth in BOP in these markets with a
marked improvement in our accident year combined ratio. And while the year-on-year
comparison beneﬁts from the Swiss pension credit in Q1 and low catastrophe losses, we
continue to see strong overall proﬁtability in these markets, particularly in our Q2 results.
Besides the groundwork, we have completed on prioritizing investment, we have also
made good progress in the General Insurance businesses that we are managing for value.
Measures include the sale of the Russian retail business and exit from Zurich branded
aggregator distribution in UK.
Our current primary objectives are to drive further improvement in accident year
proﬁtability, complete turnaround actions in several markets and prioritize growth
initiatives where we enjoy distinctive positions.
In Global Life annual premium equivalent in our priority markets is up by about 15% with
strong growth in our Corporate Life & Pensions business in UK and successful execution
of growth strategies in bank distribution and our IFA distribution business in the U.S.

Bloomberg Transcript

New business value is up 3% in priority markets adjusted to be on a like-for-like basis.
Good performance given that our ﬁrst half new business last year was boosted by
particularly strong sales of protection products. Overall, we're pleased with our progress
here.
In terms of manage for value operations, we have exited marginal positions in Taiwan,
Corporate Life & Pensions, Australia and Luxembourg. We have also developed a holistic
approach to in-force management in UK, Germany and U.S. which we anticipate to
contribute additional BOP of towards the upper end of the $50 million to $100 million
range that we mentioned at the Investor Day.
We're in the process of improving our Global Life ﬁnancial reporting. The ﬁrst step is the
implementation of sources of earnings reporting. Next year, we'll better align our
reporting with our strategy for each component of our diverse business. Identifying
markets where cash extraction is the priority and enabling us to better articulate our
growth plans.
As you know from the Investor Day, we have not set segment level targets nor do we
intend to. However, I've included a bit more color on what is behind our conﬁdence that
our Life business can get to a BOP level above $350 million per quarter by 2016.
Naturally, there are many moving parts here, but we are on track to deliver. I will give you
a comprehensive update on our Life business at the Investor Day we plan to hold in May
2015.
We have also seen some encouraging signs of progress at the Farmers Exchanges. While
gross written premiums at the Farmers Exchanges declined by 1% in the second quarter,
this compares to a decline of 2% in Q1 and 4% in Q4 2013. In addition, excluding 21st
Century and Business Insurance sold through independent agents, both gross written
Page 3 of 12



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-07

premiums and policies in force have grown in the last four months. This is best evidenced
in an improvement in both retentions and new business as well as in customer satisfaction
as measured by Net Promoter Score.

FINAL

The Farmers Exchanges have also seen growth in the total number of agents driven by a
signiﬁcant reduction in agent attrition. The suggests that the Farmers Exchanges' go-tomarket strategy is beginning to pay oﬀ. Although obviously, there's still much to do.
In summary, in General Insurance we have made good progress on our strategy to
turnaround or exit under-performing businesses and deliver an improved accident year
combined ratio. Global Life is implementing its in-force management initiatives and
progressing its priority market growth strategy. And we see further positive trends from
the Farmers Exchanges with improved customer satisfaction and agent retention. At the
same time, we continue to generate strong cash remittances, which underpin our
attractive and sustainable dividend.
There's still much work to be done. Nevertheless, we're pleased with the progress we
have made to-date and remain conﬁdent that we're on track to fulﬁll our ambitions for
2014 to 2016.
Thank you for your attention and your continued trust and support.

Bloomberg Transcript

George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Good morning or good afternoon, my name is George Quinn and I am Zurich's Chief
Financial Oﬃcer. In a few moments I'll take you through our second quarter results in a
little more detail. But before I get into the detail, I'd like to make a few broader comments.
As you've heard from Martin, we see this as a good set of results with encouraging
progress across the group. Having said this, we all recognize, there's a lot more to do and
this will be our focus for the next 30 months. The targets are our top priority. We expect to
make investments to support future growth, but at the same time we won't hesitate to
take capital from businesses that cannot meet our expectations. Finally, we intend to take
full advantage of our operating leverage to grow operating endings.
I'll cover the operating performance of our segments shortly, but I'll brieﬂy highlight two
points on this slide. First, as you can see in the BOP to NIAS reconciliation, we have a high
tax rate for the second quarter of around 32%. We now expect the full-year tax rate to be
around 27.5%, driven by some charges, such as Russia, that do not attract tax relief. This
does not change our view of our longer-term eﬀective tax rate of around 23.5%.
Second also in the BOP to NIAS reconciliation for the second quarter, we show
restructuring and accounting charges of $98 million. With an additional $24 million of
charges within our life BOP, we've incurred accounting and restructuring costs of roughly
$120 million in the second quarter, and $470 million in total since Q4 2013.

Page 4 of 12



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-07

FINAL

There are some additional costs to incur, with a further $50 million in charges in Q3 and
Q4 this year. The ﬁnal total, relating to what we'd signaled at the Investor Day last year will
be around $520 million. A signiﬁcant portion of the restructuring costs in the second
quarter relate to the streamlining of the businesses above the business unit level, which is
largely completed and eﬀects around 670 positions globally. We expect to deliver savings
of $75 million this year, a further $150 million next year, and the full $250 million eﬀect by
the beginning of 2016.
From a ﬁnancial perspective, the beneﬁt of these savings will be reﬂected in lower
charges to the segments. While some of the cost savings will be reinvested in priority
markets to help drive our growth ambitions, we continue to look for further ways to
simplify and improve eﬃciency, and I have no doubt that we'll ﬁnd them.
Turning now to the performance of General Insurance. Q2 gross written premiums are up
3% in local currency. Excluding the impact of a large discontinued fronting contract,
premiums in local currency are up 4% for Q2 and 2% for the ﬁrst half. Rate increases
across the book are 2% for the quarter. Rates are generally adequate for most of our
business lines, but we see some market pressure, mainly in the U.S. property lines, as we
highlighted already at Q1.

Bloomberg Transcript

Overall claims inﬂation remains subdued and the beneﬁts of improvement in rate
continues to ﬁnd its way to the bottom line.
Within Global Corporate and NAC, we continue to see growth in casualty and specialty
risks and some other priority areas. Our new business increased in the second quarter
while retention was slightly down, mainly driven by our eﬀorts to deal with
underperforming parts of the portfolio. Our European business grew top-line by 1% in
local currency and we're cautiously optimistic here, as we're seeing some growth
momentum in some key markets, such as in the UK and personal lines in Switzerland and
Germany. Elsewhere, there was top-line pressure. For example, in Italy, where the market
is shrinking.
In international markets, premiums increased by roughly 2% in local currency, adjusting
for the carve out of certain Global Corporate business and decreased 5% in local currency
on a reported basis. We're still expanding the business, but our underlying growth rate
has slowed, mainly due to some selective re-underwriting in Latin America and market
softening in Australia.
Let's now move on to the combined ratio. As we ﬂagged at Q1, we have shifted most of
our non-technical expenses into the reported expense ratio. On this new basis, we
reported a good combined ratio of 95.7% for the second quarter, more than three
percentage points better than the same quarter last year. Excluding the non-technical
shift, our combined ratio would have been 93.1% for Q2 compared to 96.2% in the prioryear quarter.
You can ﬁnd further details on the shift of non-technical expenses in the appendix to our
results presentation.
Page 5 of 12



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-07

Our accident year ex-cat combined ratio was 93.5% for the second quarter and again, this
is a good result, four percentage points better than in the prior year and roughly three
percentage points better than in the ﬁrst quarter, adjusting for the Swiss pension gain.

FINAL

The improvement is mainly related to the accident year ex-cat loss ratio. Here we've
beneﬁted from favorable large loss experience, but we've also seen further improvement
in our underlying loss ratio, especially in NAC and in Europe.
Our overall expense ratio for the quarter is ﬂat compared to Q2 2013, but is around 1%
lower than the adjusted Q1 ﬁgure. There are some non-recurring beneﬁts of around 50
basis points in the Q2 results, and we'd expect the second half expense ratio to be slightly
higher due to investments that we're making in priority markets.
The impact from catastrophes was 2.3% in Q2 mainly due to claims relating to U.S.
weather and hailstorms in Europe. This is below the average of the last couple of quarters
and signiﬁcantly better than last year's second quarter which was impacted by some
severe U.S. tornados and the European ﬂoods.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of PYD, we have a zero result for the quarter. We saw generally favorable
experience in many areas, particularly in Europe, but this was more than oﬀset by adverse
development on a number of large individual claims in Global Corporate. There will be
ﬂuctuations in PYD and we see the Q2 result as driven by some identiﬁable and speciﬁc
factors. There's no change to our prior guidance of 1% to 2%.
In Global Corporate, we experienced lower catastrophe and fewer large losses in the
current year and our underlying loss ratio also improved. The uptick in the combined ratio
was driven by the development of the large individual prior year claims I've just
mentioned.
Both NAC and EMEA have signiﬁcantly decreased the accident year ex-cat combined
ratio by two percentage points and three percentage points respectively and also
beneﬁted from lower catastrophe losses compared to the second quarter of last year.
While it's partly a function of fewer large losses in the quarter, we continue to see some
encouraging improvement in the underlying performance of these businesses, driven by
ongoing underwriting actions and the earn through of rate increases.
And lastly in our international business, we start to see improvement in our Latin
American business which was oﬀ-set by a lower level of prior year releases in our Asia
Paciﬁc region.
On the next slide, I'm going to explain the breakdown of GI BOP. GI BOP was $807 million
in the second quarter, up over 40%, driven by the improved underwriting result.
Investment income was essentially ﬂat in comparison to the prior period, and we continue
to see signs of the ﬂattening out we've mentioned in previous quarters. Our hedge fund
investments also contributed positively to the result.
Page 6 of 12



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-07

FINAL

The non-technical result of $104 million for the second quarter is roughly $50 million
worse than last year. And this is mainly the result of roughly $40 million of higher currency
losses and a few non-recurring factors. We expect the main recurring item in the nontechnical result to be the interest expense, which will be around $30 million per quarter.
Other items that will be included here are some small ongoing non-operational costs,
currency gains and losses, and one-oﬀs related to non-business transactions. We expect
some volatility between the quarters, mainly due to the currency component.
To summarize, our General Insurance business delivered a good set of results driven by
the improved accident year result.
With that, let's move onto our Global Life business. The main focus of our Life business is
growth in our priority markets, which includes bank distribution, Corporate Life &
Pensions, and select retail markets such as the UK and the U.S. Overall APE in Q2 was 22%
higher than in the prior period with net inﬂows in the quarter, and good progress in our
target markets.

Bloomberg Transcript

In bank distribution, we built on the positive momentum from the ﬁrst quarter. Zurich
Santander Brasil continues to deliver strong growth in protection sales with overall APE
up 37% in local currency and 26% on a reported basis. Within Europe, bank distribution
volumes in Spain increased by roughly 150% following successful sales campaigns in
individual protection and savings products.
In the UK, APE growth of 51% was mainly driven by corporate savings as we continue to
experience good inﬂows onto the corporate savings platform, together with growth in
corporate protection. And in North America, we're now starting to see some traction in
individual protection through the growing IFA channel with volumes doubling compared
to Q2 2013.
Our overall new business value was ﬂat year-on-year, mainly due to the impact of expense
allocation and lapse assumption changes in North America and Latin America, masking
an improving picture on a like-for-like basis.
With that, let's move to Global Life BOP. Q2 business operating proﬁt reduced by $37
million to $315 million, mainly due to two factors. First, the prior period quarter beneﬁted
from around $30 million in positive one-oﬀs, relating to an actuarial model change in
Hong Kong and a positive earn-out adjustment in Zurich Santander. Second, within Q2
2014, there was a software write-oﬀ of $24 million, which is part of the $120 million of
accounting and restructuring charges I referred to earlier.
The recently announced changes in German regulation had a negative impact of $37
million on Q2 BOP, as we recognized the impact of new rules relating to policyholder
sharing in the risk result. However, this was oﬀset by the positive impact of a model
update also in our German Life business.

Page 7 of 12



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-07

FINAL

There's not much to say in this quarter about the realized impact of managing for value on
our in-force. This doesn't mean it's not a priority for us or there is any lack of activity. It is a
priority and the team are working hard, and we hope to have more to report on this over
the course of the next few quarters.
I'll now move on to our new sources of earnings reporting approach for our Life business.
As you can see, we've replaced the proﬁt by source reporting with a new sources of
earnings approach with data here shown for the ﬁrst half of 2014.
The sources of proﬁt remain unchanged and continue to be net of policyholder
participation. As we've talked about in the past, we have a very diﬀerent business to our
peers. We write a lot less spread business with more focus on underwriting returns
coming through the technical margin, as you can see on this slide.
Note that the data is net of non-controlling interests and that we've removed the concept
of special operating items, although we will continue to make reference to exceptional
items that distort the results. Over time, these changes will make it easier to follow the
drivers of earnings in the Life business, while providing a clearer link with our product
strategy and allowing for more meaningful KPIs.

Bloomberg Transcript

While simpler in approach from the previous disclosure, we appreciate that there's a lot to
digest here. And to help you with this, we've provided a brieﬁng document that explains
our approach and how this links to our products and KPIs. We've also provided data
going back to the beginning of 2013 identifying the impact of one-oﬀ items, and that
should give you a better sense of the trends in our results.
I'd like to make three key points about this analysis. First, in terms of revenues in the ﬁrst
half, as expected, our investment margin ,excluding the impact of discretionary
policyholder dividends, is broadly ﬂat compared to the prior year. The growth in business
is evident in loadings and fees, up 3%, and adjusted for one-oﬀ items, growth in our
technical margin of 7%.
Second, in terms of expenses, and again adjusted for one-oﬀ items, our operating
expenses increased by 7%, with an increase in our overall acquisition costs of 4%. This
reﬂects the investments we're making in our priority businesses, both in terms of
operating costs and commissions to our distributors.
Third, while we've seen modest underlying growth in our proﬁtability in the ﬁrst half, a key
ﬁnancial goal for the next two years is to improve our operating leverage by focusing on
in-force management initiatives in manage for value markets, growing our bank
distribution earnings and getting to scale in our priority retail markets.
Overall, we think this new basis of reporting is a good step forward. At the same time, we
recognize that we need to continue evolving our Life disclosures to improve investor and
analyst understanding of the business and where we're headed.

Page 8 of 12



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-07

FINAL

As Martin mentioned earlier, there's still much to do in disclosure. We plan to subsegment the business to make it easier to understand and explain, highlighting the
diﬀerent way we view the component parts of the Life business. Some of them will focus
on cash extraction, which can include structural levers, others on BOP and ROE, and some
on EV. Today's disclosure is a ﬁrst step, but you can expect more on this in the next year.
On the next slide, I'll give you an update on the Farmers Exchanges, which we don't own,
but are relevant to the performance of our Farmers business segment. As Martin has
already highlighted, the positive signs seen at Farmers Exchanges in the ﬁrst quarter have
continued into the second. The quarterly trend has improved from a roughly four
percentage point decline in Q4 2013 to 2% down in Q1 2014 and now around a 1% decline
in Q2.
If you zoom in and look at the core book of business, excluding direct auto, independent
agent business insurance and discontinued operations, the Exchanges' gross premiums
increased by 1.5%, mainly due to strong growth in specialty and increasing momentum in
homeowners and exclusive agents business insurance.
While standard auto sold through exclusive agents is still decreasing, this is at a much
slower pace than in the previous quarters, and non-standard auto returned to growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

Looking at the policies-in-force tells the same story. While the overall Farmers Exchanges
lost some 50,000 policies in the second quarter, the number of policies in the core
business increased by 25,000.
This is all driven by a steady improvement in the KPIs you saw on the report card, growth
in new business counts and improving retention, and now a growing exclusive agent force
and other leading indicators, such as the Net Promoter Score.
Overall, there's no denying that much remains to be done to reposition the business and
return to growth, but we're conﬁdent that the business is on the right track. In terms of
proﬁtability, the second quarter has proven to be the most catastrophe-prone in recent
years and this may well prove to be the case in 2014.
This year's second quarter saw 13 catastrophe events for the industry. Three of those
events generated losses in excess of $50 million for the Farmers Exchanges, or $265
million in total. In addition, while there were fewer extreme events in comparison to Q2
2013, we also saw a larger number of small events than last year. For example, hail losses
were a bigger factor in 2014, as can be seen in the auto loss ratios for the second quarter.
As we cautioned in May, Farmers Exchanges surplus generation is sensitive to catastrophe
experience in the second quarter and the third quarter. And cat losses in Q2 mean that
the surplus is now roughly back where it started the year.
Nonetheless, the Farmers Exchange surplus position continues to exceed the 33% to 36%
near-term target and the expectation that these changes will reduce reliance on capital
Page 9 of 12



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-07

support through quota share reinsurance is unchanged.

FINAL

Let's move on to Farmers Management Services and Farmers Re. Farmers Management
Services revenues slightly declined as you would expect given the small decrease in the
exchanges and the premiums. This decline was more than oﬀset by lower labor costs and
around $20 million of positive one-oﬀ items relating to employee beneﬁts and a gain on
the sale of own use property.
For Q2 standalone, the managed gross earned premium margin increased to 7.4%,
however, this was helped by the positive employee beneﬁt impact I've referred to, and we
continue to see 7% as a more sustainable ﬁgure over the longer term.
Finally, as a result of the high level of catastrophe losses, Farmers Re posted a BOP loss
for the third consecutive second quarter. While the Farmers Re ratio was around 105% for
Q2, this is still around 5 points better than in the prior period quarter. Roughly, half of this
was due to lower catastrophe losses with the remainder due to underlying improvements
and favorable prior year development.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next, I'll update you on our balance sheet and on our capital position. Shareholders'
equity decreased by just under $1 billion in the quarter with net income of $0.8 billion and
unrealized gains of $1 billion oﬀset by the payment of $2.8 billion dividend in April.
Our economic capital position remains very strong with the Z-ECM ratio broadly ﬂat at
128% at the end of March. The 1 point increase is driven by 7 points of business proﬁt and
positive market movements oﬀset by 2 points for the regular dividend accrual and after a
reduction of 4 points from deploying additional risk capital in our investment portfolio.
As Martin mentioned, we continue to deploy risk capital into the investment portfolio in
the second quarter with most of the new strategic asset allocation now executed. All
things being equal, we'd expect this to have reduced the Z-ECM ratio by 3 points to 5
points.
For the half year, we've also updated the free capital generation analysis that we disclosed
for the ﬁrst time at our Investor Day in December last year, and this is shown in the next
slide.
Our approach to free capital generation is a little diﬀerent to the information disclosed by
some of our peers, as it's built up from local statutory data. Our aim is to show our IFRS
earnings convert into deployable regulatory capital and how it then translates into net
cash remittances to the center. We've now updated this exercise for 2013.
The left-hand chart shows the walk from IFRS earnings to statutory earnings to free capital
generation. And the right-hand chart shows the walk from free capital generation to cash
remittances.

Page 10 of 12



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-07

FINAL

There are three points I want to make here. First, we told you at the Investor Day that we
expected to see a signiﬁcant uplift from the 2012 operating capital generation of $2.4
billion. A year that was impacted by challenges in our German GI business as well as
claims from storm, Sandy and when we had an increase in Farmers Re capital
requirements. And I'm pleased to say that these ﬁgures bear this out with GI and Farmers
operating capital generation increasing by $0.6 billion and $0.3 billion, respectively.
Second, as we showed you last year, a very high percentage of our operating earnings
turn into operating capital generation. For 2013, we reported post tax BOP of $3.5 billion
and this chart shows how this translated into $3.2 billion of operating capital generation, a
ratio above 90%. Third, our ﬂexible capital structure enables us to facilitate a high rate of
conversion of operating free capital generation into net cash remittance.
Most of our cash generation comes from a fairly small number of operations that are close
to the central holding companies and we have a policy of pooling risks as close to the
center as possible. This has helped our businesses to deliver $2.9 billion of cash
remittances in 2013. And we expect to achieve in excess of $3.5 billion in 2014.

Bloomberg Transcript

As you would expect, we are beneﬁting from some one-oﬀ eﬀects in 2014. And as a result,
you should not extrapolate our cash remittance expectations for this year into the future,
but we are pleased with our progress to-date.
Looking forwards, growth in earnings should continue to convert into higher free capital
generation, potentially also with some increases in capital requirements depending of
course on our ability to deploy additional capital at proﬁtable levels. However, the
combination of a very robust capital position, stable leverage and excellent cash
generation means that we're in a very strong overall ﬁnancial position on all relevant
capital metrics.
So let me move to the summary, in General Insurance, we've reported a good combined
ratio for Q2 and we see an improving trend in our accident year proﬁtability. We're not
complacent about the competitive environment, but we can drive further improvement by
reinforcing our underwriting disciplines, executing our turnaround and exit plans,
pursuing further eﬃciencies, and selectively growing the portfolio.
In our Life business, in-force management actions are underway and we continue to make
good progress in growing our priority markets. Farmers Exchanges have reported two
consecutive quarters of improving top-line trends with key metrics for new business,
retention and customer satisfaction pointing to further recovery in the second half. We
expect our full year cash remittances to be well ahead of what we achieved in 2013, fully
underpinned by very strong operating free capital generation.
Overall, we've made a good start to the year and we're on track with where we expect to
be, but there's much still to do to deliver on our three year targets.
Thank you for watching.

Page 11 of 12



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2014-08-07

Page 12 of 12

