Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

S1 2013 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

John Reizenstein, CFO
Paul Geddes, CEO

Other Participants
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Andy Hughes, Analyst
Dhruv Gahlaut, Analyst
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Greig Paterson, Analyst
Nick Danarjvic, Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst
Ravi Tanna, Analyst
Tom Dorner, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Unidentiﬁed Participant, Analyst

Presentation
Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Good morning. So. Good morning to everyone in the room and on the phones to our
second full-year results presentation here in (local) Goldman Sachs. Good to see the sun
shining after the recent weather.
I'm Paul Geddes, CEO. And I'm joined by John Reizenstein, CFO. We're going to follow
the usual format today, which is I'm going to start oﬀ with some key messages. John's
going to come with the numbers and I'm going to come back with an update on our
transformation agenda and then some topics I'm sure high on your list of things to talk
about, the UK motor market, ﬂooding and weather. Then we're going to take some
questions.
So to get started, highlights, on page four here. Ongoing operating proﬁt was up 14%, at
GBP526.5m. Proﬁt before tax increased by 70.2% to GBP423.9m.
On the back of this, we're proposing a ﬁnal dividend of 8.2p, which is 5% growth, which is
in line with our aim of growing dividends annually in real terms. And we're also
announcing a second special dividend of 4p funded by our better-than-expected proﬁt
from our run-oﬀ segment and proceeds from the sale of Tracker, which takes the total
dividend for the year to 20.6p.
Page 1 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

Now, those results have been achieved against a backdrop of tough markets and
signiﬁcant regulatory change. And our results show the beneﬁt of our underwriting
strategy of value over volume and from the major changes we've made and continue to
make to transform our business.

FINAL

As you can see on the charts on the right, we beat our COR target by 1.9percentage points
and this led to a RoTE of 16%, ahead of our long-term target of 15%.
We improved our ongoing costs by 9.2%, hit our IPO target of GBP100 million gross cost
savings. And in June extended that target. We also continued to generate signiﬁcant prior
year reserve releases, reﬂecting our conservative reserving. But also the improvements
we've made to claims pricing and risk selection.
The start of 2014 has seen no let-up in the competitive nature of the markets. We will
continue to pursue the same strategy, balancing underwriting margins with volumes,
whilst, at the same time, building capability.
We still have a full agenda of business improvement plans going forward. And on the
back of these, we are aiming for a combined ratio of between 95% and 97% for 2014.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, this guidance assumes a normal level of claims this year from major weather events
and, clearly, the start of this year has been anything but normal. Severe ﬂooding and
storms is a timely reminder that insurance isn't just about price. And our staﬀ are doing a
great job in helping customers get back on their feet.
It's still early days. But we've published a preliminary estimate of between GBP70 million
and GBP90 million for home claims from the start of the year up until February 22. And
that compares with an expectation of an average full year of these sorts of claims of
GBP80 million for home.
So all in all, a year of good progress, proﬁts up, capability building. But we do face into a
tough market, which means we need to redouble our eﬀorts to deliver our self-help
agenda.
I'll now hand over to John to go through the ﬁgures in more detail.

John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

Thanks, Paul. Good morning, everybody. Let's start with the ﬁnancial highlights on slide
seven (sic; see presentation "page 6"). And I'll talk to performance against the full year
2012 to begin with.
GWP was down 4%, reﬂecting the impact of a competitive marketplace, particularly in UK
motor, together with the Group's continued focus on managing for value. Within this, we
saw growth in commercial and international, which was more than oﬀset by reductions in
UK personal lines.
Page 2 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

As Paul said, we saw a 14% increase in operating proﬁt, with proﬁts rising in motor, home
and commercial. We've used a COR of 96.1%, 3.1percentage points better than last year,
or 2012. And better than the target we'd set with GBP110 million improvement in
underwriting proﬁt.

FINAL

The actions we've taken on pricing, claims and risk mix have led to strong releases from
prior years and helped us keep the current year attritional loss ratio ﬂat.
In terms of prior year releases, these increased to GBP435m, which represents 12.4% of
premiums. This was higher than expected as in previous periods we've seen releases in all
segments with a major contribution from motor.
In 2013, we achieved a 2.6percentage points improvement in RoTE to 16%.
Final dividend is up 5%. And today we're declaring a second special dividend of 4p,
which I'll come back to.
A couple of observations on Q4. GWP was down 3.6% in the Fourth Quarter, with motor
down 9%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operating proﬁt of GBP108.7 million was 4% lower than the prior year due to higher
weather costs in 2013, partially oﬀset by higher reserve releases. Other income was lower
due to the banning of solicitors' referral fees.
Investment return was higher due to the eﬀective changes in the investment portfolio.
And there were very few gains in Q4.
Moving onto underwriting performance on the next slide. In a year which saw material
market price deﬂation, holding our current year ratio ﬂat was, we think, a pretty good
result.
For the ongoing business, our current year attritional loss ratio remained stable despite
competitive market conditions and high weather losses in commercial and international,
which are not adjusted for in the attritional ratio on this slide.
We've seen prior year releases up substantially, which I'll come back to.
Interestingly, despite the ﬂoods and storms, home weather event costs of GBP69 million
in 2013 were actually a bit lower than our budget and lower than 2012. And we think
we've made a prudent assessment of those claims and how they will develop.
Both international and commercial were impacted by weather in 2013. Commercial
suﬀered higher-than-normal claims from the very recent bad weather. And Germany from
hail events in the summer. We don't adjust this table for those. But if you did, the
attritional loss ratio would be around 0.5percentage point better in 2013.
Page 3 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

Moving onto costs. You'll recall that back in June 2013 we announced further cost savings
and revised our cost target to approximately GBP1 billion in 2014. This was GBP130 million
better than the GBP100 million we announced prior to the IP0.

FINAL

In 2013, total costs of GBP1.032 million represents a saving of GBP105m. That's 9.2%
compared with 2012.
The expense ratio improved by 0.7percentage points. If you adjusted for the fall in
premiums, it's 1.9percentage points better on a like-for-like basis.
You can see from the breakdown that management fees from RBS in 2012 have fallen
away. We've now got control of our cost base. This makes year-on-year comparison of
staﬀ and other cost level a bit tricky. However, you can see the reduction in marketing cost
in 2013 of around 9% as we have a more targeted approach to our marketing spend.
We exited the year with a run rate of around GBP250 million of costs. And we believe
we're on track to achieve our target. This will require us to mitigate inﬂation as well as the
increased amortization costs from past and planned investment spend. Overall, I'm
pleased with the progress we've made on expenses in 2013. But we need to continue the
momentum.

Bloomberg Transcript

Go to the segments, starting with motor on slide 9. GWP and IFPs were down as a result of
maintaining our underwriting discipline in a competitive market. Although, actually, IFPs
have been fairly stable since Q2 with about a 1% reduction on -- quarter by quarter.
The current year loss ratios remained fairly stable at around 85% as our claims and pricing
improvements, plus some beneﬁts from LASPO were oﬀset by competitive market
conditions. We think that's a reasonable outcome given the competitive market and our
reserving assumptions.
We saw substantial prior year releases in motor of GBP292m, which represents 20.2% of
premiums. We continue to reserve on conservative assumptions. And, consequently, the
beneﬁts of the actions we've taken on claims and risk mix, plus improvements to the
general claims environment, are generally recognized in the prior year.
Assuming underlying claims trends continue, a signiﬁcant contribution from PY is
currently expected, albeit at a lower level than in 2013.
This brings us to the overall loss ratio of 65.1%, a 9.5percentage point improvement on
2012.
The motor COR came in at 93.2% with a GBP124 million increase in underwriting proﬁt.
As expected, installment and other income was lower, primarily due to the ending of
solicitors' referral fees.

Page 4 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

And operating proﬁt was up 32.8% to GBP347.7m.

FINAL

It's worth noting that motor includes the results of the Tracker business, which we recently
sold. Tracker was a broadly breakeven business. But going forward, we'll see a reduction
of around GBP18 million in revenue from vehicle recovery and repair services, which is
reported within other income, oﬀset by a reduction in expenses.
A bit more detail on slide 10 on motor reserving. The chart on the top left shows our
improvement in BI capped inﬂation, which we believe shows good performance relative
to the market.
Up until the end of 2012 we continued to observe better-than-market inﬂation. We expect
that the market has seen deﬂation since -- in 2013 as legal reforms reduced severity. But
we believe we continue to outperform.

Bloomberg Transcript

The table on the top right should be familiar, BI capped severity inﬂation observed on the
ground versus what we've booked. I'd have to say that the 12.9% reduction in 2013 versus
2012 settled, is exaggerated. That will be because of the impact of the reduction in legal
fees on small claims, which tend to settle ﬁrst. There is -- as the year matures, we'd expect
the deﬂation versus 2012 to be not as pronounced as that. However, we think that the
information -- doing information on an indexed basis from 2000 and on, as you see on
that chart, which shows accumulative eﬀect over four years, shows our continued
conservatism. And that pattern continues.
Obviously, this is only one peril, although it's a very important one. But it does support
our current expectation of continued positive year development.
But interestingly, in 2013 we also saw signiﬁcant releases from large bodily injury claims
reserves. Within those reserves, from PPOs into non-PPOs, stated from PPO into non-PPO
IBNR, in particular for 2012, accident years turned out to be relatively benign in terms of
large claims frequency. The -- it's a bit early to call that on 2013.
The bottom chart shows the pattern of favorable releases continues. As with 2012, there is
an element of conservatism in our initial (PIK) for 2013, which we expect to develop
favorably, as it has in previous years.
I should also mention here that we've just renewed our motor reinsurance. We chose to
increase our excess of loss cover. We've reduced our retention to GBP1 million per claim.
This follows the pattern of reducing our retention from the GBP10 million level it was a few
years ago.
Moving onto home on slide 11. We saw a reduction in home IFPs. And much of that is due
to the removal of low premium home response products from packaged accounts. The
underlying reduction is 2%. And within that, the volumes on own brands were ﬂat.

Page 5 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

As we said previously, we continue to have the transformation beneﬁts in the home
business to maintain performance in a competitive marketplace.

FINAL

As you know, we've experienced a number of weather events in Q4. We had the St.
Jude's storm in October and coastal ﬂooding in early December followed by ﬂooding
and storms over Christmas. In total, these weather events cost GBP64 million on top of
the GBP5 million in Q3.
Reserve releases of GBP43 million were broadly in line with 2012, with the current year
attritional broadly ﬂat at 51.5% despite a competitive market.
The increase in the commission ratio is from higher proﬁtability in our partnership
business. And this includes both prior year development and better weather than in 2012.
Overall, the COR improved by 2.8percentage points to 93.8% and operating proﬁt was up
GBP12.9m.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to rescue and other personal lines on slide 12. The reduction in policy count was
mainly due to reduced volumes in packaged bank accounts. This is partially oﬀset by
growth in Green Flag direct sales following its new marketing campaign, which we
showed you. There was a small deduction in overall GWP. But rescue GWP was up 4.4%
because of that campaign.
The division results have been volatile year on year, partly because of the creditor
product, which is in run-oﬀ. And also the sale of the life business.
If you exclude creditor, life and other one-oﬀs, in 2013 the division year-on-year
performance is down GBP10 million in operating proﬁt terms at GBP37m. The decline is
mainly due to rescue.
Rescue made GBP38 million in 2013. That's about GBP9m, GBP10 million down on the
previous year. And that reduction on rescue is due to, ﬁrstly, the higher marketing spend.
And the non-repeat of some one-oﬀ noise in the previous year.
The two other main products in this division are pet and travel. Together, they would
normally make between GBP5 million and GBP10 million operating proﬁt. Pet has done
okay in 2013. But travel was impacted by higher medical claims costs, particularly on
packaged accounts. That will correct. And we're saying in summary, underlying operating
proﬁt is around GBP45m.
Turning over to commercial, a good performance in commercial with results
demonstrating progress towards the target COR of below 100% this year.
IFPs were up 25%, GWP up 9%. On an underlying basis, excluding the transfer of the van
business from motor, GWP growth was 2% largely due to growth in Direct Line for

Page 6 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

Business. Plus, the policy count was up a lot.

FINAL

The current year loss ratio shows a 2.9percentage point improvement despite high
weather claims. The prior year releases are similar to what we've seen in the past and we
expect this to be an ongoing feature of the commercial business.
Overall, its ﬁnancial loss ratio was 62.3%, a bit lower than last year, than 2012.
There were small improvements in commission and expense ratios as a result of
management action taken on cost and eﬃciency.
COR of 106.8% was 1.4percentage points better than 2012. If you exclude the higher
claims costs from weather, the underlying COR would have been around 104%. A bit
lower than 104%, which we think is a good sign to go towards 100%.
Overall operating proﬁt increased by GBP7.3 million to GBP9.5m.
Finally, international. Overall progress. But a slightly mixed picture. IFPs up 10% and GWP
up 9% or 5% in local currency terms, mainly due to growth in Germany.

Bloomberg Transcript

Overall, the international COR was broadly ﬂat with operating proﬁt down GBP3m.
There was a small increase in the current year attritional loss ratio. This was due to
summer hail in Germany, which cost us around GBP8 million more than normal. We have
seen signiﬁcant releases come through again in this division.
Proﬁt from Germany was obviously down due to the weather I've mentioned. But on a
normalized basis, showed progress. Proﬁt initially was ﬂat, with performance maintained
despite very challenging markets and economic conditions.
We've seen competition in Italy intensify during 2013 and this will impact growth in 2014.
So let's turn to the balance sheet, starting with investments on slide 15. Investment income
was GBP175.5 million with a yield of 2.1% against a yield of 2% in 2012. This pick-up in yield
is mainly driven by our changes to the target asset mix.
As expected, we had lower gains mainly due to the portfolio and restructuring in 2012
which we didn't expect to repeat in 2013.
In terms of asset allocation, we continue to invest in property, which is now up to 3%,
closer to our 5% target.
In Q4 we started to invest in securitized credit for the UK portfolio. It's very high quality
AAA and AA mortgage bonds, auto bonds and student loans and so on. We have 3% of
Page 7 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

the portfolio invested in that asset class at the end of the year with a target of around 6%.

FINAL

If you move over the page we can look at the outlook for investment yield. The table on
the left shows we've maintained a short duration. And that's deliberate as we expect
interest rates will increase, eventually. But who knows when. It remains an uncertain
timing. In the meantime, it makes sense to stay short duration.
Once we achieved our target investments in property and securitized credit and after
taking into account the current yield environment, we expect yields to increase towards
2.4% by 2015. And we continue to look for ways to increase yield within our current risk
appetite and to get a closer match to our liabilities.
Next up is we're looking to invest in infrastructure bonds to match our PPO liabilities.
These will be ﬂoating rate. We think that Libor basis gives us some inﬂation protection
over the long-term. But they'd have long credit durations. Things to look forward to.
We're nearly through. I'll just take you to page 17 to look at the rest of the P&L.
Run-oﬀ proﬁt of GBP64 million for the year was a result of positive prior year
development. That's partly due to conservative reserving. But also due to good claims
management. It does share some of the characteristics of the ongoing business.
Obviously, the runoﬀ has pretty much only long tail reserves now.

Bloomberg Transcript

Going forward, we do expect run-oﬀs to generate a proﬁt. But not as high as 2013.
Restructuring other one-oﬀ costs came in at GBP140m, in line with the guidance we gave
at Q3. The split of IT migration costs and cost reduction initiatives was also in line with
guidance. Guidance restructuring costs for 2014 is unchanged at GBP80m.
The gain on the disposal of GBP12 million relates to the sale of Direct Line Life.
Finance costs increased in 2013 because we had the ﬁrst full year of interest on the debt
we raised in May 2012.
All of this leads to a PBT of GBP424m, up 70%. And a PAT of GBP313m, also up 70%.
The eﬀective tax rate is 26.2%, a little bit higher than the UK standard rate. That's due to
some one-oﬀs in international and some disallowable costs. Gives us a basic EPS of 20.9p,
just under 70% increase on 2012 with ongoing diluted EPS up 15% to 25p.
Moving over to dividends, on page 18, let's start with the proposed ﬁnal dividend of 8.4%
(sic; see presentation "8.4p"). This is line with guidance of 5% growth we gave at the half
year and consistent with our dividend policy, which aims to grow the dividend in real
terms. It gives us a total regular dividend of 12.6p, representing a payout ratio of 50.4% of
ongoing earnings.
Page 8 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

FINAL

Now let's turn to the special. You'll recall that in November we announced the sale of the
life business and we used the proceeds to pay a 4p special dividend. The rationale for
that decision was that the proceeds were viewed as one-oﬀ and, consequently, it was
appropriate in that instance to return it to shareholders -- return them to shareholders.
We're now applying the same logic to the better-than-expected result from runoﬀ, posttax. And the proceeds from the more recent sale of Tracker. And we're declaring a further
special dividend of 4p per share. Taken together, the total regular and two special
dividends amount to 20.6p per share and represent a total payout of just around 100% of
total earnings, a bit below I believe.
Let's go to capital, on page 19, starting with the headline capital ratio. We end 2013, after
adjusting for all those dividends, with a risk-based capital ratio of 148.7%, broadly in line
with the position at the start of the year.
The leverage ratio remains low, at 15.7%. And for those of you that still like Solvency I, the
estimated IGD coverage remains fairly stable at 272%.
So it's a relatively stable and conservative picture overall. As we look ahead to 2014 there
are a number of uncertainties we need to take into account as well as factors that may be
positive and also negative that impacts our capital position. And we've tried to bring
these together on page 20.

Bloomberg Transcript

You'll see the big question mark. This slide brings together the key factors.
So let's start with tailwinds. We have shown, I think, our ability to be a proﬁtable group.
And, based on our guidance on the COR, we continue to think that we will be. At the
same time as we work through our transformation plan and self-help agenda we're
looking to reduce operational risk in the business and that could improve our capital
position. But that will take time.
Our plans in the meantime have a short-term capital cost. Reinvesting in systems. That
doesn't fully qualify for capital. And restructuring costs clearly hit our earnings.
As I've mentioned before, we're also making modest changes to our investment asset
mix, which also used up some capital. In the main, this is ALM driven. It's the right thing to
do.
In terms of capital management more generally, we're in the process of working through
the new ICAS+ process with the PRA, which includes a detailed review of our internal
model and that is ongoing. This will, in part, drive our future regulatory capital
requirements.
Whilst we wait to conclude those discussions and understand also more fully the
transition towards Solvency II, it does create an element of uncertainty. In these
circumstances we believe it's appropriate to maintain capital towards the top end of our
Page 9 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

risk appetite range for the time being. We will, of course, continue to review the capital
position as these uncertainties are clariﬁed.

FINAL

Finally, on page 21, let's look at the TNAV. Headline tangible book value per share was
down 7.8% to 153.2p. However, if you add back the dividends paid out during the year,
underlying TNAV grew by 5%.
You can see the movements in the chart. Proﬁt was a positive contributor. And this was
partially oﬀset by the movement in the yield curve, driving the pull to par on our bond
portfolio. And also growth in intangibles from continued investment in the business.
So I'll now turn back to Paul.

Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Thank you, John. So as John has walked you through, you can clearly see the impact of
the actions we've been taking across a broad range of topics. But particularly costs,
claims, investments and capital. And I believe our progress here demonstrates our ability
to execute against a busy agenda of initiatives and execute successfully.

Bloomberg Transcript

And against a backdrop of a highly competitive market, we will need to keep up our
momentum of delivering on a busy self-help agenda if we're going to maintain and
improve our performance. And that is exactly what we intend to do. So the next six slides
I'm going to walk you through the progress which we've made in 2013 and what we plan
to do in 2014 and beyond.
Let's start with distribution. We continue to invest in building customer capability and
propositions. Last year we set out a number of priorities, as shown here on the left.
So let me update you on our progress in 2013. We've further diﬀerentiated our
propositions with oﬀerings such as Direct Line Together and Green Flag's one-hour
proposition. Our more targeted marketing campaigns was achieved with a 9.4% reduction
in our marketing spend.
We launched two telematics propositions, including black box and smartphone app. And
we're very pleased with the growing take-up in new business with now 30% of 17 to 20
year olds on DL taking up one of our black box oﬀers.
In addition. And you have to believe me, the boxes are incredibly small. We have a pilot
of a self-install telematics app, which we will keep you updated on and might even send
you one to try out to see how you all drive.
Our planned investment in digital is now well underway with a new data center
supporting our new digital platform. We exited the year having started the rollout of our
new mobile-optimized smartphone and tablet-optimized website Privilege using our new
digital front-end, which we've built.
Page 10 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

FINAL

So 2013 has been about building capability in the digital and telematics space. In 2014,
our focus shifts to rolling these improvements out and making the most of them in the
competitive marketplace.
We plan to complete the launch of our smartphone; and table-optimized websites for
Direct Line and Churchill in the coming months, whilst evolving further our telematics
proposition based upon customer feedback. We will also continue to diﬀerentiate the
Direct Line brand as we go through the year. Watch this space.
And just to break things up a bit, in customary style, we're going to give you a quick ad
break. And just remind you, not all of these adverts you are the target audience of. So if
you don't like them that's my excuse. Here's some of our current advertising.
(Video playing)
Good and policies are available at the end of the meeting.

Bloomberg Transcript

So turning onto pricing. It's been a very busy year on pricing with our pricing teams
delivering a stream of initiatives to help us deliver a steady current year attritional loss
ratio in a highly competitive market. The priorities we set ourselves for 2013 were about
optimizing our rating engine, deploying renewal strategies and leveraging pricing
sophistication to enable us, if we wanted, to target more areas of the market.
I'm pleased to say that we made good progress against all of these. We updated our
technical pricing models in motor and needed to optimize our exposure in higher
premium segments. We implemented enhanced renewal strategies across motor and
home and, despite the market competitiveness, we managed to increase our home
retention by over 2percentage points within our own brand portfolio.
But our pricing self-help agenda is still full of initiatives with clear value that we aim to
deliver at pace, although we can't be too transparent of these as we're now into the area
of potentially giving away trade secrets. But suﬃce to say, we have over 30 pricing
initiatives planned across motor and home in 2014, including initiatives aimed to enhance
our price comparison website capability and to fully utilize our telematics data into
pricing.
So onto claims. And whilst it was a year of building capability in pricing, in claims it's been
a year of maintaining our momentum. The goal we set ourselves in 2013 were about
building on the claims transformation in motor and home and extending our learnings to
commercial and international, whilst adapting the business to the heavy agenda of
regulatory change.
So what have we achieved? We completed our claims transformation program with the
full rollout of our claims center now across motor and home, supported by our new
operating model. We've also reduced claims leakage through improved fraud detection
techniques.
Page 11 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

ClaimCenter has also now been rolled out into commercial and into Italy. And I'll come
onto that later in those headings.

FINAL

We've also leveraged our strong claims position to improve our customer propositions
such as the use of our fulﬁllment network to oﬀer customers a really easy and enhanced
replacement car service.
And as you've seen a few weeks ago, we've received our license to set up DLG Legal
Services, which builds on the foundations we laid in 2013. And that is scheduled for
launch next week.
So looking ahead to 2014, following a number of successful pilots we plan to rollout our
new home claims initiatives, including allowing customers to use their smartphones to
report claims.
There's also more we're going to do on fraud detection and claims leakage and we have
clear plans to address these opportunities.
Lastly, it's worth reminding you we actually have our own repair network. We employ 400
of our own mechanics, repairing thousands of cars every day. And through the greater
use of technology, we aim to further generate -- generate further eﬃciencies throughout
the repair network in 2014.

Bloomberg Transcript

We'll also need to continue to engage and adapt to a changing regulatory landscape.
So next, onto costs where 2013, I think it's fair to call it a pivotal year for us on costs.
Remember, at the time of the IPO we set ourselves an initial target of GBP100 million
gross annual cost savings. And in 2013 we announced a further GBP130 million on top.
And against that, we implemented a number of eﬃciency improvements throughout the
business resulting in over 2,000 people leaving the business in 2013 with a focus on head
oﬃce.
In October 2013 we opened our new data center, the key step in our migration away from
RBS's IT infrastructure. And this is at the heart of us building a low-cost, self-serve digital
infrastructure for the future.
In addition, we started rolling out our new voice and desktop tools to help our people to
help our customers. And the combination of these digital initiatives should enable us to
drive further eﬃciency throughout the business in the years ahead.
So our priorities for 2014. Firstly, making substantial progress with our IT migration away
from RBS, a key focus to reduce our dependency on RBS systems.

Page 12 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

We also need to hit our cost target of approximately GBP1 billion in 2014, where, as John
says, we are currently on track.

FINAL

Commercial. We made good progress against our strategic plans in 2013, in line with the
goals we set. 2013 saw commercial launch its full cycle eTrading platform. We've seen
good growth in Direct Line for Business.
We introduced some more eﬃcient operating models by consolidating our underwriting
centers and separating them out from our trading activities. In the latter part of 2013, we
exported some of our expertise in personal lines to commercial with the rollout of
ClaimCenter for commercial motor claims.
So 2014 is clearly a big year for commercial as we aim to deliver the sub-100% COR
target, assuming normal weather and large claims. It's a year where we embed and
extract value from the investments we've already made in ClaimCenter and eTrading.
We'll also continue to leverage our expertise in personal lines with new propositions, such
as a telematics proposition in commercial and the launch of Churchill Van.

Bloomberg Transcript

Finally, on international. In 2013 we continued to adapt to the diﬀerent market conditions
we found in the two international markets we're in. At the start of 2013 we set out our
objectives to drive operational eﬃciency and accelerate IFP growth in Germany, whilst
focusing on proﬁtability in Italy.
So an update on progress in 2013. In Germany we grew our in-force policies to 574,000,
which is a 21% increase, through a successful 2012 year end and campaigns throughout
the year, importantly, without a substantial increase in central costs.
We rolled ClaimCenter out in Italy and have also delivered improved proﬁtability with a
1.3% improvement in COR.
So looking ahead to 2014, we continue with a diﬀerent focus in each market, albeit with a
strong focus on operational eﬃciencies in both markets.
In Italy, we see the market becoming increasingly focused on price comparison websites.
So we have plans to implement a new rating engine to improve our capabilities in this
space.
We plan to maintain progress in Germany, albeit at a slightly slower pace, having
increased IFPs by 54,000 in January after another successful year end campaign.
So I'm now going to turn to three topics close to your heart, motor pricing, home weather
and regulation.
So UK motor market. In the Fourth Quarter we saw a familiar pattern in terms of our
pricing and risk mix indicators. And this resulted in IFPs down around 1%. Taking the

Page 13 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

discrete quarter, we have reduced prices by 4% compared with the prior year. And risk
mix was down about 3%.

FINAL

As we said before, our price reductions reﬂect changes we've observed in our claims data
arising from both the actions which we've taken in our claims transformation program as
well as the beneﬁt post the introduction of the LASPO reforms.
Our price reductions are less than the levels suggested in some recent published surveys.
And against that backdrop we're satisﬁed with our position. And as I say every quarter, we
continue to make trading choices on a daily basis to optimize between value and volume
and we will continue to do so.
The chart on the top right brings to life the claims volumes pre and post LASPO and
shows the reduction following the reforms in April. We've adjusted the chart this time to
reﬂect that our IFP count has been falling. And even adjusting for that, you can see the
key trends are the same as Q3. Industry claims are going down versus the prior year and
we look to be modestly outperforming.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the bottom left chart you can see our telematics penetration rates for new business in
Direct Line. The overall penetration of 25s remains at one in ﬁve. But you can see there's
even higher penetration in the youngest of the drivers 17 to 21 year olds. This excludes the
pilot of self-install devices, which, if we included it, would take penetration towards one in
four.
So taken as a whole, 2013 was a very competitive year with a number of major market
changes, gender and LASPO, together with a broader acceptance of telematics.
Now, after some signs that the market may have begun to stabilize in Q4 2013, early 2014
has seen reductions in market premiums by a number of players and this has put further
pressure on new business. And we're going to continue to pursue our strategy of pricing
in line with claims trends. And based on our current trends, we'd expect gross written
premiums for motor could be down around 10% in Q1 2014 versus the same period last
year. And that 10% comes from a combination of price reductions in part ﬂowing through
from previous quarters, risk mix and volumes as a result of us not following market pricing
all the way down.
This context underlines the critical importance of successful execution of our full self-help
agenda.
Next, onto weather, where I'm sure you'll be interested in our take on the level of claims
coming through from recent events. In the Fourth Quarter, the home weather cost was
GBP64m. And that was made up of three quite diﬀerent events. Firstly, St. Jude in
October where some of the country suﬀered severe gales. The costs associated with this
event were fairly low. But the volume of claims was pretty high.

Page 14 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

FINAL

In early December, parts of the UK suﬀered storms that led to tidal surges across the East
Coast. We received over 200 ﬂood claims. And with most of the damage caused by salt
water, this increased the average claims cost. We also received claims from storm damage
at a much lower average claim cost. Overall, the mix of incurred costs was skewed
towards ﬂood claims.
Finally, for those of you in the country at Christmas, you'll remember the bad weather and,
again, a mixture of ﬂoods and storms. However, this time the ﬂoods were inland, which
means lower severity. The mix of ﬂood and storm claims for the event was roughly equal.
The adverse weather obviously continued into Q1 with further storm damage and further
ﬂooding. Our initial view, as at February 22, is that the costs will be in the region of GBP70
million to GBP90 million for home with a further GBP20 million in commercial.
However, all the usual caveats apply. So still very early days. We'll only start to get a more
accurate assessment when the ﬂood waters fully recede.

Bloomberg Transcript

Compared to 2007 ﬂoods, we're not seeing claims on the same scale and, to date, ﬂood
claims volumes are less than a tenth of what we saw back in 2007. The chart on the right
shows the development of claims volumes, both the Q4 and Q1 events, including both
storm and ﬂood. As you can see on the chart, notiﬁcations for St. Jude. And the tidal
surge developed quite quickly whereas the events in 2014, we're seeing a slower pattern,
which takes it -- makes it diﬃcult to be totally accurate on the estimate costs at this point
in time.
Over the course of the next few months we'll be back-testing our ﬂood models to
understand whether the ﬂood defenses that were put in place post-2007 operated as we
expected and to assess the impact of strategic decisions taken to tactically ﬂood certain
areas. We're going to use the insights gained from these events to further enhance our
ﬂood models and to inform our reinsurance buy.
And on reinsurance, our current claims estimates are well below the retention of
reinsurance of GBP150m. And to remind people, that is a deductible on a seven days,
hours clause basis for ﬂooding.
So it continues to be a busy time for our claims departments. We've been doing
everything we can to help our customers. We deployed our emergency response vehicle
most recently in Staines, providing customers in the worst aﬀected areas. Property
advisors have also been out using our home estimation tool to assess and settle claims
quickly. And I was out with Steve a couple of weekends ago seeing all our people on the
ground helping our customers.
So regulation. Regulation remains another key areas of focus, with a number of reviews
and changes proposed. I'm not going to go into all the areas and we can talk more about
these in questions or over coﬀee. But I think our overall view remains that we're fully
engaged on the agenda and our knowledge and participation in industry groups means
that we're well placed to inﬂuence and understand the direction of change.
Page 15 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

Our overall position is pretty simple. We believe that a level playing ﬁeld of good conduct
and prudential regulation allows the players to invest in customers and capability to be
successful in this marketplace. So we are supportive of good and strong regulation.

FINAL

So before I wrap up, an update on targets and guidance for the year ahead, starting with
COR.
The market today remains highly competitive. But with our self-help agenda. And
assuming normal weather claims of GBP80m, we would expect to achieve a COR of
between GBP95 million and GBP97 million in 2014. And within this, we reiterate our
commercial COR target of better than 100%, again assuming normalized weather and
large loss claims.
On costs we reiterate our target of total costs of approximately GBP1b. We exit 2013 with
Q4 costs running at this required rate. But as John said earlier, we are obviously subject to
normal inﬂation and we continue to invest in the business.
And of course, our 15% ROE target remains ongoing.

Bloomberg Transcript

So to sum up, a good ﬁnancial performance. We've rewarded shareholders with total
dividends, including specials, of 20.6p and we've continued to make good progress
against our strategic agenda in highly competitive markets.
And with that, I will open up to questions. We'll just pause and allow the telephone
operator to say what she needs to say and then we'll --.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions)

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Okay. So if we can follow our normal guidance of starting with two questions, not naming
any names. So -- and then we'll return if we've got time for any more. We'll start -- Greig.

Q - Greig Paterson
Two questions. One -- just one point. My wife pointed out that in your adverts your line is
not direct, it's squiggles. So you should actually, potentially, tell your advertising agencies
to produce a direct line, yes.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

And your second question?

Page 16 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

Q - Greig Paterson
That was a statement. I need a fee for that.

FINAL

So house. Can you just give me the Fourth Quarter year-on-year pricing that you achieved
in house?
And I wonder if you can give us an update or a steer? I remember when you IPO'd you
said there was 7% of reserve redundancy. And I know you said that number would come
down over time. I wonder where we are at the end of 2013 so we can get an idea of
modeling going forward.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Okay. So let me give you a year's view on the home market pricing and what we've done,
if that's helpful and then John can talk about reserving.
So we saw -- we think the market has seen price reductions, according to surveys, about
8% to 10%. We reduced our new business pricing between 5% and 7%. On the total book,
taking into account renewals, total premium reduction was down about 2% to 3%.

Bloomberg Transcript

And despite that, as you saw, we retained our loss ratios. So that's showing our
reinvestment of our self-help agenda to keep us really competitive. And we're really
pleased, particularly with our own brands business in home. As we said, we've done
everything we said we'd do.
Self-help gives us all a pot to be very competitive in a increasingly-competitive -- and with
the growing rise of PCWs. But we are very -- a very strong player in home and we've
maintained our position.
John, do you want to talk about 7%?

A - John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

Sure. The 7%, thinking back to those days, it seems like such a long time ago. Anyway, that
was the margin we published at the time of the IPO. And I think we also said then. And
we've said it ad nauseam probably from your perspective, that our actuarial best estimate
is also conservative. And it's actually the actuarial best estimate conservatism that is
driving the reserve releases. It is nothing to do with the margin.
The margin remains as strong or stronger. I'm not going to give a number as it was then.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Hi. Andy Hughes, Exane BNP Paribas. The ﬁrst question is on costs, I guess. So the ﬁrst
question on the cost target. Presumably, we knock oﬀ the Tracker costs from that to get to
the actual target for the year end. So it should be GBP980m-something? That's a
statement, not a question. So please take that one oﬀ.
Page 17 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

FINAL

So in terms of the IT spend, I think you mentioned in the capital section that you're going
to be increasing intangibles on the balance sheet. Does this mean there's a bunch of
costs in terms of IT development that's not coming through the P&L or restructuring
charges? And roughly how much would that be?
And I guess the second question is related to the motor market and whether you think it's
going to turn any time. A few people have been making predictions about late 2014. So
I'm just interested in your take on this. Thank you.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Okay. I'll handle the last one, happily. John, do you want to take the --?

A - John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

Sure. Heard what you say about Tracker. We'd love to do what you said. I just hope we
can.
On costs, on IT costs, they're of two types. We do have some restructuring costs that hit
the P&L straightaway and we've said it's likely to be GBP40 million next year and there is
GBP40 million of other one-oﬀ costs next year making GBP80 million in total.

Bloomberg Transcript

The others get capitalized and -- primarily. And come through the P&L as amortization
cost, which is why we say if you look at any bit of our cost base, we hope to drive most
bits down. But that bit is the bit that we will increase within. It's roughly running around
GBP60 million at the moment. It will go up.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Okay. So I'll do my motor speech once and then I'm sure we'll get other questions on it.
So I think the ﬁrst thing to say is I think predicting the future is a bit of a mug's game in
terms of accuracy and it's led -- there are all sorts of legal issues with making any forwardlooking statements even if I thought I had some stage knowledge, which I don't. So I'm
not going to make any future looking comments.
But I can be quite accurate about what we're seeing today. And I know we've obviously, I
think, with our news today probably has run somewhat counter to some of the hopes
people had based on the Q4 results.
So let me just wrap up some of those factors. So there are three surveys out there that are
public domain and one which we get to see. The one we get to see has got 2,000 risks in
it. So it has some limitations. But, the other surveys also have limitations.
But if you look across the four, I guess you would see a range running around double digit
or up to double digit. We think that's a little bit high. So, we think it's 5% to 10%. We can
be a bit more speciﬁc about that and we've clearly been running at about minus 3%. So
we think we have been pricing less aggressively down than the rest of the market. Our
Page 18 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

pricing follows absolutely our observed trends. And we think those observed trends are
quite impressive versus the market from all the comparisons which we can make.

FINAL

So that's the choices that we have made. Other people clearly, it looks like, have priced
some more than that and I don't think that's driven by them having superior claims
inﬂation to us. So I guess there are implications of that in terms of potential impacts on
market proﬁtability.
We saw in Q4 some easing of the rate reductions and some signs of stability. It's not -- we
didn't make any forward-looking statements or big conclusions from what we saw in Q4
because it's a seasonal market and Q4 has some eccentricities to it normally. So we didn't
read too much into Q4.
But we have certainly seen a resumption of market competitiveness in Q1. Versus Q1,
we've seen some players take prices down quite a bit.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've sharpened our own prices a couple of % going into the quarter, again justiﬁed by
our own claims trends. And we have, as a result, seen -- we will expect to see policies fall
about another percentage point in Q1.
Just to be really clear, we still have about ﬁve weeks to go. And we trade -- Gus at the
back there trades every day. So I'm not giving up on Q1. But we expect, from the trends
which we see today, to -- our prices to be down another couple of percentage points from
where we left the year. And policy count, because that's less than we're seeing in the
market, reduce about 1%. Risk mix is probably swinging around at the moment. It may
come in our favor. So that's quarter-on-quarter.
Year-on-year what that's likely to look like is prices down about 4% year-on-year. ISPs
cumulatively now to about minus 4% year-on-year. And risk mix may be swinging around
too. And hence, that's the 10% which we come to.
Risk mix is probably the most volatile of those and things may change. So when we come
back and report on Q1, those numbers might be a bit diﬀerent.
So that's what we see. We are happy with the decisions which we take. We can't talk about
what our competitors' decisions they take. I'm not using any words like irrational because
they may well have their own good reasons for what they're doing.
But we are well practiced to what to do in these sorts of markets. We had a soft market
plan. We're executing against that. We continue to pull all of our self-help levers as hard
as we can.
Andrew.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}
Page 19 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

Morning. It's Andrew Crean at Autonomous. Two questions. Can we -- can you give us the
numerator and denominator in the economic capital model? We do want to have a look at
what your capital requirement is relative to premiums.

FINAL

Secondly, you had reserve releases in the home business which were quite substantial last
year. What -- I mean, normally you've said that you would not expect releases out of
home. Is that still the case, or are things changing?

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Just taking the second one ﬁrst, because I can remember the second one. Home releases,
yes, we had said they would be likely random. And I think what -- the new point is that as
we invest in new claims techniques and pricing techniques, for example, activities on
fraud, for example, we -- that will tend to be recognized a bit more slowly. And therefore,
some of that can come through prior year. So that would give rise to that and, obviously,
we are investing in those sorts of things. So at the moment, while we invest, we could see
some prior year.
The capital point on the ﬁrst part, which is can we give you all sight of everything, can I go
away and think about that rather than just quote them, even if I knew them?
On the second half of that point, I can't remember what that point -- the second half of it
was. But I could answer that one as I recall. If you remind me I'll give you the answer.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

With the ﬁrst part you went away and thought about it at the half year, as well. So you've
had quite a lot of time to think about it.
The second part will give way the ﬁrst part because what I wanted to know is what the
capital requirement as a percentage of premiums is.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Ah, well, that, well, there you've got to be a little bit careful because we've actually
published some data in the back of this pack to show how we allocate our capital, where
our capital requirement arises from. And, nearly half of it arises from reserving risk. So
obviously, premiums are not a good measure of that. Historic premiums might be. But
current premiums aren't. So you might want to look at the (multiple speakers) many, many
years.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

I just want the totality of the number.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Sorry?

Page 20 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

I just want the totality of the number, not the (multiple speakers).

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

FINAL

The number? Well we -- at the moment we think we've given quite a good level of
disclosure. If we ﬁnd a way to give any more we'll do that.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

That's strange.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Okay. Yes, front row.

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}

Thanks. Dhruv Gahlaut from HSBC. Two questions. One, if you guys could give us the
capital employed in the run-oﬀ business at this stage and the results what are of -- what -as in how much relates to the run-oﬀ business?

Bloomberg Transcript

And I think, going forward, as in you've had a decent amount of reserve releases coming
in that run-oﬀ line, if this was to reoccur in 2014 or 2015, should we expect further special
dividends on this line?

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks. The capital remains at around GBP300m. And the reserves are around
GBP800m-and-something. GBP850m, something like that. I can't remember oﬀhand. In
that order of magnitude.
I think on -- in terms of would there be any future special dividends, I think we -- what
we've shown is that if we get windfalls. And depending on our overall capital position,
then that's certainly a possibility. And we've seen it twice. I don't think we could commit
that every time we saw a windfall we would automatically do it. It might be a matter of
scale and it might also be a matter of the total capital position.
I think looking at the whole thing today, if we had another windfall today, yes, we would
have done it today.

A - John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

I think there's a materiality point, as well.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Okay, yes.

Page 21 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Thanks. Just as a quick follow-up to that one, I'm not sure if that counts as a question. Of
the GBP300m, how is that expected to develop over the next couple of years?

FINAL

Then my two questions. How much is the increased risk in investment? How many
percentage points on the RBC is that meant -- expected to eat up over the next year?
And also, on your investment yield charts it looks like you've increased the guidance. Is
there anything within there that takes account of duration being more matched, or is that
something on top of that, potentially?

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

I'll try my best. Development of the capital in run-oﬀ will be very, very slow because,
increasingly, it is going to just be PPOs, I'm afraid and so that will be stuck for a long time.
Potentially decades.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the capital utilization by investment, I mean it's not a number we've given out. It's not
huge. I mean, we're not putting masses of extra capital in. It depends which measure you
use. It's somewhat more consumptive on an S&P basis than on a risk-based capital basis.
And we manage to both. It's not having a big impact on our RoTE as we publish it.
On the yield, we don't assume we suddenly go long when rates have spiked. So if there is
some potential --. We're buying increasingly ﬂoating rate instruments and holding them
ﬂoating like the securitized and also the infrastructure and we do that. We have the option
at some point if we get conﬁdent about the market and make the right decisions to call it
and go a bit longer. So there is potentially some upside. But I'm not sure we'll take that
because there'll be risk involved, potentially even capital involved and on the -- on some
of these assets where we're holding them for PPO, we actually think going ﬂoating is the
right thing to do from an ALM perspective.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
So to be clear on that 2.4% guidance, that assumes you remain at the current duration?

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yes. We'll keep working our way back.

Q - Tom Dorner

{BIO 15847486 <GO>}

Hi. It's Tom Dorner at Citi. My ﬁrst question is on your expectations for the outlook for the
home insurance market. You'll get lots of questions on motor. But do you think that your
portfolio is more resilient because of the distribution agreements you have? And do you
think competition there will increase during the course of this year?
The second question is on your cost savings target. Given that you're already pretty close
to the GBP1 billion at the start of the year, I can imagine what the answer will be. But how
Page 22 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

realistic is it that that guidance will improve and what would be your next steps to further
lowering the cost base?

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. So we simultaneously think we're well placed in the home market and it will get
more competitive.
I think actually the current ﬂoods and storms remind people that this is a product to be
purchased seriously from credible brands that will be there on the scene to sort you out.
Not nickel and dime you. Look after you. And I think, therefore, it is what we do. And we
do that well.
That said, we don't have our head in the sand. This is a market which is going to get more
competitive. Price comparison websites will be -- will grow albeit we still believe that not
to end up at the destination where motor is because of the reasons I said about the -- it's
harder to compare. People care more about brands than about quality.

Bloomberg Transcript

But we have, as we said, a very active self-help agenda which we plan to churn back into
keeping ourselves very competitive in that market place. And I think our performance of
our own brands in home, I think, we feel very pleased with their performance in terms of
both loss ratio and in terms of ISPs in that increasingly challenging environment. So I think
we're up to the -- up for a very competitive marketplace.
On costs, there's a few things. So ﬁrst of all, our -- the ink's only just dry really on our GBP1
billion cost target. So we just need to make sure we get on and deliver that. And as we
said, an additional observation on it, we've got to oﬀset inﬂation. We are continuing to
invest in the business.
But let me tell you about why we're investing in the business. We're investing in the
business because we believe that in a medium; to long-term sense there is a more
eﬃcient operating model if we do invest in digital and self-service and allowing customers
to do the things they want to do and that for me is the next frontier of costs. And we'll
start talking to you about it as we go forwards.
But I think in terms of managing expectations, GBP1 billion is our focus for 2014. Clearly,
we'll look at opportunities to do more. I think we've got a good track record now of
ﬁnding our own cost opportunities and pursuing it. We're getting a good cost culture
going and we'll do everything that we can. Obviously, being disciplined on costs will help
us deliver the GBP95m, GBP97 million in a very competitive market place.
The ﬁnal thing I'd say on costs is one can be quite macho on costs and really try and force
them through. We're also trying to run an organization here where people on the phones
are motivated and we get the best people in each of our functions to do all the brain work
that we do and, therefore, I think what I'm really proud of it is I think we've kept our
people with us through the last year. And I think we have a pretty engaged and motivated

Page 23 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

workforce. And I think keeping that, I think, is really important as well to balance against
just the pure cost number.

FINAL

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Coming back to motor, two questions. One, on the risk mix. Could you maybe explain
exactly what's going on there particularly when you refer to moving to the higher
premium level part of the market? I assume you're targeting the younger driver, riskier
segment of the market. But still your average premium per policy would be moving up in
that case. I just wonder why the risk mix continues to be negative also into Q1.
And the second question, again on motor, if I may? On your retention on renewals, what
was it in 2013 versus 2012 please? Thank you.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Sure. So on the risk mix we've got an appetite. We think we're competent to be pricing
right across the risk mix spectrum and that's something which we updated on last year,
which is now we think that we're good at doing the claims and the pricing of those higher
risk and now with telematics. So, we're fully equipped to compete in it. But it has been the
area of the market that's probably had the most price deﬂation in it and, therefore, our
algorithms have led us to the risk mix which we've got now.
So whilst we could write more risk mix business, our algorithms are saying the value is in
writing the level of business that we have chosen to write here. So we could come back
and say the market pricing has changed and our risk mix has gone positive and we'd be
happy with that, as well.
So we're not constraining it. It ﬁnds its rightful level given the proﬁtability we see in our
portfolio.
The second thing was on retention and our retention was down a smidge. It's still just
under 80% or 79% on motor. And as I said, homes increased. So motor is oﬀ a point or
two but still at 79%, which we think is pretty good in the market place.
Direct Line, that's the own brands, I think.

A - John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

Yes.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Okay. Sorry. We need to make a decision. Oh, sorry, he's on second. So we'll -- anyone on
ﬁrst.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Page 24 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

Just a quick question on the RBC ratio, please. I mean, you've obviously given guidance
that you've got ongoing discussions with the regulator over the course of the year. Is it
calibrated at the moment to think about the worst case scenarios of those conversations?

FINAL

So with Solvency II you've got PPOs as a big discussion point. If it goes for you, does that
mean that your risk-based ratio looks inﬂated, or if it goes against you, will it go a lot
lower?

A - John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

I don't think we can comment on the discussions with regulator and those sorts of things.
Solvency II is interesting. Obviously, there's lots of people doing lots of work on actually
operationally delivering it as something we can comply with.
From a -- still feels a bit distant in terms of what's the eﬀect going to be on capital. There
could be opportunities out of Solvency II. There are things like the matching adjustment
and so on. But we're not clear yet how they're going to be enabled or enacted. In the UK
it's not been published yet. And I don't think we should assume that it's going to be a
bonanza, a win for all the companies in the industry as a result of Solvency II. We're
continuing to manage towards the current environment, which is pretty close to our own
way of looking at capital.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Can I just come back on that? Are you therefore -- in your modelling, are you thinking
about matching adjustment treatment for PPOs in your current RBC ratio?

A - John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

No.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Has everyone had a ﬁrst go? Then we'll go onto second.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Thanks. Gordon Aitken from RBC. A couple of questions. So ﬁrst on telematics customers.
Now that that's gaining a little bit more traction, what's the proﬁtability versus nontelematics customers? Presumably there's higher -- or lower losses and higher costs.
And the second question is what sort of pressure are you getting from the government in
both home and motor at the moment? Home presumably the government doesn't want
further pain for customers who've seen storm losses. And on motor is it less pressure
given that prices have come down such a lot over the last year?

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Page 25 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

FINAL

So do the second one ﬁrst. No direct pressure from government. But I think it's seen as a
very competitive market place and it is.
I think the other thing is the government did invest political capital in all the changes that
we've had to date on motor. And it's investing political capital on Flood Re. And I think,
therefore, to see the fact that the last stuﬀ seems to have worked and contributed to lower
prices is a good thing. And I think that we need to get behind the government and get
Flood Re over the line.
I think there's been a lot of talk potentially thinking about where the line is drawn and
where the cross-subsidy is set. I think it's clearly a matter of public policy to try and keep
the cross-subsidy minimized and therefore beneﬁcial. The scheme has a line round it. That
has been set and agreed and I think we just need to work within that now to really focus
on execution to get this over the line for 2015.
There's 350,000 homes that need the protection of Flood Re and we are very, very
focused on taking our market-leading position at that particular table.

Bloomberg Transcript

So I'd say the government is not especially a factor other than competitive markets
obviously pass on claims trends. The government helps claims trends and I think,
therefore, we'd expect to see those things following through, which they are and
probably more than on motor, as we've described.
In terms of telematics, it's early days. Just to remind people of what the nature of the
beneﬁt is. There is a self-selection beneﬁt, which is better drivers, we think, tend to want a
telematics box. When they have the box in their car they tend to drive better because they
know they're being watched and their behavior will be priced in some way and we also
give them live feedback on how well they're driving. And that improves behavior. Then, of
course, we get the data and can do something with it. And at the moment, we're just
trying to pull apart all the eﬀects.
But our early signs are that those are positive eﬀects. And over the next year we're really
going to start using the granularity of the data into pricing.
I wouldn't underestimate. For me the most-exciting thing, which we're working on in
telematics I do -- I like the black boxes, I think they're working well for young drivers is
self-installed because it fundamentally changes the economics of black boxes.
I think clearly you can see what Progress have done in the States. But the fact that you can
have a box that really removes the installation cost, that you can mail out to customers,
they can potentially mail you back, I think potentially changes the price point to which
telematics starts to work. So we are very excited about our pilot and we'll update you on
that. And as I said, we should probably get you some boxes.
Okay. Thanks Gordon. Do --? We probably need to go to the phones in a second. Who
else hasn't asked a question ﬁrst time? Can we go here?
Page 26 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

FINAL

Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank. Just one quick technical question on the commission ratio.
How much of the increases that we've seen over the last year is actually down to better
underlying -- is basically proﬁt commission and how much is underlying?
And I think in the past you've not wanted to give any sensitivity. But if reserve releases do
come down a bit next year, can you give us some sensitivity now?

A - John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

Yes. I mean it's -- the partnerships account for about half our home business. So if we have
benign weather or bad weather, they're going to get -- I mean, they're obviously -- they're
dependent on the precise deals and there is proﬁt shares and this that and the other. But
they're going to get part of it. And so this time they've got -- I mean, our commission ratio
will go up if we have good weather, which is what we've had, strangely enough, this year.
And -- but this year has obviously started the other way. I don't know if that helps you.
So there's no real underlying change. It's mainly about what's happening on the weather.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

The weather. Okay, can we just --? Sorry, one ﬁnal ﬁrst timer and then we'll go to the
phones. Then we'll --.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

Thanks. So Ravi Tanna from Goldman. It's just two quick questions, please. The ﬁrst one is
on UK motor and claims frequency. How much of an impact are you seeing in terms of the
pick-up in the UK economy and generally trends in claims frequency and also relative to
the oﬀsetting reduction in frequency from LASPO?
And linked to that, to what extent do you feel that the LASPO impacts are fully reﬂected in
frequency or not?
Then secondly, just to follow-up on Flood Re and the extent to which you feel that's likely
to impact pricing, albeit that it's early days yet in terms of 2015 implementation.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Okay. John, are you happy to do the motoring one and I'll do the ﬂood one?

A - John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

Yes. I mean, the -- there are some signs of driver miles rising and so that's clearly got to be
watched.
And in terms of LASPO frequency, I think we'll -- it will all merge together in numbers and
we'll just have to see that and react to it as it happens.
Page 27 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

I think, as ever, I don't want to repeat the story about how we price and how we look at
the market that Paul said. But yes, you're right. And we will have to reﬂect what we see.

FINAL

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

So on Flood Re, it's basically an extra level of reinsurance. So had Flood Re been in place,
we'd had got some costs back and if there had been no ﬂoods, it would have cost us
some premiums.
Now, whether the market will price those premiums in net extra or whether the market will
absorb them is a -- really a factor of the markets. And so that's, I think, to be determined
and we'll have to wait and see. It's about 2.2% or GBP10.50. So we will wait to see how the
market deals with that.
But if you just view it as a reinsurance layer, obviously, there are years when that will
beneﬁt your P&L and years when it will hurt it, just like all other reinsurance arrangements.
But we think it's a good thing. I may have not said that enough.
Has everyone -- all ﬁrst time questioners --? Can we just go to the phones to be fair to
everybody and then we'll see how much time we've got left.
Can I send it to you, the operator?

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Thank you. (Nick Danarjvic), Brewin Dolphin.

Q - Nick Danarjvic
Hello. I was just wondering -- so you said that cost cutting needs to oﬀset inﬂation. Could
you help us think about what kind of inﬂation index is appropriate? Obviously, CPI is well
above PPI. And what is the -- what was the impact of inﬂation on 2013 costs?
Then secondly, just on the combined operation ratio guidance. This assumes -- obviously
assumes normal weather. Are we already above a normal weather year and what would
the guidance be assuming the expected losses so far?

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

So let me deal with the second. John can do the ﬁrst.
So we've said GBP70 million to GBP90m. Normal year is GBP80m. So if we have a miracle
of nine months of weather that's good. And it does happen -- the ﬁrst nine months of
weather in 2012 cost us GBP5m. So it could be that we come in within our weather load. If
normal business resumes for the other three quarters, it's about 1.5 points of hit to the
COR. You can do the maths. GBP80 million weather load. So we attributed slightly more
so the quarter is one in four.

Page 28 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

Q - Nick Danarjvic
Should I be excluding that GBP20 million from -- sorry, should I be excluding the GBP20
million from the commercial? You said the next will come at GBP20 million in commercial.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

FINAL

It's been a long commercial story, really which is --.

Q - Nick Danarjvic
Okay, yes.

A - John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

And inﬂation we're thinking along the lines of about 2%.

Q - Nick Danarjvic
And what was the impact on 2013 with inﬂation?

A - John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

We don't do that number broken out of everything else. Probably similar. A bit lower.

Q - Nick Danarjvic

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. There are no further questions at this time. Please continue.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Okay. We'll do two here and then we can do any others over coﬀee, if that's all right. Can
we just try and do one further from three of you and then we can --?

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Okay. One. Well actually I'll do a quick -- two quick ones, if that's all right?
So I guess there's been quite a few questions about the run-oﬀ business. And I'm
struggling with the size of the reserves you've got for the run-oﬀ, especially when I look at
some of your peer group. I think -- I thought you only had GBP260 million as PPOs. So I
wasn't sure how you got to that GBP800 million of reserves.
Is that including IBNR? So if some of these settle as non-PPOs, there will be quite a big
reserve release and capital release? And are there options to release capital from this
book through either insuring some of these in payment PPOs or even changing the asset

Page 29 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

FINAL

mix around a bit because obviously it's quite a big number relative to the market cap of
the Group?
And I guess the second question was more on prices and premium rates. Since the IPO,
as far as I understand it, you've reduced premiums across most lines. But signiﬁcantly less
than the competition. And it's been a number of -- two years presumably now that you've
done that. And the retention still remains at 80%. So is what's happening we're seeing a
very low level of new business coming into the Group because the prices are signiﬁcantly
diﬀerent to the market? And does that mean that even if the market did recover, you'd
continue to see declines in prices and outﬂows in terms of ISPs during the year? Thank
you.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Sure. Given that they were both quick questions I'll do your second.
I mean, on the second one, look, we have spent a lot of time thinking about working on
our retention strategies. And I think we are pleased with the retention levels we're seeing
given the pricing.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, to be fair, we are giving pricing beneﬁts. The price reductions I talked about was on
the total book. And we're giving those to new business and to retention customers
because we think it's a pretty good bet to retain a customer. There is lots of beneﬁts to
doing that. So it's not that we haven't passed on any of these price decreases to our back
book.
I didn't quite get your point, maybe pick that up over coﬀee, about if the market turns
what that then does. But I think the market turning -- I can't see it being anything other
than potentially good news. But you can enlighten me on that.
Do you want to --?

A - John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

PPOs, I mean the -- you'll see when the annual report comes out that the net PPO booking
is GBP630m. I can't split it in my mind between run-oﬀ and non-run-oﬀ or motor. But a lot
-- a big chunk of it will be in run-oﬀ.
I think in terms of -- so it will represent a big chunk of the roughly GBP800 million of
reserves we've got in our own book.
In terms of what could we do with it, I mean that's a very interesting topic. We spend a lot
of time thinking about it. We're very open to any brilliant ideas about that and it's certainly
something that gets attention.

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Page 30 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

Good. Right, two more quick ones because we are running out of time. Greig, do you
want to go?

FINAL

Q - Greig Paterson
Yes. Mine is just you've sold Tracker and you've sold the protection business. Are there
any further sales of small subsidiaries in the pipeline? I wonder if you could quantify the
pipeline now?

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

We haven't got -- I don't think we've got any left, actually. We're running out of --.

A - John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

We keep looking.

Q - Greig Paterson
(Multiple speakers).

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

But --. Right, okay. Any -- a ﬁnal question to end the whole day on?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Just on the expenses I wanted to ask if you fully load for commission and claims handling,
your expense ratio is still 40%. You're cutting the costs. But your premiums are coming
down. So, the eﬃciency isn't actually improving, particularly. How do you respond to the
question that you're still a long way from being a low-cost operator in personal lines?

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Well I think we've slightly answered the point on commissions and how they ebb and ﬂow
depending on good and bad weather.
Listen, am I happy with where we are on costs? No. We continue to need to go at the right
pace towards a lower-cost operating model. Some of that will require us to invest in our
systems and infrastructures and that's exactly what we're doing right now. So I think in the
medium; to long-term I aspire to keep improving the eﬃciency of our business.
As I said, the pace of that needs to be set around certain constraints. And we move within
those constraints as fast as we can.
I think the other point is to say we're not a pure low-cost operator. We do think
investments in our brands continue to be beneﬁcial. We do believe that for some of our
brands really diﬀerentiating with customer service is also money that we'll get repaid for
by customers. So we have within our portfolio, for example, the Privilege brand where it

Page 31 of 32



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-02-26

does need to be absolutely a real low-cost operator to compete with the low-cost
operators in the market place.

FINAL

Direct Line we need to be a very high-performance brand. Churchill a very dependable
brand. Green Flag.
So I think the goal seek isn't that all of our brands will be -- look like the lowest-cost
operators. But we need, within that, to make sure that the brands that are going for those
customers that just care about price, we need to make sure they're very competitive.
So -- but don't mistake what I've said for any lack of ambition or energy about costs. It's a
ﬁxation of ours.

A - John Reizenstein

{BIO 6786139 <GO>}

And just to add one thing. If you take the home business, the home business is a veryproﬁtable business and it will always have high commissions because of the way we
distribute. Sure, we'd like to get them down if we can agree that with our partners.
And our costs, yes, we'll try and do our best on cost as well. But I think obviously we're
going to have to look -- you have to look at each town diﬀerently.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Very good. Listen, thank you very much for your engagement questions. And I think we
have coﬀee after if anyone wants to stay. Otherwise, thank you very much for coming.

Operator
Thank you. That does conclude our conference for today. Thanks for participating. You
may disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 32 of 32

