Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-28

Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Unidentified Speaker, Unknown
Yasuyoshi Karasawa, President and CEO

Other Participants
Futoshi Sasaki, Analyst
Natsumu Tsujino, Analyst
Tatsuo Majima, Tokyo Securities Co., Ltd.
Unidentified Participant, Analyst
Wataru Otsuka, Analyst

Presentation
Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hello, everyone. My name is Yasuyoshi Karasawa and I am President and CEO of MS&AD
Insurance Group Holdings. Thank you for joining us at our information meeting today.
In FY14, the global economy staged a moderate recovery. The US economy continued to
see modest gains. In Europe, despite destabilizing factors, there were signs of recovery.
Looking at the Japanese economy, in the first half of 2014, personal spending was weak
due to the impact of the consumption tax hike. But thanks to the effects of the
government's economic policy, among other factors, corporate earnings and the
employment situation began to improve. The economy is now expected to recover.
Backed by this economic environment, our earnings, especially in the domestic non-life
insurance business, improved significantly and the Company posted very strong results.
The main factors for the strong results were an improvement in earnings from domestic
automobile insurance and below-average losses from natural catastrophes.
Today, I would like to describe the progress in our initiatives in the first fiscal year of our
medium-term management plan, Next Challenge 2017, which has brought among strong
results and our strategies to achieve further rapid growth from this fiscal year onward.
Please turn to page one of the handout. Let me describe the main points of today's
presentation.

Page 1 of 15



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-28

FINAL

We announced our FY14 financial results last week on May 20. We posted record net
income for the third consecutive year. An earnings structure was established in each
business segment, especially in the domestic non-life insurance business, where
underwriting profit finally turned positive. We made good progress with our reorganization
by function to achieve growth and boost efficiency simultaneously.
In FY14, the two non-life insurance companies continued to perform well, recording a 3.1%
rise in total direct premiums written. Cost cutting also made progress. The cumulative
cost savings came to JPY31 billion compared to FY11.
Considering the establishment of a sustainable earnings-producing structure in each
business segment. And the change in the business environment, we have revised upward
our forecast for FY17, the final year of the medium-term management plan.
We will review our numerical management targets after the interim closing of this fiscal
year. Specifically, we have revised our consolidated net premiums written forecast to
JPY3,200 billion, or more, from JPY3,100 billion. And Group core profit to JPY200 billion,
or more, from JPY160 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

Meanwhile, to increase earnings strength, we will work to lower the expense ratio, aiming
to achieve in FY17 an expense ratio of the mid-31% range and a combined ratio of 95% or
less, believed to be the most competitive level in the industry.
In the current medium-term management plan, we have begun to pursue ERM in earnest.
We will maintain financial soundness while, at the same time, improving capital efficiency
steadily. Our challenge is selling strategic equity holdings. We will step up efforts to sell
them.
As we announced on May 20, we will strengthen our corporate governance structure for
transparent, fair, prompt and decisive decision making.
Let me talk about shareholder returns. Following the improvement of an earnings
structure, we will increase the pace of dividend increase from this medium-term plan. We
forecast that we will distribute an annual dividend of JPY70 per share in FY15. We
conducted a JPY10 billion share buyback in November last year and have decided to buy
back an additional JPY20 billion.
Please turn to page 2. Let me describe our numerical management targets.
Group core profit in FY14 stood at JPY155.7 billion, almost reaching the JPY160 billion
target for the final year of the medium-term management plan.
As I have said, we revised the forecasts for our consolidated net premiums written and
Group core profit for FY17 up to JPY3,200 billion and JPY200 billion, or more, respectively.
We will take steps to achieve a Group ROE of 7%.

Page 2 of 15



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-28

Skipping a few pages now to move on to page 6, I will be describing trends in the
combined ratio in the domestic non-life insurance business.

FINAL

Abnormal combined ratios exceeding 100%, due to structural issues in the voluntary
automobile insurance and the sharp rise in the number of accidents from around 200,
2010, have almost become normal. Factors here include exhaustive efforts to improve
earnings in the past few years and a revision to the rate setting system.
The graph on the next page, page 7, shows trends in the combined ratio in Japan's
overall non-life insurance sector for reference. As you see, from 1996, when liberalization
took place, the combined ratio exceeded 100% for just five years from FY08 to FY12.
In some years, the combined ratio for the entire sector has fallen below 90%. You can see
that, historically, a combined ratio of 95% or less which we are targeting is a normal level.
We still need to continue our earnings improvement efforts for fire insurance and accident
insurance. Overall, we will maintain appropriate underwriting and will seek to increase
premiums written. In addition, we will work to reduce the expense ratio to stabilize the
combined ratio at 95% or lower.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please turn to page 8. The combined ratio has come close to the target and we have
nearly established a structure for constantly achieving an appropriate profit margin. We
can now take advantage of our strengths, that is a large amount of premiums written and
a high growth rate, to achieve growth in earnings.
We still need to take steps steadily to improve earnings in a number of fields -- for
example, underwriting profit for accident insurance is still in negative territory. In the fire
insurance business, we need to deal with increasing natural catastrophes and water leak
accidents caused by the aging of buildings and facilities.
Overall, however, we believe that we are entering a phase where we can expand
premiums written through appropriate underwriting.
Please move on to page 10. This page describes our channel strategies and product
strategies to expand premiums written.
MSI and ADI are jointly developing products, taking advantage of changes in the social
environment and new risks in growth industries and growth fields and combining their
strengths.
They're expanding their businesses by selling jointly developed products through their
respective sales channels. For example, they have jointly developed and launched
overseas crisis management expense insurance and comprehensive global business
insurance in the previous fiscal year.

Page 3 of 15



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-28

They have also jointly developed a voluntary automobile insurance product for young
people purchasing an automobile for the first time. The two companies have begun to
share initiatives and facilities for their motor channel agents.

FINAL

Meanwhile, we are expanding our underwriting through good risk taking by making more
proposals to individuals, businesses and local governments associated with the mitigation
and prevention of catastrophes.
Representative examples include connecting automobile insurance which is intended to
promote safe driving and reduce risk, using telematics technologies, SMA Navi for
businesses. And construction work insurance and industrial fire insurance that help with the
mitigation and prevention of flood and wind disasters through precautions like providing
weather alert service in collaboration with weather news incorporated to policyholders.
Now please look at page 11. I will be describing our initiatives to reduce the expense ratio
on this page.

Bloomberg Transcript

Cost reduction through reorganization by function has been making progress. At the end
of FY14, effective total Company expenses, which do not include an increase in expenses
in proportion to a rise in premiums written and special factors, were JPY31 billion less than
the level of FY11.
We aim for a cost reduction of more than JPY50 billion at the end of 2017 through efforts
to reduce costs. We intend to lower the expense ratio at MSI and ADI, which is a simple
sum of the two company's figures to the mid-31% range at the end of FY17, down from
33.2% at the end of FY14.
The expense ratio at Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance is expected to fall to the 30% range this
fiscal year. At ADI, retail insurance lines, including voluntary automobile and household fire
insurances, account for a large percentage of the total business. Thus, the company is at
a slight disadvantage compared to competition in terms of agency commissions.
However, we believe that ADI will be able to lower the expense ratio significantly by
sharing the expertise of MSI.
Please turn to page 12 for the description of Mitsui Direct General.
From FY11, the company was in the black. Unfortunately, however, due to a decrease in
the top line and the worsening of the loss ratio, given fierce competition in the online
automobile insurance market, the company posted a net loss.
Because the business of Mitsui Direct General is the Group's strategic business, the
Group will work to rebuild the company quickly through a JPY5 billion capital increase and
a review of the product strategies and operations.
We skip a few pages to page 15. MSI Primary Life has consistently achieved net income of
more than JPY10 billion every fiscal year -- a target in the medium-term management plan
Page 4 of 15



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-28

since FY12, when the investment environment recovered with the winding down of the
European sovereign debt crisis.

FINAL

MSI Aioi Life has posted a profit since FY12, the year immediately following the merger.
The two life insurance subsidiaries, whose markets and business models differ from each
other, have been contributing to Group core profit.
Please look at page 16. Let me describe the situation of MSI Aioi Life channel strategies
and product strategies.
Sales of new medical insurance, Ace, which was launched in December 2013, have been
strong. Expanding the ratio of the third sector in the product portfolio has been a
challenge, as you see in the graphs on the lower right corner of the slide. The ratio of the
third sector increased significantly. The ratio in the annualized premiums of new policies
exceeded 30%.

Bloomberg Transcript

One of the reasons for the expansion is a greater contribution of sales through crossselling channels associated with the transfer of the sales of long-term third sector policies
to MSI Aioi Life in the reorganization by function. Following the transfer of long-term third
sector policies to MSI Aioi Life in the reorganization by function, the promotional sales
capabilities through cross-selling channels, both for life and non-life insurance, gained
momentum.
Let's skip to page 19. Now I would like to describe the channel strategies and product
strategies of MSI Primary Life.
In FY14, premiums written exceeded JPY1 trillion, driven by sales through regional banks
and Shinkin banks. Insurance contracts handled through these banks increased steadily,
thanks to the company's well-developed bancassurance support system, including an
established training program and product development capabilities. As a result, the sales
capabilities have been strengthened.
MSI Primary Life has launched, in rapid succession, new products that reflect changes in
the market environment and customer needs. And we believe that they have been well
received by the market. We expect that MSI Primary Life will continue to steadily contribute
to earnings from FY15 onward.
Now please look at page 22. Let me describe the international business.
In FY14, there were fewer natural catastrophes than usual, except in the Americas, where
there were some major incidents. Reinsurance performed well and exchange rates had a
positive effect. As a result, net income rose approximately JPY20 billion from a year ago.
Given the less positive effect of exchange rates, natural catastrophes and major incidents
on the level of usual years. And the initial cost at BIG, the acquisition of which was

Page 5 of 15



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-28

completed in March this year, net income is expected to decline. However, we expect that
net income will begin trending upward again.

FINAL

Please turn to page 23. I would like to describe our Asia business.
In Asia, where we're strong, we're expanding our business steadily, as the largest non-life
insurance group in the ASEAN region, taking advantage of high economic growth in the
region.
In April this year, we appointed Alan Wilson, CEO of the holding company for Asian
operations and Executive Officer of MSI, to bolster cooperation between MSI and our
Asian operations. We aim to be ranked among the top three in all countries in the ASEAN
region through M&A and other growth strategies.
Taking advantage of our strengths in the ASEAN region, we have started an alliance
strategy under which we are developing mutually complementary relations with global
players, including AXA, Generali, Mapfre. And QBE, to use each other's facilities and
services.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's skip a few pages and move on to page 29. We have been embedding ERM in
earnest in FY14. And it is now the essence of our management. This page describes
strategic equity holdings.
We have recently restated our policy on the holding of strategic equities. Please refer
later to our policy shown on the left side of the slide. We will work to achieve our target of
selling strategic equity holdings of JPY300 billion by the end of FY17, ahead of schedule.
Please look at page 30. On this page, I would like to describe the economic solvency
ratio.
The ESR, a preliminary figure at the end of FY14, rose 18percentage points to 201%,
reflecting a steady recovery in the capital market and the Group's earnings strength.
The ESR has reached 200%, our target, due to an increase in unrealized gains on
securities. We will continue our efforts to improve the quality of capital by accelerating
sales of strategic equity holdings, aiming to maintain an ESR of 200% stably by the end of
FY17.
Please turn to page 31. On this page, I will be explaining the enhancement of the
Company's corporate governance, which we announced on May 20.
We will strengthen our management system for transparent, fair, prompt. And decisive
decision making, aiming for the Group's sustainable growth and an improvement in
enterprise value.

Page 6 of 15



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-28

FINAL

Specifically, we will raise the ratio independent outside directors to all directors to onethird. And have established criteria for selecting director candidates and auditor
candidates. We will introduce a stock option system for directors and executive officers,
excluding outside directors, at MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings. And MSI and ADI core
Group companies.
We have established a governance committee chaired by outside director, Tadashi
Ogawa. The committee will make recommendations about corporate governance,
policies and arrangements.
Please look at page 32. Lastly, let me talk about shareholder return.
As I have said, underwriting profit has moved into the black at last and we're about to
firmly establish a structure that sustains stable earnings. While promoting ERM, we will
improve earnings, capital efficiency and financial soundness, striking a balance between
them. We believe that this is what our shareholders and other stakeholders want us to do.
On the next page, you will find a graph showing trends in the shareholder returns.

Bloomberg Transcript

We related Group core profit in each fiscal year to share buybacks in the following fiscal
year. However, some investors and analysts said that it would be easier to understand if
dividends are related to share buybacks for the same calculation period. Thus, we have
changed the calculation method. For further information, please refer later to the
appendix data from the next page.
Finally, the Group aims to provide transparent information to seven types of stakeholders
and create value together with them. We will reflect in our management positive and
constructive communication, especially with shareholders and investors, about sustainable
growth and improving enterprise value.
Thank you for taking time to be with us today.

Questions And Answers
A - Unidentified Speaker
We would like to start the Q&A session. Please state your affiliation and your name before
you start asking questions. We would like to have as many people as possible to ask
questions and, therefore, may we limit questions to two questions per person. And I hope
you would understand.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Tsujino, JPMorgan Securities. One question relates to the acceleration of sale of business
relationship shareholdings. You are going to sell more than you actually sold during 2014.
But the capital raising assumptions, the assumption for FY15 projection, looking at that, it

Page 7 of 15



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-28

appears to be very close to the actual amount of sales in FY14, minus gains realized, to
make additional provisioning for price fluctuation reserves.

FINAL

In terms of the Company policy, while the projection is made conservatively, am I right in
understanding that the sales then could be higher than the projection because the sale is
further accelerated?
Secondly, you said you're going to decide the shareholder return based upon the Group
core profit. It appears that Tokyo Marine, although it is yet to have an information meeting
but Tokyo Marine has changed the definition of adjusted profit as the basis to determine
shareholder return.
And the new definition includes realized gains from the sale of the business relationship
shares, although the valuation loss is not included but the realized gains are included in
the profit, out of which the shareholder return is decided.
The sales will reduce risks. And the part of that to be returned I think is quite
understandable. However, in the case of Group core profit, it could deteriorate at times,
due to the underwriting cycle. So Tokyo Marine's method may be a good one, in my view.
So could I invite your comment? Could you share with us your view on such an approach?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Thank you very much. The first question about the speed of the sale of business
relationship shares, in FY14, the first fiscal year, compared with the JPY300 billion target,
shares worth JPY91 billion were sold on the net basis.
Relative to the target figure of business relationship shares sale, the amount sold was
JPY91 billion, which is somewhat above the annual pro rata figure of a four-year period.
And during this fiscal year, we'll aim at a similar level as FY14 or even higher -- the amount
of sale we have in mind is close to, or higher than, FY14.
If sales at such a level continue for these two years at stage 1, a substantial portion of the
JPY300 billion sales can be completed ahead of the schedule. As a management, I want
to accelerate it further. This is something you can look forward to.
Your second question about the sources for dividend, change of definition by Tokyo
Marine has not been brought to my attention yet. There are three major insurers, each
competing against each other. And each facing its stakeholders.
If a peer has taken such an action, we are ready to study it as one approach. As for now,
however, we don't intend to change our way of payout -- that is 50% of our Group's core
profit, as a medium and long-term return.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Thank you.
Page 8 of 15



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-28

Q - Unidentified Participant

FINAL

The first question relates to the expense of the domestic non-life insurance business. And
the second point relates to the investment including overseas business.
Page 11 shows plans for the expense ratio, going forward. And first, about the expense, I
would like to ask questions for the short term and also medium term. The plan shows a
decreasing expense ratio this fiscal year. Your plan indicates a JPY10 billion decrease in
non-personnel expenses. Why is this? That's the question relating to the short run.
And over the medium and long term, this graph indicates expense ratio of mid-31%, 31.5%
for the two companies combined. Probably this level is still higher than your peers by 1 or
1.5percentage points.
If these companies continue to exist side by side. And with ADI having somewhat higher
agent commission rate than others because of its product mix, is 31.5% the limit that you
can reduce the expense ratio to? Is this the lowest level -- do you think this level is the
lowest level you can attain? Over the medium and long term, is expense ratio reduction
of such a magnitude, in your view, enough?

Bloomberg Transcript

Secondly, you did not explain in detail future investment. If you retain 50% or more of
profit, in essence. And if you sell strategically held equities, risk exposure will decrease,
generating a significant amount of investable resources. Where do you plan to use such
reserve capacity for investment?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Of the two questions you ask, the first one was on expense ratio, that is a JPY10 billion
reduction in non-personnel expenses. In addition, regarding the expense ratio outlook out
to 2017, you asked whether 31.5% is the limit or not.
As for the first question, expense ratio reduction we aim at is 0.7percentage points from
33.2% to 32.5% for FY15. So that is a 0.7percentage points decrease. The 0.7 points is
broken down between 0.4 points achieved naturally through top-line growth. If overall
expenses, the personnel and non-personnel combined remains unchanged, the expense
ratio will decline 0.4%.
The remaining 0.3percentage points is due to a technical issue -- that is change from the
declining balance method depreciation to straight line method. That's for the current fiscal
year.
As for reduction potential over medium and long term, MSI had been much advanced in
the expense ratio reduction. MSI's IT system had been unified, business processing had
been more efficient. Such an expense ratio structure continues to be built in, in its budget.
Back in 2005 and 2006 MSI's expense ratio was among the best in the industry at around
30-plus-%.

Page 9 of 15



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-28

FINAL

However, because of business suspension in 2006, we spent a lot of money for quality
improvement, disregarding its implications on expense ratio. Our focus on quality, then, is
producing benefits -- efficiency increased through IT systems and employees innovatively
expanding their capabilities. This shall bring expense ratio down to around 30% level.
We need to establish a below 30% expense ratio structure to compare against so-called
global players of the world. We need to envision that, moving forward. It also means
making people more efficient, including streamlining duplicate structure with agents.
Over and above that, our integrated IT systems' unity will generate effect in our Group
starting in 2017. And so efficiency enhancing effects of IT systems' investment will come to
play in full in FY17.
There is one more factor -- as a part of function based reorganization we'll make claims
handing more efficient through systems unification. And so in the next plan, higher
efficiency of claims handling will come into play. On that assumption, 31.5% is merely a
signpost along the way.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the next plan, I want MSI to go below 30% early on with ADI to further reduce its
expense ratio leveraging MSI's systems' knowhow. I want our Group to aim at below 30%
mark at an early stage through synergy produced by both companies.
Moving on to the investment-related question. Here, as you pointed out. And I think it is
shown on some page, as our capital buffer has become quite substantial, with ESR almost
at 200%, we need to slash strategically held equities further to enhance the quality of our
capital. As CEO, I'll commit myself to this and intend to deliver this commitment.
Our challenge, therefore, is to increase the efficiency of capital we have in our buffer. And
I believe the most effective means is M&A using such a reserve capacity and also our
other leverage. And if good opportunities are presented, while carefully avoiding high
prices I'd like to seize such an opportunity with audacity. And want to improve capital
efficiency by doing so. I want to increase Group core profit through this and return value to
shareholders.
Just for your reference, our revised core profit target of JPY200 billion, or more, is solely
based upon organic growth and does not include any profit contribution from M&A.

Q - Unidentified Participant
I have a follow-up question on the first point. MSI's general company expense ratio in the
new fiscal year is 13.6%. At 15.8% ADI's ratio is 2percentage point higher -- that is cost
ratio other than agent commission. Considering the size, can ADI lower it to about the
same level as MSI?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

You're talking about ADI?

Page 10 of 15



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-28

Q - Unidentified Participant
Yes.

FINAL

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

In the case of ADI, the agent commission is one of the problems. And in FY15, MSI's
expense ratio is to fall significantly below that of ADI. Here, agent commission rate has
declined. This is due to transfer of lines with relatively lower agent commission, such as
marine and commercial lines, from ADI to MSI. Thus, MSI benefits from 0.2percentage
point lower commission rate and expense ratio. This is a handicap on the part of ADI.
Yet another special factor is that some part of ADI's IT system remains not fully unified.
Once systems' unification progresses further, including unification of host computer in
FY16, I believe expense ratio will come down at a faster pace in the next step. A progress
in this regard will promote business process reform. And expense ratio can well be
reduced further, in my view.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Otsuka, Nomura Securities. I have two questions to ask relating to page 1. It relates to
upward revision of numerical target and I would like to break my question into two. One
relates to the establishment of the structure that produces sustainable earnings. And the
second relates to the change in environment and I would like you to elaborate more
concretely.
The establishment of a stable earnings producing structure, there must be some
background to that. In this part, in probably the domestic and non-life business, rate
revision works its way through, or realization by function proceeds further, with a progress
and its pace much faster than anticipated. So why, or what, is in the background of this
establishment of sustainable profit producing structures?
And second relates to the change in the environment -- are you referring to change of the
investment environment, or a change in the competitive environment? I guess the target
figure was raised because the change in the environment was different from what you
had expected initially. So could you elaborate on that?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

About the reason for the upward revision of the management figures -- about the stable
earnings producing structure, you're exactly right. The combined ratio has come down
more than anticipated, which is reflected in expense ratio and underwriting profit. Such a
structure has taken root more or less.
On top of that, while further efforts are needed for fire or personal accident lines, the
prospect there is getting better. So this is what we have shown with profit generating
structure establishment.

Page 11 of 15



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-28

FINAL

With respect to the change in environment, overall economic conditions, financial and
economic conditions within Japan, common development in the world, concerning those,
the further outlook, the course of NIKKEI average, the exchange rate development, seem
somewhat stable.
The only factor defining that is low interest rates. I think the current interest rate situation
must be taken as assumption for our forecast. Having said that, sharp spike in interest
rates also poses problems. I hope that low interest rate stably transition to rising interest
rate.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

May I ask an additional question, moving on to page 2? The figure for FY17 is JPY160
billion and it increases from JPY160 billion to JPY200 billion, or more, that is the Group
core profit, means an increase by JPY40 billion yen, or more. You are going to review
Group core profit forecast, going forward. I wanted to grasp its image -- is the main driver
of this upside a further improvement of domestic non-life business?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Yes. You are right, the profit improvement of domestic non-life business is a major factor
behind this.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you.

Q - Unidentified Participant
I have two questions relating to investment overseas and also the level of capital. The first
question relates to overseas investment and I'm referring to page 23. Could you share
with us the sort of target geography and the amount you might have in mind? That's the
first question.
And second one relates to page 30 and here, as an ESR you intend keep stably over the
medium term, you have cited 200%. Since you're reducing risk capital, I believe that will
tend to increase. What sort of a range do you have in mind beyond which you consider
capital to be excessive? If you have a specific data point which, if exceeded, would
compel you to reduce capital. And how long do you intend to take to determine that?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

You had two questions. The first question relation to overseas business, are you
interested in the target area and the amount relating to investment or M&A, the purport
of the question, yes, that is right.
As I state in every forum, our first priority continues to be in Asia. As I said in my
presentation earlier, we aim to be one of the top three players in each of the ASEAN
countries. And we will leverage that advantage and we will further solidify our strength as

Page 12 of 15



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-28

FINAL

the largest non-life insurer in the ASEAN region. To this end, we will execute M&A. So
that's the first priority area.
In addition to that, in Asia, we acquired Aviva in 2004, which bore much fruits. It was a very
efficient investment. Today, such a deal is offered only with stiff price tag. We don't come
across an excellent M&A deal like that nowadays. We shouldn't end up with a bad
acquisition. So we want to choose a deal that offers good investment efficiency. In this
sense, while it may be difficult in Asia aiming at top three in each of the ASEAN member, I
want us to be bold.
The geography to follow in Asia in my view is Europe and United States -- if anything,
Europe more than the United States. As you know, we have our own Lloyd's syndicate
since 2000, which we have been operating since 2000. And it already ranks around 20th
or so among Lloyd's syndicates and generates several billion in profit.
Having accumulated knowhow sufficiently, we want to have a leading position in the
Lloyd's market by becoming one of the top 10 syndicates. As I have been saying for some
time, if there is a good target, we'll acquire it. So that's our second priority.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition to that, including Continental Europe or the United States or Latin America, we
would be proactive in executing M&A if we find a good deal conducive to improved
capital efficiency.
On your second question on ESR level, why our ESR has reached 200%, as I mentioned in
my presentation earlier, it was partly a consequence of a large business relationship
shareholding and an increase in unrealized gains in them.
Our goal is to enhance the quality of capital to keep ESR above 200% stably and obtain
AA rating. To have AA rating on our financial strength is our important objective. To begin
with, we want to attain ESR level required for AA rating.
Over and above that, we need some reserve strength for natural disasters and
investment I talked about earlier. Nonetheless, once we've reached a stage where we can
keep ESR about 200% stably, with higher quality of capital during the planned period, we
would like to revisit our shareholder-related approach and implement such a revised
approach.
Did I answer your question?

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you.

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}

Sasaki, Merrill Lynch Securities. I have one question relating to the slide on page 2. It is
written here that you're taking initiatives to achieve 7% Group ROE. It seems rather
Page 13 of 15



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-28

difficult, given current levels of stock prices and also, most recent Group ROE of 5%. But
what sort of options do you have in mind concretely in terms of initiatives you will be
taking?

FINAL

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

You're quite right, including the prevailing conditions in such as stock market levels,
environment is conducive to enhancing financial reserve capacity. I shouldn't complain. But
at the same time, it hinders our efforts to improve ROE.
Therefore, we want to increase core profit to the maximum extent possible. JPY200
billion is not enough. So we've stated JPY200 billion or more. We want to achieve ROE of
7% by implementing a strategy including M&A to enhance ROE.

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}

What sort of options are available for the denominator? Could you share with us your
ideas?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Talking about measures on the denominator side, to reduce the denominator, we'll try to
scale down the denominator by buying back shares proactively and taking other
measures. Given the size of unrealized gains, these measures alone are not enough. I,
therefore, believe that increasing profit in the numerator is the most important strategy
primarily.

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}

Thank you.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

Majima, Tokai-Tokyo Central Center. About the strategically held shares, even if you do
what is described on page 29, in all likelihood, transportation equipment and financial
shares will remain in your portfolio, ultimately. If that is the case, your equity portfolio could
very well be left with transportation machinery, equipment and financials. As you follow
your strategy or strategic shareholding guidelines, doesn't sector bias concern you much?

A - Yasuyoshi Karasawa

{BIO 7391405 <GO>}

You asked about the strategically held equity portfolio. As you mention, our portfolio is
lopsided to transportation equipment and financials. If we ask for consent to sell on pro
rata basis, the resulting downsized portfolio will still be overweight with those sectors.
As we reduce the overall volume of shares we hold for business purpose, although it
doesn't mean we are not concerned about the structure of the portfolio. But unless we
sell those shares that occupy large weight in the portfolio, portfolio restructuring does not
progress.

Page 14 of 15



Company N ame: M S&AD I nsurance Group H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8725 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-28

FINAL

For now, I'm going to say that sales will be done on the pro rata basis as my answer to
your question. But let me add that we signed up for stewardship code and already, two
companies combined had communication and dialog with some 350 companies last fiscal
year. And we also made policy statement regarding corporate governance code. Issues of
efficiency regarding strategically held shares are included in that statement.
As we continue such communication, issuing companies have come to understand the
situation better. Thus, environment is being created to facilitate the sale of strategically
held equities, based upon mutual understanding. Therefore, the way we enunciate our
policies in compliance with the stewardship code or corporate governance code and
dialogs with issuing companies are going to be extremely important in this context.
Thank you very much. It seems that the questions have been exhausted and, therefore,
we would like to conclude the Q&A session at this juncture. If you come up with new
questions, please feel free to contact us at public relations and the IR division.

Bloomberg Transcript

This concludes the first information meeting for FY15 conducted by MS&AD Group
Holdings. Thank you very much for your attendance.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 15 of 15

