Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

Q2 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Alistair Hargreaves
Cristina Nestares
David Graham Stevens
Geraint Jones
Henry Allan Engelhardt
Pascal Gonzalvez

Other Participants
Alan G. Devlin
Andrew J. Crean
Andy Hughes
David A. Bracewell
Dhruv Gahlaut
Fahad U. Changazi
Greig N. Paterson

Bloomberg Transcript

Janet Demir
Ravi Tanna
Simon G. Denison-Smith

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody, and welcome to Admiral Group's 2015 H1 Results
Announcement. I'm Henry Engelhardt, still Chief Executive. And I'll be joined today by
Geraint Jones, our CFO; Cristina Nestares, who runs our Spanish insurance business and
will soon be relocating to the UK to take on senior responsibilities within the UK insurance
business; Pascal Gonzalvez, who is the CEO of our insurance operation in France, L'olivier;
Alistair Hargreaves, who runs non-claims operations in the UK; and last but certainly not
least, David Stevens, CEO in waiting.
Geraint and I will give you an overview of the results and go into some detail on activity in
the U.S. and Italy, followed by Cristina and Pascal, who will shed light on our operations in
Spain and France. Alistair and David will then speak about the UK. And after all that, we'll
be happy to take your questions.

Page 1 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

FINAL

It was a pretty good start to 2015 for Admiral Group. If it's a game of two halves, then
we're glad to go into the locker room in front. The highlights were back year claims trends
in the UK and Italy, the growth of our price comparison businesses in Spain and France,
and the progress of compare.com in the U.S.
As you can see, all the key indicators are up except return on equity, which is still very
robust, just slightly less robust than a year ago. In particular, I'd like to direct your
attention to the dividend numbers. On last night's closing price, this represents a yield of
around 3.5%. That's not an annualized number. That's actually the half-year yield.
Group turnover is on the rise. It's worth pointing out that the non-UK turnover ﬁgures are
heavily inﬂuenced by changes in currency rates. Our dollar turnover is ﬂattered by the
change in exchange rate, while the euro turnover is depressed. We'll try and show you all
the ﬁgures in both sterling and local currency, so you can get an accurate picture of what's
really going on.

Bloomberg Transcript

Price comparison turnover. Price comparison turnover is down and this is solely due to
Confused as our other three PC sites increased their turnover. But as I said, these ﬁgures
are also inﬂuenced by exchange rates. Other turnover is largely Gladiator commercial and
our household business in the UK, and the big growth number is more due to the latter
than the former.
Customer numbers do not carry the same currency computations, and as you can see,
there is a green shoot of growth in the UK and decent growth elsewhere throughout the
organization. We're seeing some rate increases in the UK car insurance market, which will
give us the opportunity to leverage our combined ratio advantage, and while raising our
rates as well, do so slightly less than the market, and in turn, grow the business. Alistair
and David will talk more about this in just a few minutes.
We're also seeing steady growth outside the UK with L'olivier, Elephant and ConTe all in
growth mode. And in line with turnover, the growth in the UK household book was
substantial. The household results also continues to go well, aided by the lack of severe
weather in the UK.
Now, over to Geraint to give you some more detail on the group results.

Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Thanks, Henry. Good morning, everyone. I'm going to cover the group results, Solvency II
and capital, our interim 2015 dividend and then do a really quick overview of the UK car
insurance result.
First up, group proﬁt. As you saw on Henry's slide earlier, the pre-tax proﬁt for the ﬁrst half
was slightly higher than H1 last year at £186 million. That is a record H1 result and is very
close to our biggest ever six month results.

Page 2 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

FINAL

So what happened? Well, as you can see, there were quite a few movements, which have
essentially almost entirely oﬀset each other. UK car insurance business result was very
strong, nearly £220 million. That's 6% up on last year. As we'll see later, that result was
helped by a very large reserve release. In international insurance, it was very positive to
see the loss reducing in total and very pleasing to report another small proﬁt at ConTe,
which I'll talk a bit more about.
The price comparison result is heavily impacted by increased investment in compare.com
in the U.S. and that accounts to £10 million of loss in this year's ﬁgure, more on that later.
And ﬁnally, the catchily titled, Other, which is mainly made up of our share scheme costs,
and the diﬀerence you see there to the last half year is mainly the debt interest cost, which
obviously wasn't there in H1 2014.
Next up, on earnings per share just brieﬂy. As you can see, nearly £0.55 per share in the
ﬁrst half of the year. That's 4% up on 2014, and is a record half year EPS ﬁgure. On the
right-hand side, you'll see the full annual history since ﬂotation. Hopefully, you'll agree it's
quite a nice long-term track record.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving on to Solvency II and, in particular, capital requirements. Let me ﬁrstly deal with
the 2015 situation, which will hopefully be familiar to you. Our group capital requirement
this year as agreed by the PRA under the ICAS rules and after accounting for our half-year
dividend, we show a similarly large level of surplus against that requirement compared to
six months ago. That's in excess of £300 million.
Why such a large surplus? Well, as you might expect and as we've said before, that's
about us wanting to remain prudently capitalized until our situation from January 2016 has
resolved. The top of the slide there also shows a couple of the KPIs of the half-year point.
Onto the more interesting bit, 2016. In common with most or probably all UK insurers,
we're not yet in a position to communicate the exact level of 2016 capital requirement. As
you know, it'll be based on the Standard Formula to us rather than an approved internal
model and a capital add-on is very likely to be applied to reﬂect limitations in that
standard model when applied to Admiral. And I think we've said before, the main issue
there relates to proﬁt commission arrangements in the co- and reinsurance contracts,
which aren't probably dealt with in the Standard Formula.
Constructive discussions are ongoing and the PRA will take a view on the add-on that we
think is appropriate, shortly. We expect the process of formalizing this to conclude in the
last quarter of this year and we'll communicate when we get the conﬁrmation. Plus, we'll
give much more detail in our 2015 results presentation in March 2016.
Bear in mind what I've just said, at this point, I'm not going to talk about what the
outcome of that process might be, what Solvency ratios we expect to see, whether there's
a surplus and so on. But I promise, we'll speak a lot more about capital in March 2016.
Moving on, let's take a closer look at the interim dividend. We're paying £0.51 per share,
which is 3% higher than 2014's interim dividend and that's a record half-year dividend.
Page 3 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

FINAL

£0.51 equates to a 93% payout ratio, and we've calculated this dividend on the basis of
maintaining a stable payout ratio and a consistent surplus against the ICAS requirements,
whilst the uncertainty I referred to on the previous slide remains in eﬀect.
In the chart, you see an enviable track record of dividends since ﬂotation. If you add up all
those dividends, apply them to all those shares, we paid out approaching £2 billion over
the past 10 years or so. That's nearly three times the value of the company when we
ﬂoated in 2004.
If you overlay earnings per share, now you got a good perspective on how much of our
earnings we were able to pay out in dividends. So let's do that. As you can see,
consistently high payout ratios over time, divide total dividends per share by total
earnings per share over that period, then you get a cumulative payout ratio of 93% in
earnings. If you don't have any shares, you could get some by September 10 to get the
payments, which is on October 9.
Next up, I'm going to do a really quick one through the UK results before David and
Alistair go into more detail in a short while.

Bloomberg Transcript

The ﬁrst chart at the top shows the UK car insurance pre-tax result for the last three halfyears. Steady increase at each time, reaching £219 million in the ﬁrst half of this year. The
higher result was mainly due to signiﬁcantly higher reserve releases, which were made
possible by substantial improvements in the projected ultimate loss ratios across a
number of our underwriting years.
Reserve releases on Admiral's share of the business equals 29% of net earned premiums.
That's up from 19% last half-year. It's important to note, though, that despite that very
large reserve release, the margin held in our book reserves above the actuarial best
estimate increased slightly at June 30, compared to six months earlier.
In terms of customers, turnover, premium is written on the bottom half of this slide, I think
especially exciting to report. We saw a small but pleasing increase in the number of
vehicles insured. And despite continued rate increases in the ﬁrst half of the year, total
premiums remained pretty ﬂat, and the portfolio moved again to be more weighted
towards renewal business, plus there were some other shifts towards lower premium
business.
As I say, David and Alistair will be up here in about 15 minutes time. So I won't dwell
anymore on the UK. In the meantime, back to Henry.

Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Thanks, Geraint. Overall, it's been a good six months for our price comparison
businesses. Within that, however, Confused continues to struggle in the light of
competition. The BRIAN Toy campaign – anybody bring a BRIAN Toy with them? No, not
yet – is going well, and we've seen a small uplift in share and a decent uplift in awareness.
However, the toys do cost money, and this has hit the bottom line. Rastreator and LeLynx
Page 4 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

FINAL

continue to lead the Spanish and French markets, respectively, and I'll leave it to Cristina
and Pascal to talk more about these market-leading operations in a minute.
We're very pleased with the progress of compare.com. The main area of success in these
last few months has been signing insurers to join the panel. We now have well over 50
insurers signed up. We have over 30 insurers actually on the panel and are in the process
of on-boarding the remaining 20-plus insurers. These 20-plus companies are all signed to
contract, and as soon as we can complete the IT connection, they'll be active members on
the panel.
We now have four more insurers quoting in more than 25 states, representing more than
70% of the U.S. population. While we are busy on-boarding insurers, which will be the
major feature of 2015, we have pulled back a bit on our marketing budget. We're
spending a lot more than we spent in 2014 but not as much as we envisaged.
We've done this to keep some of our powder dry until we are conﬁdent that we'll be able
to provide virtually every consumer with a good experience, which in large part means
providing several prices at the end of the process. As we're growing the number of
partners and also the states in which the existing partners currently quote, we anticipate a
bigger advertising spend towards years end and into next year.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have previously given guidance that we thought compare.com would cost the group
somewhere between £20 million and £30 million this year. And it appears that due to
spending less on the advertising than anticipated, we will not be at the upper end of that
range.
This slide gives some detail on the non-UK insurance businesses. As we said before, this is
the year we hope Admiral Seguros in Spain breaks even. With that being the goal, growth
is not important. In fact, as Cristina will explain, growth is expensive and so actually
counterproductive to breakeven.
So far, we are on pace to breakeven but it won't be easy, in particular, because there are
changes coming to the Spanish bodily injury protocol, Baremo, and they will increase
claims costs attached to the 2015 business. In all the other countries, we're growing at a
nice pace.
Let's take a closer look at our U.S. and Italian operations. I'll do the U.S., Geraint will do
Italy. Six months ago, we explained to you very simply that the U.S. was a huge market
and that we have ﬂedgling European-style price comparison side, as well as an insurer
currently trading in four site – at four states.
Six months on, nothing has changed from that description. Elephant is doing well, but life
would be better if we had more price comparison business. Elephant is growing, but its
costs are still high and bad weather, particularly in Texas, has meant stubbornly high loss
ratios.

Page 5 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

In short, things in the U.S. are progressing, but we expect the faster pace in the second
half of the year and into next year. Geraint?

FINAL

Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

All right. Just a couple of quick slides on ConTe from me to ﬁnish oﬀ. First thing to say is
that in 2014, it's very pleasing to report another small proﬁt at ConTe, following on from a
very similar result in 2014 as a whole. What's been happening with the top line customer
numbers? As you can see on the left-hand side of the slides here, after seeing turnover
reduce in H2 last year and basically ﬂat vehicles insured, ConTe started to grow again in
2015, increasing customer numbers by 5% in six months and with turnover rising slightly
versus H1 last year.
ConTe broke through this 300,000 customer mark a couple of weeks back and the
business makes up just under 50% of the group's combined international insurance
customer base. The Italian market has enjoyed some pretty positive results recently,
especially in 2014. And those results have fueled some pretty strong competition in the
market with material rate cuts over the past year or two.

Bloomberg Transcript

ConTe has responded with the rate cuts of its own, particularly at new business. It was
managed to keep the projected ultimate combined ratio for the 2014 year in line with the
2013 year. At some point, reasonably soon we would expect that rate cutting will move the
market to uneconomic levels, which should be de-stabilizing and then rising rates in the
market, which we look forward to.
Now it is accurate to say that ConTe's proﬁts in 2014, and the ﬁrst half of this year results
from back year reserve releases. However, it's also worth noting ConTe's results on an
underwriting year basis, which is what we see on the slide.
The chart shows the business combined ratio, taking everything into account, that's the
motor underwriting and the other revenue on independently projected ultimate basis,
and it's by underwriting year.
There are three lines on the chart, which show the projected results at diﬀerent time
periods. So the solid line is the most recent projection and the dotted lines show earlier
points in time. For example, at the end of 2013, the projected ﬁnal outcome for the 2013
underwriting year was 109%, and that's since improved to 103%. And you'll note that in
general, the projected outcomes tend to improve over time. Though, of course, it's not
always guaranteed to be the case.
Really pleasing to see that ConTe was actually proﬁtable in 2012 and only its fourth full
year operations. Milena's at the back of the room she'll tell you all about it on the way out.
2013 and 2014 are currently projected at 103%, which is not too far above 100%.
In its accounting results, ConTe follows the same philosophy as the UK business, it books
initial reserves well above the actuarial best estimates. The margin is slightly bigger now
than it was six months ago despite the release of the ﬁrst half of the year.
Page 6 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

And on an encouraging note from ConTe, actually, a lot from Henry and I. Henry's backup
at the end to wrap up. Now we have Cristina and Pascal to talk about Spain and France.
Thank you.

FINAL

Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody. I've been working for Admiral for 10 years now. I launched the
ﬁrst international operation back in 2006. And after ﬁve years leading it, I was promoted
to European Manager. And now in less than two weeks, I will be moving to Cardiﬀ for its
wonderful weather, but also, to start working in the UK business as Head of Motor. So let's
take a look at the Spanish market. 2015 is clearly a transition year. We have been seeing
premium decrease for more than seven years. And ﬁnally, in the ﬁrst half of this year, it has
started growing again.

Bloomberg Transcript

There are clear signs of economic recovery. Fuel consumption, which is very correlated to
frequency, is going up by 2% after many years of decreases and also current sales are
growing by 20%. The market was proﬁtable last year with a combined ratio of 97%. Well,
actually, this market has been proﬁtable for more than 10 years. But next year, there is
going to be a signiﬁcant change in the Baremo, which is a rating system that we use to
assess BI claims. And there are two major changes that are going to happen. The ﬁrst one
is, in general, a higher payout for large BI claims. But secondly, there will be a more
generous compensation for future loss of earnings because normally until now we didn't
take this so much into account.
So for the future, we expect increases in frequency and a signiﬁcant increase in BI cost,
and we think this is going to make prices go up after seeing 10 years of no price increases
in the market. And this is actually good news for both Rastreator and Admiral Seguros
because price increases should stimulate shopping in a market where attention is very
high and switching low.
Let's take a look at Rastreator. Rastreator is the market leader and actually, its advantage
towards its competitor has increased during this ﬁrst half of the year. While Rastreator has
continued growing, while its competitors have shrunk. We have increased our media
spend, resulting in more quotes, in more revenues and in an increase in brand awareness.
Today, more than 90% of the Spanish will recognize Rastreator.
During this time, we have also continued improving our multi-products oﬀering, and
nowadays, more than 20% of Rastreator revenues come from products, which are
diﬀerent to motor insurance. That includes other insurance products, travel, utilities, and
ﬁnance. Rastreator has acquired a URL, Seguros.es, which means insurance in Spanish
because our strategy is to have two price comparison website in the Spanish market. This
allow us to be much more eﬃcient with our media spend. So for the future, we will
continue making our multi-product oﬀering bigger and better for the customer and we
will continue spending on Seguros and Rastreator. Actually, we have already started
putting some money behind Seguros.es as a TV campaign has started a couple of weeks
ago.

Page 7 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

FINAL

Let's take a look at Admiral Seguros, but before I talk about the result, let me clarify terms
because this might become a bit confusing. Seguros.es, that's a new price comparison
website that we have acquired. Admiral Seguros is insurance operations that we launched
back in 2006. Admiral Seguros has a very clear target for this year, to breakeven on
written basis. And so far, things are looking good. Expenses, under control; claims
numbers, favorable.
However, this is a business subject to claims. Therefore, there is a lot of uncertainties. And
also, the changes in Baremo are going to put a lot of pressure on the loss ratio. Now
during the ﬁrst half of this year, we have continued growing, fueled by the growth of
Qualitas Auto, our second brand. And for the future, we also expect to take advantage of
the market growth that we expect to see in the market by lagging competitors in price
increases.
Now, it is important to mention that the fact that we might probably breakeven this year,
doesn't mean that we're going to be proﬁtable every year after because we will grow
when market conditions are good. So, in 2016, if there is a signiﬁcant growth in the
market, we will take advantage to increase our book, to increase our investment, and
therefore, we report a loss.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, all in all, I'll say it has been a very good half of the year for the Spanish operations. We
have Rastreator being a more stronger market leader. We have launched a second price
comparison website, Seguros.es, and our insurance operation is on track to breakeven.
And for the future, more growth to come. I'll now leave you with Pascal to talk about the
French operations.

Pascal Gonzalvez

{BIO 19121456 <GO>}

Thank you, Cristina. Good morning, everybody. My name is Pascal Gonzalvez. I'm really
happy to be here to talk about France, as we believe the French market is facing a point of
inﬂection and is moving in the right direction.
And the most exciting news is that change of regulation that was implementing earlier this
year. This new law is going to help customers switching and will make the motor
insurance market much more ﬂuid. In the past, it was very complicated for customers to
cancel their insurance policy after renewal. Now they can cancel anytime and much more
easily. As you see, the new insurers was dealing with the switching process. So, this is a
fantastic new opportunity both for price comparison websites and for motor direct
insurers.
The ﬁrst few months of the implementation, I've shown some clear positive signs, and this
is very encouraging because the law is going to be implemented over 12 months
progressively on each anniversary renewal date. And the second thing is because the
awareness and the understanding of the law are still limited. So, we're expecting the
progressive growing power in this new regulation with an impact on market persistency.

Page 8 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

FINAL

One of the consequences of this change in the market is the growth of price comparison
websites. In the ﬁrst half of the year, we've seen the motor insurance quotes increasing by
17% compared to last year. And this trend should even be accelerated in the future as
we're expecting stronger team investments coming from the aggregators. Not only we're
expecting an increasing volume quotes, but it should also improve the new business
conversions for direct insurers over time.
So, on one hand, there will be more credit in the market with an impact on persistency.
On the other hand, there's some proﬁtability problem in France with the proﬁtability of
the motor insurance suﬀering. Despite price increases in the past three years, we've seen
the combined ratio worsening and is expected to be around 107%, 110% this year, and it's
one of the worst in the last 15 years. So, we believe the underwriting cycle has got to
harden, and the combination of all of this is a very good opportunity, both for LeLynx and
L'olivier.
So, in this good context, LeLynx has decided to have a more aggressive strategy in 2015.
We're doubling TV investments. And at the same time, we've been doing lots of PR to
explain the advantages of the new law to customers, and this strategy has paid oﬀ. LeLynx
managed to increase signiﬁcant leads for the volumes and became the clear leader in the
market with the highest level of quotes.

Bloomberg Transcript

And at the same time, LeLynx remains a proﬁtable business. So this strategy is going to
continue in the next few months, with two main priorities, more education about the new
law to the customers, and more investments in branding.
The timing of all the strategies in the market is pretty good for L'olivier. When we
launched L'olivier a bit more than four years ago, we used a diﬀerent business model. It
was decided to outsource most of our operations in order to test and learn the French
market. After two years, the experience was very positive with good technical results and
a clear competitive advantage in pricing. So, we decided to in-source operations to make
a true diﬀerence in this market.
2014 was dedicated to the in-sourcing of the business, and with Dave rightly deciding not
to grow in order to focus on this big project. 2015 is now the year when we want to start
and grow.
So, the ﬁrst half of the year has been pretty positive with strong volumes and good claims
experience. And for the next month, gross premiums are pro-rated. To do so, we want to
build strong brand awareness and key investments that are actually starting next month.
Our clear ambition is to become a well-known quality direct insurers in the next couple of
years.
So, with the full control for operation, the cutting-edge IT system, and a strong
management team, we believe we now have some strong foundation to take the most of
this market opportunity.

Page 9 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

So, to summarize, we believe that the dynamic of the French market is very positive. The
new regulation, price comparison websites are growing, LeLynx educating the market and
making proﬁts, and L'olivier is now ready to capture those opportunity much more
eﬃciently.

FINAL

That's the end of the French section, and now we'll focus on the UK with David and
Alistair.

David Graham Stevens

{BIO 1990356 <GO>}

Thank you, Pascal. This is the exhibit that Geraint showed you 15 slides or so ago, and
admirably concise summary of the UK market, outcome are in outcome. What Alistair and
I are going to do is put a bit of color to that, the detail. I'm going to talk about prices, our
own in the market, and I'm going to talk about claims. Then Alistair is going to talk about
some of the other key economic drivers.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, let's start with prices. This is an exhibit based on the ABI premium tracker, the most
accurate source of pricing information, including new business and renewal. And the red
line is the year-on-year increase, and the blue line is the cumulative decrease since the
beginning of 2012. And what you see here is the market bottomed in quarter three last
year to minus 14% from the beginning of 2012, and then started to put in some relatively
modest increases so that by the end of the ﬁrst half, it was up 2.9%.
Not of it felt very exciting because 2.9% isn't even enough to compensate for the growth
in underlying frequency, let alone severity pressures. So, we're seeing a situation where
the market is bumping along the bottom, but not really addressing the proﬁtability
strengths.
Now Admiral itself started increasing prices a bit earlier, quarter two last year and we're
up around 10% since then. Now those of you who are mathematically astute will notice
from your previous exhibit that our volumes are ﬂat and our premiums are ﬂat, and yet I'm
talking about a 10% premium increase and that's hard to square. It's squared by the fact
that there has been a mixed change. As Geraint mentioned, more renewal but less new
business. Within both new business and renewal, some portfolio shifts towards lower
premium risks driven partly by our own changes and partly by competitors' changes.
And another slight element is the fact that telematics are becoming a more important part
of the very high premium segment. They represent 3.5%, 4% of the overall market new
business, which is not that huge. But of the team market, we've now gone to a situation
where they were a very minority taste to where there were substantial minority of sales to
that market. And the people that buy telematics from ourselves and our competitors
enjoy a substantial discount, which does have some impact on average premiums.
Now, going back to the market as a whole, I've left in the cumulative results in this exhibit
just to talk about the long-term pressures. So here we are at the middle of 2015, 11% down
on where we were three-and-a-half years ago. Over that period, frequency is probably up
6% or 7%. We've seen small bodily injury frequency come down, but then come right back
Page 10 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

FINAL

up to where it was before. And we've seen over that three-and-a-half years, the continual
grind of large bodily injury inﬂation exceeding RPIs. So, obviously, that combination of
substantial falls in prices and claims pressures means the industry margins have taken a
bit of a hit over the last three years versus where they were.
How does this show in proﬁtability? Well, it doesn't. If you look at the net combined ratio,
obviously, 2013 or 2014, two of the most proﬁtability years in the last 30 with breakeven
on under 18 basis and decent returns driven by ancillaries and investment income. But, of
course, this is all driven by a record reserve releases. We're seeing in 2014 the private
mark-to-market, a release of almost 13.5%. The previous record in 2007 was 11.5%.

Bloomberg Transcript

And those releases are obviously camouﬂaging a signiﬁcant deterioration in underlying
margins. Will that still be the case in 2015? Will the industry be able to report a decent
result? I think what we're seeing in the ﬁrst half numbers reported so far by and large is
some deterioration in net combined and is our evidence of pressure in the market we're
seeing from small scale exits, Service, Liberty, RSA Private Broker, which often sales are
immaterial in terms of our capacity, but that's certainly symptomatic of pressures.
So, what is the prognosis and our view for pricing going forward? Well, we are believers
in history as a guide to the future. And if you look at 2007 and the previous peak in
reserved releases, what you saw is a period of 18 months during 2008 and the ﬁrst half of
2009, where premiums went up, but not suﬃciently and materially to compensate for
what was quite the high level of claim inﬂation in that period. And actually, premium
increases suﬃcient to turn margins around and bring the property around didn't really
start until the middle of 2009. And so, I think, that's not an implausible prognosis for our
own situation now, where we will probably see premium increases in the second half of
this year and in the ﬁrst half of next year, at or about claim – increased costs. But we won't
probably see a breakthrough into seriously improved underlying proﬁtability until a bit
later into 2016.
Now, a more interesting way to look at proﬁtability in the market and for ourselves is to
look at accident year claims ratios, and this is the way we tend to show that. The red line is
the market-reported claims ratio by accident year at December 2014. Within the brackets,
the reserve release during the course of the 12 months of 2014.
Our own blue line, not directly comparable. First of all, it's June 2015 data. It's not
reported. It's projected ultimate. The movements aren't the movements over 12 months.
Those are movements over the six months from January 2015 to June 2015.
But what you do see is some very substantial improvements in our projected ultimates,
particularly in 2013 and 2014. 2013, a joy, coming down 4% and making 2013 look like it's
going to evolve into a particularly proﬁtable year for us. 2014, I'd say a relief, coming
down 5 points from 82%, which we were talking about six months ago when we talked
about a disappointing pattern of large bodily injury claims.
What's driven those improvements? Well, during the six months, ﬁrst six months 2015,
essentially, we've seen better development on those big bodily injury claims in 2013 and
Page 11 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

2014 in particular. We've seen those develop more positively than has been in the
actuarial projections at the end of last year. What's happened in the ﬁrst half of 2015 on
2015 itself, well, we never show – we no longer show projected ultimates for half year. It's
too volatile a number in our year. If I could just restrict my comments to saying we've seen
frequency probably less markedly increasing the new market experience, and that's true
of underlying frequency and bodily injury. And we've had a relatively benign big bodily
injury experience in the ﬁrst half of 2015. But that's exactly what you would expect given
our change in mix. So, we're not claiming brilliance here. It's a reﬂection of a change in
book of business.
Let's just dwell a bit longer on the reserve releases which are obviously one of the most
striking features of this year half-year's results. This is the history of reserve releases since
our ﬂoatation averaging around the mid-teens, the constant feature of our proﬁts. The two
main drivers of the volatility that's evident there, we thought a relatively stable element of
reserve release, which is the fact that the back year's mature towards projected ultimates,
the book head down over time towards projected ultimates, and that creates a relatively
predictable volume of releases.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the unpredictable element is changes in projected ultimate. So if the projected
ultimate loss ratio, say, deteriorate, that's likely to lead to relatively disappointing outcome
on reserve releases we saw, for example, in 2011. If they improve substantially, then you
get a much better than average outcome on reserve releases. So, the prospects for
reserve releases in the second half is that we would expect reserve releases to be a
material part of our proﬁts in the second half. They will not be as material if they were in
the ﬁrst half unless there are further large reductions in projected ultimate.
What I would say is though the underlying proﬁtability, the current proﬁtability of the
business in the second half is likely to be somewhat better than the ﬁrst half given the
price increases that we've implemented over the last 12 months.
Now, one of the important considerations is, have we done these reserve releases at the
expense of our overall level of conservatism? Have we reduced our margin over ultimate?
And in this instance, we've actually had our cake and eat it. As Geraint mentioned, we
slightly increased our margin. But now, slightly can be a mealy-mouthed word that really
means the rounding error, an immaterial number. In this case, it is a material number. We
debated the right adverb should be slightly increased or somewhat increased. It already
slightly lessened somewhat, but somewhat more than slightly. So, we've rounded it down
to slightly. And it's nice to be able to report a substantial release while also adding to that
level of conservatism.
So, that's the situation on the claims and pricing front. I'll hand over to Alistair to talk
about some of the other key drivers.

Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

Good morning. My name is Alistair Hargreaves. I've been with Admiral for seven years.
Some of you may remember me from my time as Investor Relations Manager. Since then,

Page 12 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

FINAL

I've worked in a number of diﬀerent areas of the UK Group, ﬁrst in marketing, looking
after our add-on products, then as head of renewals, and now as head of operations.
My ﬁrst slide looks at other revenue per vehicle. The bar chart shows that our other
revenue per vehicle has fallen from £67 in 2014 to £64 in the ﬁrst half of 2015. This is due
to a change in vehicle commission, the up-front per vehicle commission and from
Admiral's reinsurance in co-insurance partners. The new business policies written from
January 2015, we no longer earn vehicle commission. This change causes the reduction in
other revenue, but also an oﬀsetting increase in future proﬁt commissions.
The chart shows the vehicle commission for new business policies as the red component.
This will decrease to zero at the full year. It also illustrates that if we exclude the change to
vehicle commission, our other revenue per vehicle has been stable at £61. This is the level
we're expecting to report for total other revenue per vehicle for the full year, and we
expect it to be maintained at around this level for 2016.
With those remaining constant overall, I want to mention some changes to another
component of other revenue, our add-on products. Strengthening our add-on beneﬁts
has reduced the proﬁt margins of these products. Our objective is to provide useful, easy
to understand products, and we regularly review and amend our products to improve the
beneﬁts for customers.

Bloomberg Transcript

These improvements, combined with other changes such as improvements to our online
journey, and the introduction of Motor Legal Protection as an optional add-on had
resulted in an increase in overall add-on sales, oﬀsetting the reduction in proﬁt margins.
So the next slide shows our expense ratio versus that of the market. We've got two lines
for the market. The red one is the one we've used historically. It excludes UKI because the
ﬁgure has been volatile. But after a few years of more stability in the total market ﬁgure,
we thought it was worth showing this too, and that's the green dotted line.
Overall, we can see that our expense ratio continues to compare well to the market, and
we feel well placed to maintain this in 2015. Being low cost is important to our continued
success, so I thought of going through a bit more detail on some of the drivers.
So let's look at how our expense ratio versus competitors breaks down. On average, our
book contains more higher risk, higher premium customers than the market as a whole.
So, as expense ratio equals cost over premium, just based on the math, our higher
average premium equates to an 8 percentage points advantage on expense ratio.
Now, the green block is the interesting one. Higher risk, higher premium customers are
typically more expensive to service. For example, they have a higher claims frequency and
are more likely to cancel. So, you might expect the mathematical advantage of having a
higher average premium book to be eroded by these factors. This is not the case. We're
able to service our book of customers more cost eﬀectively than the market average, and
this contributes half of the advantage.

Page 13 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

FINAL

It's due to our cost conscious culture. We keep things simple. We maintain a lean
management structure and we're based in South Wales. One particularly important
component is our low acquisition cost. Acquisition cost is signiﬁcant. In the ﬁrst half of
2015, our acquisition costs were over 40% of costs, excluding levies. Our acquisition
strategy of fully embracing price comparison and maintaining a strong discipline on all
other marketing spend is important to this. However, another key factor that drives
acquisition cost is how long our customers stay.
So, let's consider that. On this slide, where I refer to persistency, I'm talking about the
proportion of customers who stay with us for the full term and then stay to start a new
policy at renewal. On the left of this slide is a bar chart, which illustrates that lower
premium customers are more likely to stay than higher premium ones. This is based on
our own information and we split it to look at a lower band that's broadly consistent with
the market average premium and a higher band that's broadly consistent with our
average premium.

Bloomberg Transcript

Based on this, you might expect us to have lower persistency, but the graph on the right
illustrates this is not the case. Admiral has a better persistency than the market. You can
see the trend on this graph is showing that for the market as a whole, there's been
increases in persistency in the year. This is a continuation of a trend that we've seen for a
couple of years, probably due to where we are in the cycle. It's an area we've been very
focused on and we're pleased to have increased our advantage.
So why do our customers stay with us? Well, with car insurance, it's always important to
remain competitive on price. However, another very important factor is the level of service
we give our customers. We want to give fantastic service every time. Key here is our
people, our frontline staﬀ. They are the ones who look after our customers. This is where
our culture is key. The way we nurture and empower our people, the ownership of the
business from the staﬀ share schemes. This plays a vital role on a day-to-day basis.
This slide shows we're getting more real-time customer feedback, which is both
motivational for our people and also helps us better understand the customer
experience. Overall, our customers are very happy with the service we provide, both in
the claims team when in their hour of need, but also at the other touch points, at new
business, mid-term or at renewal.
Unfortunately, the feedback isn't always positive. Though painful, the negative feedback
can be most helpful. We use it to improve the customer experience going forward, the
output of which is demonstrated by the chart at the bottom showing our decreasing
complaints over time.
So that's it for me. Back to Henry for the wrap-up.

Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Thanks, Alistair. This slide serves to point out that once again, we placed very highly in
competitions that measure the quality of the workplace and culture. We have a simple
Page 14 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

FINAL

philosophy at Admiral: if people like what they do, they'll do it better. And so we go out of
our way to make all our oﬃces great places to work. We believe that this gives us a better
result across time, and we believe that our result over the last two decades plus conﬁrm
this.
As you can see from the numbers and you've heard from our speakers, this is another
successful half year for Admiral Group. Most of our operations are growing and we are
especially proud of the proﬁtable result that ConTe produced in 2012 in its only fourth
year of operations.
It's now time to open it up to your questions. Thank you.

Q&A
Operator
Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks very much. It's Ravi Tanna from Goldman Sachs. I've got three questions, please.
The ﬁrst one was just on the reserving position. I was just wondering, the fact that you've
strengthened the reserve margin buﬀer, does that inform at all or does that potentially
leads to changes in the reserving policy going forward and your considerations around
where you book relative to ultimate going forward? Some of your peers have started
booking closer to ultimate, and I was just wondering if it's that's something you'd
consider?
The second question is on distribution. Again, one of your peers referenced the facts that
new business sales via price comparison websites have ﬂattened out for the ﬁrst time.
And I was wondering what your observations on that are and what your expectations are
around that channel? Do you see that as a blip or is there a speciﬁc driver or is it more of a
sustainable trend in your view?
And then just the third one was around pricing increases on your book. You talked about
putting through 10% increases on new business, but that you've seen a mix shift. I was
wondering if you could perhaps elaborate and give us the other piece of the jigsaw or in
terms of pricing changes on renewals business and hence, the overall changes to average
premiums, please?

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

David, if you take the reserve policy and the price increases, and I'll touch on the price
comparison question.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 1990356 <GO>}

Okay. On the reserving policy, every half year, every year, we take a view of what's the
right level of prudence to put into our margin. One of the variables, the only one that
informs that decision is the volatility of the ultimate loss ratios. So, in a period when we've
Page 15 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

had two six months – actually quite substantial movements in the ultimate, fortunately, in
both cases, down, but that's still volatility.

FINAL

To our mind, it makes sense to be more cautious about the margin in that context. Were
we to see less volatility in the movements of the ultimate, then we might take a diﬀerent
view on margin. On price mix, sorry, I may be unclear. The 10% was on average across
new business in renewals.
The price comparison sites dominate new business now. All the low and actually,
medium-hanging fruit has been taken. So any future gains and share gains from price
comparison sites is going to come from the people who are most resistant to it.
But also, the point in the cycle where prices aren't going up doesn't lend itself to price
comparison businesses growing. If we see some more increases in the market, I think you
will see some more growth out of price comparison.

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

Okay.

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning. Dhruv Gahlaut, HSBC. Three questions I have. Firstly, in terms of
investment income, you've accrued almost £13 million at the half-year stage. At what – and
then, how much would the loss ratio need to come down for that to ﬂow through the P&L?
Secondly, in terms of the reinsurance agreements, which are coming out for 2016, when
do we hear on that, if you could talk a bit more?
Thirdly, in terms of the Compare.com, you've got a tie-up with Google in California. Is that
just restricted to California or does it go to other, as in – is it for other states as well?

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Let me touch on the last one, and then Geraint, you can take the other two questions.
Google has expanded. They're now doing Texas and nothing else at the moment. They're
threatening to do Illinois, I think, but slower allowed to them. We don't know whether
they'll cover all 50 states or just pick oﬀ a few or what. But they're now in two.

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}

And the new guys are going to put them in every state they go in terms of (44:52)?

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

That's correct. That's correct.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 1990356 <GO>}
Page 16 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

FINAL

Among the other two questions, the ﬁrst one was the investment income accrual that
we're making on the funds withheld and the reinsurance arrangements over 2014
underwriting year in particular. What has to happen there, so that's £13 million to be
released is a suﬃciently strong improvement in the 2014 projected ultimate. So, that
income can be released to the P&L. The 2014 projection has to come down a couple of
more points, but that would be the case. Of course, not guaranteed to be the case. So,
basically, it has to improve a couple of points.
The next question was on the reinsurance. We are currently in a position to speak to our
reinsurers on the panel. Good discussions ongoing. I'd expect in March 2016 to be
reporting what we'd be doing in 2017 and beyond.

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}

And could you actually (45:59) – normally these – the 35% of the book gets a – it's a twoyear or three-year contract. Could you actually make them similar to the Munich RE
contract, i.e., it goes more longer term? Is that something which you're looking at as well?

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. We talk to reinsurers about diﬀerent lengths of contracts. It all comes down to an
internal decision about the economics of the contract on oﬀer, and term is one factor and
margin is another factor, along with the other terms and conditions. It tends to be the
case that the best terms for us and to the reinsurers tend to be on shorter-term protégé
contracts. That's why I suspect that renewals will look a lot similar to the expiring deals.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

All right. Thanks so much. Andy Hughes from Macquarie. Three questions if I could. The
ﬁrst one is on the best estimate loss ratios on slide 47, the second one. Basically,
obviously, a big move in the half year. Could you give us any more information about
what's changed in six months? What's triggered such a big move on those best estimate
loss ratios? I think large claims have developed positively, but it does seem like a very big
move.
And (46:55) at the PRA looking at what add-on you should have for this business given
the volatility in the best estimate loss ratios. I mean obviously, the best estimate loss ratios
means that they reserving from us two years has dropped by £150 million or something.
Doesn't that mean you can end up with a very big add-on because the business is
extremely volatile?
And the ﬁnal question on the kind of trend you've listened to, to teenage drivers taking
out telematics. Wouldn't that follow into older ages as they get older and what you see,
would you have to retreat from the older ages as these people get older? So, if you took
out some of (47:28) from the 17, one day it's 21, (47:31) keep it up. So, is this just a gradual
progression that exonerates as price rises come through? Thank you.

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Page 17 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

FINAL

(47:43) telematics than you do capital. Okay. So, essentially, what we saw in the ﬁrst six
months – what we saw in 2013 and particularly in calendar year 2014 is we saw an
unusually large number of large bodily injury cases result. And it's very diﬃcult to do
actuarial extrapolations very early on large bodily injury. We then saw in the ﬁrst six
months of 2015 there's more information with capital in those claims that they turned out
collectively to be materially better than we had initially thought.
I think when you talk about the volatility per ultimate, I think it's only fair to recognize that
we actually share with our investors our projected ultimate loss ratios, which was
essentially shared by all insurers and it may well be the other insurers have more volatility
in their underlying projected ultimate than is clear from their reported numbers.
On the telematic front, the current constraint is – in terms of which segments of the market
telematics works for is all around the cost of delivery, which still is substantial and means
that it's not really economic to deliver a telematic solution to a large proportion of the
older market. But that may well change over time. I think you used the word retreat and
necessity of retreating. Did I hear that right?

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

I can't remember, sorry.

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Okay. So, I didn't quite understand that word. But generally, I think telematics will
remain a high premium niche until technology matures.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 1990356 <GO>}

On the capital question, (49:35). I'm not sure we would consider our reserves, especially
what we knew, to be particularly more volatile than our peer group. We probably should
point out our volatility tends, on average, to be on the positive side, which I don't think
hurts. I think it's fair to say that the results really spoke about the two main parts to the
add-on. The ﬁrst is the recognition of proﬁt commission risk.
Obviously, economic capital includes a big amount of capital in relation to proﬁt
commission income. The standard formula doesn't deal with proﬁt commission income at
all, so a big part of the add-on is proﬁt commission risk. And the other part is PPO risks, so
we believe it's the standard formula and estimates the risks arising from PPO claims. I
expect that to be a consistent feature with our competitors and peers.
But I wouldn't say that the volatility or the improvements we saw in the six months would
lead to a particularly higher reserve charge than our peers we'd expect to see or the rest
of the market would see.

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

(50:40). Sorry. Greig Paterson, KBW. Base rate, can you give me the base rate change
from over the half year just so that I can put that in my model? You usually provide it.
Page 18 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

FINAL

Second thing is, I wonder if you could give us a feel on a written basis what you think the
year-on-year inﬂation rate will be in aggregate, and give us some color as you have in the
past have done when you're going through damage loss or frequency, et cetera.
And then, the third thing, I was wondering – I noticed you've done another accounting
change around your proﬁt commission. I wonder if you can just explain that in a little bit
more detail, which of the accounts or possibly send us some kind of spreadsheet to
explain what's happened there because previously, it was material, if I remember, the
change.

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

David, do you want to take the ﬁrst two? And, Geraint, the last one. Base rate and inﬂation
rate.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 1990356 <GO>}

Okay. (51:59) on the base rate is. What we've said -- what he said was that we're up 10% by
the end of the ﬁrst half versus where we – when we started increasing, which was quarter
two, and is being spread roughly proportionally across that period, those changes.
In terms of projecting claims, I mean...

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

That's not the base rate because the new business mix aﬀects that materially. What was
the base rate change over the ﬁrst half? You usually provide that from the end of
December to the end of June.

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Let's have the conversation oﬄine because I think I just answered that question by saying,
in a sense, what we're saying is the base rates have gone up by the equivalent of 10%
since quarter two last year, and it's been roughly proportional across that period. But I'm
happy if there's some diﬀerent understanding of base rates have a further conversation.
In terms of projecting the claims situation, I think what you can see in the public domain is
the ABI frequency numbers, plus 3% in quarter one. I don't think quarter two is out yet.
You can see in the public domain the portal numbers, which were incredibly volatile. So
July has just come out and it's 11% up year-on-year, but June was a much diﬀerent
number. So, what you're seeing, I think, what we'd say on that is bodily injury frequency.
We've had frequency sort of return to roughly where it was before the reforms, but it's not
transparent from the portal.
And on long term, on (53:09), I think it take a long-term view that it was roughly 3% or 4%
above our BI (53:15). And there are factors that changed (53:18) see anything in particular
in this calendar year that's likely to change that, but you never know.

Page 19 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Was that aggregate across the book would you think year-on-year?

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

FINAL

You've got your own models. Plug it in and come up with a conclusion.

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

But didn't people say that damage had also started to increase now? Damage is a third of
your claims.

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

I think damage has in the last few years increased roughly in line with inﬂation. I don't see
in our own book any huge evidence that on repairs of own damage. We're seeing it very
diﬀerent from that. I think you see some inﬂation. We factored on third party where that's,
I think, inﬂating a bit more than damage.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 1990356 <GO>}

So, the ﬁnal question was on the change on the proﬁt commission, the vehicle
commission. So, the back end, a couple of years ago, we made a change where we
started charging our current reinsurers a ﬁxed per vehicle commission that we call
reinsurer vehicle commission, about two years in the reinsurer's economics. So, when the
reinsurer works out the combined ratio they experience on our account, that charge as
part of that result until it impacts the level of proﬁt commission we get. The change we've
made this year is to start backing that out. It makes the situation much simpler. It
ultimately means that the reinsurers' combined ratio is reduced by the level of that
charge, and so we get more proﬁt ratio.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

(54:54).

Q - Alan G. Devlin

{BIO 5936254 <GO>}

Hello, Alan Devlin from Barclays. A couple of questions. Just reform on Solvency II. You
seem quite relaxed in Solvency II at the full-year results. Is there anything signiﬁcantly
changed? And secondly, would you expect the internal model to give you beneﬁts versus
the standard model plus the add-ons? And just secondly on pricing as well. Was there any
diﬀerence – material diﬀerence in the pricing between new business on the renewal
book? I think you mentioned your focusing more – increased focus on retentions. And
then just ﬁnally on any change in recent (55:33) that's either pointed to (55:35). Thanks.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

On Solvency II, I wouldn't say that my level of relaxation has particularly changed since the
full year. I think the process has become clearer in terms of how the add-on gets
conﬁrmed and what the timeline is for that. Given we're going pretty close to Solvency II
implementation, you'd expect some clarity on that. And we now have a good idea that
Page 20 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

FINAL

will be October, November time. I don't think our view on the potential outcome on that
has particularly changed in the past few months. It's still uncertain, hence, I'd love to give
you the full detailed situation, but we are where we are at this point in time.
In terms of other – an internal model can give capital requirement beneﬁts against the
standard formula plus the add-ons. I think a little bit of work to be done before we get to
that outcome. I don't expect there to be a very material diﬀerence between our internally
modeled capital requirement and the added onto SCR under the Standard Formula, a
couple of years way before we get there.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 1990356 <GO>}

And on real new business pricing, there's a number of diﬀerences between renewal
pricing in new businesses, points of information that we have about our existing
customers that we don't have about our new business customers, and some of the
variables are diﬀerentially predictive too at renewal and new business. And that is – that
means that we don't have necessarily the same rates at new business and renewal. That's
been the case for a number of years. It hasn't really changed materially over the last 12
months.

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

And the relationship with Munich Re continues to be strong. We're very close to them, not
only are they our biggest reinsurance partner, but they're a pretty big shareholder as well.
So we're getting to know Manfred's successor, and the relationship seems to be every bit
as strong as it always has been.

Q - Simon G. Denison-Smith
Simon Denison-Smith from Metropolis Capital. A couple of questions on the international
business. Are you seeing any copycats to compare.com in the U.S. emerging?

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Google is doing something similar, not exactly the same.

Q - Simon G. Denison-Smith
But in partnership with you?

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

And others. We're not their only partner, and they're doing it on their own as well, so
that's a bit of a diﬀerence that they're bringing in a number of diﬀerent sources to fuel
their quote engine.
No, I think nobody else. I mean, a few people looking at what we're doing, maybe doing
similar things. But nobody really going out as a consumer brand with European-style price
comparison, which is quote to bind unpaid.

Page 21 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

Q - Simon G. Denison-Smith
Okay. And in France – sorry, in Spain and Italy, where are we in terms of the percentage of
quotes that are being representative of insurance as being written through the price
comparison? And what are your market shares in both of those markets?

FINAL

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Did anyone touch Spain?

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yes. So the aggregator markets deals was about 15% of the new business. And I was sure
you have the numbers. You can see it but, it's quite signiﬁcant compared to the all overall
market share that we have in the market.

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

And – oops, he's gone. Our CEO from Italian was here, but he had to go catch a ﬂight. In
Italy, it's a bit bigger in terms of new business.

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yes. As you have seen, the share of the aggregator market in Italy has grown signiﬁcantly
in the past three years, so I'd say it's about 20%.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Yes, at least.

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Going up, yes.

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

And our share is, again, bigger than our market share is our share of price comparison
business in that market.

Q - Simon G. Denison-Smith
(59:38)

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

I can't oﬀhand.

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

But also, we don't have them because we don't know how many sales exactly are going
through price comparison. It's based on a public ﬁgure.

Page 22 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

And in Italy, we don't have a price comparison site; and in Spain, we do. We have a lot
more knowledge about price comparison in Spain than we do in Italy.

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes.

Q - Fahad U. Changazi

{BIO 15216120 <GO>}

Good morning. It's Fahad Changazi from Nomura. Just a question on Spain and the new
Baremo. There are some really signiﬁcant numbers being talked about in the claims
increases and what is your expectation of general claims costs, how it will develop. Do
you see disruption in the market in 2016? How long will it take to settle, if any?

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. So we stick the Baremo to be approved for January 2016. There are many numbers in
the market, many ﬁgures. The one that we work with is in the north of 5%, overall increase
in claims cost, so not just BI but the overall claims increase. We expect this to have a
signiﬁcant impact on the market and to be a disruption.
As I was talking, this is a market that has enjoyed almost 14 years of combined ratios
below 100%. So price have not really gone up in all this period. And therefore, this is a
momentum and we expect companies are going to start increasing their prices. Also the
market has shrunk by 20% in seven years, so there is a lot of paying in terms of the
expense ratio.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Hello. It's Andrew Crean from Autonomous. Three questions if I can. Firstly if the Ogden
rates are brought down, what would be the impact on the business?
Secondly, you obviously are going to spend more and compare now. Could you give us
some sense as to the investment, which you're going to be making in 2016? And whether
you'd consider taking your share down, getting a third party in?
And then thirdly in the UK, there's some quite interesting ABI statistics out about the loss
ratios on diﬀerent ages of drivers. It's not a survey I think you contributed to, but what it
showed was that the younger drivers are much more proﬁtable but the loss ratios were
deteriorating over time. And I was just wondering whether in the light of that, that's your
type of experience, whether your increasing rates or greater rates in the market is a
function of the fact that you've got more younger drivers where there's loss ratio
deterioration?

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

David do you want to take Ogden, a name I haven't heard in a while? And the ABI by
(1:02:25). I'll talk to the (01:02:26).
Page 23 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

FINAL

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 1990356 <GO>}

Okay, yes. I mean, Ogden is under further review and it has been for a long time but it's a
bit reminiscent to Baremo. At some point, someone will do something about it after years
of it being imminent it will actually happen at some point. I think it depends what the shift
is in terms of what the discount rate becomes. But if it's a reasonably small reduction in
the implied discount rate on Ogden, then it's probably sort of net neutral because it will
encourage fewer people to use PPOs, which are relatively very expensive. Obviously, if it's
a substantial – very substantial discount reduction on Ogden, then it will have a much
more material impact and it will impact all the open claims or the large open claims or the
future loss attached to them.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

How do you deﬁne substantial versus modest reasonable?

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 1990356 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well, I think if you look at the – most people when they're reserving PPOs would reserve
them with a discount rate of zero or minus a half or minus one. It would be very, very
expensive for the market if anyone was to contemplate Ogden coming down towards
those low numbers. If it came down a bit to one-and-a-half or something like that, then
you'd get displacements of people into lump sum away from PPO, which is a positive
outcome. I'm not sure if that's helpful.
But the young driver – when our books change, we have no philosophical commitment to
a certain part of the market. We move our business to where we see the proﬁt
opportunity. And we've been – I think we've stood up the last three or four times and
talked about mixed changes and our book moving towards lower premium. And we've
talked about that as being driven both by our own changes and competitive, seeking to
re-enter some of those segments.
I think I would say what that is, is us responding to those changing relative proﬁtabilities in
the market. And that's not just a six month thing. It's been going on over time. So I would
not at all describe the increase we've put in, in the last 12 months as a response to an
adverse impact on younger drivers.

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

And the Comparenow budgets won't be done for 2016 until towards the end of this year.
We wait as long as we possibly can to do our budgeting, so that we have the most
information we can use in terms of trying to understand what we're going to do in the
future. So we don't have any guidance at this point in time on 2016.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

(01:05:20)

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Page 24 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

Yes. We've got partners in already in Comparenow. We're not 100% in Comparenow. At
the back, at the back.

FINAL

Q - David A. Bracewell

{BIO 16394801 <GO>}

Hi. It's David Bracewell from Redburn. Three questions. One on the price comparison in
the UK. I'm confused, you've taken a bit of a hit this half-year in terms of margin and proﬁt.
But when I look at the number one player out there, it doesn't seem to be, its results
doesn't seem to be impacted by current conditions. And one of your peers has come out
recently and said, they are going to be doubling their EBIT in the next ﬁve years. So I just
wonder what your view is on the price comparison business in the future in the UK?
And the second question is on Spain. You've talked about the Baremo coming in and
that's going to upset the market and prices are going to rise. And therefore, you're going
to look to undercut the market. That's reminiscent of what you did in the UK a number of
years ago when you doubled the market share by undercutting the market. But at this
time, there's a lot of uncertainty attached to the claim cost increases that are going to be
in Spain. And therefore, I just wonder how conﬁdent you are that you can undercut the
market and actually continue to write proﬁtable and decent business in Spain?

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Cristina, you want to take the Spanish question?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yes. The cutting about the Baremo is that there is no uncertainty. We know exactly more or
less how everything cost. So when I look at the Italian market or the UK market, the loss
ratio has a very long tail.
In our case in Spain, the tail is extremely short. So even though the Baremo increases,
there is very little uncertainty. The only part of uncertainty is that it's not clear if the charge
is going to apply, the Baremo retrospective to certain open claims. But in our cases, it's
not a big problem because we have very few large funds. So maybe for other companies
that are bigger, there is a higher degree of uncertainty. We're talking about less than ﬁve
claims when it comes to these uncertainties.
So the Baremo for us is positive even though it's going to increase claims cost because
what we need to stimulate in Spain is shopping. Since we launched in Spain nine years
ago, the direct market hasn't grown that much and educators have grown, but not
anything similar to the UK, still only 15% of the new business is done through aggregators.
So, what we want to have is a platform where we can expose our rates, the bigger, the
more people that can see our rates, the more chances we have to grow. And that's why
Baremo, even though it's going to increase claims for cost has such a positive impact for
us.

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Page 25 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

The Confused question. Yeah Confused is ﬁnding it tough going, but I could stand here
and say we're going to double our EBITDA in ﬁve years as well. That doesn't mean we're
going to double our EBITDA in ﬁve years. I certainly hope it's true. We are branching out.
We've recently launched something called Carfused. Carfused basically gives you a
chance to by a car, to go in and look at a variety of cars in your area or other parts of the
country. It couples that with the cost of the insurance and if you want, the cost of the
credit. So you can understand what is the total cost of the purchase of any car that you
might choose to buy.
And there are very few companies doing that. Nobody is doing that composite promotion
of giving you all the cost and have a brand name as well that we already have. So that's a
very interesting development. It's live now. You can go in and test it, but it's kind of a beta
site at the moment. So we're still working on that. So overall, we're looking for new ways
to expand Confused and to take the business forward. Right now it's just a tough halfyear.

Q - Janet Demir

{BIO 19462264 <GO>}

Hi. Janet Demir from Morgan Stanley. I'm just curious whether you've experienced any
diﬀerence in your whiplash claims post the MedCo reforms.

A - Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

The reforms only came in a few months ago, and it's too early to identify any clear
diﬀerences.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Hi. Andy Hughes, Macquarie. Follow-up question on the earnings outlook for H2. So I'll
go back to a slide that said to get the same level of reserve releases in H2, we need the
same sort of drop in our best estimate loss ratios. Given that was a record drop in best
estimate loss ratios and the underwriting in H1 sounds like it was pretty good because
you're talking about lower level of large claims in H1, are you basically, in simple terms,
saying the earnings are going to be a lot lower in H2? And if not, why not? Thank you.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 1990356 <GO>}

I'll just do one point in clariﬁcation, and then maybe Geraint will answer the question. I
didn't say it has to be the same. I said it has to be a large reduction in ultimates for the
reserve releases. (01:10:13).

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

(01:10:14)

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Well, I think you got a point of more than slightly more than some. It does tend to be the
case on average in a six month period that our projected ultimates will move down
slightly, I was going to say. This six month period was exceptional in the reserve, very

Page 26 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

FINAL

signiﬁcant improvements in the projected ultimates. I think it would be unlikely – I think it's
unlikely we see that improvement again in the second half of the year. So I think it's
unlikely we would see a 29% reserve lease in the second half of the year.
David made the comment that the level of proﬁtability, i.e., the proﬁt loss ratios on the
business we're earning in 2015 are likely to improve in the second half of the year as they
impacted the rate, the base rate increases feeds through into that year-end result. And so
there is a chance that those two things oﬀset each other i.e. lower second half result
releases, better current year gains and proﬁtability. We don't give any insight or outlook
as you (01:11:13). We don't give earnings outlooks as you know
There's also, I'd say one more point. Certainly, one more point. The size of the margin
currently is based on the uncertainty and the volatility. We've seen the best estimates over
the past year or so is at low tier edge (1:11:21) of our reserving policy. So they're currently
extremely cautiously reserved and I think it's unlikely if we see more stability in those
projected little loss ratios that we want to remain at that level of conservatism.

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi. I'm Dhruv Gahlaut. Just a follow-up, actually a couple of them. Firstly, in terms of the
home business, you made a small proﬁt held by the weather. As in how do you see this
developing in the second half in terms of what the aspirations are?
Secondly, in terms of the investment last year, I think you talked about Guidewire as a new
implementing Guidewire in the organization. Is it just to the part of the business or is it
going to be across the business i.e. claims, pricing, et cetera? And where exactly are you
with that?
And thirdly, at the management change I think you said the idea was that you would be
sticking with the business after 12 months. I mean, could you say a bit more in terms of
what functions, et cetera?

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Well, the home business in particular why we chose the windowless rooms, you couldn't
see the weather pattern outside while we gave the presentation. But more speciﬁcally...

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 1990356 <GO>}

Yes, I mean, home made an £0.6 million, it's not going to be a big deal either way in the
second half unless it's some catastrophic weather event in which case it might be a bigger
deal. What was the next question?

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}

Guidewire.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 1990356 <GO>}
Page 27 of 28



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-08-19

Guidewire, yes. Guidewire is being implemented. We're expecting it to be implemented
over the course of 2016. It replaces the system that we started with in 1993. In terms of
administration and accounting and payment collection, we have our own proprietary
claims system. At this point, it's not replacing that.

FINAL

And my role, to be determined. But I'll be sticking with the business in some way, shape
and form, but not certain exactly what yet.
Any questions from the phones? I remembered. No. Any other questions anywhere else?
Thank you very much. See you in March.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

This concludes today's call, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for joining. You may now
disconnect your lines.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 28 of 28

