Company N ame: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB N O Equity
Date: 2015-07-15

Q2 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Kjetil Krokje , Head of Investor Relations
Lars Aa. Loddesol, Group Chief Financial Officer
Odd Arild Grefstad, Group Chief Executive Officer
Unidentified Speaker

Other Participants
Daniel Do-Thoi, Analyst
David Andrich, Analyst
Gianandrea Roberti, Analyst
Matti Ahokas , Analyst
Peter Eliot, Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Storebrand Analyst
Conference Call. My name is Susan and I will be your coordinator for today's conference.
For the duration of the call, you will be on listen-only. However, at the end of the call, you
will have the opportunity to ask questions. (Operator Instructions)
I am now handing you over to Kjetil Krokje to begin today's conference. Thank you.

Kjetil Krokje

{BIO 20060140 <GO>}

Good afternoon, everyone and thanks for calling into the conference call. This is the
Storebrand's second quarter 2015 conference call. My name is Kjetil Ramberg Krokje and
I'm Head of Investor Relations at Storebrand. Together with me, I have Group CEO, Odd
Arild Grefstad and CFO, Lars Loddesol.
In the presentation today, Odd Arild will give an overall view of the developments in the
second quarter and first half and Lars will give some more details on some of the
elements in the results. The slides will be similar to the analyst presentation released this
morning and are available on our web pages. After the presentation, the operator will
open up for questions. To be able to ask questions, you will need to be dialed into the
conference call.

Page 1 of 13



Company N ame: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB N O Equity
Date: 2015-07-15

I now leave the word to Storebrand's CEO, Odd Arild Grefstad, who will start the
presentation on slide two.

FINAL

Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Thank you, Kjetil. Slide number two highlights second quarter 2015. Storebrand delivered
a Group result of 459 million for the second quarter in 2015 and 909 million year-to-date.
This result is characterized by a strong result before profit sharing and is the high quality
part of our results, and the result for profit sharing and loan losses was 661 million.
It was a weak result -- financial result in STB, and a direct negative contribution to the
result of 151 million related to longevity reserve strengthening. Despite the ongoing
transition from guaranteed to non-guaranteed business, we achieved a strong 11.5% top
line growth adjusted for currency changes and discontinued businesses, that is Corporate
Banking and public sector.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the right hand side of the slide, you'll see some important key numbers that I like to
comment. The insurance business is developing strongly and the written premium
increased by 16% compared to the first half of last year. Unit Linked based pensions grew
[ph] by 23% in the first half of 2015.
We entered into 2014 with a need for longevity reserve strengthening of 12.4 billion. 18
months later, we have already reserved 65% of this amount equal to approximately 8.1
billion. During this quarter, we have reserved -- we have done a reserve strengthening of
NOK700 million. The Solvency margin including transitional rules has strengthened from
152% to 154% during second quarter and the Solvency margin without transitional rules is
estimated to 114% that is an increase of 16% points from last quarter.
If I then move to slide number three. As you know, Storebrand's business is undergoing
[ph] a fundamental transformation. We have a dual strategy where we handled the
guaranteed balance while implementing measures to continue the strong growth in
savings and insurance. We handled the guaranteed balance with the aim of more than
130% Solvency II margin including transitional rules.
We will also continue the growth in savings and insurance by using our market position in
our increasingly (inaudible) life, pension markets. Let me start with an update on the
guaranteed business and then move into the update on the growth in savings and
insurance then we move to slide four. And as mentioned, Solvency II margin including
transitional rules is strengthened from 152% to 154% during the second quarter. The effect
of the transition rules is reduced during the quarter due to the increase in the interest
rates. But overall, the Solvency margin remained stable. We see that the transitional rules
is functioning as a buffer against interest rate volatility, in line with its intension.
The Solvency II margin without transition rules is estimated to 114%, which is a
strengthening of 16 percentage points from last quarter. Of that increase, 13% points are
due to the increase in the interest rates, about 50 basis points in the quarter and 3

Page 2 of 13



Company N ame: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB N O Equity
Date: 2015-07-15

percentage points are due to result [ph] creation, buffer building and other management
actions.

FINAL

To summarize, we are well underway to realize an improvement in the Solvency II ratio of
10% points based on our own improvement measures.
Then, I move to slide number five on Longevity. As you know, we entered into 2014 with a
total need of reserve strengthening of 12.4 billion. One and a half years later, we have
reserved 8.1 billion, while 4.3 billion remains. On the remaining strengthening needs, 2
billion is covered by the 90 million charged over the result each quarter, this implies that
only 2.3 billion remains, which will be covered by excess return of customer funds during
the next five and a half year.

Bloomberg Transcript

We prioritize to accelerate the reserve strengthening, it's important to keep in mind that
this will have a negative impact on the result short-term in addition to the quarterly 90
million, we have this quarter contributed 61 million to the fully [ph] reserve of the paid-up
policies converted into paid-up policies with investment choice. In addition to this, direct
impact on the result, lost profit sharing and risk result further impact the result negatively.
In total, longevity reserves strengthening has reduced the result by 253 million in the
quarter.
If I then move to slide number six. This is a similar slide to what I showed you in the fourth
quarter 2014, and it is a slide that illustrates the expected portfolio return within paid-up
policies. Since fourth quarter 2014, the expected returns have increased significantly. Two
important factors contributes to this change. First, the allocation to bonds at amortized
cost within the entire guaranteed portfolio has increased from 43% to 47%. For paid-up
policies, the allocation has increased to 53%. The reallocation has been conducted with
the strong investments yielding well above 3% and the average weighted yield for the
total portfolio has just -- has been reduced, just from 4.8% to 4.7%. The other factor which
has increased the return is of course the increase in the interest rates.
Looking ahead, we see that the return will cover the interest rate guarantee and the
longevity provision in the entire period until 2020 with only a limited use of market value
adjustment reserves. Beyond 2020, we see that the guarantee level falls down to around
the 3% annual level and that is equal or lower than the reinvestment rates we have in the
market today.
Moving to slide number seven, it's natural that our guaranteed balance sheet achieves
high attention. However, the development within the savings and insurance segment is
highly exciting. Let me turn to some highlights. Unit Linked reserves results are growing
steadily with 26% year-to-year. The growth is driven by a premium growth of 23%
compared to the first half of 2014, a total of 2.8 billion converted to paid-up policies with
investment choice so far this year, it was 1.2 billion in the quarter and due to financial
returns in the first half of 2015.
We also see that we have a strong growth in asset management with 10% assets under
management growth compared to the second quarter of 2014. Increased interest rates
Page 3 of 13



Company N ame: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB N O Equity
Date: 2015-07-15

FINAL

and weak equity market in the second quarter had led to a weak development in the
volumes in the second quarter, is related. I'm very pleased with the growth in insurance
with 16% premium growth and then we also see as part of the growth of the retail loans
with 700 million increase in the volumes in the second quarter.
If I then turn to page number eight, on June 17, I announced some changes in
Storebrand's Group operating model. The main change we have done is to establish a
unified product and customer service area across our products and markets. The change
facilitates improved customer orientation and increased profitability. With regards to
customer orientation, holistic and seamless customer service processes, independent of
single product and distribution channel will make it easier to become and be a Storebrand
customer. In addition, the new operating model facilitates better use of best practice and
increased use of offshoring and automation.
If I then jump to slide number 10, before I leave the word to Lars Loddesol, I will just give
some more insight in the growth in the insurance area. Strong growth both in the Life area
for Group Life and for the traditional P&C in the retail area. In the second quarter, we
achieved also very important internal milestone by welcoming the P&C customer number
100,000 into the company after we re-entered the P&C market in 2006, and the growth
also continues in the second half of 2015.
And then Lars, I leave the word to you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Lars Aa. Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

Thank you, Odd Arild. Then I would like to focus on page 12 with the heading Storebrand
Group and I will go through some of the lines in somewhat more detail. The fee and
administration result is, as Odd Arild mentioned, 11.5% top, adjusted for currency and nondiscontinued business. The risk result in the quarter are good and in terms of indicating
whether it should go forward, the half-year numbers are probably a better estimation on
future profitability on this line, we had strong results in the second quarter.
There is a good growth in insurance and the combined ratio is at 87% which is also
satisfactory development with cost control and due to claims development. The financial
results are also satisfactory in light of the lower interest rate level, which gives us a result
before profit sharing and loan losses of 661 million, which is the earnings power that we
need from the underlying high quality business in order to deal with the following issues
on this page, namely the net profit sharing and loan losses which shows minus 51 million
for the quarter, which is led primarily from a reverse in the profits split in the Swedish
business as a result of a fall in the equity markets in Sweden and also a significant
increase in loan [ph] rates.
The negative return in the second quarter, therefore reverses the profit split we had in
the first quarter. The results on this line are weaker than you can -- if you calculate from
the sensitivities that we show in the supplemental information, you will find -- get a higher
number. This is a consequence of the twist in the interest rate curve where long-term
interest rates have gone up at the same time as short-term interest rates have gone

Page 4 of 13



Company N ame: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB N O Equity
Date: 2015-07-15

FINAL

down. That combined with an increase in credit spreads have led to the fact that the
indications or the sensitivities that we give -- have given are not -- were not a good
indicator for the final result.
We have been going through the sensitivities and we have improved them and improved
also the explanation on a quarter basis in the supplementary information, so hopefully we
will be able to close [ph] or estimate the results for the following quarters, but there will
be some volatility in this number.
Furthermore, on the second or the next line is provisions for longevity and as Odd Arild
mentioned, 90 million in the regular quarterly longevity provision and 61 million in addition
for converting paid-up policies to paid-up policies with investment choice. But with the
earnings power we have from the result before profit sharing and loan losses, we can
carry the negative impact of financial markets in the second quarter and longevity reserve
strengthening and still maintain a profit before amortization of 459 million.
To sum it all up, I think we are satisfied with the top line growth, the results from risk and
finance is -- are good and we have weak results from profit split in the Swedish market.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the following page, page 13, we show the transition taking place with a significant fall
in profitability from the guaranteed pensions business, but that is to a large extent
compensated by an improvement in profitability from savings and -- savings nonguaranteed and insurance.
Turning to page 14, and that will be my final page. On the Capital Market Day we had in
November 2014, we communicated a measure for cost/income, that the Group
cost/income should be below 60%. This is an ambitious goal, the fundamental transition
we are in, in the Group, it means that we have the profitability from the -- or the income
that we have from the guaranteed business is disappearing and it tends to disappear
somewhat quickly than we manage to bring down the cost level.
At the same time, we have significant investments in growth in non-guaranteed savings
and insurance from a low relative level. We also see that the market in the Unit Linked
business significantly lower than in the traditional defined-benefit business and we expect
and plan for a continued margin pressure in this business. To maintain the profitability or
to maintain our profitability and the cost/income below 60% that means that we need to
have factors [ph] or reduced cost, which is in reality an improvement of more than 100
million in cost savings each year from an inflation based (inaudible). We have chosen to
report this on a 12-month rolling basis and as you can see from these numbers the
cost/income in the quarter or on the 12 months rolling basis after the second quarter is
58.8, i.e. under the goal that we have set.
And you can also see the different components that are part of the equation. These are
total operating cost and on the income side it's fee and administration income and
underwriting result including insurance premium for own account, claims for own account
and the risk result from life and pension.

Page 5 of 13



Company N ame: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB N O Equity
Date: 2015-07-15

And with that, that concludes our presentation and we open up for Q&A.

Questions And Answers

FINAL

Operator
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Daniel. Go ahead please.

Q - Daniel Do-Thoi

{BIO 17019775 <GO>}

Hi, good afternoon. Daniel from JP Morgan here. Just have three question. One on the
Solvency and two, on the insurance reserve. Firstly, you mentioned last quarter a total of
about 10 percentage points of capital generation for the rest of the year, of which you've
achieved 3 percentage point this quarter, just wondering whether that -- or we should see
that as another 7 percentage points remaining in the second half of the year?
And then secondly, on insurance both P&C and Group life premium up quite considerably
year-on-year. Could you just comment on the main drivers here and also on the
sustainability of those growth rates going forward? And thirdly, in visibility, I guess, both in
terms of top line and combined ratios, they're fairly disappointing. I was just wondering
whether you could also comment on the trends that you're seeing here and also on
(inaudible) to improve margin going forward? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

I'll start on the Solvency question and it's right, as you say we stated 10% increase in the
underlying solvency level seen from own elements not taking interest rate fluctuations
into account. We posted that we achieved 3% points so that in this quarter and we have
planned to equate the 7% points going forward for the second half. And the basis for that
is of course result generation in itself, it's also on longevity reservation, there is also
improvement in the amounts [ph], so lot of elements that we are still working with and
that we have hopes for giving increased underlying solvency ratios. Then on the insurance
question.

A - Lars Aa. Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

Yeah, I can comment on the insurance question. We see that the agreement we got with
Akademikerne, the white-collar association in Norway have significantly led to a pick-up in
premiums. However, we have not in anyways seen through the potential in that
agreement, so we expect that to continue to be a contributor to future growth. So we
should be able to maintain a good development in insurance premiums (inaudible) over
this business lines basically as you see of the graph that we have shown on page 18.
And I think also now we have a strong brand name, especially for the P&C retail market in
Norway and start up that business again after having have that of a strong market share.
And we are now seeing that we are able to take growth in that market and we have
ambition to take steady growth in that market going forward. I think it will be more volatile
when you look at the growth rates on the Life side, Group Life was very strong this

Page 6 of 13



Company N ame: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB N O Equity
Date: 2015-07-15

quarter. That will vary from quarter to quarter, but on the pure P&C retail area, we
expected to have a steady growth going forward.

FINAL

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

On your last question, Daniel, I think you asked about the line that's build in actually
Nordics and of course it's been somewhat volatile and when the results especially in the
Norwegian line of business. Of course pricing here is a -- we need to look at the total
profitability of the customer relationship of our DC [ph] customers, which we have
earnings from both in the Life company, in the Risk segment and also in the Asset
Management division, so it's a balancing act between -- and looking at the whole
customer profitability.

Q - Daniel Do-Thoi

{BIO 17019775 <GO>}

Okay. So the outlook here remains fairly unchanged on the visibility [ph] and within P&C
we should see the first half growth rate sustained into the second half of the year, is that
correct?

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

To guide the exact level of numbers is of course difficult, but we see that we have a good
situation now in the market when it comes to retail P&C, we have this agreement with
Akademikerne and they have not tapped that potential, so we expect to see growth rates
also sustainable in the second half in that area.

Q - Daniel Do-Thoi

{BIO 17019775 <GO>}

Okay, great. Thanks very much.

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Eliot. Go ahead please.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thank you for that chart three [ph] as well please. The first one is actually a follow-up on
the solvency, when you took the management actions, because one thing you specifically
mentioned that Q1 with the possibility of rising subordinated debt in the second half of
the year, given how interest rates have risen in the current sound situation and I was
wondering if you could share with us where you currently stand on that?
The second thing was on the development of paid-up reserves. I guess just looking at the
quarter in isolation they grew by 1 billion despite sort of strong progress transferred out.
When I -- and I guess also despite the sort of the seasonality that you get a lot of inflows
in Q1, I think it was basically because the book return was quite high, so I'm just wondering
if you could perhaps comment a little bit on that and how we should expect that sort of
quarterly progression from here?

Page 7 of 13



Company N ame: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB N O Equity
Date: 2015-07-15

And then the third question was on the Health and Group Life, just the combined ratio of
the underwriting, that's been quite volatile, only 78% this quarter, 104% last quarter. Just
wondered if you could sort of touch more effective sustainable on that level with that?
Thank you.

FINAL

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Okay. A thought on solvency question. We have a toolbox, as we have said before, a lot
of elements. One of those elements is of course to increase subordinated debt. We are
looking into that, we have not decided yet whether we will do that or not do that, it's of
course a balancing act and higher than the line solvency are, they're -- of course, the cost
of increasing the solvency with next represent point is something that we have to look
very closely into cost of interest rates on loan side versus increasing the solvency ratio on
the other side. So that is a part of our toolbox, it's available for us and we have not
decided yet on how to use it.

Bloomberg Transcript

When it comes to paid-up policies, I think what you see is that we have in the first quarter
normally quite a strong or high conversion from defined-benefit into paid-up policies, we
also have that this year, and we have guided on 8 billion to 10 billion around new basis in
conversion from the defined-benefit bookings to paid-up policies and I think that guiding
is still the guiding we stand with is now a surprised us in the second quarter in the
numbers as far as we see it when it comes to the rate of conversion.
And (inaudible) if you to look at the table 41 in the supplementary information, you'll see
all the different flows in that book so you can follow that quarter-by-quarter in somewhat - some detail. Yeah, and the last question I think was on Health and Group Life combined
ratio and I think it's been volatile, but if you look at the year-to-date number, I think around
that level is a reasonable level going forward.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Matti. Go ahead please.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

Yes, good afternoon. Matti Ahokas, Danske Bank Markets. Two questions from my side
please. Firstly, regarding internal dividend. Have you -- how much or have you at all
upstream dividends from the Bank asset management and life company during this year
and how much should we expect that you would upstream during the full year 2015?
And the second question is regarding the conversion as previously as well, 2 billion is
quite a lot above what you've been guiding roughly above 1 billion. What was the reason
for the higher than expected or higher than what you guided for conversion of the paidups into paid-ups with investment choice. Was it the interest rate level or was there
something special with that?
Page 8 of 13



Company N ame: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB N O Equity
Date: 2015-07-15

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

FINAL

If I start with the second part of your question, I'm not sure if I had clearly understood it.
But that conversion from paid-up policies into investment choice in the second quarter
was 1.2 billion. It's so far this year 2.8 billion and when you take with you the 900 million
last year, that's so far been converted 3.7 billion.
And our guiding is that we should achieve 5 billion in total for the last quarter last year and
this year and we are well ahead of that routes, but we also see that, it is balancing act of
how we use our distribution forces into different areas. We have strong growth in
insurance and other elements and you'll also see that we have somewhat higher charge
to the longevity reservation this quarter and you should expect us to take that down to be
around 3% to 4% in shorts versus the volumes, we move from paid-up policies into
investment choice going forward. Yes, and the dividend question maybe (inaudible), the
Finance Director can tell what we actually did in 2014.

A - Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, when it comes to the dividends, in this quarter, 20 million coming in not only from the
health insurance company, the holding company. In the first quarter, there was transfers
from the Asset Management operation and also from the P&C operations and a rather
large transfer from the Bank. All those were from the date from the 2014 accounts. The
reason why Bank contributed more than the result was due to the build down of the
portfolios on the corporate banking side.
So we have an upstreaming of approximately 700 million from last year's results and I
think as a general rule, we try to keep the excess capital as far as possible in the Group
structure and the holding company. And the exception is of course the life company that
have been not giving a dividend from last couple of years due to their buildup of the
reserving on longevity side.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

So 700 million is a good working figure for this year as well?

A - Unidentified Speaker
We are not guiding on the different internal pay, but there is room for dividends from the
asset management operations and the banking and P&C insurance side.

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

To see a good result generation in asset management, that could be upstream and you
also see strong result generation in the insurance company. And I think, when you revert
down and look at the 2014, it was higher upstream from the Bank compared to what you
should expect on an ongoing basis.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

Page 9 of 13



Company N ame: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB N O Equity
Date: 2015-07-15

Thanks. If you just may remind me about the cost in the holding company. How much is
the kind of run rate of the costs, interest costs and operational costs that you need to
cover?

FINAL

A - Unidentified Speaker
20 million in the quarter, 19 million, I think if I remember quietly[ph], but approximately 20
million, and (inaudible).

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

Great. Thanks a lot.

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of David Andrich. Go ahead please.

Q - David Andrich

{BIO 15414075 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi. Good afternoon. Two questions on my side. Your Unit Linked growth has been really,
really strong and continues to be. But I was wondering that the premiums on the disability
insurance linked to that seems to be pretty flat and I guess this is kind of a follow up
question to Daniel's earlier, and is that purely kind of a margin pressure or is that a
business mix, I'm just wondering what's the dynamic there between those two?
And then I was just wondering in the past you've given some guidance in terms of the
capital required under 72 as a percent of reserves with different product lines and I was
just wondering if you had any kind of update on that as you've progressed through the
process of your 72 models and if there was any big changes there? Thank you.

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Yeah, on the Unit Linked disability premiums, there are mix between Norway and Sweden.
It's depended up on the product sold if the disability or premium waiver is connected to
the Unit Linked premium sold or not sold. You won't see growth rates in that line following
the growth rates in the savings part of the Unit Linked line. So I think that explains the
difference between the two.
Let's try to give some insight into the Solvency II shortages [ph]. I think, we gave an
update in our Capital Market Day on different areas. What happens is that -- and basically
that is the guidance we still give into the market. But what happens that I like to say is that
when we move now to defined-benefit assets into paid-up policies that is a higher quality
on these assets compared to what it used to be, because we are now more or less a fully
reserved for longevity in the defined-benefit portfolio.
That means that it's fully reserved contracts that's goes into paid-up policies. This also
tend to be a lower interest rate level guarantee on these products. So we see that we
have a lower capital charge compared to ratio we gave to you on Capital Market Day on

Page 10 of 13



Company N ame: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB N O Equity
Date: 2015-07-15

the new paid-up policies and overall of course that also give a higher or a better ratio in
the total portfolio as we then develop and (inaudible).

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you very much.

Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Gianandrea. Go ahead please.

Q - Gianandrea Roberti

{BIO 6786731 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Hello, this is Gianandrea from Carnegie. I have three questions as well. The first one
relates on the paid-up to paid-up with investment choice, Odd Arild, I think you mentioned
before and this is in the report that you're down 1.2 billion in the quarter and 2.8 for H1. It's
my understanding that you're still targeting 4 billion for the full year and I'm trying to
understand what is the reason for that? Are you trying not to depress earnings or do you
see a slowdown in general and this 4 billion that has been mentioned before, will it be fair
to think that it should be slightly lower than that in the next couple of years or how do you
see the entire process? That's my first question.
Then the second question is really, I think you touched before about the intra -- I mean the
dividend paid by the subsidiary to the holding company. But I was wondering if you can tell
us really a little bit about the dividend that the Group could actually pay it or pay not. Did
you have any discussion with the FSA at this point, do you know what they're thinking? I
mean, I suppose there are several issues here including the fact that they may be
unhappy for you to pay a dividend considering there is a still sizable longevity strength,
but if you can spend some words on this, I think it would be quite interesting? Thanks a lot.

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Thank you for your question, Gianandrea. Starting with the paid-up policies, we gave a
target of 5 billion for the end of 2015 for this five quarters and we have not changed that
guiding. Of course, having already now 3.7 billion with what we have seen in the
conversion in the first and the second quarter, you should expect us to at least be able to
meet that target of 5 billion and maybe somewhat more than that in 2015. But of course,
it's a slow during the summer, now there is not much conversion going on and it is
dependant also how we use actually our sales force, so we want to use it on the different
areas.
We have not given any indication of what happens in 2016 and 2017, when it comes to
conversion from paid-up to paid-up policies with investment choice and we have to revert
on that. And as I said, we will ensure that we don't have any higher charges (inaudible)
compared to what we have seen in the second quarter. The guiding on 3% to 4% is still
the guiding we are looking at.
When it comes to dividends, I'll just repeat what I already have said and it's not the new
guiding on this in this quarter compared to what it was in the first quarter. We could follow
Page 11 of 13



FINAL

Company N ame: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB N O Equity
Date: 2015-07-15

this target and the strategy to make sure that we were able to meet Solvency II without
asking for new capital. If it's the targetable of more than 130% in Solvency II ratio including
transfer rules, we are well in process to meet these targets and we also see that we have
very good situation when it comes to longevity reservation of 65% so far, and we also
give you a some insight in how we actually see our returns on the paid-up policies going
forward with a strong asset mix, that gives quite strong reassurance around both meeting
the interest rate levels or the guarantees and also the remaining reservation. So we feel
comfortable that we also of course understand that there is volatility in these numbers
compared especially based on the interest rate levels going forward.
And we are also very clear that when we now enter into the markets to give dividend, that
is not the dividend for one time or one year only, it should be a dividend that we on a
regular basis every year is prepared to give. So I suppose this is not very new for you, it is
the same evidence that I gave in the first quarter. But it's still the same news we have on
dividend, and of course, at the end of the day the Board will take everything into account
and look at the situation at year-end.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - David Andrich

{BIO 15414075 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks for the answer. Just my final question, sorry. It's actually about the recent
downgrade from S&P and on your credit rating, which has opposed comes somewhat to
surprise at least to me considering that really that the very low level of rates has been
passed for some time, so there seem to a delay. But in general, I'm just wondering, I
mean, does that impact your plans in anyway. And you touched before about the sub that
for sure this will cost you more if you decided to issue more sub that and even is it the
case that we are talking about a max of 1 billion, 1.5 billion of additional sub capacity. I
know under solvency do you have more, but I understand there is an (inaudible) in terms
of fixed charge coverage there? Thanks.

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Yes, when it comes to the rating, I actually agree with you, it seems we are very lagging in
the (inaudible). Low interest rates is not new for us, actually the interest rates has
increased in the second quarter compared to what we have used to see. And when you
look at the description of the downgrade, it's very much above the expectations for low
interest rate for a long time from S&P.
Now we have the same -- we have the situation where the negative outlook for a long
time. Now we have the same rating of both Moody's and the S&P, so it doesn't impact
very much the interest rate cost as we see, it is based on the lowest rating as it was with
Moody's before. So it doesn't impact the cost and I will say, it doesn't impact the way we
are running the business and the way we are doing the transfer from guaranteed to nonguaranteed business in any way, but it seems to be a quite lagging indicator, I agree with
you in that.

Q - David Andrich

{BIO 15414075 <GO>}

Thank you.

Page 12 of 13



Company N ame: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB N O Equity
Date: 2015-07-15

Operator
Okay. We have no further questions. (Operator Instructions).

FINAL

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Well, if there is no further question, then we would like to thank this opportunities to wish
everyone a nice summer and thank you for dialing into our second quarter conference call.
Tomorrow, we will be in London and I hope to see as many as possible of you there at
1400 hours at our Analyst Meeting. Thank you.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you for joining today's call, you may now replace your handsets.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 13 of 13

