Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2015-08-06

Q2 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Joerg Schneider, CFO

Presentation
Joerg Schneider

{BIO 1759911 <GO>}

Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the presentation of our Q2 results. My name is Joerg
Schneider and I am the CFO of Munich Re Group.
As usual, I will provide you with the main messages, facts and figures. The conference call
this afternoon, where I will be joined by our CEO, Nikolaus von Bomhard, will then mainly
focus on Q&As.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Q2, we observed a reversal of important capital market parameters compared to the
first three months of the year. There was a sharp rise in interest rates across the board.
And stock markets declined. The euro recovered against major currencies and we had
even lower major losses than in Q1.
The net impact on our IFRS earnings and economic capitalization was positive and was
negative only for IFRS equity. With a strong net earnings of EUR1,076 million in Q2, Munich
Re even exceeded its good Q1 result.
Overall, performance in most lines of business remained sound. After six months, our net
result amounted to EUR1,866 million, up almost 10% year on year.
For 2015 as a whole, we therefore expect to beat our EUR2.5 billion to EUR3 billion profit
target. This is very pleasing, because even when adjusted for non-recurring items in our
P&L. And allowing for a normalized tax rate, Munich Re's Q2 net result still looks pretty
strong.
Our operating result in Q2 was supported by the weakness of the euro but less than in
the first three months.
The strong profitability of our reinsurance business outside the eurozone, especially in the
US and the UK, continues to have a strong impact on the technical result in euro terms.
The returns from non-euro investments also strengthened the reinsurance result.
The negative non-operating FX result is due to accounting inconsistencies, a long position
in the weakening in the US dollar. And a short position in the strengthening British pound.

Page 1 of 5



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2015-08-06

Q2 investment income for the Group increased substantially over the previous quarter
with a return of 4.1%.

FINAL

We used a number of derivative instruments for asset liability management on an
economic basis. Depending on market movements, these can cause significant volatility in
the IFRS investment result.
As stock markets rallied in the first three months, the derivatives we use to protect the
value of our equities caused substantial losses. In Q2, the trend reversed sharply as
markets corrected and equity derivatives delivered positive earnings contributions. This
was offset by write-downs on swaptions for hedging long-term guarantees in our primary
life business. And some losses on fixed income derivatives as interest rates rebounded.
The Q2 investment result, again, benefited from substantial gains on the disposal of
equities and fixed income instruments, although not quite to the extent as in Q1. These
gains mainly emerged as an unavoidable side effect of our asset management, which had
to be quite active in volatile markets.
But with the exception of funding the ZZR in German primary life, our approach is still to
not actively harvest investment gains in order to limit attrition of the running yield.

Bloomberg Transcript

The run yield remained resilient against low interest rates, reaching 3.4% in Q2 and
included a 0.4percentage points seasonal impact from higher than normal dividend
income.
We continue to benefit from duration management and ongoing diversification efforts.
The average reinvestment yield edged up only slightly to 2.1% for Q2. As long as spreads
do not appropriately reflect risks, we must accept the depressed return but will not move
significantly up the risk curve.
The tax rate was more or less in line with expectations and just below our normal 20% to
25% range at 19% in Q2 and 18% for the first half.
The annualized return on risk-adjusted capital amounted to 13.8% in the first half. And the
return on equity totaled 11.7%. Both figures are very pleasing.
Let me now give you the highlights by business segment.
In P&C reinsurance, the combined ratio for the Second Quarter was 93.3% after 92.3% in
Q1. This was, again, due to below average major claims of only 4.8% of net earned
premiums. But in Q2, the basic loss ratio increased over the First Quarter.
Some of the carriers of our risk solution business experienced an accumulation of major
claims just below the EUR10 million threshold which, according to our definition, separates
attritional from large losses.

Page 2 of 5



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2015-08-06

FINAL

This largely explains the increase of the normalized combined ratio, which amounted to
99.9% in Q2, after 98.1% in the First Quarter. We continue to set provisions for newly
emerging claims at the top end of the estimation range and expect corresponding profits
from their runoff over time.
Notifications for losses from prior years remained significantly below the expected level in
Q2. But reserve releases amounted to around 3percentage points of the net earned
premiums, which is somewhat below our guidance for the full year.
This runoff is within the normal fluctuation range in any single quarter but when we carry
out a broader and deeper portfolio review in Q4, we will probably release more reserves.
The technical result in life reinsurance of EUR30 million remained well below to
expectations in Q2. This was due to a number of reasons, only partly connected to current
business operations, such as the impact of improved projection models, or the effect of
lower interest rates on the valuation of provisions.
In contrast, claims experienced in US mortality business and Australian disability business
was in line with projections.

Bloomberg Transcript

An IFRS technical result of around EUR400 million per year remains reasonable guidance
for our life re business. But there will always be volatility. Given that the year-to-date result
were below the normal run rate, the EUR400 million target is not realistic for 2015. We
therefore expect a technical result of EUR300 million to EUR350 million for this year.
So much for reinsurance, I now turn to other parts of the business.
For ERGO, the Q2 result came in at EUR219 million, more than twice as high as in Q1, with
P&C Germany as the main driver. After the first half year, ERGO is well on track to achieve
its net earnings target of approximately EUR500 million for the full year, even though it is
reasonable to assume some earnings slowdown in the second half.
Net earnings of our German life and health primary business remained almost unchanged
in Q2 over Q1. A better technical result in the Second Quarter compensated for a lower
investment return, caused by losses on swaptions.
The P&C business in Germany posted a pleasing improvement in the combined ratio to
93.4% in Q2. This is mainly owing to lower major losses and a decline in admin expenses.
But the combined ratio of our international primary operations increased further to
100.4%, largely due to intensified competition in Polish motor and corporate business and
reduced profitability in Turkey.
In the Munich health segment, the operating development of most companies remains
largely in line with expectations. Net Q2 earnings were slightly lower than in Q1.

Page 3 of 5



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2015-08-06

FINAL

While our subsidiaries in Spain and the Middle East continue to produce good results, DKV
Belgium shows an ongoing negative claims trend that will still impact overall net earnings
for the rest of 2015.
In the annex to the slide deck, we provide the usual chart outlining the major components
responsible for the difference between our stated Q2 results and the analyst consensus.
These largely stem from the investment result, even lower than expected major losses.
And the non-operating FX result.
Our capitalization remains sound. IFRS equity decreased by 11.7% in Q2. High net profits
were offset by ongoing share buybacks, the dividend payment in April, currency impacts
and a reduction of unrealized gains in particular. But despite the recent surge in interest
rates, shareholders' equity only reversed to the level at the year end of 2014.
In the first half of 2015, strong earnings compensated for high shareholder payouts and
the reduction in valuation reserves. Yet the impact of rising interest rates on IFRS equity
only reflects the decrease in market value of our assets. It does not show the
corresponding positive effect on liabilities which are recognized in our economic
capitalization.

Bloomberg Transcript

At the end of June, the economic solvency ratio increased from Q1 2015 back to a similar
level to that at the end of 2014. This is due to an increase in available economic capital.
And a decrease in capital requirements. Both developments are a consequence of the
spike in interest rates and reduced volatility.
Available financial resources increased because the rise in ERGO Life's embedded value
overcompensated for lower valuation reserves in IFRS equity.
German GAAP revenues of the parent entity, Munich Re Insurance Company, came in very
strongly in Q2. As well as a very good IFRS net result for 2015, we expect higher than
anticipated local GAAP earnings for the full year. This will further secure the headroom for
distributions.
In May, we started the new share buyback of another EUR1 billion, which should be
completed by the AGM in 2016.
And now, let me say a few words on the renewal of our reinsurance treaties at July 1. This
renewal involved a volume of EUR2.3 billion, mainly from the US, Australia, Latin America
and global clients. Pressure on prices, terms and conditions prevailed, in particular for nat
cat covers, which accounted for about 20%. But at 2.1%, the fall in prices was less strong
than in the July renewals over the last two years. We think this gives a first indication of
some stabilization.
Premium volume remained almost constant as Munich Re was able to take advantage of
selective opportunities in individual markets. But volume declined slightly in other areas, as

Page 4 of 5



Company N ame: M uenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in M uenchen
Company Ticker: M UV2 GR Equity
Date: 2015-08-06

we gave up business due to pressure on rates. Thanks to our strict cycle management,
our portfolio remains profitable.

FINAL

Let me now turn to the outlook for the full year. Premiums should be around EUR50 billion.
In property casualty reinsurance, Munich Re is now aiming for a combined ratio of around
96%. As in Q1, the improvement in the outlook is due to the low level of major losses in
Q2.
We have amended our expectations for ERGO's property casualty insurance from our
stated outlook at the beginning of the year. We now expect a combined ratio of 95% for
Germany, especially because we had to bear the costs of multiple weather events in July.
And 99% for international business.
We expect interest rates to remain low overall in 2015, meaning that the reduction of
regular income from fixed interest assets will probably be more than offset by higher
gains on disposal. So we now expect an ROI of around 3.3%.
Based on the net result of at least EUR2.5 billion in reinsurance, Munich Re Group is now
aiming for a consolidated result of at least EUR3 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

We expect higher net cat losses in the second half of the year. So the normal run rate of
profits should be clearly lower. However, in the last couple of years, we have had overall
positive bottom line impacts from goodwill, tax and claims reserves we have used in the
course of the annual closing. I do not see why this should be any different in 2015.
Thank you very much for listening. Nikolaus von Bomhard and I look forward to our Q&A
session at 2:30 PM Munich time.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 5 of 5

