Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

Q4 2014 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Paul Norton, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Philipp Gmür, Chief Executive Oﬃcer, Helvetia Switzerland
Ralph-Thomas Honegger , Chief Investment Oﬃcer
Stefan Loacker, Chief Executive Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Andreas Frick, Analyst
Peter Casanova, Analyst
René Locher, Analyst
Stefan Schürmann, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, good morning or good afternoon. Welcome to Helvetia Full-Year
Results 2014 Conference Call and Live Broadcast. I am Saya, the Chorus Call operator. I
would like to remind you that all participants will be in listen-only mode, and the
conference is being recorded. After the presentation, there will be a question and answer
session. The conference must not be recorded for publication or broadcast.
At this time, it's my pleasure to hand over to Stefan Loacker, Group CEO. You will now be
joined into the conference room. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please hold the line.
The conference will begin shortly. Thank you.

Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

...results. We can once again look back at the highly successful and eventful reporting
year. We would now like to use our presentation to provide you with the facts and
background information in more detail.
We, this is my team, not changed to the prior year. Paul Norton will explain our key
ﬁgures; Ralph Honegger will discusses the investment result; and Philipp Gmür will
describe the development of the business in our home market in Switzerland. Finally, I will
conclude the presentation with an update on the integration of Nationale Suisse. After
this, we will be available to answer any questions you may have.

Page 1 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

FINAL

And now turning to Slide 3 to give you a ﬁrst highlight overview of our reporting year. On
the strategic side, as you know, we made a big move forward by acquiring Nationale
Suisse and Basler in Austria. The new Helvetia, as we call it, will strengthen its rating
among the Top 3 in Switzerland, improve the positioning in Europe, and emphasize its
presence on the attractive international specialty markets.
At the same time, our group also made operational progress in the reporting year.
Premium development was solid. The technical result is very healthy again. And the
investment returns are excellent. As a result, also proﬁts increased. But this is now more
complex issue than it was before, because our group's IFRS earnings for the period are, to
a certain degree, inﬂuenced by extraordinary accounting eﬀects, that have temporary
issues in itself and which will eﬀectively disappear from 2018 onwards. Up to the year 2017,
we will therefore focus additionally on the so-called underlying earnings, which will better
reﬂect the operational development of Helvetia Group.
In 2014, Helvetia increased this so-called underlying earnings by a sizable 16% to CHF422
million. The acquired companies made a pro rate contribution of CHF22 million to these
results. Improvement came from non-life business, which grew by 33% to CHF256 million,
compared to the previous year. The underlying earnings from the life business generally
remained stable at CHF151 million, despite the diﬃcult conditions on the capital markets.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks to these positive business developments, we have been able to maintain our
attractive dividend policy and will propose to the shareholders' meeting that we increase
the dividend by 2.9% to CHF18 per share.
Business volume increased 4.4% in original currency, thanks to the acquisitions. On an
organic basis it remained stable. The non-life business provided strong impulses and
increased by 10% in original currency to almost CHF2.8 billion. Austria saw an increase in
non-life premium of almost 24% supported by the acquisition of Basler. Also, Switzerland
recorded a strong growth of roughly 15% also helped by the acquisition impact.
As you know, the new companies were consolidated only pro rata. For Nationale Suisse,
the date was the 20th of October. For Basler, it was the 1st of September. So, therefore,
the full impact will be only in 2015 basically.
Slide 4 highlights of non-ﬁnancial background. We are also making good progress with
the integration of the new companies. Since acquiring Nationale Suisse on the 20th of
October, integration has been running at full speed. The management, the target
organization and the common product range of the new Helvetia has been deﬁned for all
country markets.
As part of the Nationale integration, joint sales will start at the expanded oﬃce agency
network on the 1st of May this year under the Helvetia brand in Switzerland. Country
markets Germany, Spain and Italy will follow gradually from mid-2015 onwards.
In Belgium, the process of the strategic examination was concluded with the successful
sale of Nationale Suisse Belgium lately. Basler Austria already appears under the Helvetia
Page 2 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

FINAL

brand. I will provide more details on the integration process later on.
It was very important to us that Helvetia continues to have a strong capital position
following the acquisitions. Thanks to the rapid and successful reﬁnancing, we have met
this target as demonstrated by the practically unchanged Solvency I rate of 216%
compared to 218% the year before. The planned SST ratio also remains within our target
corridor of 150% to 200%. Overall, Helvetia Group can look back at a strategically and
operationally successful year.
I will now hand over to our CFO, Paul Norton, who will present you with further important
information about our key ﬁgures. Please, Paul.

Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Stefan. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd also like to welcome you to the 2014 yearend analyst conference. As usual, I'll go though the results in some more detail. Slide 6.
Slide 6 is a rather diﬀerent starting point from our usual presentation. As I'm sure that
some of you are aware, the accounting treatment of acquisitions under IFRS is complex
and can lead to disclosed results that do not reﬂect the underlying earnings pattern of our
business.
The 2014 ﬁnancial year was very successful, but the IFRS results have been signiﬁcantly
distorted by the accounting impact for two acquisitions in the year, in particular, the
acquisition of Nationale Suisse. For this reason, we've decided to focus until the end of
2017 on the underlying earnings generated by the business as the main performance
metric instead of pure IFRS earnings. This will allow investors to see much better how the
underlying business is performing. We expect the distorting eﬀect of the acquisitions
should have, by and large, disappeared by the end of 2017, and that we will be on a
business-as-usual basis by then.
The underlying earnings produced by the Helvetia group in 2014 were CHF422 million, a
16% increase from the previous year. By the way, we have not adjusted for 2013 IFRS
reported earnings since there was only a very minimal impact of acquisitions in that year.
Even on a reported IFRS basis, the IFRS earnings after tax of CHF393 million represents an
8% increase over prior year.
I'm going to go through the main diﬀerences between the underlying earnings and the
IFRS reported earnings here. Later in the presentation, I'll give you some guidance as to
how we see these items developing over the next three years.
Firstly, we have excluded the integration costs from the underlying earnings since these
are one-oﬀ items. We expect these to be incurred in the ﬁrst year of the integration
projects with the synergies that result from these costs coming through in late years. We
have incurred some CHF85 million integration costs in 2014. We'll be making faster
progress on the Nationale Suisse acquisition than we initially foresaw, which is why we've
been able to book a greater proportion of the overall integration costs in 2014 than we
originally had expected.
Page 3 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

FINAL

Under IFRS, we have to value intangible assets in an acquisition and record them in the
balance sheet. They have to be written oﬀ through the income statement over their
deﬁned lifetime, but they have no impact on cash ﬂows or dividend capability. We have
recorded CHF217 million of intangibles from the two acquisitions in 2014, which we've
written oﬀ over the period until the end of 2017. We booked CHF70 million write-downs in
2014, of which CHF41 million relates to the two acquisitions in 2014.
Included in this CHF70 million total write-downs of intangibles is the full write-oﬀ of the
goodwill resulting from an earlier acquisition of Chiara Vita in Italy. This is mainly due to
deteriorating conditions in Italian life market. There's been a considerable adverse
change in product mix and proﬁtability due to the eﬀects of much low interest rates and
the recession.
Another eﬀect of acquisition accounting under IFRS is that all investments in an acquired
entity has to be revalued at market value at the date of an acquisition and the new market
value becomes the new cost base. In the case of bonds, this means that the regular
amortization of the diﬀerences between the cost value and the par value of the bonds
changes.

Bloomberg Transcript

The fall in interest rates in recent years and particularly in 2014, the market value of bonds
has risen materially, which means that the amortization cost increases signiﬁcantly. Again,
as with the amortization of intangibles, this has no impact on cash ﬂows or dividends, but
does distort proﬁts.
We owned 13.7% of Nationale Suisse prior to acquisition, and this has to be revalued to
the oﬀer value, leading to one-oﬀ proﬁt, booked proﬁt, of CHF109 million, which again
does not have any impact in cash ﬂows or dividends and does not represent underlying
proﬁt generation. These pre-tax-acquisition impacts have to be adjusted to policyholder
participation and deferred tax.
We will all include synergies in underlying earnings since they represent real ongoing
beneﬁts and, for clarity, and show them (11:54) in this presentation.
We will provide this bridge each reporting period. You can also ﬁnd on Slide 32 in the
backup a summary of reconciliation between underlying and IFRS earnings by market unit
and by secondary segment. The rest of my analysis, we're basing underlying earnings.
With this, I'd like to turn to Slide 7.
The Helvetia Group generated a strong CHF422 million underlying earnings in the 2014
ﬁnancial year, which was 16% above the previous year. The pro rata contribution from the
Nationale Suisse and Basler acquisitions was CHF22 million. Thanks to the excellent
technical (12:39) performance and better investment results, we also generated a 33%
year-on-year increase in earnings in the non-life business to CHF25 million (sic) [CHF256
million] (12:48).
In a very diﬃcult investment environment results of the life business remained generally
stable at CHF151 million. I'll come back to details of the development of the results in the
Page 4 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

FINAL

life and non-life business in Slide 10 and Slide 13. The CHF15 million result of other
activities is below that of the previous year. This decline was primarily due to low
investment results from internal group funds partially compensated by improved
reinsurance results.
I'll continue with the results by geography on Slide 8. With an increase of 17%, Swiss home
market contributed CHF294 million to 2014 results and continue to prove itself the
strongest part of Helvetia Group. Philipp Gmür will ﬁll you in detail later on about this
country market result, which is, once again excellent.
In addition, in the Au-Fra (13:46) markets increased their contribution to earnings over the
previous year, in some cases, signiﬁcantly.
Only the earnings in Germany were lower than the previous year at CHF15 million. This
was partly due to lower investment returns in the life business. In the non-life business,
fewer claims were ceded to the reinsurers compared to the previous year and there were
additional large claims in the industrial business.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Italy, underlying earnings rose by 58% compared to previous year to CHF32 million.
This was due to improved technical results in non-life business and better investment
returns. The underlying earnings of our Spanish unit were also higher than previous year
at CHF28 million. Higher investment returns and tax eﬀects compensated for the poor
technical results in the non-life business.
Other insurance units consists of the country markets of Austria and France as well as
reinsurance. The segment also includes the new Nationale Suisse locations country
market of Belgium, whose sale we have recently communicated; the representative oﬃces
in Liechtenstein, in Istanbul and Miami along with branches in Singapore and Kuala
Lumpur.
Underlying earnings of this segment increased to CHF64 million, improving results
signiﬁcantly higher in Austria and France as well as the improved group reinsurance
results, which have suﬀered from above average claims from natural catastrophes in the
previous year. The income contribution from the new Nationale Suisse locations was
minimal in 2014.
The lower underlying earnings in the corporate segment stem primarily from lower
investment returns from internal group funds.
I'll continue with the developments of our volumes on Slide 9. The business volume of the
new Helvetia Group was CHF7.8 billion and grew by 4.4% in original currency compared
to the previous year. This was primarily due to acquisitions. Both of the acquired
companies were consolidated pro rata in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for 2014
and will show the full impact of their contribution in 2015.

Page 5 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

FINAL

Organic growth was 0.3%. With an increase of CHF238 million, or 10.3%, the proﬁtable
non-life business was the clear growth driver. The acquisition of Nationale Suisse and
Basler Austria made a signiﬁcant contribution of CHF225 million. Helvetia was able to
grow organically by over 1.4%.
The business volume in the life business expanded by CHF36 million or 1.1%, thanks to the
acquisitions. I'll provide further details on both of these businesses on Slide 10 and Slide
13.
Active reinsurance increased its premium volume by CHF16 million or 7.8%. The growth
results primarily from the newly-written policies as well as increased participation in
existing business. Active reinsurance today would have further improved its
diversiﬁcation, both geographically and by sector, where we'd maintain a cautious
underwriting policy while doing so.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'd now like to take a look at the life business on Slide 10. The volume in the life business
increased by 1.1% including the acquisitions. Organic volume fell slightly. Looking at our
country markets, our Spanish business grew by a pleasing 10% due to demand for
proﬁtable investment-based products. Austria also generated more premiums thanks to
the acquisition. The growth in Italy of 9% came from traditional single premium products.
Germany also recorded a slight 1% increase. The Swiss home market declined partially, as
expected. Philipp Gmür will explain this in detail later on. The stable earnings
performance in a diﬃcult investment environment is a product of an excellent risk result.
Due to increases in minimum interest rate guarantees set by the Swiss government for the
mandatory product group life business, interest result was lower. This eﬀect was almost
completely compensated by lower policyholder participation compared to the previous
year. Due to the sustained low interest rate environment, reserves were increased in the
Swiss, German and Spanish country markets.
New business volumes shrank compared to the previous year because Swiss investmentlinked (18:15) products could not be sold to the volume desired due to conditions in the
capital markets. Group life business in Switzerland is also not able to obtain record single
premiums of the previous year. The volume of new business in the foreign markets, by
contrast, rose again.
The new business value in 2014 fell sharply which was primarily due to the low new
investment yields in all country markets. As a consequence, Helvetia Group's new
business proﬁtability, which is the product of the new business volume and value, also
sank to 0.8%.
Slide 11, as we have promised, we have disclosed an analysis of proﬁt, which shows the
breakdown of operating proﬁts in the life business by source. I'd like to point out that this
year, it does not include the impact of the two acquisitions, which are minimal in any case.
The operating proﬁt declined by 5% compared with the prior year almost entirely due to
the savings result. This was, as I mentioned earlier, due to the high minimum interest rate,
Page 6 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

FINAL

guarantees on retirement assets within the mandatory group life business in the face of
declining market yields. This eﬀect was oﬀset by a lower policyholder participation. The
risk result, which is the largest component of the operating proﬁt, remained constant at a
very good level.
As Slide 12 illustrates, the direct yield in Switzerland and in the EU countries sank as a
result of the low interest rates. However, it should be noted that the average interest rate
Helvetia has to generate in order to meet it whole guidance (19:57) is also continuing to
fall.
This is because expiring policies at high ﬁxed interest are being replaced by those with
lower-guaranteed interest, while the strengthening of the reserves eﬀectively increases
invested assets available to fund the guarantees.
In today's perspective, the interest margin will remain positive with our projections even if
the low-interest rate environment continues into the foreseeable future. On this basis, we
are, therefore, in a position to honor reliably our guarantees to customers in the longterm.

Bloomberg Transcript

Slide 13 shows that all of the major key ﬁgures in the non-life business are very positive.
Broken down by country market, the high premium growth of 10.3% including acquisitions
was greatest in Switzerland and Austria, although also experienced organic growth in
both countries.
Spain also recorded pleasing growth of 9%. Beginning of the economic recovery had a
positive impact from our Spanish non-life business. Thanks to Nationale Suisse, premiums
increased by 6% in Italy. Developments in Germany were also once again positive. This is
the result of portfolio restructuring in the previous year, as well as Nationale Suisse
contributing to growth.
France was the only country where premiums were lower than the previous year due to
portfolio cleansing. The strong increase in results for non-life was due to organically
improved technical results, a higher investment income and is also supported by both
acquisitions.
The net combined ratio improved by half percentage points to 93.1%. I would like to look
at the details of the combined ratio on Slide 14. The improvement of the net combined
ratio is mainly due to the lower claims ratio of 62.4% as a consequence of fewer natural
catastrophes. In addition, it's particularly satisfying that all country markets have
combined ratios below 100%.
The increase of the cost ratio is due to the higher cost ratios in acquired units. Organically,
we were able to slightly lower the cost ratio.
This brings me the changes in equity on Slide 15. Group equity had increased in the 2014
by 37% to CHF5.7 billion. The main causes of the higher earnings, the CHF535 million
Page 7 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

share capital increase and the CHF400 million perpetual bond – hybrid bond issued in
2014 as part of the ﬁnancing for the Nationale Suisse takeover.

FINAL

Unrealized gains on investments recognized in equity increased signiﬁcantly due to the
decline in interest rates to make up a substantial proportion of equity of 16%.
In Slide 16, I'd like to brieﬂy look at the ﬁnancing of the takeover of Nationale Suisse. We
already held shares of 13.7% prior to the takeover oﬀer and as of the formal completion
date, the public tender, on 20 October, 2014, we held 96.3% of Nationale Suisse
representing an acquisition price of CHF1.73 billion. After that date, we purchased shares
representing 2.2% of Nationale Suisse in the market. So, we held 98.5% as at the year end.
96.3% holding is used as the basis of the acquisition accounting and the goodwill
calculations. Purchases after this date are simply transactions with minority interest
shareholders. It did not aﬀect goodwill.

Bloomberg Transcript

As well as the CHF535 million of new share capital, we managed to raise CHF1 billion of
debt within a few weeks despite considerable market turbulence. This is much faster than
we had expected. We raised CHF625 million in solvency rating eligible hybrid debt of
which the CHF400 million perpetual debt is classiﬁed as equity under IFRS, and CHF225
million of liabilities and CHF375 million of senior debt.
This is one the biggest ﬁnancing transactions in the insurance sector in many years,
certainly in the Swiss market and was achieved with terms and conditions that exceeded
our expectations. Prior to debt issuance, we had a very conservative leverage ratio with a
current 23% debt to equity plus equity it remains conservative. We have now made better
use of our balance sheet.
I'll continue with Slide 17. I'd like to come back to acquisition-related special eﬀects and
give you an indication of how these are likely to impact the IFRS earnings over the next
three years. You should be aware this is only broad guidance and most of these items can
change.
Firstly, we expect to achieve between CHF105 million and CHF130 million in annual pretax synergies from the two 2014 acquisitions, predominantly from Nationale Suisse, and to
a lower extent from the takeover of Basler Austria. These will develop over the next three
years, and we expect the synergies will be fully phased in by the end of 2017. These are
real cost savings that will have an impact on underlying earnings and will be reported
within net result. We will report on the progress on a regular basis.
Since we have just started the integration work only late in 2014, we were unable to report
any notable synergies in 2014. We expect to be able to achieve some 10% to 20% of the
total synergies in 2015, mainly as a result of natural ﬂuctuations in staﬀ in Switzerland. This
assumption is based on staﬀ resignations, early and normal retirements, and ending of
temporary contracts at the end of 2014 to the ﬁrst months of 2015.
Additionally, we've already identiﬁed potential for cost reduction, especially in the areas
of IT, logistics and facility management, marketing and branding, as well as other fees,
Page 8 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

FINAL

which we gradually implemented. As a result, we are quite conﬁdent that we'll be able to
achieve another 30% to 60% of our planned synergies by the end of 2016. So, by the end
of 2017, all synergies should be fully phased in.
As a result, the group progress on the integration process with CHF85 million, we were
able to book a signiﬁcantly higher proportion of integration costs in 2014 than we'd
originally expected. We've all agreed and announced social plans for staﬀ to be made
redundant in Switzerland. We expect to incur a further large part of the cost in 2015, with
an initial 10% to 20% in 2016 and the remaining approximately 10% in 2017.
The write-oﬀ of intangibles will basically follow a three-year straight line path. Additional
amortization of the bonds to par will occur over the time to maturity, meaning that this will
continue to past 2017 but in reducing amounts. The ﬁnance costs represent the additional
coupons from the debt we raised to acquire Nationale Suisse. The amount we are
showing here for integration costs, amortization intangibles and the amortization of bonds
to par are based on our best estimates and can change.

Bloomberg Transcript

Finally, I want to emphasize the above mentioned extraordinary accounting eﬀects will
predominantly as disappear from 2018 onwards. After 2017, the synergies should be fully
realized.
I shall conclude my presentation by taking a look at the proposed dividends for last year
on Slide 18. A very good annual result and a sustained balance sheet strength have
enabled us to increase the dividend proposal to the Annual General Meeting by around
3% compared to previous year to CHF18 per share. Based on underlying earnings, this
equals a dividend payout ratio of 44%, which is in our target range. Based on the IFRS
earnings, the payout ratio is 47%. The dividend yield is an attractive 3.8%.
My colleague, Ralph Honegger, will now provide you with more information about the
investment results.

Ralph-Thomas Honegger

{BIO 4932832 <GO>}

Ladies and gentlemen, 2014 was once again a good year for investments. The continuing
aggressive monetary policy still followed by the central banks was decisive for the
development of the markets. In contrast to most forecasts, interest rates continued to fall
over the course of the year and reached a new low point at the end of 2014.
The same applies to interest rate spreads, which fell across the board. This generated
signiﬁcant price schemes in the ﬁxed interest rate segment with the performance of
longer maturities reaching double-digits. At the same time, this situation made it more
diﬃcult to invest new money.
The equity markets performed unevenly and remained fragile throughout the entire year
while share prices ﬂuctuated constantly. Geographical risks in the wake of the Ukrainian
crisis, economic concerns in Europe and fears of the re-ignition of the debt crisis
repeatedly caused setbacks along with high market volatility.
Page 9 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

FINAL

At the end of the year, the American and Swiss equity markets, in particular, has
demonstrated a strong performance of 13.7% respectively 13%. By contrast, the European
markets barely moved. The Swiss franc to euro exchange rate remained within a narrow
range due to the minimum rate guaranteed by the Swiss National Bank. Driven by the
robust economy and the coming end of the QE programs, the U.S. dollar rose against the
euro and Swiss franc.
Under these conditions, Helvetia generated a pleasing overall performance of 7.7%. The
details will be presented on Slide 20. This ﬁgure shows Helvetia's overall investment
performance for the entire year and that of Nationale Suisse started from the date of
acquisition. The Nationale Suisse assets were recorded at their current market value.
Current income was almost CHF1 billion, an increase of CHF25.9 million compared to the
previous year. The direct yield declined from 2.7% to 2.5% as a result of the continuously
falling interest rates, which put pressure on current yields.
Capital gains were increased by CHF92.7 million compared to 2013 and reached CHF282
million. This amount includes the book proﬁt from the holding in Nationale Suisse prior to
its acquisition of CHF108.9 million. The investment result in income totaled CHF1.275
billion or 3.3% of the invested funds.

Bloomberg Transcript

Driven by the sharp fall in interest rates, unrealized gains in equity increased to CHF1.677
billion and the total investment result for the group was almost CHF3 billion, which
represented a performance of 7.7%.
I would, once again, like to point out that long-term liabilities and interest rates
guarantees in the life insurance business require that the ﬁxed interest investments will
most likely be held until maturity. Unrealized gains in equity occurring in the meantime
must therefore be seen in this overall context. Investments for the investment-linked life
products, which are held after risk and for the beneﬁt of our insurance customers
generated an overall attractive return of CHF201 million.
Slide 21 provides information about the contributions of the individual investment classes.
At CHF585 million, ﬁxed interest investments contributed most of the current income,
followed by the investment property at CHF209 million. Mortgages provided CHF92
million and equities, CHF63 million.
Investment property provided the highest direct yield at 3.8%. Two-thirds of the total
investment result of CHF1.275 billion came from interest-bearing investments, of which
CHF740 million came from bonds and CHF91 million from mortgages. The remaining third
came with CHF235 million from equities and CHF212 million from investment property.
The unrealized gains in equity (sic) [bonds] (35:02) of CHF1.677 billion came almost
exclusively from the ﬁxed interest investments. Driven by the extraordinary interest rate
developments, bonds provided a total return of CHF2.396 billion thereby, making up over
80% of the overall investment result of CHF2.952 billion.

Page 10 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

FINAL

The table in the lower part of Slide 21 refers to Helvetia Group without Nationale Suisse. In
the reporting year, we made new investments of CHF1 billion. 80% of this was invested in
ﬁxed income – ﬁxed interest rate investments. The remaining 20% were allocated to
investment property, 9%, and mortgage rates 8%, while equities made up just 3%.
The average return on new investments was at 2.2% overall and 1.9% on ﬁxed interest
investments and mortgages, making it an attractive yield given the current interest rate
environment. This is primarily because a large share of the funds could be invested in the
ﬁrst half of the year at even higher yields.
The asset allocation at the end of the year is shown in the following Slide 22. The
investment portfolio increased by CHF8.4 billion to an overall level to CHF48 billion.
Nationale Suisse contributed CHF5.3 billion. Both Nationale Suisse and Helvetia have
similar investment structure. Combining the two portfolios, therefore, did not create any
major shirt in asset allocation.

Bloomberg Transcript

As Nationale Suisse stopped using mortgages as an investment class a few years ago, the
new allocation resulted in slight shift between ﬁxed interest investments and mortgages.
The ﬁrst gained 4 percentage points in rating, the latter lost 2 percentage points. The
other changes were minimal. The portfolio continues to demonstrate a balanced
distribution and a high investment quality.
The credit quality of our portfolio is shown in Slide 22. The fact that only 11% of the
holdings have a credit rating of less than A or are not rated testiﬁes the high credit quality
of the portfolio. 70% of the holdings have the two highest credit ratings, 43% of the
holdings received the highest rating at AAA, 27% received the second highest rating of
AA. No impairments were needed in the reporting year, which also emphasizes the high
quality of the portfolio.
That brings me to our outlook. We are assuming that interest rates in Europe will remain
low in the light of the European Central Bank's decision to pursue an extremely loose
monetary policy. Switzerland is likely to experience even lower rates after abandoning the
minimum exchange rate with the euro and introducing negative interest rates although it
is not expected that interest rates will remain negative for a longer period of time.
Thanks to our balanced safety focused investment policy and the high hedging ratio, the
consequences of the currency shock could be well absorbed. The low interest rate
environment remains a challenge for new investments. However, in order to generate
improved returns, a selective increase of investment risks will be needed. Following a
decision from last year, we are currently investing in corporate bonds in the BBB segment
primarily in the United States as well as in U.S. Treasuries, convertible bonds and ﬁrst-class
Swiss mortgages.
Furthermore, alternative investment classes such as infrastructure debt or private debt are
being examined in order to be able to do corresponding investments in the second half
of 2015.

Page 11 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

I now hand over to Philipp Gmür who will give you detailed information on Swiss
business.

FINAL

Philipp Gmür
Thank you, Ralph. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to report another very successful
ﬁnancial year. As you have seen from the previous presentations, the Swiss business has
once again proven to be a solid pillar of the Helvetia Group. With the acquisition of
Nationale Suisse, Helvetia has now strengthened its top three position as a leading all-line
insurance company in the home market, Switzerland.
As an introduction, I will brieﬂy outline the most important key ﬁgures for the Swiss
business on Slide 25. Over the past year, we were able to increase our premium volume
by 1.8% to roughly CHF4.4 billion. Both Helvetia and Nationale Suisse were able to grow
organically and gain market share in the non-life business, and stabilize their positions in
the life business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Primarily, of course, the growth driver was the non-life business, which expanded by
almost 15%. This increase was due to both organic growth and the acquisition of
Nationale Suisse's non-life business. The premium volume in the non-life business was a
strong CHF912 million in the reporting year and could thus more than compensate for the
decline in premiums in the life business.
The combined ratio net was an excellent 85.4%. The strong technical results in both the
life and the non-life business, as well as the solid investment income, allowed the reserve
to be strengthened again and that's substantially. Bottom line proﬁt was 17% higher at
almost CHF300 million.
On Slide 26, we see some highlights with regard to the life business. Premium from the
life business fell by 1% compared to the previous year. This slight decline is due to the
development of the individual life business and the one-oﬀ eﬀect in the group life
business.
The premium volume in the life business totaled to roughly CHF3.5 billion. The majority
came from the group life business which recorded a slight gain of 0.8%. The regular
premiums even recorded growth of 6.1%, which testiﬁes the continued demand for socalled full insurance solutions and further reinforces our market position as the Number 3
in the group life business. In addition to our own sales force, selected brokers and direct
sales contributed to the business expansion.
In contrast, single premiums in group life's business recorded a decline. As already
mentioned in the half year presentation, this decline is primarily attributable to the
outsourcing of the Swisscanto pension business. Since January 1, 2014, Swisscanto has
taken over the liabilities for these pensions from Helvetia. Without this one-oﬀ eﬀect that
was deliberately planned, single premiums in the group life business would have
generated positive growth.

Page 12 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

FINAL

As expected, we were not able to continue the enormous success of the previous years
for the single premiums in the individual life business. The index linked tranche product
Value Trend was once again highly popular amongst our customers. The tranche has sold
well within a very short period of time. However, due to the situation of the capital
markets, it was much more diﬃcult to satisfy demand in the reporting period with
appropriately-structured products and volumes.
The interest rate environment severely limited our capacity. By contrast, the regular
premiums, which are important for assessing business performance, grew by another
1.3%. When including the proportional contributions of Nationale Suisse, growth was even
11.7%. The proﬁts also grew year-on-year, thanks to the sustained strong demand for our
so-called payment plan product. The sales of the unit-linked pension product,
Garantieplans, were also strong.
The increase in regular premiums and deposits was not able to counter the decline in
single premium products. The modern capital-eﬃcient pension product made up 37.2% of
the overall business volume in individual life. In accordance with its strategy, Helvetia is
focused speciﬁcally on growth in these speciﬁc product categories

Bloomberg Transcript

The solid technical results in the death and disability business lines and the investment
results allowed for yet another topping up of the bonus reserves this year. Against the
backdrop of sustained low interest rates and the demographic trends, we have also
decided to further strengthen our reserves.
With the Slide 27, we will now focus on the non-life business. As mentioned earlier, the
largest share of growth in the Swiss market was in this area. Due to the pro rata
consolidation of Nationale Suisse, the premium volume is now CHF912 million, which
represents a growth of almost 15%.
Gross premiums in all non-life segments grew through both acquisitions and organic
growth. Our independent growth across all business lines was particularly good at 2.5%.
Hence, we were able to increase market shares. All sales channels contributed to growth.
Our own sales force and brokers remained the most important sales channels for the nonlife business.
The positive development reﬂects the successful investments in training for our specialists
and client consultants, as well as an expansive customer relationship program. Another
reason for the positive growth was the high level of stability and targeted marketing in our
diﬀerent sales channels.
The excellent portfolio quality allowed us to provide attractive pricing in selected
segments, which also drove growth. The new earthquake insurance created in
cooperation with (48:09) Cantonal Bank is also worth mentioning. Last but not least,
economic growth also provided an extra impetus.
Our non-life business was once again impressive in generating excellent technical results,
reﬂecting the high quality of our portfolio. This is a direct result of our consistent risk
Page 13 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

selection and management quality. We also beneﬁted from relatively few natural
catastrophes in 2014.

FINAL

The net combined ratio is a very good 85.4%. This ratio increased over the previous year
due to a pro-rate consolidation of Nationale Suisse. Over the medium term, however,
integration will provide additional opportunities for improved eﬃciency with
corresponding potential for cutting costs. We intend to utilize this potential swiftly.
To conclude, I would like to mention that the integration of Nationale Suisse is on track as
we were keeping to schedule and have already made good progress. Stefan Loacker will
provide you now with more details on his outlook.

Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude our presentation, I would now draw the focus a bit
away from the pure ﬁgures and more to the integration topics that are driving our
agenda. Please let me lead you to Slide 29, which provides you an overview.

Bloomberg Transcript

The merger of Nationale Suisse and Helvetia is oﬀering the opportunity to build on the
foundation of two successful companies, and literally pick the best of both to design our
future path. It is bringing a great deal of change for both Nationale Suisse and Helvetia
Group. Internally, we are referring to the combined company therefore as the new
Helvetia and please allow me also to use this term now in this presentation.
Within this integration project, we place great importance on dealing with the three main
issues that are essential to our future success: ﬁrst is strategy and ﬁnance; second,
structures and processes; third, corporate culture and employees. We are oﬀ to a strong
start in all these three areas also taking into consideration that we were allowed really to
start oﬀ only at the end of October, so it's not much than four months that we have
already in place.
We clearly outlined the strategy for the new Helvetia already when announcing the
acquisition last July. We are still envisaging a company resulting from this merger to
generate premium volumes of roughly CHF9 billion and the proﬁt potential of more than
CHF500 million. Most important market also in future will remain our home market in
Switzerland, where we have the position of one of the leading tier companies and the
premium income of roughly CHF5 billion ahead of us.
Focus of the integration, as Philipp Gmür has already mentioned, is on the non-life
business, which will practically double. The new Helvetia in Switzerland can beneﬁt from
extensive scale and synergy eﬀects. Just imagine the larger product range, customer
access, customer services, but also technical expertise within our group and, in general,
payroll and overhead cost synergies.
Market area Europe is consisting of Germany, Austria, Italy and Spain, will generate
roughly CHF3 billion in premium income. Growth of a bit more than 10% will be

Page 14 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

generated primarily in the non-life business as Nationale Suisse, with the exception of
Italy, has been only active in the non-life businesses abroad.

FINAL

Integration of Nationale Suisse also there will create cost synergies and also cross and upselling potential. The position in Belgium, as you have heard, was already under review
inside Nationale Suisse's strategy focus 2014 and has now been successfully sold a couple
of days ago.
The new specialty markets include the guidance and development of engineering,
transport and art insurance in Switzerland and the markets outside of Europe,
supplemented by the existing market units in France, which is focused on marine business
and our active reinsurance, both will continue to develop their focused business model.
So, all in all, the strategic direction remains unchanged to our ideas early in July last year,
but has been reﬁned in more detail.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have also made good progress in the ﬁnance area, as Paul Norton has discussed. The
funding of the acquisitions was done swiftly and neatly and has put us back to a very
strong balance sheet position despite being large in size.
We have, again, analyzed in more detail the Q2 proﬁt potential including the synergies
from the merger and we are able to conﬁrm all the main targets that we have deﬁned
already. By 2017, we will have generated at least CHF100 million from sustainable pre-tax
synergies, have created a proﬁt potential of more than CHF500 million and should be in a
position to incrementally increase our dividend. In general, we think that the synergy case
and the stronger bias into the non-life business are of great beneﬁt to the group, also in
light of the diﬃcult low interest rate environment.
Structures and processes for the new organization have already been deﬁned. All
leadership issues, organizational charts, locations, the future IT systems, the future
product suite, sales landscapes and all other factors important to the new Helvetia have
already been fully designed before the end of last year. So, conceptually, the new
company is already crafted and we need to put it in place now step-wise, one stop after
the other. This will take, certainly, a couple of months ahead of us.
One issue in this area of structures is also the future concept of our legal structures both in
Switzerland and also abroad. As you might have followed, the squeeze-out process that
we launched in December for Nationale Suisse is proceeding as planned. We project to
have 100% of all the shares as well as the associated delisting of Nationale Suisse within a
few weeks from now, just a few weeks to go. Following that, the operational legal entities
of Nationale Suisse and Helvetia will be merged.
This phase will bring us very close to the goal of one integrated new Helvetia starting in
Switzerland, but then also abroad. The success of any company depends most of all on
the employees and on a healthy sustainable corporate culture. We have already
accomplished important achievements in this respect. The joint management teams were
appointed very quickly at group level and in all country markets. So, just weeks after the
conclusion of our takeover, the teams have been in place.
Page 15 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

FINAL

In Switzerland, for example, more than one-third of the ﬁrst and second management
levels below executive team were staﬀed with colleagues from Nationale Suisse. The new
Helvetia is therefore also receiving a large injection of additional talent.
Meetings have been held with employees since the start of the year to discuss individual
career options. Over the course of the next couple of weeks, more and more employees
will have their perspectives clariﬁed. We have placed great importance on stabilizing the
workforce with a series of supporting measures so that our customers can continue to
receive excellent quality levels.
But, nevertheless, natural ﬂuctuation has been more accentuated. This is not coming as a
surprise in this particular context that we are. And especially in Switzerland, we see that
the labor market in the insurance industry is very receptive. As you might know, there are
more than 1,000 vacancies in this country and that people are using this also to clarify
their future individually.
We have some staﬀ synergies probably already in 2015 despite the guarantees that we
have given because of these resignments (57:43) early and normal retirements, as well as
the termination of temporary employment contracts. Where it becomes necessary to lay
oﬀ employees due to structural redundancies, such layoﬀs shall be carried out fairly and
in a socially acceptable manner. So far, we did not have this situation.

Bloomberg Transcript

To conclude, we can say that a great deal has been achieved in the four months since the
acquisition. Strategy and ﬁnance topics have been speciﬁed, structures and processes
deﬁned, and management and staﬀ issues are quickly progressing.
So what are the next steps from now on? In Switzerland, the integration of the two sales
organizations, as well as the integration of the back oﬃce, will take place on the 1st of
May, on Labor Day. A joint range of products and services will be oﬀered under the
Helvetia brand and under uniﬁed leadership from the same moment on. Also, the legal
mergers, as I said before, of the two non-life and the two life insurance operations in
Switzerland are planned already in May.
In less than two months that means nothing else, in less than two months the old Helvetia
and the Nationale Suisse will be history and the new Helvetia will take its place.
We are also working to launch a joint product range in the European companies and also
on the merger of operational and legal structures there. Due to diﬀerent formal
requirements in each individual country markets, we will need a few more weeks, but are
still very well on our way. We expect to launch the uniﬁed common product range on a
staggered basis starting from mid-2015 on.
Also, the specialty market area, our third market area, will be integrated in the multichanneling organization launched in Switzerland, which means it is operating as an
integral unit also from May this year onwards.

Page 16 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

FINAL

With the same timing in early May, all group function teams such as ﬁnance, investments,
IT, strategy, communications, operations, and so on will also be placed under one
management. This will provide them the operational market areas with hopefully the best
possible support and safeguard an eﬃcient way also of maintaining the group focus.
To conclude, I am pleased to state that the integration is on track in all respects and then I
am looking forward to reporting on the successful further implementation of our plans
already at the half-year conference in August. This is it for the moment. I would like to
thank you for your attention.
And I am now available, together with my colleagues, for the questions that you might
have. I would suggest that we start with the Q&A session with the people physically here
in the room before we open up the line to the participants on the telephone. I would just
like to remind you that you should press the button with the speaker symbol that you ﬁnd
on the mics so that everyone, also the colleagues on the line, can hear you.
I'm starting now the Q&A session here in Zürich. And I would like to give the word to
those who have a question. I'm starting right in front. It's Stefan Schürmann.

Q&A
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Stefan Schürmann
Yes. Hello. I have three questions. The ﬁrst one is on the life reserve increase. A point
reported, you increased by CHF108 million for the group and CHF115 million in
Switzerland. Just maybe, could you clarify what the rest is – where the rest is coming from?
And also, how much of life reserve increase is basically based on interest rate and how
much on biometric (01:01:49) adjustments?
The second question on integration costs, CHF85 million, could you give us some
granularity where that stems from, I mean, how much of that is sort of personnel cost
related, how much is from the rest and where?
And then the third one, just a small question in proﬁt by source on the risk result, is that
already including the impact from the Swisscanto decrease?

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Thank you. All three questions are best answered from our CFO's side. So, please, Paul, I
will give to you. Life reserving, more details on the additional ingredients.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

The life reserving in total was, as you said, CHF116 million, CHF115.7 million for the Swiss
business for the extraordinary amount. The vast majority of that was for interest rates
Page 17 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

FINAL

serving. There was a small oﬀset against that for others. It's a positive release of –
particularly disability that's reserving that's the major part of it.
Integration costs, where did they come from? The predominant amount is the nontechnical provision we put in for the social planned assistance (01:03:13). That's based on
estimates of the number of people who take that up. We've also got in there – that's the
largest part of it. There's obviously also support services we have from various advisory
ﬁrms, IT, lawyers. Obviously, the legal merger and the squeeze-out is a very technical
legal process and our lawyers, unfortunately, will proﬁt from that as well the accountants
that's the major components.
And proﬁt by source, the Swisscanto – that's a very good question. It should do. But I can
come back and double-check that.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Yes. An additional expertise to this question in the room...

A - Philipp Gmür
Yes.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Life Switzerland, we have Philipp Gmür.

A - Philipp Gmür
Yes. Swisscanto has no impact, because if we are continuing making the administration of
these pensions and Swisscanto pays cost (01:04:12) and we'll have the cost. There's no
change.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Thank you. We have more questions in the room. Let's hear again in the ﬁrst row.

Q - Andreas Frick

{BIO 1883910 <GO>}

Yes. It's Andreas Frick from Bank am Bellevue. One question that I have is on the earnings
contribution of CHF22 million from the acquisitions. Maybe you can give us the split
between Nationale Suisse and Basler Austria. I don't expect too much from Basler Austria,
but that might have a little even a negative – I don't know.
And second question then is on the gains and losses in the investment result. There is – I
think on Page 20 in the presentation, and you said that you have a valuation gain on the
Nationale Suisse shares of CHF109 million. I guess the CHF109 million is not included in
the gains and losses that you present here of CHF292 million.

Page 18 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

FINAL

And the third question then is on Page 17, the ﬁnancing costs. These seem very low with
CHF13 million. I think you had already CHF13 million in 2014 actual reported numbers
according to IFRS, so I would assume that the CHF3 million are kind of additional
ﬁnancing costs on your acquisition only. And if I would take something between CHF20
million and CHF25 million as a run rate going forward, that would be more reasonable.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Ralph?

A - Ralph-Thomas Honegger

{BIO 4932832 <GO>}

Yes. I think you're ...

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Answer all these in more detail, Paul, again.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

The ﬁrst question on the contribution both (01:05:58) you can ﬁnd it in Slide 32. There is a
slide which shows the breakdown of the underlying earnings, including the contributions
from individual entities. And as you know, we currently didn't show Austria separately, but
Austria is very small. So it's about CHF2.5 million, I can tell you that.
And the gains and losses do include the CHF109 million because they are a book gain,
you have to book them. And the ﬁnancing costs are the incremental ﬁnancing costs that
go through the P&L, that don't include the dividends. We will discuss how best we should
show that it's a bit diﬃcult, because we're trying to show the bridge here within the P&L
between the underlying and the IFRS. But there are, also, obviously the CHF400 million
that go through the equity, which is accounted as a kind of dividend, the coupon for that.
And you're right, we've got about the total ﬁnancing costs that we have as incremental
was CHF27 million gross from the CHF1 billion that we raised.

Operator
A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

We have more questions, again, in the room. Mr. René Locher.

Q - René Locher
Yes. It's René Locher with MainFirst. So, ﬁrst question on Slide 50...

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

5-0?

Page 19 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Sorry?

FINAL

Q - René Locher
5-0. Yes. It's on these hedging. And, yes, I've seen that you are hedging now a little bit
less of your CHF4 billion foreign currency exposure. And, yes, I'm just wondering if that
does make you a little bit nervous.
And then also on investments, when I'm looking at Slide 21, I mean, for investors or – well,
just looking at the press, always negative news about the real estate market, right? And,
well, your usual investment property, I don't know if it's a gross or a net yield, this 3.8%
you achieved. And even on the new investments – investment property, you have a yield
of 5.1%. So, that's really amazing and it's always hard to explain, for example, Londonbased investors, that you can generate a return of 5.1% in the Swiss real estate market.
And then on Slide 11, I guess, – I guess I'm a little bit (01:08:33). These proﬁt by sources,
can you walk me through for your operating proﬁt of CHF429 million to the segment
result in the life business of CHF154 million?

Bloomberg Transcript

And, if I may just, one more for the Swiss business, just the combined ratio, very strong
again and this is, yes, of course, very positive. But I'm wondering a little bit, I mean, the
outlook for the Swiss economy looks a little bit weak, just wondering if that could have a
negative impact on the combined ratio, because there's a certain correlation between
GDP and combined ratio.
And now with Nationale Suisse, as far as I know, you are in quite a lot of motor business.
Should we expect a slight increase in the combined ratio? Could you oﬀset that with a
lower expense ratio? Thank you.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Ralph, I suggest that you pick up on the FX policy, Ralph, and then also discuss the real
estate investments of 3.8% in the existing, and 5.1% in the new investments that we could
do last year, please.

A - Ralph-Thomas Honegger

{BIO 4932832 <GO>}

Okay. To the hedging provisions, the numbers that you mentioned on the slide are
basically the numbers reﬂect (01:10:00) are the numbers that for year-end 2014. And we
published this perhaps for many years now. Before, we had exchange rates ﬁxed by the
Swiss National Bank. We were at 85% and then certainly, we realized on this hedge of the
national bank and loosened our hedging ratio somewhat to two-thirds to 70% in this area.
So, after the Swiss National Bank gave up the exchange rate goal, we lifted it again up to
about 85%. So, we are not nervous.
The second one, looking at investment property under 5.1%, you have to be aware that we
usually enter real estate engagements on the stages (01:11:10) of projects. So, we acquire
Page 20 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

FINAL

projects today that probably come to market in three years or four years or ﬁve years from
now.
So, looking at the 5.1% of last year, so basically these are projects that we acquired maybe
three, years maybe four years, maybe even longer years before. And since, for the most
part, we have residential property and the situation in Switzerland is still very, very good,
we really could realize the yield that we expected when we acquired the project a few
years ago. And a few years ago, our goal was at around 5%. So, then we get the results
with this, which is still at the level that we expected it to be.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

And there's additional risk and return for these ﬁrst time rental situations. So, you can
judge a little bit more for a completely new ﬂat, but you have the risk of renting it out. So,
this is also logical. And therefore the new investments we have slight premium in excess
to what we have in the back book.
Paul, can you bridge the CHF429 million operational proﬁt by sources to the reported
CHF151 million?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

We deliberately concentrate – we deliberately decided for the full disclosure to
concentrate on the operating results, because that's what we were discussing, the
underlying operating results. So, we haven't given a bridge. The bridge is basically the socalled extraordinary result, which is basically the extraordinary reserving plus the Chiara
Vita write-down, the realized gains and losses, and the policyholder participation oﬀsets
against that. And that will come down to the proﬁt before tax, CHF154 million (01:13:09).
But we haven't given that this year.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Philipp, combined ratio in Switzerland and how is it impacted by the macroeconomic
environment on one side and the integration of Nationale Suisse on the other side?

A - Philipp Gmür
I mean, the ﬁrst point is that we do not give any speciﬁc guidance to the combined ratio
in a country market. But what I can tell you is, of course, there is a certain correlation
between the GDP and, for instance, our premium increase. But to give you one answer to
this, during the ﬁrst two months, I think that the car sales in this country got to new
heights we have never seen before.
Another point is that we want to stick to – still to a reasonable pricing and a best practice
in managing our loss ratios. And when we have a look at the Nationale Suisse portfolios
and compare it to the loss ratio management of the Helvetia portfolio, we see still some
potential for even better managing our speciﬁc loss management. Another point here is
also our reinsurance policy, which will be strengthened, of course, combining those two
portfolios.
Page 21 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

FINAL

Another point is that we, of course, will have the ambition to even better manage our nonlife portfolios, and thus, get cost synergies. And ﬁnally, we have the ambition not to see a
worse combined ratio than we are used to in former years, at least not by combining the
two portfolios. But of course, we were pretty lucky with the elementary loss situation in
this country and the other circumstances. But, ﬁnally, we think that, of course, we can get
some cost synergies also.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Thank you, Philipp. We will come back to more questions in the room from Mr. Casanova.

Q - Peter Casanova

{BIO 2168233 <GO>}

Thank you. A quick question on Swiss distribution with Nationale you've acquired smile,
the online platform. Can you give us, roughly, what's the distribution volume is? I'm
curious to see or to hear where the cost is and maybe combined ratio of this distribution
channel to other channels. Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmür

Bloomberg Transcript

The combined ratio of the smile.direct business is very attractive. We do not give you a
speciﬁc guidance with the diﬀerent business lines, but it's very proﬁtable, probably the
most proﬁtable sales channels in the Nationale Suisse environment as of today. Of course,
we have good cost ratios there. But still, the pricing is reasonable and thus, the loss ratios
are pretty good.
And we want to keep this online sales channel apart from the other sales channels. So, we
want to keep it as our own direct sales channel. And we see there quite some potential in
developing it furthermore.

Q - Peter Casanova

{BIO 2168233 <GO>}

And what's the volume today, roughly?

A - Philipp Gmür
We have not disclosed yet the diﬀerent volumes of the diﬀerent sales channels.

Q - Peter Casanova

{BIO 2168233 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

We have more questions in the room. If it's not the case, it will be an opportunity to ask
questions from London, Frankfurt or where else you might be. Do we have questions in
the queue, Chorus line?

Operator

Page 22 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

No questions.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Everything already answered?

FINAL

Operator
No question from the phone.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Thank you. Then we have ﬁnal hand here in the room again from René Locher.

Q - René Locher
A ﬁnal question. Life looks so easy. If I go to Slide 6, so you have – a positive one-oﬀ . So, I
mean, I don't want the guidance, but is it fair to assume that 2015, 2016 when you don't
have the gains from your Nationale Suisse shares, when you don't have the tax beneﬁt,
you have a little bit synergies coming in then, but is it fair to assume that 2015, 2016 could
be a little bit below the 2014 level?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

We showed you earlier on Slide 16 (sic) [17] (01:18:11) what the guidance would be for that.
So, in – that gives you the numbers you are likely to see. So, the synergies, we're
expecting of CHF105 million to CHF130 million, whatever we call them, 10% to 20%. You
see what the integration costs are likely to be. So for all those numbers there, you've got
some guidance that was going to be – clearly, you don't have CHF109 million.
The tax and other eﬀects is purely a – very automatic whatever that might be on the
calculation. So, on the underlying earnings basis, you can work it backwards, but I don't
see any impacts, any negative impact. We expect the underlying earnings should grow.
On the IFRS earnings, it's clearly very possible that they will decline. That's why we've
given this measure.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

And I always think important to diﬀerentiate between what is cash relevant because some
of these are neither cash relevant nor operationally, but accounting. And others tend to
be temporary items. So, therefore, I think the focus on these underlying earnings are in
combination with the IFRS pattern that will evolve probably, as Paul has demonstrated, will
help you to understand the – I would say, the diﬀerent realities between the two
measures.

Q - René Locher
Okay. Just very quickly general question, I'm always surprised (01:19:35) a little bit
between the autonomous pension schemes and the private insurance sector, right? And I
do believe that in the current low bond yield environment, it will be quite interesting for a
Page 23 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

small-, medium-sized enterprise to switch out of the autonomous, pay a little bit more,
shift the business to the private insurance sector, but get the guarantee then. And, I mean,
just a general view on this, please?

FINAL

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Philipp, can you give an update so from the renewals experience or, in general, with the
results 2014 that you are have explained.

A - Philipp Gmür
I mean, you're totally right. What we see is the shift you mentioned, the demand for
guarantees. And our ambition is to sell those guarantees, but we are trying to ﬁnd new
models with respect to the – to maybe third party like in the individual life business to
bear more and more the guaranty. And we are also working on new products, like for
instance, in cooperation with Notenstein. For all those clients who want to shift from the
autonomous solution, they are looking for a life insurance as a provider for their solutions,
but they, at the same time, are looking for more potential.
So there are new business models, which are evolving over time. And, of course, there is a
trade-oﬀ between the guaranties we have to provide for and our own ambitions with
regard to our return on equity.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

There are no more questions here in the room. No questions in the queue. This is then the
end of our session. We would like to thank you, really, for your interest and your coverage
of our company. And of course, we are available, if you want for one-to-ones, and we will
meet some of you on the road during next couple of days. Thank you very much and have
a good afternoon.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, the conference is now over. Thank you for choosing Chorus Call
and thank you for participating in the conference. You may now disconnect your lines.
Good-bye.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the

Page 24 of 25



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2015-03-16

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 25 of 25

