Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2015-08-06

Q2 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

George Quinn, CFO
Martin Senn, CEO

Presentation
Martin Senn

{BIO 3241585 <GO>}

Welcome to Zurich Insurance Group's results presentation for the ﬁrst half of the 2015
ﬁnancial year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Business operating proﬁt for the six months ended June 30 was $2.2b, down 15% from the
prior period on a reported basis and down 10% at constant currency. Net income
attributable to shareholders was down 3% at $2.1b.
While our life and farmers businesses are continuing their positive trend and showing
good results, the proﬁtability of our general insurance business has been negatively
impacted by higher than expected large losses, particularly in the UK and within global
corporate's US operations. And a higher expense ratio. This led to a business operating
proﬁt return on equity for the ﬁrst half of 2015 of 11.6%, below our target range of 12% to
14%.
We are addressing the expense ratio issue and expect to see the beneﬁts coming through
early next year. Additionally, we have taken steps to improve proﬁtability, particularly in
global corporate in North America.
While BOPAT ROE remains a challenge, we continue to deliver on our other key targets.
First, our Zurich economic capital model ratio stood at 120% at the end of the First
Quarter, at the top of our target range. And second, cash remittances are expected to
exceed $3.5 billion for the full year and $10 billion for the period 2014 to 2016, well ahead
of our target of $9b.
We provided an update on our progress of our Investor Day in May, highlighting
investments we are making in distinctive positions, the actions we have taken in the
business we are managing for value and our various initiatives to grow our operating
earnings.
In relation to the ﬁrst cornerstone of our strategy, we gave a clear sense of the actions on
the way in farmers and NAC last December, in relation to our life business and global
corporate two months ago.

Page 1 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2015-08-06

FINAL

To give you a sense of some of some of the tangible actions taken in the ﬁrst half, we have
continued the roll-out of our predictive analytics initiative, which is now up and running in
21 countries. In our corporate business, as of June 30, we have achieved over 100 new
common customers across our corporate life and pensions. And global corporate
businesses out of a target for this year of 150. And we are seeing further improvements in
product density.
In the businesses that we are managing for value we have continued to implement
measures to turn-around underperforming, smaller general insurance businesses and are
taking action to improve proﬁtability in our Brazil operations. In our life business we have
agreed the sale of part of a block of UK annuities to Rothsay Life and plan to sell our stake
in UK-based Seven Investment Management to Caledonia Investments. Both transactions
are subject to regulatory or court approval.
In terms of growing operating earnings, we have begun to execute on our plan to deliver
$300 million of eﬃciencies by the end of next year. And as I mentioned earlier, we have
also taken steps to address the weaker environment in some of our GI portfolios.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to our three segments, starting with general insurance. Gross premiums are up
3% on a local currency basis, with continued progress in our priority markets. The overall
rate environment continues to be broadly stable although we see challenges in some
markets, such as US property.
Business operating proﬁts in our general insurance business for the ﬁrst half were 27%
lower than in the prior-year period at constant currency. This is due to two factors, an
increase in large losses, particularly in the UK and within global corporate's US
operations. And a higher expense ratio. We recognise that there will always be some
volatility in large losses in our GI business on a quarterly basis, with losses in both Q1 and
Q2 higher than in any quarter in 2014.
Of the 1.5 point increase in the expense ratio, around 0.5 points is due to one-oﬀ positives
and the prior year and a further 0.5 points is due to mix eﬀects on commission and the
upfront cost of the extended warranty business in Brazil.
We also have a number of important initiatives on the way to deliver a 2 to 3percentage
points improvement in the combined ratio from 2014 levels. We see positive signs, for
example, in some of our turnaround businesses. And would expect the beneﬁt of these
actions to become more visible, now results towards the end of this year.
Nonetheless, we had clearly expected to see more progress in improving proﬁtability at
this half-way stage in the current three-year strategic period. We have launched additional
actions in the US global corporate property portfolio and we will look to adjust pricing in
other parts of the US business. We are prepared to shed volume to ensure we achieve
these goals.
Let me be clear, I am not satisﬁed with our current performance in general insurance and
delivering on the commitments we made at the Investor Day is my number one priority.
Page 2 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2015-08-06

FINAL

Turning to performance of our life business. We have seen further good growth in new
business, with APE up 19% in local currency and with strong performance from bank
distribution, developed markets growth businesses and from some of our manage-forvalue units. We have also seen a very good improvement in business operating proﬁt, up
21% in local currency, again with bank distribution, developed markets growth and
manage-for-value all contributing.
While partly due to one-oﬀ charges in the prior year, BOP was still 14% higher in local
currency excluding these items, driven by strong growth in revenues and the technical
margin. New business value has not matched this strong performance, down 5% in local
currency, though this is largely a function of low bond yields.
While actions are under way to address some challenges within the emerging markets
growth businesses, overall we can see that our strategic actions are starting to ﬂow
through to ﬁnancial matrix. As I mentioned before, we are also in the process of exiting
two non-core parts of our life portfolio in the UK and expect to see further actions release
risk capital in the next 18 months.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to farmers, we continue to see encouraging trends of the Farmers Exchanges,
which we do not own. Gross written premiums at the Farmers Exchanges rose by about
4% in the core business and 2% overall. This was driven by a further improvement in
retention. There has also been encouraging progress in the net promoter score, which is
an important leading indicator for the future. We have seen further growth in the number
of agents, although growth in new business has slowed and this is due to some actions in
the Bristol West auto book and it doesn't change our conﬁdent view of the outlook.
In summary, we are executing what we said we would do and seeing tangible progress in
key metrics.
Let me summarise our results. Our half-year results are below our expectations. But
general insurance is working on a large number of projects to improve proﬁtability and
reduce costs. And we expect to see the beneﬁts in our results in the coming quarters. We
are making good progress in many areas, notably in our life business and farmers.
New business volumes and business operating proﬁt in our life operations were both up
around 20% compared to the prior-year period. The top line of the Farmers Exchanges
continues to improve, underpinned by execution of the strategy and further evidenced in
our key metrics. And we remain very well-capitalised and now expect to expect to receive
cash remittances over this strategic cycle of more than $10b, well ahead of our target.
Finally, you will no doubt be aware that we are evaluating making an oﬀer to acquire RSA
Insurance Group. At this stage there is very little that we can say on this topic. We believe
that a transaction can bring signiﬁcant beneﬁts to us and to our investors in terms of the
complementary RSA's business with our own operations and in terms of ﬁnancial beneﬁts
from, for example, expense and other synergies.

Page 3 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2015-08-06

FINAL

But let me make one point absolutely clear. This or any other investment must meet the
hurdles that we set last year, 10% unlevered. As we have said repeatedly in the past, if
we're unable to achieve this for organic or inorganic opportunities, we'd rather return
capital to our investors. Let me also reassure you that this does not and will not distract us
from our core focus of delivering on the commitments to investments that we made at our
May Investor Day.
Thank you for your attention and your continued trust and support.

George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Good morning, or good afternoon. My name is George Quinn and I am the Chief
Financial Oﬃcer of Zurich Insurance Group. And I'll take you through our results in more
detail.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q2 business operating proﬁt of $943 million is 24% lower than in the prior quarter, with
net income attributable to shareholders of $840 million ﬂat compared to Q2 2014. On a
constant currency basis, we have reported a reduction in BOP of around 18% for Q2
standalone. And while our life and farmers businesses were performing well, we have a
weaker than expected combined ratio in some of our GI businesses. When comparing
results this year, with last year's currency is a signiﬁcant feature. We report in US dollars
but only about half of our business is in this currency and this means that the strength of
the US dollar has had a negative impact on our reported results.
However, before I go into the detail of our results, I will brieﬂy highlight some points in
this slide. We're starting to see the impact of our focus on costs within OOB as costs start
to fall in the headquarters and we also beneﬁt from lower ﬁnancing costs and currency
gains in Q2. In prior years there's been a skew In OOB costs to the second half principally
due to the timing of marketing spend. And this will continue in 2015.
In the walk we show you from BOP to NIAS on this slide, we have realized gains of around
$240m. This breaks down as roughly $140 million in ﬁxed income and $95 million in
equities.
Finally, we also have the ﬁrst charges related to our eﬃciency programme, as we incurred
around $70 million of costs in the quarter relating to a combination of restructuring
initiatives, impairments of IT and other accounting charges. Additionally, we impaired
around $30 million of goodwill in the quarter.
Let me now move on to the general insurance business. At constant currency gross
premiums written for the Second Quarter were roughly ﬂat compared to the prior year
period and net earned premiums were up by 1%. Looking at the half-year, gross written
premiums were up by 3%, which is broadly in line with our underlying growth rate. Overall
rate increases on renewal for the quarter came slightly down to 1%, with the pressure in
the US continuing but also in Australia and in Europe.

Page 4 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2015-08-06

Global corporate reported a decrease at 10% in local currency for the quarter. This is
impacted by timely eﬀects and some other factors. And for the half year growth in local
currency was 1%. Given the market trends, especially in the US, we would see a ﬂat to
declining top line as the most likely outcome for the full year for this business.

FINAL

For NAC gross premiums were up 5% for the quarter, with continued execution of our
strategic growth initiatives.
Looking at European business and excluding Russia, Russia Retail, top line is up 1% in local
currency. Expansion in Switzerland, Germany and Spain was oﬀset by the UK and Italy.
In international markets premiums increased by roughly 12% in local currency. The
majority of this growth is driven by the new extended warranty distribution agreement in
Brazil. And in our Asia Paciﬁc region a decline in premiums in Australia is partly oﬀset by
continuing solid growth in Japan and Hong Kong.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's now move on to the combined ratio. GI's combined ratio of 100% for the Second
Quarter and 98.3% for the half year is weaker than our expectations. This is mainly due to
a higher than expected accident year ex-cat combined ratio, which was 97.9% for Q2 and
97.4% for the ﬁrst half compared to 93.4% and 94.5% in the respective prior-year period.
There are several drivers of the weaker than expected outcome.
First, large losses are around 1.5 points above expectations in both quarters in 2015, with
Q2 around 2 points worse than a benign result in the prior-year period. For Q2 this
includes several large losses across the portfolio, principally aﬀecting the UK and global
corporate.
Second, the attritional loss ratio for the quarter is around 1 point adverse to Q1 for several
reasons that are not indicative of our current run rate. A comparison of the half-year
attritional loss ratio with full-year 2014 is a better reﬂection of underlying trends. And on
this basis the ratio is broadly ﬂat. In terms of underlying trends, we continue to see
improvements in a number of businesses as well as some pockets of higher frequency
and severity in a few US portfolios. Given that the current market environment is unlikely
to change any time soon, we'll need to continue to drive improvements in the loss ratio
through further managing actions.
Third, the expense ratio for the Second Quarter is 31.6%. While this is consistent with Q1
and our prior guidance for 2015, it is 2percentage points higher than in Q2 in 2014. The
full impact of the expense eﬃciency initiatives will not start to feed thorough until Q1 next
year.
On the other key parts of the combined ratio, prior-year reserve movements were a
positive 1.3% for the Second Quarter and catastrophe losses had a 3.4% impact on the
combined ratio for the quarter. This was 1 point higher than last year. But broadly in line
with our expectations, with our large wild ﬁre and several weather events in the US, storm
Niklas in Germany and further storms in Australia.

Page 5 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2015-08-06

FINAL

On the performance by region, the increased combined ratio in global corporate is
mainly driven by the large losses I mentioned before and catastrophe losses, which were
higher than our expectation, partly oﬀset by a better result from prior-year reserves than
last year.
In North America commercial, an increase in the accident year ex-cat combined ratio was
partly oﬀset by lower catastrophe losses and a higher beneﬁt from reserve releases. The
increase in the expense ratio of roughly 2 points was driven by a combination of one-oﬀs,
investments in our strategic initiatives, mix of business and higher management expenses.
EMEA's combined ratio is up 4percentage points on the prior-year period and this is
mainly driven by the higher large losses in the UK that I mentioned earlier, a lower level of
prior-year reserve releases and an increase in the expense ratio, mainly driven by one-oﬀ
beneﬁts in 2014. These increases were partly oﬀset by a further improvement in the
attritional loss ratio, mainly in Germany, Spain and South Africa.
And the increase in our combined ratio for our international markets of roughly 2 points is
primarily driven by the upfront payment of the newly distribution agreement in Brazil and
the catastrophe losses in Australia.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the next slide I will show you a breakdown of our GI BOP. GI BOP was $460 million for
the Second Quarter, around 40% below the prior year in both reported and local
currency. And this is due to the lower underwriting result. In terms of other components of
GI's operating earnings, a decline in investment income and the returns on our hedge
fund portfolio were broadly oﬀset by lower and technical expenses.
Investment income in Q2 was broadly ﬂat in local currency compared to the prior period.
But given some seasonality and investment income we wouldn't extrapolate this to the
rest of the year and still expect a decline in investment income of around $100 million for
the full year compared to 2014 on a constant currency basis. The positive news here is that
we seem to be approaching an inﬂection point on investment income, with the
reinvestment yield very close to the book yield in the quarter, assuming of course that
interest rates stay at current levels.
Neither the ﬁrst-half or the Second Quarter results are indicative of what we expect of the
future run rate. This is partly explained by the exceptional level of large losses in Q2. We
had two ﬁre losses in Zurich Municipal in the UK, which cost us $80 million so far this year.
And our global corporate business in North America has suﬀered the highest level of
large losses in any half year since 2008.
But even with some generous assumptions around large losses, we're not happy about
the execution on our plans to improve attritional loss ratios, principally in global corporate
business in North America. We will prune the portfolio as needed to maintain the level of
proﬁtability that we need to achieve our targets.
I'll now move on to our global life business. New business APE volumes increased 15% in
local currency compared to the prior-year period, driven by strong performance in our
Page 6 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2015-08-06

Europe, Middle East and Africa. And Asia Paciﬁc regions.

FINAL

Europe, Middle East and Africa increased local currency new business volumes 23%
overall, with growth seen in nearly all countries, primarily driven by corporate life and
pension volumes in the UK and Switzerland. And individual savings growth in Banco
Sabadell and Italy.
Asia Speciﬁc grew local currency volumes by 47%, with strong sales of protection business
in Japan, driving the result.
While Latin America volumes in local currency declined by 3%, this reﬂects a greater
reduction in Zurich-branded Latin American business, mostly oﬀset by 15% growth in
Zurich Santander APE.
North America experienced a 24% reduction in APE, reﬂecting exceptional volumes
achieved in the prior year quarter and increasing competition in our target IFA market.

Bloomberg Transcript

Analysed by pillar, we again saw double digit growth in each of the businesses in local
currency, with corporate life and pension volumes increasing 21% as well as 11% growth in
our bank distribution businesses and 13% in retail.
New business value went down 4% in local currency year on year as lower yields continue
to impact on our savings business in Europe. We set the swap rate at the end of the
immediately preceding quarter, which was broadly the low point for the year so far. Other
factors reducing the new business margin included persistency-related modelling
changes in North America and changes in product mix.
And ﬁnally, net inﬂows were positive for the quarter for all regions.
Turning to life proﬁtability, Q2 business operating proﬁt of $355 million increased 13%
compared to the prior year in dollars and up 29% in local currency. The strong result was
driven by two main areas.
First, in Latin America, Zurich Santander earnings grew by 16% or by 50% in local currency
following a favourably experience in persistency, sales volumes, claims, expenses and
investment income in Brazil. This continued progress was partly oﬀset by lower earnings
in the Zurich-branded Latin American business, mainly due to the non-renewal of the SIS
contract that we mentioned last quarter and overall this contributed to a loss in our
emerging markets growth bucket.
Second, our Europe, Middle East and Africa business grew earnings by 4% or by 20% in
local currency, with strong results in Germany complemented by proﬁts stemming from
the transfer of an annuity book in the UK and lower levels of discretionary policyholder
dividends in Switzerland.

Page 7 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2015-08-06

While Latin America and Europe, Middle East and Africa showed strong earnings growth,
North America BOP was ﬂat owing to pressure in the IFA business. And Asia Speciﬁc was
down 14% in local currency.

FINAL

Adjusting for one-oﬀ factors, the underlying improvement in BOP is 19% in local currency.
Next I'll show you the sources of earnings analysis for our life business that was ﬁrst
introduced last year. Adjusting for various one-oﬀ factors and, as explained in the
updated Sources of Earnings document, our revenues grew 8% in local currency during
the ﬁrst-half of 2015.
And the main driver was an 8% local currency growth in loadings and fees, where
volumes in Zurich Santander and the Isle of Man supported loadings growth of 9%, while
cross-border unit-linked sales in Ireland contributed to fund-based fees growth of 7%. This
growth was achieved despite oﬀsetting factors in the UK, where in retail higher margin inforce business is being replaced by lower margin new business, resulting in a decrease in
loadings and fees.

Bloomberg Transcript

Again, adjusting for the one-oﬀ factors and in local currency, the investment margin
decreased by 8%, including the impact of discretionary policyholder dividends, which was
expected given continuing real pressure and Europe and a focus on protection and unitlinked products. The technical margin, when adjusted for one-oﬀ items, grew by 13% in
local currency, mainly beneﬁting from higher volumes and positive experience in Zurich
Santander and Europe, Middle East and Africa, which also included the proceeds from
the transfer of an Annuity book in the UK.
Expenses increased by 5% in local currency after adjusting for one-oﬀ beneﬁts in the ﬁrst
half of 2014. While operating costs increased by 6%, when viewed as a percentage of
reserves the KPI is ﬂat. Acquisition costs, excluding the impact of the deferrals, grew in
line with revenues, by 8% in local currency, where commissions related to higher sales in
Zurich Santander, Europe, Middle East, Africa and Japan, were slightly oﬀset by
decreased volumes in North America.
This is a good result for our life business, where actions around in-force management
services initiatives and manage-for-value operations have begun to show tangible
progress. At the same time we'll continue to invest in our priority markets to further grow
operating earnings and cash in the medium term.
On the next slide I'll give you an update on the Farmers Exchanges, which we don't own.
But are relevant to the performance of our farmers business segment. Gross written
premiums at the Farmers Exchanges grew 2% overall and 3.5% for the core businesses,
excluding 21st Century and business insurance sold through independent agents.
Policies in force also slightly increased over the quarter. This is slightly below the growth
rate in Q1 due to lower growth Bristol West and exclusive agent business insurance,
reﬂecting the impact of certain underwriting actions that have been taken. The overall
picture continues to be positive, particularly for the exclusive agent distribution business.
Page 8 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2015-08-06

FINAL

In terms of the combined ratio of both the quarter and the half-year show a 3 to
4percentage point improvement, which is largely due to catastrophe losses. While the
Second Quarter continues to suﬀer more catastrophes, the level of losses in 2015 is much
more in line with our expectations.
Looking at the proﬁtability of speciﬁc business lines, it's clear that the combined ratios of
standard and non-standard are not satisfactory, reﬂecting unfavourable trends in
frequency and severity. As I mentioned in our First Quarter results, the Farmers Exchanges
are now taking great actions in auto business. While the impact of these rate actions on
growth for the rest of the year remains to be seen, this is a necessary step.
Finally, the surplus ratio has decreased 1.5percentage points since the beginning of the
year, even though the Farmers Exchanges have added some $100 million to surplus. And
this is due to the lower quota share reinsurance participation and is fully expected.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's quickly touch on farmers management services and farmers RE. Farmers
management services BOP decreased by 9% or $34m. The biggest factor here is an
unfavourable ﬂuctuation in the mark-to-market valuation of securities that backs certain
employee beneﬁt liabilities as well as a gain on the sale of the former headquarters
buildings in the prior-year period. The balance is due to marginally lower management
fees and slightly higher expenses. Overall the managed gross earned premium margin
was 7%, in line with our expected run rate.
Farmers RE BOP improved signiﬁcantly. While gross written premiums and investment
income decreased as a result of the lower quota share reinsurance participation, this was
more than compensated for by an improved combined ratio.
Next I'll provide you with an update on our balance sheet and our capital position. There
were signiﬁcant swings in the ﬁnancial markets in the ﬁrst half. Yields increased and credit
spreads widened in the Second Quarter. And more than reversed the movements seen in
the ﬁrst. Similarly, the strong appreciation of the US dollar in the First Quarter against
relevant currencies to some extent was moderated in the second. As a consequence,
unrealized gains on investments dropped signiﬁcantly in the Second Quarter and,
together with the payment of the dividend, caused share of equity to decline by $3.5b.
Our capital position continues to be strong. Our Z-ECM ratio decreased 2 points to 120%
at the end of March, which is higher than we've previously estimated. And net market
movements are estimated to have a 3 to 4 point negative impact while currency
movements is more or less neutral.
Let's move on to free capital generation. For the half year we've updated the free capital
generation analysis that we ﬁrst disclosed at our 2013 Investor Day. Please note that we've
made one change to simplify the approach this year, basing free capital generation for
global life on MCEV free surplus roll forward.
The results are very consistent with last year, with operating capital generation of slightly
above $3b. This is expected given that our overall earnings level was also broadly
Page 9 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2015-08-06

FINAL

unchanged from 2013. Second, as we showed you last year, a very high percentage of our
operating earnings turn into operating capital generation particularly for GI and farmers.
And third, our ﬂexible capital structure enables us to facilitate a high rate of conversion of
operating free capital generation into net cash remittances, as I'll explain on the next
slide.
This slide compares BOPAT, opening capital generation and cash remittances by segment
for 2013 and 2014. As I've said before, most of our cash generation comes from a fairly
small number of operations that are close to the central holding companies and we have
a policy of pulling risks as close to the centre as possible. This helped our businesses
deliver $3.7 billion of cash remittances in 2014 and we expect to achieve a similarly strong
result in 2015.
Consistent with last year, we again expect to see some further one-oﬀ positives in 2015
and, as a result, should you should not extrapolate our cash remittance expectations for
this year into the future. However, we remain very pleased with our progress to date.

Bloomberg Transcript

Overall results in GI for the quarter are short of our expectations. This is partially due to
large loss experience. But also due to a slower pace of the improvement of attritional loss
ratio. This requires additional corrective actions within some lines of business in North
America and this is underway now. This, in combination with our existing plans and
commitments to improve eﬃciency, will deliver a 2 to 3 point improvement in a combined
ratio.
Elsewhere in the Group we continue to demonstrate very good progress. Both our life
business and farmers businesses have reported good results and are on track with our
expectations.
You can expect to see further restructuring charges in Q3 and Q4 as we continue the
implementation of our eﬃciency program. We estimate that charges in the second half
will be around $300m.
In addition, we continue to generate cash remittances at a Group level, with 2015
expected to be another strong year. We now expect to achieve cash remittances for 2014
to 2016 of more than $10b, well ahead of our target.
Thank you for watching.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
Page 10 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2015-08-06

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 11 of 11

