Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2015-02-12

Q4 2014 Earnings Call - Pre-Recorded
Company Participants
FINAL

George Quinn
Martin Senn

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Martin Senn

{BIO 3241585 <GO>}

Welcome to Zurich Insurance Group's Results Presentation for the 2014 Financial Year.
Business operating proﬁt of $4.6 billion, is down 1% from the prior year and ﬂat in constant
currency. Net income attributable to shareholders of $3.9 billion, is 3% below 2013.

Bloomberg Transcript

As I will explain shortly, we made good progress last year in number of key areas, in the
execution of the strategy we set out in December 2013. Nonetheless, results for 2014 are
below our expectations and a clear indication that we need to do more to improve our
proﬁtability. This is particularly the case given the external headwinds faced in the
insurance industry from the current macroeconomic environment.
In terms of our three targets, while we continue to generate a good ROE, our business
operating proﬁt return on equity of 11% in 2014 is below our target range of 12% to 14%. In
terms of our second target, Z-ECM solvency, we remain very well capitalized with a ratio of
127% at the end of the third quarter. And third, cash remittances for the full year of $3.7
billion are ahead of post 2013 and the run rate implied by our three year target of more
than $9 billion. The strengths of our capital and cash ﬂows underpins, our very attractive
dividend with the board of directors proposing an unchanged dividend of CHF 17 per
share.
While our ﬁnancial results are not yet showing the full beneﬁt of the initiatives underway,
we have made a positive start to the plans we set out at our December 2013 Investor Day.
Building on our progress in the ﬁrst half, we have laid the foundation for future investment
in priority markets in each of our customer segments. To give you some examples, in
corporate, we have established a uniﬁed market development function for global
corporate and corporate life and pensions. We more than doubled our new common
customers across these two businesses while seeing continuing improvement in product
density and have rolled out a predictive analytics initiative to 21 countries.
In North America commercial, we implemented innovative customer segmentation that
allows us to identify the most attractive commercial and global corporate customer
segments. We are also piloting a new single customer view, to improve cross selling and
achieved higher conversion rates based on a new broker model. The new Zurich way of
predictive analytics and new predictive models also lay the ground for better customer
and pricing insights.
Page 1 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2015-02-12

FINAL

In the retail space, we completed customer segmentation analysis in ﬁve European
markets and entered into new distribution agreements with Via Varejo in Brazil and Banco
Sabadell in Spain. The latter arrangement gives us success to an additional 2.4 million
customers, while we sell a warranty for furniture or appliances roughly every ten seconds
through Via Varejo.
As expected, returns in the businesses that we're managing for value were not that
diﬀerent to what we showed at the 2013 Investor Day. However, we have taken a number
of important steps in our GI business and in evaluating our options in Global Life. For
2015, we intend to largely complete the work on turning around underperforming term
insurance business units and on the ﬁrst phase of the live in-force management actions,
we continue to look closely at structural options to improve manage for value returns and
expect to implement changes in this area over the course of the next 12 months.
In relation to growing our operating earnings investment management completed the
objective of deploying an additional $2 billion of risk capital, mainly through the purchase
of equities and corporate bonds, and have already invested or committed to invest over
$1 billion into less liquid assets.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition, we streamlined our organization structure above the business unit level. This
is intended to speed decision making and optimize our governments, but is also
expected to deliver annual cost savings of $250 million by the end of 2015. This is
progressing according to plan, but further simpliﬁcation and a continued focus on
eﬃciency will be key objectives in 2015 throughout the group.
Our program to transform our group operations and technology will be an important part
of this initiative, and will continue against the set of accelerated goals.
Turning to progress in each of our three segments starting with General Insurance. Gross
written premiums in our priority markets grew by 3% in local currency, adjusted for a nonrenewed fronting contract. Despite competitive pressures, we delivered growth in global
corporate and in our commercial insurance operations in U.S. and UK. Gross written
premiums in our priority retail markets also grew. For example in our Switzerland personal
lines business as well as through new distribution agreements in Brazil and Spain.
As you can see from this slide, our priority markets continue to account for the vast
majority of our GI operating earnings, but when these markets fell due to lower reserve
releases in our Swiss business and in global corporate, but with a clear improvement in
our current year proﬁtability. We have also made progress in the General Insurance
businesses that we are managing for value. We sold our Russian retail business and
initiatives in other markets are showing positive early results, while more work remains to
be done in Latin America.
As you can see from this slide, our operating proﬁts in the turnaround businesses
improved in 2014, although there is still some way to go before these operations are
delivering hurdle rate returns. We expect to see more progress here in 2015. Our primary
objectives for the next year are to drive further improvement in accident year proﬁtability,
Page 2 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2015-02-12

FINAL

complete turnaround actions in several markets and prioritize initiatives in corporate,
commercial and select retail markets.
In Global Life, overall annual premium equivalent was up 19% with slightly stronger
growth in our priority markets. We expanded into corporate life and pensions business in
the UK and we had successful execution of growth strategies in bank distribution in Spain
and Latin America, and our IFA distribution business in the U.S. Overall, new business
value is up around 7% adjusted to be on a like-for-like basis. We're pleased with our
progress here.
In our managed for value operations, we have exited marginal positions and have also
developed a uniﬁed approach to in-force management. This has already been rolled out
in the UK, Germany, Switzerland and U.S., which account for about 65% of Global Life's inforce book. We anticipate this could contribute up to $100 million in business operating
proﬁt by 2016. We have also seen some encouraging signs of progress at the Farmers
Exchanges, which returned to growth in the second half. Gross written premiums at the
Farmers Exchanges, which are owned by the policyholders were ﬂat for the full year, but
showed good momentum in the second half of the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Excluding 21st Century and business insurance sold through independent agents, gross
premiums increased by nearly 5% in the fourth quarter. This is just another indication that
Farmers' go-to-market strategy is beginning to pay oﬀ. Customer satisfaction, as
measured by Net Promoter Score, improved considerably in the fourth quarter, while
customer retention rose to 76.8% at the end of 2014 from 74.8% 12 months previously.
The Farmers Exchanges have also seen growth in the total number of agents, adding
more than 400 agents in the year as retention rose to its highest level in over ﬁve years
and exceeded its aim of generating 100,000 omni-channel policies by 20%. The company
also continued its expansion into the Eastern U.S. opening operations in Connecticut to
add its sixth eastern state. In summary, while we cannot be satisﬁed with our 2014 results,
we see signs of progress in our business that are not fully reﬂected in these numbers.
In General Insurance, we continued to improve our current year ex-cat combined ratio,
although clearly, there is more to be done here in 2015 and beyond. In the life business,
we are making good progress in bank assurance, corporate life and pensions and in
rolling out our in-force management strategy. We have also seen very pleasing
developments in the Farmers Exchanges, which bodes well for the future.
And we remain a very well capitalized and cash generative business, underpinning an
attractive dividend of CHF 70 per share. We remain convinced that a strategy we set out in
the 2013 is the right one. Our goals are built on three strategic cornerstones with actions
to improve our proﬁtability and address the challenges of a prolonged low yield and low
growth environment. We look forward to updating you on our progress at our Investor
Day in May, and we will provide you with more information on the steps we will take to
ensure we deliver on our 2016 targets.
Thank you for your attention, and your continued trust and support.
Page 3 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2015-02-12

FINAL

George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Good morning or good afternoon. My name is George Quinn, and I am the Chief
Financial Oﬃcer of the Zurich Insurance Group and I'll take you through our results in a bit
more detail. However, before I go into the numbers, I'll start with the overall picture. The
most important metric in our ﬁnancial statements is the BOPAT ROE of 11% is below our
12% to 14% range. And if I adjust for the things we don't control for, cat experience of oneoﬀ expense beneﬁts, the underlying ROE is around 10.5%. This is not a satisfactory result.
Improvement year-over-year is visible, particularly in our GI results. But we intend to
continue to improve our proﬁtability with a relentless focus over the next two years on
underwriting improvement and eﬃciency.
We said last December how we could get to 13% BOPAT ROE in 2016, achieving our
BOPAT ROE target of 12% to 14%. And while the continued to decline in reinvestment
rates doesn't make it easier, this remains our top priority.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the positive side, our cash and capital metrics remain very strong, and we expect this
to continue. This will provide us with the reinvestment and capital management options
that will become an increasingly important lever in achieving our ROE goals.
Turning to the details, I will cover the operating performance of our segments shortly, but
will brieﬂy highlight four points on this slide. First within BOP, we have $142 million loss in
non-core in 2014. This is mainly due to an adjustment of our U.S. asbestos and
environmental reserves in the fourth quarter as part of our normal review cycle. Second in
the reconciliation of BOP to NIAS while we have a very high tax rate for the full year of
around 27%, this is slightly lower than we had indicated at the time of our Q3 results.
There are various non-recurring factors at work here but we expect the Group's tax rate to
be around 25% in future.
Third, we had a high level of realized gains for the full year and particularly for Q4. The
gains in the fourth quarter were on a mix of bonds and equities. And fourth, we include a
$247 million loss on the sale of our Russian retail business in our full year and Q4 results.
This loss is lower than the $300 million that we've previously indicated that we'd take in
Q4 mainly due to currency movements between July and October. As we mentioned
before, most of this loss is due to the realization of previously unrealized currency losses
with only around $40 million impact on shareholders' equity.
Turning to the performance of General Insurance. Gross premiums written grew by 2% in
local currency in 2014. Excluding the impact of a large discontinued fronting contract, to
which we referred throughout the year. For Q4, our top-line in U.S. dollars was down 4%
compared to the prior year quarter due to the strength of the dollar against most other
currencies and notably the euro and the pound.
In local currency our top line was up 3% and this includes $115 million from the new
distribution agreement in Brazil, which commenced in the quarter, although this will not
have an impact on earned premiums until 2016.
Page 4 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2015-02-12

FINAL

Rate increases on renewal remain stable at 2% for Q4 compared to Q3, we saw a slightly
lower rate increasing in global corporate, while rates were a touch better in NAC, but the
overall picture is very consistent.
Looking at the top line development for the diﬀerent regions, for the full year, global
corporate reported an increase of 3% in local currency. This is due to higher retention and
new business production in the U.S. while premiums are down in global corporate and
Europe mainly driven by re-underwriting actions. For NAC gross premiums were up 2%
excluding the discontinued fronting contract I mentioned before with growth in target
areas and a small increase in retentions.
Looking at our European business, the top line was ﬂat for the full year in local currency.
We have seen some solid growth in some key European markets such as the UK, Germany
and Personal Lines in Switzerland oﬀset by some top line pressure in Italy as well as in
some of our turnaround markets.

Bloomberg Transcript

In international markets, premiums increased by roughly 3% in local currency. We're still
expanding the business but our underlying growth rate has slowed mainly due to reunderwriting actions in Brazil and a competitive environment in the Commercial Lines
business in Australia.
Let's now move on the combined ratio. Before we go into the details, let me step back
and can give you a high level view of our performance in General Insurance. For Q4
standalone, our combined ratio was 99.4% a disappointing outcome in a light quarter for
catastrophe losses. The main reason for this is an ex-cat combined ratio for the quarter of
98.2%. This is higher than we're targeting albeit due to some speciﬁc factors which are
not reﬂective of our run rate proﬁtability. And we would focus instead on full year 2014
results. Looked at on this basis, we made good progress although we need to continue
this improvement in 2015.
With that in mind, let me walk you through the numbers. For the full-year, our accident
year ex-cat combined ratio was 95.6%. This is 1.6 points better than in the prior year,
mainly due to a 2.4 point reduction in current year ex-cat loss ratio. Consistent with what
we've told you though in previous quarters in 2014, around 1 point of improvement is from
a lower level of large industrial losses with the balance due to a better attritional loss ratio.
For Q4 discrete, the accident year ex-cat loss ratio was 67% roughly 2.5 points higher than
at the nine months stage. This is mainly due to losses in our crop business in the U.S.,
some large individual losses in the UK and Brazil, and a modest deterioration in the
attritional loss ratio booked for the year. It's a disappointing end to the year, but it should
not overshadow the improvements in performance for 2014 as a whole.
Our overall expense ratio for the year of 30.5% is 0.8% percentage points higher than in
the previous year. Excluding one-oﬀ factors in both years, we see can increase of 1%
percentage point, around half of which is due to investments in our priority markets. The
impact from catastrophes was 2.3% for the year around 1.5 points below our ﬁve-year
average and about 1.3 points better than our pricing assumption. In terms of prior year
Page 5 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2015-02-12

FINAL

development, the results for the year is a 0.6 percentage point beneﬁt. This is slightly
lower than the indicated range of 1 percentage point to 2 percentage points and again
this is due to some identiﬁable and speciﬁc factors, like the adverse development on a
number of large individual claims in global corporate in Q2 or APH liabilities in the UK
and a discontinued line in global corporate in Q3. We expect positive PYD of 1% to 2%.
Turning to the performance by region. We saw good improvement in global corporate
current year proﬁtability, but with a small level of adverse development in 2014 compared
to a material level of prior year reserve releases in the previous year. The decrease in
EMEA's combined ratio is mainly due to an improved accident year ex-cat combined ratio,
due to lower large losses and a better attritional loss ratio. And lastly, the combined ratio
in our international business is 2 points higher than in the previous year.
While the underlying performance of the business slightly improved, catastrophe losses
were 0.5 percentage points higher and were ﬂat to prior year reserve movements
compared to some signiﬁcant releases in the previous year in the Asia Paciﬁc region.

Bloomberg Transcript

The Q4 standalone combined ratio deteriorated by roughly 8 points, mainly driven by
some reserve strengthening and large losses. We still have a lot to do to bring our LatAm
business to the level of proﬁtability that we require.
On the next slide, I'll explain the breakdown of the GI BOP. GI BOP was $2.9 billion for the
full year, broadly unchanged in comparison to 2013 in both dollars and in local currency.
An improved underwriting result was oﬀset by lower gains from hedge fund investments
and higher non-technical costs. The BOP contribution from investment income is
essentially ﬂat on a full year basis, and marginally up at constant currency. The Q4 discrete
number stands out on the low side, particularly compared to a $70 million higher number
in Q3. One-oﬀ impacts in Q3 and Q4 accounted for around $45 million of the diﬀerence,
with the balance of the diﬀerence due to currency movements. And lastly, the 2014 nontechnical result beneﬁted from currency gains and losses of $48 million. Excluding this
positive eﬀect, the non-tech result was $160 million, in line with the run rate guidance
given at the half year results reporting.
To summarize on our General Insurance business, while there were some encouraging
trends in the overall results, we have much still to do in terms of delivering on our
turnaround plans and further portfolio actions. These actions will include deriving further
beneﬁt from active portfolio management, including rate tiering and a continued focus on
expenses.
With that, let's move to our Global Life business. As measured by APE, new business
volumes increased 19% in local currency compared to the previous year, driven by strong
performance in our main growth areas in the U.S. and Europe. The U.S. showed good
progress, increasing IFA in new business volumes by 49% year-on-year in local currency,
while bank distribution volumes in Spain and UK corporate life and pensions increased by
135% and 60% respectively. And of particular note was a discrete fourth quarter. The UK
wrote a large single premium pensions contract, which was a strong positive impact on
APE and net inﬂuence.

Page 6 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2015-02-12

FINAL

Latin America also showed growth in local currencies, with an increase in new business at
Zurich Santander of 14%, partly oﬀset by a decrease in the Zurich Life business. As
reported our year-to-date new business value was slightly down year-on-year, but this
masks an improving underlying picture. Adjusted for methodology and assumption
changes that we made at the beginning of the year, new business value would have
grown by around 7%.
And ﬁnally, net inﬂows were very positive for the year, primarily driven by increased
volumes in the UK pensions business, while assets under management were ﬂat due to FX
movements oﬀsetting inﬂows and market growth. While we're still early in the strategic
cycle, the strong growth in our target markets of U.S., UK retail, bank distribution and
corporate life and pensions shows that we're making good progress.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to life operating proﬁtability. Business operating proﬁt of $1.3 billion was ﬂat
compared to the prior year in dollars and up 2% in local currency. BOP for Q4 of $308
million would have been around $20 million higher on a constant currency basis. As part
of our in-force management strategy, there were a few one-oﬀ negative items in these
results caused by actions that we took during the year. These were however broadly oﬀset
by some non-recurring positive eﬀects, with limited overall net impact.
We show on this slide the source of earnings analysis for our Life business that was ﬁrst
introduced for Q2. We've also updated the separate brieﬁng document that explains our
approach and the linkage to our products and KPIs. Adjusting for the various one-oﬀ
factors and as explained in the brieﬁng document, our revenues grew 5% in 2014, and the
main driver was a 6% growth in loadings and fees, driven by an 11% increase in unit-linked
fees in Europe, as well as higher loadings in all regions other than Europe. As expected,
the overall investment margin is broadly ﬂat, excluding the impact of discretionary
policyholder dividends, while the technical margin, when adjusted for one-oﬀ items grew
by 4% beneﬁting from strong sales in U.S. protection products and Zurich's Santander
growth.
Overall expenses increased by 6%. The main drivers are a 12% increase in operating
expenses and a 3% increase in acquisition costs. The increase in operating expenses is
driven by investments in priority markets such as the U.S. and the UK as well as central
project costs as we execute the strategy that we set out in 2013.
Looking forward, we will continue to invest in our priority markets. And it will take some
time for us to see the full beneﬁts of this in our earnings. At the same time though, there
was considerable operating leverage in our business as we get to scale in priority markets
and make progress with in force management initiatives and manage for value
operations.
Considering the currency headwinds and management actions taken throughout the year,
we see this as a solid result from our Life business and look forward to showing further
tangible progress on the execution of our strategy at the Investor Day in May.

Page 7 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2015-02-12

FINAL

On the next slide, I'll give you an update on the Farmers Exchanges, which we do not own
but are relevant to the performance of our Farmers business segment. As Martin has
already mentioned, Farmers continues to make really good progress in the execution of
the strategy launched in 2013.
Although gross written premiums were ﬂat for the year, momentum is very positive with
growth of 2.4% in the fourth quarter. Excluding 21st Century and Business Insurance sold
through independent agents, the businesses considered non-core. Growth was 1.9% for
the year and 4.6% for the fourth quarter. While this was helped by some $20 million of
one oﬀ adjustments in the fourth quarter, this doesn't change the positive picture. Growth
overall continued to be driven by rate, although we also saw a much improved picture on
policies in-force, which was broadly ﬂat for the fourth quarter. And indeed for the second
quarter in a row, there was growth in auto vehicles in force sold through exclusive agents,
which is a very positive trend.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of proﬁtability, the Farmers Exchanges combined ratio improved by 1.1
percentage points to 99.4% in 2014 due to lower cat and non-cat losses. In October, our
Farmers Exchanges issued $500 million of surplus notes. This was in part used to fund the
redemption of around $200 million of surplus notes held by Zurich. The balance in
conjunction with much improved proﬁtability helped to strengthen the Farmers
Exchanges cat position by around $400 million in Q4.
This allowed the Farmers Exchanges to signiﬁcantly lower the reliance on quarter share
reinsurance. The All Lines in Auto Physical Damage Quota Share reinsurance treaties thus
were reduced from 20% to 14% and from $1 billion to $700 million respectively. With
Zurich's share of the all lines quarter share reduced to 10% and the APD treaty
participation reduced to $500 million.
Reduction in quarter share reinsurance did have some immediate negative impact on the
surplus of the Farmers Exchanges, but the full impact on the surplus ratio will only unfold
over time, through an increase in net written premiums. Everything else being equal, we
expect the surplus ratio to move back into the near term target range of 33% to 36% from
the 38% shown at year-end.
From a Zurich perspective, we expect to release a signiﬁcant amount of capital in the next
two years while giving up a volatile earnings stream. Lastly, we note Farmers Management
services and Farmers RE.
Farmers Management Services revenues declined by 1% for the full year, in line with the
gross annual premiums of the Farmers exchanges. FMS operating proﬁt fell by slightly
less due to expense discipline, as well as some one-oﬀ gains, such as the gain on the
sales of the old headquarters building.
Clearly the improved growth trajectory of the Farmers exchanges should allow
management fees to recover over the course of the next year, as they're charged on
earned premiums. The managed gross earned premium margin came in at 7.2%, which
continues to be above the 7% level that we expect to see as the sustainable level. Farmers
Page 8 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2015-02-12

FINAL

RE business operating proﬁt increased by more than 50%, driven by a 1.9 point
improvement in the combined ratio, 0.7 percentage points of which relates to lower cat
losses and with the balance mainly due to lower underlying losses.
Next I'll provide you with an update on our balance sheet and cat position. Over the year
shareholders' equity increased by more than $2 billion, driven by our earnings and an
increase in unrealized gains and investments, oﬀset by an increase in unrealized currency
translation losses reﬂecting the strength of the dollar in the second half of the year. Our
cat position remains very strong, at the end of September our Z-ECM ratio stood at 127%,
virtually unchanged compared to the beginning of the year, despite the additional
allocation of risk capital to investment management.

Bloomberg Transcript

Of course one topic that has received a great deal of attention this year is the volatility of
the currency markets and the recent strength of the Swiss franc. For this, for us this is
primarily a translation issue. While the vast majority of our assets and liabilities are
currency matched, there is some impact on our group equity IDFR. For example, because
we hold debt in our Swiss franc holding entities to fund investments in our overseas
operations. Overall, we expect that the sharp moves in January will have had around at
two point negative on the Z-ECM ratio. Although, we would expect to see a further small
reduction in the ratio as we include expected growth for 2015 and required capital.
Turning to cash remittances. Cash remittances in 2014 were well above the run rate
needed to achieve our 2016 target, and in line with what we indicated to you at the half
year result. While all the segments made a positive contribution, there are signiﬁcant yearon-year increases in Global Life and Farmers and these are largely driven by some special
items, some of which are non-recurring in nature. These total around $500 million.
Nonetheless, and even allowing for the one-oﬀ nature of some of the remittances, we are
well on track to deliver a target of generating cash remittances in excess of $9 billion over
this three-year cycle. And this remains the case even after fully reﬂecting the strengths of
the Swiss franc and the U.S. dollar against our main operating currencies. Since we pay
our dividends in Swiss francs, the recent currency movements have naturally led to an
increase in our dividend payout ratio. However the combination of our excellent capital
strength, high ﬁnancial ﬂexibility, ability to upstream capital from our main operations,
and positive expectations for cash remittances, mean that we remain in a very secure
position.
The Board of Directors will be proposing an unchanged dividend of CHF 17 per share to
our shareholders. And if approved, this would mean that we've paid out nearly 35% of our
current market cap since the end of 2008. There are not many ﬁnancial institutions that
can make this claim.
Before I wrap up, I'd like to give you an update on some of the factors that may inﬂuence
our results in 2015. Starting with General Insurance. We need to drive further
improvement in the ex-cat loss ratio by improving the performance of turnaround
businesses and through speciﬁc re-underwriting initiatives. We don't expect the market to

Page 9 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2015-02-12

FINAL

help, so this is really about tackling underperforming accounts, while maintaining and
growing our strongest relationship.
Going the other way, our 2015 expense ratio is likely to be higher than in 2014 with our
results last year beneﬁting from around 50 basis points from non-recurring beneﬁts. In
addition, the new distribution agreement in Brazil will add $50 million to our expenses,
while we will not start earning any premiums under this contract until the end of the year.
This contract is expected to make a positive contribution from 2016 onwards.
And lastly for general insurance, we'd expect to see a decline in investment income of
around $100 million compared to 2014 levels on a constant currency basis, given where
reinvestment rates are now. For the life business, we expect to see continued growth in
loadings and fees and in technical margin in local currency. This is likely to be oﬀset by a
modest decline in the investment margin. We also expect to see the beneﬁt of in-force
management initiatives in the results, both in terms of revenues and expenses.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of Farmers, the strong progress made in the second half of 2014 should continue
and this should translate into growth in FMS revenues albeit with a slight lag, since
management fees are calculated oﬀ of gross earned premiums. And we expect the
margin to trend to 7% in the next couple of years. For Farmers Re, we'd expect to see a
sharp reduction in BOP, given the law to quota share reinsurance now in place.
And lastly a few words on the impact of currency movements on our earnings. While
much of the attention this year has been focused on the rapid appreciation of the Swiss
franc, the current franc to U.S. dollar spot rate is not that diﬀerent to the average in 2014.
In practice the bigger impact for us is likely to be the recent strength of the U.S. dollar and
the Swiss franc against the euro and the pound.
To quantify this for you, retranslating our 2014 earnings at 31 January spot rates would
have a negative impact on our BOP of slightly above 5%, mainly through converting the
same earnings at diﬀerent exchange rates, as well as the fact that we naturally have a
higher weighting of our central costs in Swiss francs.
At a segment level, the biggest impact would be on our life business, since a large part of
the in-force business is in Europe. Here, all things being equal, the strength of the U.S.
dollar would reduce the starting point earnings by around 10% with a smaller impact of
roughly 5% for the GI business. Farmers and OOB are not materially impacted. While
currency movements impact our reported U.S. dollar earnings, they have relatively limited
impact on our overall ROE, and they do not lead to any change in our targets.
With that, I'd like to conclude with a summary. First, in General Insurance, we continue to
make good progress in improving our accident year combined ratio. Although our Q4
results show that we have much still to do in our turnaround businesses and in driving
further improvements across the book.
Second, we continue to see good momentum in our priority Life markets, particularly
bank distribution and CLP, and expect to start seeing the beneﬁts of in-force management
Page 10 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2015-02-12

initiatives coming through our earnings over the next two years.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Third, the positive story at Farmers continues, with two consecutive quarters of growth
and a continuation of positive trends in all key metrics. And last, our solvency capital
continues to be very strong and we're well on track to deliver more than $9 billion of cash
remittances by 2016 even with the impact on currency headwinds. Overall, while we are
not fully satisﬁed with our 2014 earnings, we have made progress.
And as I said, at Q3 our targets are our number one priority and we will be taking all
necessary steps to make sure that we deliver them. In this respect, the next investor event
for us will be the Investor Day in May when we will report back to you on the progress, on
our strategic priorities with a focus on our life business, on our global corporate business,
and on the steps that we're taking to create a more eﬃcient business for the future. Thank
you for watching.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 11 of 11

