Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2015-10-29

Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Michael Lies, Group CEO

Presentation
Michael Lies

Bloomberg Transcript

Good day, everyone. Thank you for watching this presentation on Swiss Re's 2015 Third
Quarter and first nine months results. My name is David Cole and I am Swiss Re's group
CFO. Let's start today's presentation with a look at the financial highlights included on
slide 2.
Q3 2015 was a very strong quarter for Swiss Re, with positive contributions from all three
of our business units. Group net income was $1.4 billion, bringing us to a total net income
for the first nine months of $3.7 billion. Both the Q3 ROE of 17.3% and the ROE for the first
nine months of 14.5% demonstrated the quality of our underwriting and investment
portfolios as well as the strength of our operating model. During Q3, reinsurance
delivered $1.3 billion of net income, underpinned by the continued strong underwriting
performance of our underlying P&C and Life & Health businesses. Corporate Solutions
reported a good ROE of 15% and Admin Re generated a strong gross cash of $126 million.
The group ROI for the quarter was a solid 3.2%. The results of P&C Reinsurance and
Corporate Solutions reflect our estimate of the losses relating to a Tianjin explosion in
China. Our current estimate is $250 million net pretax. But there are considerable
uncertainties associated with the assessment of the losses.
As you may recall, the Swiss regulator FINMS no longer requires us to file the group SST 2
figure. However, let me emphasize that our group economic solvency ratio remains
comfortably above our risk colorants level. This takes into account the recently announced
Guardian acquisition, which we expect will impact the ratio by approximately 20 to
25percentage points. Considering the financial condition of the group, we expect to
launch the share buyback program in mid-November. Subject to receiving approval from
the Swiss Takeover Board, the actual start date of the buyback program will be
communicated by way of a formal announcement.
On this page, you will find the usual overview of key figures and how they break down into
our financial segments. Let's now take a look at the performance of P&C Re in more
detail. This was a very strong quarter for P&C Reinsurance. The underwriting performance
remains very good, reflecting the quality of the portfolio. And the reported combined
ratio benefited from a benign nat cat environment and favorable prior-year
developments. The combined ratio was impacted by the estimated loss of the Tianjin
explosion. Our current P&C Re net pretax loss estimate for Tianjin is $235 million. We
continue to be pleased with the performance of our P&C Re operations and maintain our

Page 1 of 4



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2015-10-29

FINAL

combined ratio estimate of 97% for 2015. Our underwriting performance, taken together
with a strong investment result, led to an impressive ROE of 34.4% for the quarter.
Moving to Life & Health reinsurance, I am pleased to report the continued strong
performance of the business segment. We concluded several new longevity deals in the
UK and continue to strengthen our relationship with key clients in Asia, including a number
of large transactions. The operating margin increased, benefiting from favorable model
and assumption updates and improved variable annuity results. The strong operating
result, together with lower interest charges, resulted in an ROE of 18.5% for the quarter.
On an underlying basis, Life & Health Reinsurance is well on track to meet its ROE target
for the full year.
Corporate Solutions remained disciplined and focused on the quality of its portfolio.
During Q3, we experienced further market softening and therefore it's not surprising that
the top line has reduced. At Q2, I mentioned we expected gross premiums written to be
at the lower end of the $4 bilion to $5 billion range for the full year. If market softening
continues, achieving this presents a bigger challenge. In terms of operating performance,
the combined ratio of Corporate Solutions benefited from benign nat catastrophes and
favorable prior-year development in the quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

The same is true for the first nine months of the year. On an adjusted basis, the combined
ratio was 103.6%. We currently expect the full-year adjusted ratio to exceed 98%. The
primary reasons for this are the higher-than-expected experience of man-made loss
events, our ongoing investments as we expand our footprint and reduced premiums.
Turning to net income, I am pleased to report that Corporate Solutions delivered a good
result in Q3, which translates into an annualized ROE at the top end of its 10% to 15%
target range. This is even higher for the first nine months of the year, with an ROE of
18.7%.
Admin Re generated strong gross cash in Q3, supported by a positive impact relating to
the finalization of the UK half-year statutory valuation. The underlying gross cash
generation is in line with our expectations. The low ROE in this quarter mainly reflects the
challenging investment markets in the UK, with the FTSE 100 and gilt yields significantly
down.
Looking at the first nine months of this year, the ROE at just over 6% is at the lower end of
our midterm expectations. Our current business portfolio at Admin Re mainly consists of
saving products and our income is impacted by the UK investment market performance.
The recently announced Guardian transaction will help to diversify and balance the
portfolio by increasing the proportion of annuities. Admin Re has demonstrated its
capability to successfully integrate acquired blocks of business. The HSBC UK Life Part VII
migration was completed on time and with better economics than anticipated. All assets
and liabilities from this transaction are now fully consolidated in the Q3 financial
statements.

Page 2 of 4



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2015-10-29

FINAL

To conclude on Admin Re, I'm sure you saw today's announcement that Thierry Leger will
be joining Swiss Re's group executive committee as CEO of Swiss Re Life Capital
effective January 1, 2016. I look forward to working with Thierry, who brings a broad range
of experience and will be leading the strategic development of this business unit.
Moving on to investments, our asset management team has again delivered a solid
performance in Q3 and we continue to maintain a high-quality investment portfolio.
Average invested assets decreased compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to
transaction-related net outflows as well as FX impacts. During the Third Quarter of this
year, we reduced cash and short-term investments and increased our corporate bond
portfolio. The return on investments reflects the good performance and the current
environment. The majority of this result can be attributed to net investment income as
well as realized gains from sales of government bonds and listed equities. We continue to
see low levels of impairments, reflecting the portfolio's high quality. And our duration
position remains generally matched. Finally, our running yield during the quarter was
slightly higher than during the previous quarter, due to additional income and partly due to
the increase in corporate bonds as previously mentioned.

Bloomberg Transcript

US GAAP common shareholders' equity increased during the Third Quarter, driven by our
strong net income. This increase was partly offset by pension adjustments, foreignexchange translation adjustments and unrealized losses driven by widening credit spreads
and lower equity markets during the quarter.
Before I conclude with our financial targets, I'd like to touch on our continued engagement
and sustainability. We are proud that Swiss Re was again named a leader in the recently
announced Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. This was the ninth time since 2004.
Sustainability is core to Swiss Re's long-term financial performance and is also increasingly
a focus of investors. We continue our efforts to engage with multiple stakeholders to
create innovative solutions such as the recent launch of China's first weather index and
insurance program for cotton.
With that, I'd like to turn to our financial targets. The strong result reported today
translates into an annualized ROE for the first nine months of 2015 of 14.5% and earnings
per share of $10.7. Our economic net worth per share for the first half year was $140.9. As
a reminder, at full year 2015, the economic net worth will be impacted by the estimated
economic loss incurred in relation to the acquisition of Guardian. We are now almost at the
end of our five-year financial targets period and delivering on the targets remains our top
priority. As you can see, we remain on track.
Finally, I hope to see many of you at our investor day on 8 December in Rueschlikon. We
will present there our strategic framework based upon which we will operate in order to
achieve our new set of financial targets. Thank you very much for watching this video.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of

Page 3 of 4



any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2015-10-29

Page 4 of 4

