Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-20

Y 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Shiro Sasaki, Group Leader

Presentation
Shiro Sasaki

{BIO 19269575 <GO>}

From the Corporate Planning of Tokio Marine Holdings from the IR Group my name is
Sasaki. Let me now explain the overview of fiscal 2014 results and fiscal year 2015
projections of Tokio Marine Holdings, which was announced today.

Bloomberg Transcript

We are providing the following six documents for this meeting. One, function [ph] report;
two, information about major subsidiaries' business results full year ended March 31, 2015;
three, PowerPoint document entitled overview of Fiscal '14 results and fiscal '15
projections; four, supplemental material for conference call; five, financial supplemental
data and six, Tokio Marine & Nichido Life introduction of Market Consistent Embedded
Value.
I ask you to access the website, then and from the home page under topic, access the
page where we disclosed these materials and get your own copy via download. In this
conference call, we will be using mainly the PowerPoint documents for the overview and
projections as well as the introduction of MCEV to give you a presentation for about 35
minutes first.
Now please turn to page three of the overview and projections PowerPoint document.
First, I will explain about the consolidated results overview. Net premiums written was
JPY3,127.6 billion year-on-year, plus 8.9% increased by JPY256.9 billion. This is mainly
because of increase in premium income and domestic P&C business centering around
auto insurance, expansion of underwriting of international insurance business as well as
positive impact brought by the progression of yen depreciation.
Next, life premiums of domestic and international life business was JPY220.4 billion yearon-year, minus 41.7%, or a decrease by JPY157.6 billion year-on-year. Life premium
decreased because of increase in surrender of variable annuities, formally sold by
Financial Life associated with the recovery of the market environment.
On the other hand, revenue growth in Asia was favorable and we are seeing growth both
with new policies and policies in-force by TMNL, excluding the factor of surrender with
variable annuities, life premium achieved growth.

Page 1 of 9



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-20

FINAL

Ordinary profit was year-on-year, plus 30.5% increased by JPY83.7 billion of JPY358.1
billion. Net income was year-on-year, plus 34.4% increased by JPY63.3 billion to JPY247.4
billion, which are both the highest in corporate history. The impact of the reduction of
deferred tax asset owing to the decrease in corporate tax rate is JPY30.1 billion, which is a
one-off profit reduction factor.
On the other hand, we also had one-off factor for pushing up the profit such as less tax
burden with the liquidation of securities subsidiary and booking of DTA at TMNL, which
was not formally done by Tokio Marine Financial Life. The plus and the minus factors offset
each other.
Next, I will explain the consolidated ordinary profit. Please turn to page four. Of the
domestic P&C business at Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire, there was increase in net
provisions for catastrophe loss reserve. On the other hand, there was increase in earned
premium mainly for auto and saw less natural catastrophes as well as increase in dividend
payment from overseas subsidiaries. As a result, ordinary profit increased by JPY117.5
billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

At Nisshin Fire, there was less natural catastrophes and decrease in net incurred losses
for major lines of business. As a result, ordinary profit increased by JPY12.9 billion. Due to
the above mentioned reasons, domestic P&C business overall had increased in ordinary
profit by JPY130.4 billion. I will explain the details later.
In domestic life business, we saw a rebound effect of the reversal of additional provisions
for underwriting reserve at former financial life in fiscal 2013, which was a factor pushing a
profit. As a result, ordinary profits decreased by JPY8 billion. In overseas subsidiaries, we
saw the rebound effect of reduction in Thai flood related payment, which we had previous
year and though -- although we had less than usual level of natural catastrophes in fiscal
2014, it was more than we had in 2013.
On the other hand, we saw progress in various measures implemented towards growth
and enjoyed positive effect of the yen depreciation. As a result ordinary profit for the
overseas business grew by JPY9.1 billion. For consolidation adjustment amount of negative
adjustment increased by JPY48.3 billion year-on-year. This is because of increase in
dividend payment from consolidated subsidiaries of TMNF, which led to increase in
consolidation elimination. This is all for consolidated results overview.
Now let me explain about the overview of each company. Please turn to page five. First, I
will explain about the overview of fiscal 2014 earnings Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire
Insurance Company. First, I will explain about different factors for underwriting profit and
loss. Starting with underwriting profit, for net premiums written, all lines of insurance
increased their top-line, centering around auto line of insurance. NPW for private insurance
increased 3.8%, or up by JPY63.7 billion. Excluding the impact of the reorganization of the
U.S. branch as an overseas subsidiary, the increase was 5.1%.
Earned premiums increased by JPY48.8 billion, pushing up the earnings. Line by line
situation is explained on page seven. Please refer to the page later. Net incurred loss of
Page 2 of 9



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-20

FINAL

private insurance decreased by JPY79.8 billion and I will explain about each factor.
Net incurred loss relating to natural catastrophes occurred during the year decreased a lot
by JPY54.1 billion year-on-year compared to previous year, when there was a major impact
when the snow damage in February of 2014. Due to the reorganization of the U.S. branch
as an overseas subsidiary, amounts of provision for reserve for foreign currency
denominated outstanding claims decreased and thus making as less FX sensitive.
Therefore, although there are a progression of yen depreciation required provisioning for
foreign currency denominated outstanding claims reduced by JPY3.1 billion.
As for net incurred loss other than natural catastrophes, there was decrease in net
incurred loss for the other lines of insurance by JPY22.5 billion. Business expenses
increased by JPY20.2 billion due to increase in agency commissions associated with
revenue growth and consumption tax hike.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next I'll explain about the catastrophe loss reserve. In fiscal 2014, there was progress in
claims payment related to the February 2014 snowstorm. For the fire group line of
insurance claims payment, which is the basis for reverse of catastrophe loss reserve,
there was drop in those ratio for Fire line of insurance, which led to lack of reversal of
catastrophe loss reserve, but rather an increase in provision to the reserve.
In auto insurance, there was less reversal due to the improvement in auto loss ratio. As a
result net provision to reserve increased by JPY25.8 billion. As a result underwriting profit
for the term increased by JPY73.1 billion to the JPY59.9 billion. Underwriting profit
excluding the impact of catastrophe loss reserve was JPY124.8 billion year-on-year or plus
JPY99 billion.
Next I will talk about net investment income and others. Mainly due to the increase in
dividend payment from overseas subsidiaries, net investment income increased by
JPY45.9 billion to the JPY202.5 billion. The business-related equities sold in fiscal 2014
was approximately JPY112 billion. Most of the dividend income from overseas subsidiaries
are eliminated on consolidated basis.
On top of the above mentioned increase in underwriting profit and investment income,
there was reversal of deferred tax asset due to corporate tax rate reduction and
decrease in tax associated with liquidation of securities subsidiary. As a result, net income
increased by JPY94.4 billion to the JPY185.3 billion.
Next I will explain about the combined ratio. Please turn to page six. I will now explain
about the E/I private line of insurance basis loss ratio. In fiscal 2014, natural catastrophe
related claims payment, auto insurance profitability and net incurred loss for other lines of
insurance, other than those related to natural catastrophe all improved. Making net
incurred loss including loss adjustment expenses decreased by JPY79.8 billion. As a result,
private insurance, earned-to-incurred loss ratio improved by 6.6 points to 58.5%.
Now I will explain about the expense ratio. Despite the impact of consumption tax hike
due to increase in net premiums written and reduction in non-personnel expenses
Page 3 of 9



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-20

FINAL

centering around IT cost, expense ratio remained flat from previous year to the 32.2%. As
a result earned-to-incurred basis combined ratio improved by 6.6 points year-on-year to
90.6%.
On page seven, we are showing the line by line premium and loss ratio situation. On page
eight, we are showing the details of asset management results. Please refer to those
pages later. Now, I will explain about Nisshin Fire Insurance Company. Please turn to page
nine. Nisshin Fire's underwriting profit increased by JPY13.1 billion year-on-year to JPY14.7
billion due to decrease in net incurred losses related to natural catastrophes and auto
insurance.
As for net investment income and other mainly due to reduction in gain on sales of
securities, net investment income decreased by JPY0.5 billion year-on-year to JPY2.6
billion. For the above mentioned reasons, net income improved by JPY9.2 billion year-onyear to the JPY12.5 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next, I will explain about Tokio Marine & Nichido Life Insurance Company, please turn to
page 10. First, I will explain about annualized premiums. For new policies ANP due to
favorable sales growth in the first-sector line of individual annuity -- first-sector line and
individual annuity, new policy ANP increased by 20.1% and continue to secure high growth.
For in-force policies ANP, it increased by 43.3% from the end of fiscal 2013 due to a
steady increase in new policies in addition to incorporating Financial Life's policies through
the merger with Financial Life.
Now I'll explain about financial accounting; net income increased by JPY17.2 billion year-onyear to JPY27.9 billion, mainly due to the recording of deferred tax assets of Financial Life,
which was not formally done. As for core operating profit, it increased by JPY1.8 billion
year-on-year to JPY23.1 billion mainly due to incorporating profit of fiscal 2014 second half
associated with Financial Life policies through the merger.
Now I will explain about International insurance business. Please turn to page 11. Following
the traditional disclosure standards used for IR materials, I will explain the performance of
International insurance business based on the growth numbers inclusive of overseas
expenses on TMNF, equity method companies and non-consolidated companies. Net
premiums written increased by 21% year-on-year to JPY1,302.6 billion due to the progress
of growth measures in each segment and depreciation of Japanese yen.
To break this down by region, first top-line in North America increased by 21% due to high
retention rate as well as rate increases on the renewal book at Philadelphia and Delphi. In
Europe, net premiums written declined by 2% primarily because Tokio Marine Kiln
maintained underwriting discipline in the softening market. In South and Central America,
the business grew by 23% mainly due to strong sales of auto insurance in Brazil. In Asia,
thanks to the strong sales of auto insurance in Taiwan, Malaysia and India top-line grew by
16%.
In the reinsurance business, despite the softening of the market, net premiums written
increased by 39% mainly due to expansion of non-cat business and an increase in multiPage 4 of 9



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-20

year policies.

FINAL

For Life Insurance business driven by the sales growth in Singapore and Malaysia, top-line
increased by 46%. Next please turn to page 12 to review adjusted earnings of
international insurance business.
Adjusted earnings of international insurance business increased by JPY8.5 billion year-onyear to JPY145.5 billion. The decrease in reserves in FY'13 related to Thai floods is a
negative factor for the year-on-year comparison and natural cat losses increased from a
year ago, although the losses were still smaller than a normal year and yet various growth
measures worked well and along with depreciation of Japanese yen pushed up adjusted
earnings.
By region, in North America, adjusted earnings increased by JPY13.7 billion. Philadelphia
expanded its underwriting and grew earnings despite an increase in natural cat losses,
also investment income increased at Delphi.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Europe, the earnings declined by JPY3.6 billion due to several large losses and cost
increase for the integration of Tokio Marine Kiln in South and Central America, thanks to
the strong sales of auto-insurance as well as improvement of expense ratio in Brazil,
earnings increased by JPY4 billion. In Asia, earnings declined by JPY6.4 billion year-onyear, mainly due to the decrease in reserves in FY'13 related to Thai floods.
As for re-insurance, earnings decreased by JPY5.3 billion, due to the impact of natural cat
losses and foreign exchange losses associated with stronger US dollar against euro. For
life, earnings increased by JPY7.2 billion supported by an increase in new business in
Singapore and change in market environment. For more details in Philadelphia, Delphi and
Tokio Marine Kiln Lloyd's business, please refer to page 13.
Next, I will discuss the adjusted earnings on the group-wide basis. Please turn to page 14.
The group total adjusted earnings increased by JPY133.9 billion year-on-year to JPY412
billion, thanks to the significant profit growth in domestic non-life and life insurance
business; adjusted ROE was 9.3%.
To explain major reasons behind this growth, first at TMNF, while on JGAAP net income
increased by JPY94.4 billion over the year, adjusted earnings increased by JPY78.7 billion.
The gap between these two is mainly attributable to dividend income from overseas
subsidiaries, which is a positive factor on JGAAP, but deducted from adjusted earnings.
For more details on the reconsideration of the numbers here, please refer to the table on
page 32 later.
For our life insurance business, adjusted earnings are defined as the growth of EV over
the term under review. At TMNL, EV growth due to the change in assumptions in FY '13 is
negative on a year-on-year basis and yet in FY '14 risk discount rates was changed due to
the change in interest rate and deferred tax assets was posted in conjunction with the
Page 5 of 9



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-20

FINAL

merger with Financial Life. Reduction of corporate tax rate also helped to increase the
adjusted earnings overall by JPY35.5 billion over the year. And adjusted earnings of
international insurance business increased as I discussed before. This is the highlight of FY
'14 actual results.
Now I will discuss the projection for FY '15. Please turn to page 16. In FY '15 consolidated
net premiums written is projected to increase by 1.4% or JPY42.3 billion year on year to
JPY3,170 billion. In the international insurance business, top-line is expected to decrease
by 3.0% year on year, as there was a one-time benefit of increase in multi-year policies in
the reinsurance business last year in addition to the impact of foreign currency such as
Brazilian real and UK pound. However, on the domestic front, driven by the expected
growth of TMNF by 3.1%, top-line of non-life business is projected to increase mainly in the
auto business, so net premiums written for the group should grow.
Life insurance premium is expected to increase by 67.8% or JPY149.5 billion over the year
to JPY370 billion. While internationally last year's top-line growth in Asian subsidiaries
works negatively on year-on-year basis since surrender of variable annuities of former
Financial Life is expected to decrease domestically, premium is expected to increase this
year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Consolidated ordinary profit is projected to decline by 2.3% or JPY8.1 billion year-on-year
to JPY350 billion and net income is expected to go down by 3.0% or JPY7.4 billion to
JPY240 billion, since we are assuming an average level of natural cat losses this year
against the benign last year, both home and abroad.
And as I explained earlier in FY '14 reduction of DTAs due to decrease in the corporate tax
rate was negative to our profit. On the other hand, liquidation and merger of our
subsidiaries led to tax reduction and worked positively to our profit and these factors
almost canceled off each other.
Next, let me explain major factors expected behind the consolidated (Technical Difficulty)
please go to page 17. In the domestic P&C business, ordinary profit is expected to
decrease by JPY21.8 billion year-on-year, since we are assuming an average level of
natural cat losses against smaller losses last year and net provision for cat loss reserve is
expected to increase in both TMNF and Nisshin Fire. In domestic life, due to the increase
in new business expenses at TMNL, ordinary profit is expected to decline by JPY2.3 billion
to JPY18.3 billion.
For international insurance business, ordinary profit is projected to go down by JPY3.7
billion to JPY151.4 billion since we are budgeting for a normal year natural cat against the
benign year last year. As for consideration adjustment, negative adjustment is projected
to become smaller mainly due to a decrease in dividend from subsidiaries at TMNF. FY '14
projections for the respected companies are shown in page 21 onward for your reference.
Please go to page 18 next. We will announce strategies, targets, and shareholder return
policy under our new mid-term business plan in our IR meeting to be held on May 29. But

Page 6 of 9



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-20

in order to explain profit projections for FY '15, let me share with you new KPIs that we're
going to use starting from this fiscal year.

FINAL

To measure group-wide total profit, we will use adjusted net income, which is based on
JGAAP net income, but with some adjustment to enhance comparability. We will also use
adjusted ROE as a group-wide KPI. We calculate this ROE based on adjusted net income
or it by making some adjustment to the consolidated net asset as a denominator.
In the meantime, for each business domain, we will use business unit profit to properly
track progresses made in each business. To ensure consistency, profit of domestic life
business will continue to be measured in terms of growth of EV during the term under
review, but reflect its economic value more accurately, we will move from the conventional
-- traditional EV to MCEV.
As this slide shows, as we move to adjusted net income and business unit profits
treatment of sales gains of business-related equities and profit from domestic life will be
changed. For detailed definition, please refer to pages 34 and 35 of this material.

Bloomberg Transcript

So with that, let me explain the adjusted net income projected for FY '15 a group-wide
profit indicator. Please refer to page 19. Adjusted net income in FY '15 is projected to
increase by JPY3.7 billion year-on-year to JPY327 billion and adjusted ROE is expected to
reach 7.8%. If we are to make a correction to last year's natural cat losses, which were
smaller than a normal year last year and assume it was rather an average year just for the
comparative purpose, then adjusted net income would increase by JPY28.9 billion this
year.
Further as adjusted net income of previous fiscal years are to be also restated based on
the actual stock price and exchange rates as of the end of March 2015, then adjusted
ROE would increase by 0.2 points year-on-year this year.
Next, I will explain projections of business unit profits on page 20. Here I will explain major
factors behind the projected business unit profit. TMNF, while we are assuming an
average level of natural cat, net premiums earned are expected to increase mainly in auto
and fire business. On top of that, the impact of DTA reduction due to the decrease in
corporate tax rate as well as negative effect of weaker Japanese Yen will disappear this
year. So, business unit profit is expected to increase by JPY16.3 billion year-on-year to
JPY130 billion.
At TMNL, since we have moved from MCEV from FY '15, actual results for FY '14 is also
shown based on MCEV on the slide. As I will discuss in more detail in FY '14, first DTAs at
Financial Life was newly posted based on the merger; and second, assumptions changed
due to decrease in corporate tax rate; and third, economic assumptions also changed
due to rally in equity market and weaker Japanese yen.
As a result, MCEV increased significantly in FY '14. For FY '15, since the one off positive
factors last year are expected to disappear and value of new business expected to

Page 7 of 9



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-20

decrease with lower interest rate, MCEV is expected to decline by JPY99.7 billion year-onyear to JPY70 billion.

FINAL

As for international insurance, business unit profit is expected to go down by JPY18.5
billion to JPY127 billion, mainly because natural cat losses were small last year. However,
excluding the effects of special factors such as natural cat and also foreign currencies,
profit is expected to grow at an underlying trend.
Before I conclude my presentation, I would like to briefly talk about MCEV. Please refer to
another material or PowerPoint material entitled Tokio Marine & Nichido Life, introduction
of Market Consistent Embedded Value. Please refer to the other material.
As I just mentioned, we will move from TEV to MCEV to more accurately reflect the
economic value of our domestic life business. This material is the summary as to why we
are introducing MCEV as far as the results of our calculations. Final version of this
disclosure with more details is scheduled to be released on May 26 with an independent
third-party's review. In the interest of time, I would like to just give you a highlight here
today.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please refer to page one. Let me briefly explain to you as to why we are introducing
MCEV. As stated in the second paragraph of this slide, MCEV reflects risk and option
embedded in the products more accurately than TEV that applies same risk discount rate
to all the products.
And MCEV is more compatible with our ALM, based on market value than TEV. So based
on our view that MCEV is a more effective approach for our ERM, we decided to introduce
this methodology this fiscal year.
Let us next review the results of MCEV calculation on page five. As of the end of the fiscal
year 2014, MCEV was JPY1037.3 billion, out of that adjusted net worth was JPY693.7 billion
and value of in-force business was JPY343.6 billion and value of new business was
JPY68.6 billion. Comparison with TEV is also shown on the slide for your reference later.
Next please move on to page nine. Here we are showing MCEV from March 2015 to -March 2014 to March 2015. After adjustment MCEV increased from JPY867.6 billion as of
end of March, 2014 to JPY1037.3 billion in March 2015 by JPY169.7 billion. This increase is
mainly due to one-off positive factors. As shown from 10 through 12 on this table, MCEV
increased by JPY43.6 billion due to economic variances and JPY21.9 billion due to lower
effective tax rate in conjunction with the corporate tax rate reduction and by JPY16.5 billion
based on the impact of merger with former Financial Life. This concludes my presentation.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
Page 8 of 9



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2015-05-20

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 9 of 9

