Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

Hannover Rueck SE 18th International Investors' Day
Company Participants
FINAL

Andreas Maerkert, GM, Group Risk Management
Claude Chevre , Member of the Executive Board, Life & Health
Eberhard Mueller, MD, Group Risk Management, CRO
Juergen Graeber, Member of the Executive Board, Coordination of Worldwide
Property & Casualty Reinsurance
Karl Steinle , GM, Corporate Communications
Klaus Miller, Member of the Executive Board, Life & Health
Roland Vogel, CFO
Ulrich Wallin, CEO

Other Participants
Andreas Schaefer, Analyst
Andrew Broadfield, Analyst
Andrew Ritchie , Analyst
Frank Kopfinger, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Guilhem Horvath, Analyst
In-Yong Hwang , Analyst
Kamran Hossain, Analyst
Michael Haid, Analyst
Michael Huttner, Analyst
Olivia Brindle , Analyst
Roland Pfaender, Analyst
Unidentified Participant, Analyst
Vinit Malhotra, Analyst
William Hawkins , Analyst
Xinmei Wang, Analyst

Presentation
Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Good morning, to all of you. Welcome to Hannover Re's Investors Day 2015. It's the 18th
edition of this event. My name is Karl Steinle. And I'm really delighted that so many of you
were able to take up the invitation.

Page 1 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

Since we continue to follow our annual rotation of this event, it's my pleasure to see you
all here in Frankfurt today. I was also very glad that so many of you managed to attend the
dinner last night. I think the atmosphere was slightly different to last year when we ate in
the Crypt of St. Paul's Cathedral. It was certainly a good deal less more of it thinking back
on how everyone's eyes lit up at the sight of this beautiful classic cars. And secondly, the
rather lively intense competition we got into over the car racing.
I don't know how you felt about it. But I instantly felt 30 years younger. I must say that I am
also more than a little relieved that they were only model cars and, hence, the numerous
mishaps and rollovers didn't do any damage to our combined ratio of our motor reentrance portfolio.
I would like to express my gratitude to Kathleen who tracked down this marvelous location
and ensure that we all could enjoy such an unforgettable atmosphere.
Kathleen, many thanks.
I would just like to make a few organizational remarks. Please note that we are webcasting
the presentation and the Q&As. Some colleagues have already locked in to follow the
day's event online.

Bloomberg Transcript

For your convenience, the stream will be available on the Hannover RE's website so you
can review at any time in the future.
With this in mind, during the Q&A, please wait for the microphones before asking
questions.
As always, we have Wi-Fi access available free of charge for you. Please find on your desk
the required password to access the network.
I also like to draw your attention to the feedback questionnaire on your desk. I cannot
emphasize enough how highly we value your feedback into your remarks. We use it
extensively, A, for conveying your comments to management and, B, preparing next
year's Investors Day. You may even leave the questionnaire on your desk or hand it over
to Julia and her team.
You will also find a modest gift on your desk that picks up on the theme of last night's
gathering. It's a model of a classic car, a Volkswagen Beetle. And it's also a special edition
produced for the 1974 Football World Cup. I just know why someone have this particular
one especially because we also have some friends from England around.
But to bridge that gap, in 1974, Hannover Re was only in the ninth year of existence and
managed to write a premium in today's currency of EUR129 million and had a net income
of EUR1.3 million. I think that shows a quite impressive growth. The EBIT margin
nevertheless was already at 17%.

Page 2 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

Please take that as a token of our appreciation of your participation today and the support
that you have show Hannover Re over the years.

FINAL

On that note, I'd like to hand over to our CEO Ulrich Wallin. He will give us some insights
into Hannover Re's strategy in this competitive environment.

Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Thanks, Karl. Good morning. Thanks for coming and hope you enjoyed yesterday evening.
It's actually quite interesting that the slowest car on the race track was actually winning all
the time.
You still feel that at Hannover Re we are fast and flexible. Hopefully, we don't roll over all
too often. But so far so good.

Bloomberg Transcript

I mean, what I'd like to try to explain to you why we feel that as a somewhat different
reinsurer that has reinsurance as its core business, we still feel that we have a very good
opportunity to be long-term successful in that business because the pure, almost pure
reinsurer; I mean as a species that is not actually increasing the numbers because many of
our peers have decided that insurance is more attractive than reinsurance so they are, I
mean, more going into the insurance field. And some of them actually almost leaving the
reinsurance completely, which we always think is a very good idea. The only thing that
some of them to do that sets not actually a good idea that they don't reinsure the primary
business that they're on.
But be it as it may, we still feel that our business model where we clearly say that
reinsurance is our core business. We write some insurance. But it's complementary to the
reinsurance. So that is a business. It's a competitive business. But we feel that this
business has the opportunity to be successful in the long-term.
So look at the landscape and I was telling Karl he don't have to do the switching for me
and, of course, (technical difficulty) to the first slide.
Here we are. This gives you the landscape we are operating in. This is a nonlife
reinsurance market. And first of all, as you can see from 2010 to 2014, a time when we
already talked a lot about increased retentions, the market was actually growing. I mean, it
grew from -- I mean, EUR160 million to about EUR190 million. So there was growth in the
market.
It also, I mean, the EUR190 million still is small compared to the insurance market. I mean,
on the P&C side, the insurance market is about 20 times that. So I mean, that means that
reinsurance, in the overall scheme of insurance and reinsurance, you can probably say it's
still kind of a niche market. And -- but we still like it.
You can also see that the nonlife reinsurance market is enormously fragmented. I mean, if
you look at the top 10 reinsurers, the average market share is only 4%. And if you look at
Page 3 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

the top 50, the average market share is below 1.5%. So we have a huge number of
entities that are involved in the reinsurance business, which shows you that the entrance
hurdle to this market cannot be very high.
If you look at the tiering, which is, of course, very passionate to talk about tiering of the
business, you can see that the top 10 reinsurers for growing a little bit faster than the
market as a whole. And this, of course, because, I mean, the ceding companies have a
tendency to work these large diversified reinsurers. So the medium-term reinsurers
actually shrank, which you might say you shouldn't be in the middle, you should be either
small and specialized, a large and diversified.
It's not entirely true because in that group of 11 to 50 you have all those companies or
many of those companies are writing reinsurance and insurance. And many of those,
when the market started to soften put more emphasis on the insurance side. But you can
also see that is combined entities where you have many in Bermuda, for us, are good
competition because we are not that aggressive on the reinsurance side.

Bloomberg Transcript

But what you also can see is the fastest-growing group were the others. So 50 to several
hundred. And that just show that you have, of course, all the ILS markets coming in there
because none of them is large enough to hit the larger ones. And you have, I mean, a
small reinsurer setting up, local reinsurers, which all gather some business.
What is our strategy in this field? First of all, you can see that we have grown a little bit
faster than the market. You can also see that we have grown slightly faster than our peers
in the -- peer group off the top 10. But we feel that when the time is right, we should be
able to grow in that business by gaining market share. And we have done this all along in
the existence of Hannover Re. But only when the time is right.
I mean, yes, we grew our market share in 2009 and 2012 but, of course, we didn't grow
our market share in 2013 and '14 when the market was more competitive. But we feel.
And this is important for us, that in this market, we can grow in the long-term by gaining
market share because there are so many small reinsurer that would allow us to do that
because, I mean, we are relationship reinsurer and many of our clients want to do more
business with us rather than less. And this is an opportunity that we have, one of the
reasons what we like to be in this rather fragmented market.
The other thing on the P&C reinsurance, the business is rather instant. I mean, the
business results that we have this year is depending, for the most part, on the business
we write this year and last year. As long as we are there reserved for the past, I mean, the
business changes quickly. Look, in 2001, the business changed due to 9/11. And you could
benefit from it rather immediately. There is a different situation in the Life & Health side
where the business is much more driven by the in-force book.
So I mean, as you can see in Life & Health, smaller market, only $57 billion, which, of
course, is a fraction of the insurance market because the Life and Health insurance market
is, of course, larger than the P&C insurance market. But the reinsurance is largely only the
biometric risk that the reinsurers are taking on. They are normally not involved in the
Page 4 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

savings part of the business. That is why the percentage of the premium that is needed
to the reinsurance market is even smaller than it is on the P&C market.

FINAL

You can see that the market, however, is growing. And it has grown a bit faster than the
P&C market. You can also see that here the larger reinsurers grow fast. And really the
market is dominated by seven players, I mean, they have basically that business is
dominated by very few players.
They are not the many small reinsurers that are involved in that business and that shows
you that the entrance hurdle to the Life and Health market is a lot higher, is actually very
high. So for new reinsurers, getting into this field and, I mean, gaining reasonable ties is
very difficult. I mean, you basically can only do it by buying in-force business.

Bloomberg Transcript

If you are dependent on developing new business, that's a long haul because if you look
at the new business, new business premium that is placed any one year it shouldn't be
significantly less than 10% of your volume. And of course, as a newcomer, you cannot
hope that immediately you get, say, a 10% and 15% share of the new business. That's just
not happening. That's why the entrance hurdle is so high here.
Of course, with such a concentrated market, growing back position is not exactly easy
because the targets are few and far between. I mean, for us, it's basically six targets. And
I think the majority of them out of reach or we don't really want them. So where we see
our position, as we grew with the market here, our position is that we try to enlarge the
universe of the life reinsurance market by creating solutions with our insurance partners
that create reinsurance business that is currently not reinsured. And we do that both on
our financial solutions business as well as our growth initiatives, which Klaus will give you
the details in his presentation.
So a very different approach, very different market, life and nonlife reinsurance. But of
course, you can see that, I mean, the Life & Health market, if it's dominated by the results
from the results from the in-force business is a lot less cyclical because if you look at the
results, say for 2015, to the smallest part will depend on the business that you write in
2015. But so the fiscal year result depends on all the back years not on the current year.
So if the current market suddenly because somebody new comes in would be very
competitive, it would not have a major influence on this year's and next year's fiscal year
results that we are able to show. And that's why Life & Health stabilizes our results and
reduces the volatility. That's why we like that business.
We believe that in the current market picture, certainly on the P&C side, is a soft market
and it much reminds us for those that have the gray hair like me on the late 90's. So many
of the dynamics in the markets are very similar. But we believe that if you are very
diversified and have a broad-based account, you have a better chance to be successful in
this difficult market.
And as an example, I show you this slide. This one, the light blue line, shows you the
development of the rating of the property catastrophe business. So it's just the Guy
Page 5 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

Carpenter Property Catastrophe Rate-on-Line Index.

FINAL

And you can see that the last two years in 2014 and '15, we have seen a sharp decline of
the business. You can also see that 2013 was still rather flat because we only really started
to reduce the rates mid-year. But the (1.1 and 1.4), we were able to keep rather stable.
But then you see that the German motor business is actually not following the same cycle.
Actually, since 2010, we see great increases. And this is business that we, as Hannover Re,
through our German subsidiary, E+S Re, have access, too. But many of the players in the
market haven't got the same access. So there you can see that if you brought this, you
can shift more towards those lines that are still attractive and German motors, just used
as an example here, which shows that our positioning is actually favorable even if the
market is declining like it currently does. And on the property catastrophe, it may actually
continue to do into 2016 at least early renewers are not all that encouraging in that
respect.

Bloomberg Transcript

So worldwide diversified reinsurer has an opportunity to be successful even in the difficult
market. We are, as you know, the third largest reinsurer. We have a very broadly
diversified book of business. And what really helps us that we are involved in so many
classes. So with many of our clients on the P&C side, we have not the largest share of the
business. But we have the largest number of treaties. And that gives us a very broad
relationship with our clients, which means that even if you get off of some of their treaties,
we still keep the relationship, which is very important because that's the only way we still
can be opportunistic in this market.
I mean, it's not really feasible at our size to desert our clients completely and hope that
when the market changes, we would be able to come back. We need to keep the
relationship because we are a relationship-driven market.
But as we have set a broad base with our clients, on individual treaties and individual lines,
we can be selective. And we are selective because we also see a lot more business than
we write. And this is quite a comfortable situation particularly on the current market, which
is characterized by the huge overcapacity that doesn't hurt us with access to the business
of course it does hurt us when we want to get the prices and conditions that we need
because what our clients left us is they left us reduced if they have to pay 20% more to us
and then to our peers simply not doing that.
I mean, on the ILS market we were talking about that, I mean, new entrants into our
markets that has actually put additional pressure on the market. However, I mean, the ILS
market only is involved in rather small part of the market. It's really only the short-term
property catastrophe market or if they are involved in longer-term business, not on a likefor-like basis only if the business is commuted early on. So only if the client that feeds
business to them is prepared to take basis risk. So it's a narrow focus.
And of course, the results of the ILS market in the long run as they are so heavily
concentrated on property catastrophe in the US will be more volatile than the diversified
reinsurer and, therefore, their reactions on major claims will most likely be harsher than
Page 6 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

from the traditional reinsurer. So from that point of view, I would say they would probably
amplify the cycle certainly on the cat side not mitigated as many people think.
For us, I mean, we started to work as the capital markets in the mid-90's. Actually,
Eberhard who is our chief risk officer, he was involved in the first ever transaction that
reinsurance risk was transformed into the capital market, our Kcover transaction. And we
have continued to work with the capital markets. So I mean, we partner with many of
them. So for us, yes, they are threat on one hand. But they are friends on the other as
well. And they are also a source of a profit for us, actually quite attractive profit. And
they're also a source of retrocessional capacity for us because, I mean, more than 50% of
our retrocessions will reduce the volatility of our earnings are actually provided by capital
markets and not by traditional reinsurance capacity.
And if we will show you and this is one of the themes of this Investor Day this year, we
continue to have ample opportunities to write new business. And we continue to have a
lot of initiatives to get involved in new business, to have specific solutions for our clients.
And I have to say that 2015 so far in that respect was quite successful, more successful
than we normally expected to be. And that's the reason why, in the first half, etc, probably
continues throughout the entire year.

Bloomberg Transcript

We grew our Property and Casualty business a bit faster than we expected because we
had a gross of 10% on a currency-adjusted basis, which is counterintuitive if you think that
we are really in a soft market.
Diversification, you can see that on the left side you see the geographical diversification.
And you see that in the last 10 years we improved that diversification quite remarkable.
You can see that the US portion reduced or the North American portion from 50% to 27%.
That also has to do this effect that in 2004 we still have the Clarendon Insurance Group,
our somewhat less successful endeavor into the primary MGA market in the US
But you can also see that our fastest-growing areas were actually Asia and Latin America.
And we write an excess of EUR2 billion of business from Asia. And Latin America is coming
close to EUR800 million. And you can also see that Asia, for us, is more important now
than our home market, Germany, where we only have 9%, also a percentage that have
come down. So that really shows you that geographically, we are -- we are broad-based.
And we grow in those markets that grow because our growth in Asia and Latin America
also has been with the underlying reinsurance and insurance business in those market has
been growing quite nicely.
On the right side of the chart, you see the diversification by line of business. And this is, of
course, important for us to be in all those lines of business. But because as I showed you,
there's the example of the German motor business that -- I mean, not all classes move in
sync. I mean, there's different movements in the different lines.
You can also see that the property cat business of our overall business, including the Life
and Health, is only 2% of our overall income, which mitigates, of course, the effect that the

Page 7 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

continued reductions of the rate have on our results and also volatility of our book of
business.
A little bit of account arguments, yes, while it is only 2%, of course, it's a much larger
percentage of our profits in a good year. And of course, it's a much larger source of
volatility, negative volatility in a bad year. So despite the fact that's only 2%, I would say, of
the EBIT in a normal year then nothing happened, it would still be around 15%. So it is
important. But it is very diversified with other business as it produces the majority of our
profit.
And you can also see that the diversification also within the business group is group,
particularly also in the Life & Health side where we have both a growing part of our
longevity business that is uncorrelated to the mortality and the morbidity business. So
again, we feel having this diversification is important to be successful in the current
market.

Bloomberg Transcript

This page shows you the various segments of our business and how they have performed
in the various calendar years. And I would tell just take 2011 that, of course, was the year
where we have the catastrophe losses in Asia, the earthquake in Japan, flood in Thailand.
You also had the earthquakes in New Zealand. And as a result, of course, many of the
smaller, more specialized reinsurers in that year actually had a bottom line loss. But we still
have the ROE of 12.8%, mediated a little bit by a positive tax effect.
But you can see this is the result of the diversification because, yes, the headlines in 2011,
where we were losing money. But as headlines such as for example, in that year aviation
and some other classes performed extremely well. And so that shows here that
diversification actually has a positive effect on the reduction of the volatility of the results.
And that, of course, since 2009, that's what we are striving to do to reduce the volatility
of our earnings.
This gives you the results from our economic capital model and, I mean, without stealing
Eberhard's thunder, I would say that Hannover Re's group model was the first model that
has actually been approved by any regulator in Europe. But Eberhard will give you all the
details. But he also has this line, therefore, I will not dwell a lot on this but for it just shows
you that diversification within the risk groups as well as for the company as a whole is a
very important part because it allows us to write larger profit streams on our capital base
saying we would be able to do if we would only be involved in a smaller segment of
classes.
I was telling you that we have business opportunities and initiatives at all times. And if you
-- if I go under Life & Health on the P&C business, this gives you our initiatives from the
last 20 years just a few of those to illustrate that we're always involved in new business.
In the mid-90's we started the structured reinsurance. But actually we had it as a separate
business group at one point in time. But this business is basically allows our cedants to
manage the volatility of the earnings and the capital requirement on a structured basis,

Page 8 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

meaning this reduced risk transfer, not without risk transfer but reduced risk transfer. And
we have written this business for the last 20 years.
Right now it's actually a growing part of our business because due to the increased
retention of many of our clients, they are looking to buy facilities to reduce the capital on
their retention and the earnings volatility that they have created by those larger retention.
They are seeking the respective solutions from us. And therefore, at this point in time, this
is a growing part of our business.
Facultative reinsurance close to my heart because I got the responsibility for facultative in
2000. Then we had the loss-making facultative book of EUR70 million.
Meanwhile, of course, with the help of Andre Arrago, who retired last year, we have
increased that to more than EUR1 billion. And it's a major pillar of the profitability of our
non-life business now, our P&C business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Retakaful, another of our initiatives, we were the first of the traditional reinsurers setting
up an Islamic-compliant reinsurer. This business has grown nicely and is particularly
profitable for us on the Life and Health side, which is really -- I mean, the roots really of
the Islamic compliance insurance.
Then your Credit and Surety 2009, when everybody else got out of that market, we
increased. That actually has until today a very positive effect because we moved from the
following market with some lead business to be one of the two main leaders in this
business.
This business, of course, now has become very competitive. But our market position has
been strengthened enormously so we continue to see very good profits from that
business more than we would have seen if we would have this drawn in 2009 as well.
UK motor excess as of losses fell out of fashion with most of reinsurers when the PPOs of
the periodic payment orders came into effect in the UK we gave full cover.
Now, we can say that was the right move because the number of PPOs in the markets are
few and far between so that's a much higher rates that we get on that business we can
now see, that we have a better deal than for those reinsurers that were writing the
business only on capitalizing on the PPOs early on.
Then most recently, personal lines initiative in Asia, where we get in touch this group bias
of insurance, provides them those fronting companies that also normally takes retention
so we create business for the reinsurance market that wasn't there before. That's a very
successful initiative of our office in Kuala Lumpur. So as you can see, as a result of that, the
business over the time has grown nicely on the P&C side.
Of course, 2000 and 2008, following the World Trade Center, we grew very rapidly. Then
we had a time of that development mainly when we got out of the Clarendon business
Page 9 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

and when we started only to write business from our parent companies, the Talanx
Primary Group HDI that we keep not write all of their business and retroceded into the
market.
But I would say since 2009, we have grown the business again and since then the
compound growth of 9% is actually quite attractive. But you can see that in recent years
we are not growing homogenously in all years to the same extent. But 2012 when the
market conditions were good, our growth was more pronounced. The same is true, of
course, in 2009 and the market hardened after the financial crisis. Same was true in 2006
and 2001. So we feel on the P&C side it's important to grow at the right time and not the
same every year.
You can see that we have continued growth not only on the top line but also on the
bottom line. We were growing and this slide just to show that it's good quality results that
we achieved on the business because we achieved it not at the expense of reducing the
confidence level of our loss reserves but quite to the contrary, we increased the
profitability with increasing the confidence level of our reserves. So it was not the case
that we were showing profits at the expense of the future profits. I feel that that shows
there's a quality of the results if you were able to achieve on the P&C side.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the Life and Health side, similar, also there we always have growth initiatives. These
are only very few examples. And Klaus and Claude could show you a lot more and we
have actually a lot more on the go. But I will not steal Klaus' thunder here.
Just to mention here the US financial solutions in 2009, this is where we have a little bit of
the first move advantage because on the so-called non-economic XXX and AXXX
reserves. They were supported all along by LOC capacity that was provided by the banks.
In 2008, due to the financial crisis, the cost of LOCs increased dramatically so we were
able to provide our US clients with structures and solutions that they could see the noneconomic reserves to optimize their capital on a statutory basis and a lower expense than
the increased LOC cost, a letter of credit cost would dictate. This has been a very positive
movement for us, a very profitable business.
And you can see as a result, the value of new business that we are creating continues to
increase. And you see this is a very nice graph. But Klaus would tell you more about it.
I would say the value of new business is expected discounted future positive cash flows
from the business. And it also deduct the future cost of capital. This means that if
everything goes according to plan and your assumptions are proven to be right by reality,
the IFRS profit over time will actually be about twice as much as a value of new business.
If you then go just a brief look at the makeup of the value of new business, you can see
that financial solutions has been the largest contributor. And this, to a large extent, from
the US business I was just telling you this is just an example of the years 2013 and '14.

Page 10 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

I would also say the future cat flows that are shown here in the value of new business
have a very different duration. Whilst the financial solutions is relatively short duration that,
on average, I would say is around five years, which means that this value of new business
is transformed into IFRS profit rather rapidly.
For example, the US mortality, much longer duration, I would say around 20 to 25 years,
expected future cash flows so you will have, of course, see that, I mean, the IFRS result on
that business is really created by the back years, not by the newly created value of new
business. But it is, of course, constant expected profitability for the future. And on the
longevity business, it's even longer term. I mean, this is 30 plus years. So we can see the
makeup is very different and, therefore, also the transformation from value of new
business into IFRS profit is very different as well.
That is just what I wanted to tell you about that.
So that, I mean, that positive value of new business and our gross initiatives. And our
growth initiatives, we feel that we have outplaced to see continued growth of the
profitability of our Life & Health business.

Bloomberg Transcript

An important component of our earnings is, of course, the investment income that we are
achieving on our business. On the investment income, of course, we are negatively
impacted by the continued low interest rate environment. I mean, reducing interest rate
environment normally is not much of a problem because you have the investments from
the previous years and just the unrealized gains are just increasing.
But once the bottom is reached and the interest rates continue to be low, of course, it has
the results that the yield on the investment is increasing, in particular, if you leave -- if you
keep the risk profile unchanged. And that is the reason why since 2012 you see the R/I as
a percentage of the overall invested assets coming down. This is just the ordinary
investment income so it's outside, I mean, realizations and things like that.
But you can see that still we were able to keep the level in absolute terms constant. And
the reason for that is that we have an increase in the assets and their own management.
So the invested assets increase so we hide lower interest rates that's higher volumes.
And of course, part of the increase in the assets is just the increase in market value. But
the much larger part is the continued very positive cash flow that we have on our
business. Therefore, we feel that we should be able despite reducing yields also in the
future that this would keep the absolute level of our investment earnings rather constant.
This slide sums it all up and this slide really is the essence why we feel that we are
confident for our 2015 profit guidance. And we feel that those bullet points and
parameters that are shown here will also put us in good state to continue to be successful
in the medium-term even. And that's not entirely unlikely even if the soft market continues
and even if it softens a bit further.
One bullet point I would like to mention here, which is, on the P&C side, where we say we
will have difficulty to further increase the confidence level of our IFRS loss reserves. And
Page 11 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

you have seen the first part of that in 2014 that we increased the redundancies further in
absolute terms but not in relative terms. And it's really because we hit the boundaries of
what is possible on the IFRS accounting. But we are still in a very comfortable position
there to weather the storm of the soft market.

FINAL

Important, of course, that we continue to have an attractive admin expense ratio
compared to our peers.
Coming then to the profitability of the business, you can see that our capital base has
continued to increase. And actually throughout this period, the average -- the overall
increase was about 41%. The good thing is that from 2011 to 2014, the profit actually
increased by 62%. So as long as this is the development, we don't mind the increase and
the capital because then the ROE would continue to increase.
Of course, I mean, I took 2011 as a starting point here because it makes a nicer graph
because due to the capital losses 2011 was, of course, not the most profitable year.

Bloomberg Transcript

But if you look at the same from 2012 to 2014, I mean, the capital grew by 22%. But the
profit only by 15%. And now, of course, that's where capital management comes into play.
Therefore, if you see that in the excess capital then, of course, we have to, I mean,
dampen the capital growth. And we have done that in 2014 with the extra dividends that
we take, the extraordinary dividend of EUR1.25. And I said all along, we likely continue to
do that in the coming years.
That brings me to this slide, which is probably one of the most important one of my
presentation because the big question, of course, is will the market stay soft indefinitely
or will the market continue to be cyclical.
What this slide shows you is the average RoE of the top reinsurers, which is the light blue
line. And you can see in the dark blue line again the Guy Carpenter Rate-on-Line Index for
the property cat business as a proxy for the market development that we have seen.
And you can see that in the years 2008, 2005. And 2011, the average RoE of the
reinsurance market dropped below 5%. And each time that was happening you can see
that there was a reaction in the market. Each time that was happening actually the market
hardened and gave us an opportunity to grow our business organically.
You can see why the market continues to be soft because in 2014 and so far first half of
2015, the RoE stayed at double-digits. And as long as that remains, the pressure on the
management of reinsurance companies is not there to do something about it, about the
profitability of their business. And therefore we are seeing a continued soft market.
But I am convinced that should either through continued erosion of the quality of the
business all through a major loss, the RoE again falls below 5%. We were still against the
reaction. And of course, the reaction there would be more pronounced if it falls lower and

Page 12 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

it will be less pronounced if it's just like, say, 2011 where it was, by no means, a dislocation
in the market but it was just, I mean, a frequency of medium-sized cat losses.
So from this point of view, I would say if you are able and this is our strategy to be more
profitable than our peers is downturn of the market, we should be able to benefit, I mean,
better than RPS from an upturn when the average market player has an RoE below 5%.
That is how we try to position Hannover Re. And only time will tell if we are successful in
that. But that is why we have the low expense ratio that is why we have a stable Life &
Health business. That is why we have the buffers on our reserves exactly in order to
achieve that.
So to sum it all up, reinsurance is a competitive but growing business. Reinsurance offers
us the ability to grow in excess of the market. And reinsurance, particularly on the P&C
side is continued to be a cyclical. Reinsurance is a good tool for insurance companies to
manage that capital and earnings, also if they go into new businesses like cybersecurity.
We'll tell you the details about it's an opportunity for reinsurers to support the insurance
industry. And therefore, we feel that doing a business that our core business is
reinsurance, we can be successful in the long-term.
Thank you very much.
Now I'm happy to answer your questions even though I have run a little bit over the time.

Bloomberg Transcript

Questions And Answers
A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

okay. We already have some questions. First, we start with Vinit. And please, Vinit, wait for
the microphone so that all the participants following us through the webcast can hear your
question as well.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Sure. Thanks, Ulrich. So Vinit from Mediobanca. Just one question really. This 5% trigger
that you seem to suggest Hannover is waiting for again grow, what if it really doesn't
happen. So what is the strategy or idea if this is not really the case?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

If the average RoE of the reinsurance market always take double-digit, we will continue to
be profitable and be happy with that as well. So we are not waiting for the RoE of the
reinsurance market fall to below 5% because if it stays high, we have the opportunity to
continue to be profitable.
However, with the current trend of the rate, which, of course, also as a result of the
absence of major cat, it would be an optimistic view that we can continue to reduce the
rate. But never fall our RoE below 5%. So I mean, of course, if the market continues to

Page 13 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

have double-digit RoE, our low expense ratio market position is a very diversified
reinsurer, we feel that we will just continue to grow our profitability.

FINAL

But if gravity comes to reality, then, of course, the market will drop and therefore our
game plan is to be prepared for that drop and to be less affected the said drops and the
average market player to benefit from the uptake after that.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

okay. Any further questions? Okay, we continue with Michael Huttner and then with Frank
Kopfinger.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Just on the Life, I just came in so I'm really sorry I'm late. But the EUR750 million new profit
and you say the IFRS profit did twice that. Given that you're getting new business profit
every year at that level, should we expect therefore your Life profit be EUR1,500?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well as I said, I mean, the value of new business is the expected future cash flows
discounted to present value and taking off the future cost of capital. But as I explained, I
mean, the duration is rather long. I mean, if you look at the longevity business, this will
evolve into IFRS profits over the next 30 years. So it's not eminent other than maybe the
financial solutions, which is short as I explained. And I mean, we will only have those profits
if our assumptions that of the basis for the calculations of the future cash flow are holding
through on the test of time.
Of course, I mean, say on the mortality business, if the mortality reduces more than we
expect, our profits will be higher. But you see, mortality is higher than expected. Of
course, our profits will be lower and, of course, on the longevity is exactly the other way
round, therefore, we like that diversification between the longevity and the mortality. But
yes, I mean, that's not imminent. But we are confident that, as a result of that, we will be
able to gradually increase the profitability of our Life & Health business.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Okay. Next question comes from Frank Kopfinger.

Q - Frank Kopfinger

{BIO 16342277 <GO>}

Yes, I have a question on your reserve redundancies to 7.4%. What would you say is the
comfort level that you will be comfortable going forward to keep.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well based on our limit and threshold system, we are in the amber area because, I mean,
we are still based on, I mean, on the IFRS best estimate requirements that you have for
accounting. We still have a very conservative best estimate. So I mean, if that would drop

Page 14 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

in a soft market, say, to 4%, 5%, we were still in the green and in a comfortable area. So I
mean, it definitely need to stay there.

FINAL

It was very helpful, I mean, to grow it to that level in the really very favorable trading
conditions that we had from 2009 to 2013.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Any further questions? From Roland Pfaender on this side.

Q - Roland Pf aender

{BIO 3189513 <GO>}

Good morning. Could you provide us maybe with your view on the current growth of the
P&C reinsurance industry? According to the figures we presented, it was growing by a
little bit more than 4%. Do you think that might be materially lower than next year's? And
do you see any disconnect in relation to the primary insurance outlook? Thank you.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well I would say if you just look at premium growth, I mean, currently this year you will
probably see a continued growth of the reinsurance market and you might also see that
next year. That is the result that, on the one hand, yes, you have a lot of the larger groups
taking higher retentions. But we still see business growth in the emerging markets just
Asia and, to some extent, Latin America.
And also in the established market, the primary insurance rates coming under pressure as
well, I mean, there is more proportional reinsurance board in the market. So from that
point of view, I think the volume that the major reinsurers write in the next few years
would probably continue to rise. The quality of the business will presumably reduce due to
the soft market because, I mean, up until recently I would say maybe outside a few line of
business like aviation, the primary market rates were holding up better than the
reinsurance market rates. But it seems that particularly in the US now also the primary
market rates come more under pressure.
So I can't see any other questions right now. So if that is the case, I would like to thank you
for the questions. And we will now break for a coffee to get refilled.
The next presentation will be from Eberhard. And he is presenting the reserving position.
And we also will hear from Andreas Maerkert about the capital position.
So this will be feelingly interesting. But we have to contain our excitement until 10:30
when we continue.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Yes, yes.
+++presentation
Page 15 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

FINAL

Well thank you for taking your seats again. The next highlight that awaits us is the
presentation of Eberhard Mueller on the reserving position.
I have to tell you that we have celebrated Eberhard's 61st birthday just a few weeks ago,
which means that this will be the final occasion on which he addresses you all at the
Investors Day. His presence here is something, which I personally will really miss.
Fortunately though, his presentation will be recorded so we can look back whenever we
wish. With Eberhard sadly leaving us soon, you may ask yourself how is Hannover Re going
to manage without him. Well you can see the answer already on the slide.
It's my pleasure to introduce Dr. Andreas Maerkert. He has been with Hannover Re since
2004. And he is, by nature a mathematician and actuary. Andreas heads the department
for capital modeling. And in this role, he is responsible for the maintenance of our internal
capital model and the associated applications including the risk capital allocation, also the
definition of the limit system and the solvency to internal model application.
Andreas will not only be taking charge of group risk management. But also will assume the
role of the group's CRO.

Bloomberg Transcript

Eberhard, would you like to start the ball rolling?

A - Eberhard Mueller

{BIO 1511045 <GO>}

Definitely. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. And thank you for this nearly perfect
introduction, Karl. We will do today the same procedure as every year. But with two voices.
I will start from the actuarial side with a more boring stuff. The update on the P&C claims.
But you know when an actuary tells you he is boring is the best he can tell you, it means
stability.
From the more exciting stuff, I have only one piece here. That's the letter from the BaFin
telling us that our internal model is approved dated 30th of July this year. I think it's the
first of its kind in Europe. But all the details will be brought with them on the risk
governance capital monitor and capitalization update internal model approval for Solvency
II and sources of risk and exchanges in 2014 by Andreas, the final five minutes after I am
closed.
Okay. Andreas is, as Karl mentioned, running our internal model since a couple of years.
And he was doing all the hard work through our entire pre-application process that
started in September 2008. And now with this letter, now we both earn something from
our efforts.
I will start on the reserves with the usual picture, the makeup of the overall reserves,
which meanwhile is EUR35.8 billion, another EUR3.2 billion more than last year.

Page 16 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

Left-hand side, you will see the 58% property and casualty reserves being EUR20.8 billion,
increase of EUR2 billion compared to last year. And the details are EUR12.8 billion from
Hannover Re, EUR3.5 billion from other subsidiaries, EUR2.7 billion from our German
subsidiary E+S Re. And the branches are contributing EUR1.8 billion.
On the right-hand side, we have the 42% being EUR15 billion, which is EUR1 billion more
than last year, EUR1.6 billion split up EUR11.7 billion for benefit reserves and EUR3.3 billion
for loss reserves.
I will concentrate in the next couple of slides as usual on the P&C loss reserves, which are
very similar to what I presented you last year.
The US is now EUR5.5 billion being 27%, slight increase. It used to be 25% last year.
In Germany, a slight drop of two percentage points to EUR2.9 billion, used to be 16% last
year, now it's 14%.
The remaining Europe EUR3.8 billion, a drop of 1%.
Rest of the world being stable, 18%, now EUR3.8 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

UK/Ireland, slight increase, 1%, to EUR4.7 billion.
And on the right-hand side, you'll see how we check those reserves and how we make
those reserves.
From our home office reserve unit, the reserves are more or less controlled for Hannover
Re, E+S Re in Germany. For our Canadian and France branches, for the Bahrain/Takaful, for
Sweden. And from two years ago for Bermuda.
We have external appointed actuaries covering 4% that's less than EUR1 billion in Australia,
Malaysia. And Shanghai driven by local requirements. And we are doing with our own stuff.
But at the local level the reserving for Ireland and South Africa. As you know, IICH
meanwhile has been relocated to Germany from 1/1/15 onwards. And they are also doing
their own reserve analysis. But with -- having impact from Group Risk Management.
This slide you are all looking for comes now. All those reserves are going into the peer
review by Towers Watson. And those peer reviews show the difference in the best
estimate Towers Watson is assuming, the best estimate we are assuming for saving our
reserves.
The figure I presented to you last year is EUR1.5 billion. I have the pleasure to show you
it's still EUR1.5 million slight increase by EUR29 million to 1.546. But as we already indicated
and as Ulrich mentioned, we are at the ceiling. We are at the upper end of our yellow

Page 17 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

range and our internal (dividend) threshold system. So we caught not again increased with
the same speed when we did in the past.
In the past, we contributed always around 3percentage points of our combined ratio to
the reserve buffer. This is -- this year it's only 0.4%. So it kept the level of reserve
redundancy stable. But it not increased it any further. And that's, as I mentioned, already
last year and the year before partially driven also by our auditors because that's the upper
end an auditor is going to accept.
These reserves are analyzed in different segments. And what we will give you the same
procedure as in the past, what we will give you is the full triangles of nine segments. It
starts with general liability non-proportional. Second is motor non-proportional. Third,
general liability proportional, then motor proportional, property proportional, property
non-proportional, marine, aviation. And last but not least credit and surety.
We will give you the triangle. And thus on the right-hand side of this slide, we will give you
the triangles for the underwriting years 2003 to 2014 that makes up EUR13.4 billion of
reserves. That doesn't mean that for the older underwriting years there are no reserves.
The opposite is true.

Bloomberg Transcript

For the old underwriting years, that's the first column, 1979 to 2002, we have still EUR1.8
billion in reserves, EUR600 million coming from general liability non-proportional mainly
from the US casualty business. But here the reserves are more or less mature.
We know that we have long-lasting losses in the US casualty area, medical; med practice
professional liability are the staff, which take decades to be paid out in full. But here, the
volatility contributing to the ultimate expected loss ratio estimate is hollower than for the
more recent underwriting years that's 2003 to 2014. So we start.
In the triangles, we are delivering to you with 2003 going up to 2014. And this will then
cover 64.5%, two-thirds of our entire reserves.
The segments including the older underwriting years all together represent about threequarters of our gross carried reserves and that's exactly the figures thrown from our
database we are also using for our internal purposes. But as you may know it on a more
granular level.
Before now coming to the very detail aggregated slide as an example and as you know
would, I have to touch again on the data description and information. We are usually telling
you, which describes also the differences in our triangles to other peers.
Our data. And that the second bullet from the bottom, our data are on underwriting year
basis. That means the underwriting year has the same premium quality. So here, on an
underwriting year basis, we definitely know good years and bad years. And we have no
mixture in between.

Page 18 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

If you do, as some peers are doing accident year estimates, you have one beauty. The
beauty is on an accident year triangle, the premium is fixed. The premium doesn't move.
But you have different premium parts. We have incoming premium parts from previous
years, which may have a different premium quality than the current year. And you have
outgoing parts, which are not contributing to the accident year but to the next accident
year where another premium quality also may dilute the full picture.
So here, we again have to state that we are convinced underwriting year triangles are
showing you that two are truth of the quality of the respective years. But the disadvantage
is that especially for the more recent years and for the most recent year you are lacking
the premium, which will then come in the next calendar year to complete the underwriting
years premium volume.
The data, the statistical gross reported loss triangles are based on cedants' original
advices that's mainly the paid and case reserve information in some cases will be
increasingly also getting IBNR estimates from cedants. But that's mainly on the
proportional side. On the non-proportional, it's still some sort of unusual that we get IBNR
estimates.
The figures in the triangles do not include business written at branch office and
subsidiaries because they have a different data level. Those branches and subsidiaries
then are reflected in the overall Towers Watson peer review. And the data; this also what I
should mention are combined triangles for the companies Hannover Re and E+S Re.

Bloomberg Transcript

So -- and here we go. That's a nice slide, explaining the world on one slide.
On the left-hand side, you'll see the aggregated loss ratio development of the incurred
losses by underwriting year starting with underwriting year 2003 up to underwriting year
2014. The first column is the expected or current status of the IFRS and premium, which
underlines my remark I made earlier on 2014. You will see only EUR2.8 billion whereas
2013 already is EUR4.6 billion. That's due to the fact that a large portion of the premium
will be accounted for 2015.
On the right-hand side, the most interesting column is the first column. The first column is
the ultimate loss ratio as some sort of best estimate we are using for reserving purposes.
This ultimate expected loss ratio is drawn for the older underwriting years more or less
from actuarial assessments for the more recent underwriting years more as a mixture
between actuarial assessments and taking into account feedback from underwriters
regarding the quality of an underwriting year.
To say it very simple, if we have a loss ratio of 80%, which is our best estimate for the
underwriting year 2013. And we get messages from underwriters that the premiums are
dropping for the same exposure by 25%. So we have to reflect this in our reserving by
adjusting the loss ratio of 2014 to 100. That was just an example that did not happen. We
got the message from underwriters funny enough, that the quality of the 2014 year is
nearly the same for reserving purposes than the one-year developed 2013 year. You will
see it in the next slide.
Page 19 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

But let's stay a couple of seconds on this slide. The second column, that's the paid losses
out of the premium. You'll see on the first column the paid losses so far for more mature
years like 2003 you'll see 42% of the premium was already paid. For the most recent
underwriting year 2013, only 12% out of the EUR2.8 billion premium is paid.

FINAL

The second column from the right, the case reserve, that's what we get from our
cedants, the advices from cedants especially on case losses.
For the old underwriting year 2003, it's just 4.5percentage points. For the more recent
underwriting year 2014, it's 13.5%. It's not too much actually. So if we would not care about
IBNR at all, then our loss ratio would be 25%. But that's, of course, not the ( juices), we
have to apply techniques and methods to find out a best estimate of our ultimate loss
ratio for 2014. That's currently 79percentage points.
So when deducting from the 79percentage points, the 12percentage points already paid
and the 13percentage points notified by cedants, then you get this quite sizable amount
of more than a half, 53%, of the premium you have to set-up as IBNR. Then you have to
pray that this will last. In the past, it did.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the bottom of this slide, we have shown this as figures. The left hand-side is simply
the development of the incurred loss percentages as graphs. On the right-hand side,
you'll see how the respective loss ratios are made up that the line on the right-hand side,
the gray line, is indicating the premium. And here you see the sharp drop from 2013 to
2014 is nothing you have to be worried about. That's again the fact that the major part of
the premium will be accounted for next year.
On the other hand, on 2014, the green bar, you'll see the tremendous percentage, which
is set-up as IBNR.
Coming to my last slide, to leave Andreas and have room for his words, the last slide is
exactly touching on what I got as feedback from you a couple of times. What did I tell you?
Last year, what did I tell you? Five years ago, how does it compare over time?
For the underwriting years 2003 to 2014, you will see here what did I tell you 2008 as
being our best estimate of ultimate loss ratio. What did I tell you 2009 up to 2013?
And usually, usually it's dropping over time because we've started with a certain
conservatism of these 3percentage points in the reserves. And then it's released over
time.
Typical year for this is 2004 where we started with 66.9%, then we had a slight drop to
65.8%, 65.1% , 63.8%, 62.8%, 62.6%. And now 61.1%. So that's a release meanwhile of
5.8percentage points.
We have different developments. One of the examples, 2010, where it increased from
81.2% to 84.1%. One of the reasons is very simple. This is an underwriting year triangle.
Page 20 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

And for the Japanese earthquake, with the renewal season in Japan starting from first of
April and the Japanese earthquake being an event in March, it contributes to underwriting
year 2010 because it was not already renewed for 2011.

FINAL

So here, we got as a first indication that we should increase our loss estimate a little bit.
So our initial expected loss ratio for 2010, underwriting year 2010 increased by
3percentage points from 81% to 84%.
Fortunately enough, meanwhile we found out the Japanese earthquake was very
conservatively reserved after our first indications. So the loss ratio dropped again to
81.4%, 78.9%. And now it's again at 80%. I think that's Newcastle, isn't it a little bit?
But you'll see here you have some volatility. It's not just going straight down, it's going up
and down.
The beauty is -- and that's now my last remark, the beauty is when looking at our current
ultimate expected loss ratios for the underwriting years 2010, 2011, 2012, '13. And '14, it's
within one percentage point range of 80%. That's exactly how I started 23 years ago
when we did our first late loss estimation systems. Our default value was a loss ratio of
80%. Isn't this amazing? So let's keep fingers crossed that this will last when Andreas will
give the presentation on this next year.

Bloomberg Transcript

So I stop it here. Thank you for this so far. And I will hand over to Andreas for the capital
model presentation.

A - Andreas Maerkert
So thank you, Eberhard, for handing over.
Thank you, Karl, for the nice introduction. And hello from my side to this audience. It's a
pleasure for me to be here for the first time.
And I think Eberhard mentioned it is not the exciting part that he has had to present. But
the building can be something that is quite exciting as well.
For me, one of the exciting elements working for Hannover Re is that we have to adopt
the changing environments in the market. This is a regulatory environment on a
continuous basis. So it's quite an exciting place. And we try to do that by maintaining a
flexible organization structure that can respond to these changes that we observe every
year in a flexible way and in a concise way. And this slide shows you our risk management
organization and how it's embedded in our true line of defense model.
We put the chance of Solvency II to restructure some elements over the past years and
also, of course, have to fulfill Solvency II two requirements. So those were Solvency II has
been a big topic for us in the past year.

Page 21 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

As an example, we combined all the existent tasks, the actuarial tasks under the roof of
an actuarial function in our Group Risk Management department, which is of the
quantitative controlling department of the Hannover Re group, responsible for all the
models that we're are looking at in net cap pricing and also the internal model and, of
course, the reserving metrics.
Hannover Re maintains a comfortable capital position over the years. So this is also
nothing new from last year. We have relative to our internal target of Value at Risk 99.97%
capitalization. So what can be seen as a 3,000-year event at the Q4 2014, 160%
overcapitalization at that level so quite comfortable level. Also, sort of all of our peers that
rate us in some way or assess our capital position provided a consistent view on the
capitalization of Hannover Re.
Like the Solvency II notional capital requirements are fulfilled in a comfortable way for us
and also our ratings maintain or confirm the stable outlooks this year.
Apart from our capital level, which is, at the moment, probably hit higher than the longterm average or at the end of Q4 since renewing a period for hybrid capital has had a
very significant hybrid level at the end of Q4. But apart from the capital level, we also
control the operational volatility or the earning volatility and it is reflected by our wish to
maintain them.

Bloomberg Transcript

A probability of negative earnings of less than 10%, currently the probability is 4.1% or
4.6% depending on we look at before or after tax figures. And this also reflects our
reserving confidence level that can be used to steer this other earnings volatility.
Even the Solvency II coming into place, it's still the rating agency capital requirements that
are the driving force. Our capital level is geared to the maximum of all the requirements
that we face. So there's other requirements from rating agencies, from the regulators.
And Solvency II is one of this. And also relative to our internal targets.
And this illustrative picture shows the current situations a rating capital maintains to be the
maximum. And so this is even if Solvency II comes into force, no charge from sort of
previous situations. And it's also a result of getting the internal model approved under
Solvency II. Solvency II will not form a strong capital constraint to our business.
We have; I will come to that a bit later some benefits from approving an internal model
under Solvency II, which are quite significant compared to the standard formula. And we
have also some recognition of the internal model by rating agencies. So there is a
willingness of external parties to look at our internal risk assessment. And when we
provide enough reasoning, those external parties are accepting our internal risk
assessment and include this in their assessment.
However, you see that under S&P, that's -- or under the rating agencies I just can -- from
our perspective the only starting point and we hope that because of Solvency II, we'll be
driving forward for bringing interim models in a more permanent role because they

Page 22 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

provide the real risk figures and not sort of a standardized template which wouldn't fit the
reinsurance business model.
As Eberhard mentioned and also Ulrich Wallin, we will see the required surprise. I'm happy
that we have reached the internal model approval so early this year although we entered
this Solvency II application process quite early in 2008. We still thought that the regulators
would use their full time scope but we were quite happy to received the letter in summer
this year.
And the consequence really is threefold. Of course, it's nice to have it approved but that
only means we have -- first thing is that we have consistent measurement under
regulatory -- under regulatory perspective as we have it internally which means that any
action that we take will change our risk profile and consistency under a regulatory view
and under an internal view which has not been the case for Solvency II.

Bloomberg Transcript

Of course, we lower our capital requirements, Solvency II doesn't become any driving
force for our capitalization. And of course, we think that now we can present a real
comparable risk figure risk assessment to the outside world once we have this internal
model approved and once we start reporting the internal model figure which, we, by the
way, do already for quite some time in our annual reports.
Apart from this pure capital situation, there have been a number of improvements or
many improvements in this long period since 2008 actually of internal model applications.
They extend to risk governance and the set of our risk management organization
because actually a Solvency II compliance risk management organization is a prerequisite
for internal model approval under Solvency II. So we had the chance to also improve in this
regard. And also in terms of the model because there have been very intense discussions
with their regulator and some of the arguments we took up and improved our model.
In terms of overall Solvency II preparation, we feel that we are ready to go for Solvency II.
Hannover Re has always followed a risk-based management approach so from our
perspective, Solvency II is something that now introduces something that we have
internally also in the regulatory system.
So we are more positive to Solvency II although we, of course, also see that there is quite
a significant compliance cost attached to Solvency II in terms of reporting and internal
governance structure documentation elements.
We also think that there are market perspectives coming out to Solvency II. Many of our
clients approached us with questions arising from Solvency II or from similar regulatory
systems that are introduced all over the world.
We have in many countries attempts to introduce Solvency II systems which are risk-based
and which would change the perception of our clients also on their risk position.

Page 23 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

In terms of the figures, Hannover Re's risk profile has undergone some changes in 2015 -2014 and the most interesting aspects probably that market risk has not reached a level
which is similar to P&C underwriting risk. It's still below the overall underwriting risk, which
reflects that our main business is obviously the underwriting. So that's our business model.
But the sheer volume that we have and the economic changes in 2014 with the euro
weakening and interest rates declining sort of made the investment volume even more
growing. So the sheer volume growth together, we have a number of model adjustments
that we also did in 2014 made the market risk grow quite substantially. And which is now
one of our -- or has always been one of our focus also for our risk management and
investment management.
We maintain. And this is also one element where we have a focus on, we maintain a high
level of diversification between the business groups and also within the business groups.
So that's important, that's a steering element in all levels of the organization. So between
lines of business, between regions and between business groups. So we don't want to
sort of enter into risk concentrations in any area.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of some more elements of the changes, we have business growth in the P&C
and Life & Health side which were the main drivers for capital increase there. So business
grows available resources and own funds grow in the same speed as our capital
requirements growth, also the economic environment decreasing interest rates and
increasing euro -- decreasing euro at the consequence that the capital requirements or
the risks denominated in euro then increased.
We did the mentioned model strengthening on the market risks side but we do positive
cash flow economic environment as the volume increased also substantially over EUR4
billion and counterparty risk and operational risk stayed roughly stable or grow in line with
the overall business growth.
If you look the one level deeper, we also see on this slide which is saying that, which Wallin
presented earlier, that we have diversification in our areas, maybe remarkable is that in
our longevity book has grown substantially over the past two years such that the risk
associated with this book is almost getting in a similar level than the mortality book there.
So of course, that's not ensuring the same person with longevity and mortality risk but still
we think that provides for some additional diversification in our book and it's something
that is used for steering this information.
In the market risk area, our investment portfolio is dominated by fixed income securities.
So credit and spread risk is the driving factor of the market risk and especially also for the
credit risk assessment or internal validation and with respect to the risk assessment, it
showed that we want to do some model strengthening in 2014.
With this slide, I'm closing and we're happy, Eberhard and myself, to take your questions.

Page 24 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

If there are any. Okay, we start on the left-hand side with Andrew Ritchie and continue
with Andrew Broadfield and go along the row.

FINAL

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Hi, there. Andrew Ritchie from Autonomous. A couple of questions, could you just clarify
what you think your deployable access capital is then versus the binding constraint which is
the rating agency requirement? I mean you gave that number last year, I recall, around the
EUR1 billion. Maybe just tell us what that number is today.
Also, on your -- what is the sensitivity of your 253% coverage to the changing credit
spreads because the credit spread component has gone up quite a lot and it's quite high.
So maybe just give us a sense of what's the effect of that.
And finally, if you add more longevity business, is that still diversifying or is it now
incrementally additive? Thanks.

A - Andreas Maerkert

Bloomberg Transcript

The rating agencies including the internal model recognition that we get. So we -- so we
maintain this excess capital there in Q4 2014.
Second question, how sensitive is the capitalization ratio to credit and spread risks or do
spread level increased, its spread levels would rise. The market value of our assets would
be impacted so we would have decreasing own funds. On the other hand, we would have
decreasing SCR level as well because the volume that is the subject to the spread level
shock, the additional spread level shock is then just lower.
It depends also on the spread level increase that is there. We have done some model
adjustments where we think we have now quite a prudent level adjustment by the -- if
there was a huge shock, you would also think about recalibrating your SCR to that.
Overall, we think that we have not a huge solvency sensitivity to spread levels but it's
more related to the own fund's sensitivity that is obviously substantial as we have a huge
fixed income book so spread shock will impact our own funds, our available own funds.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

So coming to the credit spreads on corporate blow out 100 basis points, what is the
effect in your SCR coverage, the 253% coverage?

A - Andreas Maerkert
I don't know that figure here.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Page 25 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

Okay.

A - Andreas Maerkert

FINAL

It depends a lot of what assumptions you take on how your SCR model would change
under that.
And longevity, I think we can't grow the longevity book quite substantially still. And still
have a lot of additional diversification. It's still lower than mortality but longevity provides
diversification within the other business groups as it's sort of almost a unique risk driver
that is there which isn't sort of a risk driver which is very strongly related to risk drivers that
we have in the P&C book.
So from the pure capital perspective there, I would say there is more benefit, of course,
the question is, is the business that we are seeing, the business opportunity, are they
profitable. So that's where we're looking.

Q - Andrew Broadfield

{BIO 7273415 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi. It's Andrew Broadfield from Barclays. Two questions. And one maybe for later, I don't
know. But the -- when you're looking, you said the market risk component of your capital
framework is growing a little bit over the last littler while relative to the rest of the risk
categories.
And I guess if we look prospectively, I suspect that the conversation we had last night. But
the P&C Re risk category probably wouldn't grow hugely because of the nature of the
market at the moment. And but market risk will.
What's your top-down steering on how much market risk you're prepared to tolerate
within a business which is really valued for its underwriting exposures rather than its
market risk management, if you like. So just for that top-down steering is?
The second question, just on that market risk, maybe it's (maintenance), I'm a little
surprised at the level of diversification benefit you get on market risk. So I wonder
whether you can articulate a little bit about how you get nearly 2/5 of your market risk
removed because of diversification as well. Thank you.

A - Andreas Maerkert
You know, the -- our risk budget for investment risk to your first question is allocated
relative to risk-neutral investment portfolio. So we allocate a risk budget to that. And we -at the moment, the allocation is about 50% of our overall risk budget to market risk. So
which is also reflected.
But maybe Roland, you want to add to that?

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}
Page 26 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

Maybe I can add to that. As Andreas demonstrated to you, the increase has not been the
result of a reshuffling of our investment policy. It had been driven by sheer volumes by the
US dollar and by some model changes.

FINAL

And so we do see optimization positive portfolio as we did before. And in that case, we
have to look at the changing consequences of the portfolio as it is today. And I will refer to
that in my next session.
So was it acceptable? So we didn't have any limitations in that regard. We didn't change
the asset management policy. We had to look at the consequences of the changes of the
market and there was no reason to change it.
So there are no limitations but there are also, from an asset management policy
perspective, we didn't increase our risk appetite, although the consumption of the capital
has increased by the factors that Andreas have mentioned.

Q - Andrew Broadfield

{BIO 7273415 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I guess my question is, there's a -- and maybe among -- but it feels to me that was a sort
of passive consequences the way the business is evolving over the last four to five years,
which has meant that despite the asset management strategy not changing, asset
management is becoming a more important part of the overall business and therefore
the profile is changing at the business a little bit towards market risk. So as it's a
consequence as opposed to an active decision that you're making and how should we
think about them?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

I think it's largely the result of a model change. I mean it all really depends what is the real
occurrence probability of a situation like in 2008. And we just increased the calibration on
that one. So we are quite conservative there.
Which means the capital consumption, obviously, a market risk does actually increase
quite substantially without changing the portfolio. And only minor involvement we see
increased volumes.

A - Andreas Maerkert
Your second question relates to diversification within market risk, I mean the driving factor
is obviously credit and spread risk. And we think that there is substantial -- we are
exposed to increasing interest rates and we think there is diversification between interest
rate risk and spread risk exposed to increasing spread -- increasing interest rate level.
And also, there is a substantial diversification between foreign exchange rate risk like
foreign exchange rate risk means we are exposed to exchange rate changes, currency
rate changes relative to the euro. So all of these elements we think are perfectly
correlated to credit and spread risks. So for that reason, it's quite a substantial
diversification also in the market risk model.
Page 27 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

okay. We'll continue with Michael. All right, Andy, if you hand over the microphone. Thank
you.

FINAL

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Thank you. Michael Haid, MainFirst Bank. On the EUR1.5 billion reserve redundancies, if I
understand correctly, 2/3 of this was created over the past six years. And I would like to
get a better feeling of how this was created in theory or in practice as well. It could come
from good luck, lower claims or it could come from low inflation and also it could have
come from a structural over reserving.
And if everything had developed as expected, the normalized large losses and all this,
how much would the reserve redundancy then be, or is it possible to say how much goes
back to the lower inflation?
I ask this because maybe the hard market -- maybe the last five years is just an overly
hard market and we are now in a normal non-life reinsurance market.

A - Eberhard Mueller

{BIO 1511045 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. That's brilliant question for me. And what I showed in my last slide, five consecutive
years currently reserved at a level of 80% loss ratio seems to be indicating we are not in a
soft market, we are in a regular market currently.
Coming back to your first -- very first question, where did we build the cushion, more or
less, this cushion was established over the years in the more recent underwriting years.
You'll see it when looking in the triangle that -- look at the starting point. So the starting
points, we are far north of 80%. And then they have come down.
Some business segments like German motor business are traditional reserves. German
motor proportion is traditionally reserved in this manner. So there is a structural relief over
time. Others, there, you have some sort of freedom in setting your bets estimate.
For example, non-proportional US casualty business where as you know it from the
presentations over the past, we always started north of what Towers Watson found to be
the best estimate.
This is still kept for a certain degree. You will find in the appendix, my usual slide on the
underwriting years, the mid-2000s comparing where we are standing there and what
might come in the future as further releases.
However, when going to the more recent underwriting year 2014, you will definitely note
that we did not add our usual 3percentage points starting with 82, we just added
0.4percentage points starting with 79.9. So here, the expectation will be, it is sufficient, it is
a conservative best estimate that will not create the same releases than you have
observed in the past number of years.
Page 28 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

So if I just take the last five underwriting years and I take 3% of the combined ratio, would
that get me to kind of a normal level of reserve redundancies creation?

FINAL

A - Eberhard Mueller

{BIO 1511045 <GO>}

I have to be careful to give you a quick and dirty answer to this because we have several
lines of business contributing to this overall triangle. So you have to be very careful in
drawing conclusions from the overall to the single line of business view.
The positive developments of the past, partly, they're also driven by random -- by random
events under property catastrophe side. So what I mentioned earlier, the positive
development on the Japanese earthquake of 2011 could not be anticipated. So when we
set up these reserves, it was not purposely overestimated. It was our best estimate at
this time and this simply developed over time.
We had other segments where we even had to add something. Newcastle Earthquake on
the property side where we underestimated. So it's balancing each other. The structural
component is on reliability side and the structural component, the major part of this is in
the US casualty business. And here, you go find. And this is again, what I can recommend
to you, in the appendix, my rough guesstimate was still in there.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

I think it's fair to say that on the initial loss ratio takes on the overall book, we are normally
close to 100 combined. So we start relatively conservative. And in the past years, that has
proven to be higher, I would say, than our peers. But also to be quite conservative.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

okay. I see further more questions. We start in the last row with Guilhem and then continue
with Vinit.

Q - Guilhem Horvath

{BIO 18460437 <GO>}

Yes, sir. Guilhem, Exane BNP. I have a question regarding the press release we received
last week on the EIOPA, potentially reviewing the methodology that we use to calculate
the UFR.
Now, I recognize that you must be less sensitive to UFR than many other insurance in
Europe. But can you provide us with some color on what's your benefit from UFR and then
what's your view on the current level of UFR or do you think that the 4.2% is something fair
or do you think that the review is something necessary going forward? Thanks.

Page 29 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

A - Andreas Maerkert

FINAL

First of all, the review is necessary. I mean the -- as long as the two framework comes -goes into force (without) a method of reviewing the UFR. So that's one central parameter.
So it needed to come at some point in time and I think ECB created some pressure to
make our EIOPA initiating this earlier, that's my impression. So I think it's good that they
come out of this. I also think from what I hear from EIOPA representatives that they don't - will sort of suddenly change the UFR in a dramatic way. So it's -- they'll probably provide
for smooth process.
In terms of sort of our book, we are -- I would say we almost have no benefit from the
UFR as such but we have some impact from the -- especially in the Euro area but also the
start of 20 years to the UFR.
I would probably say that as we are quite for sometime in a low interest rate environment
that the UFR is at the higher end as they should be. But it's also a bit judgmental, of
course, because we are talking about a rate in 120 years time. So this rate shouldn't be
changed from one year to the next a lot.
So it's an expert setting in the Solvency II framework which needs, of course, some review
process but which also needed to be set at some point in time to make Solvency II work.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Guilhem Horvath

{BIO 18460437 <GO>}

Good.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

okay, the next question from Vinit Malhotra.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

okay, thank you. So two question please, one is on the operational risk which I saw a very
small, 85 million increase, whereas my understanding from the latest quarterly conference
call was operational risk was the key reason why you had to reduce your 285 99.5% to
265. Now, it's 253. So that's partly the question that how did the 265 go to 253, or maybe
that is a rough guess.
And second question is just curiosity. You mentioned Inter Hannover is now risk-managed
out of the home office in Germany. Was there a particular reason or is it just because the
business mix is more commodity kind of exposure. So -- or what drove that decision
please?

A - Andreas Maerkert
Yes. I'll answer the first question first. Operational risk is one of our lower risk categories
but the standard formula provides for a higher capital requirement. There are two steps
from the 285 to 253. The other step apart from operational risk which is the last step is
Page 30 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

that Solvency II has a sort of calculation mechanism which adjusts the own funds for
minority interests.

FINAL

The reasoning is transferability constraints that the Solvency II framework assumes here.
So we have a cutoff of own funds and we go to Solvency II reporting own fund, on an own
fund basis. But these are the two steps and the latest step is the large one.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

And the 265 to 253, is there something there, it's very low?

A - Andreas Maerkert
That's operational risk.

A - Eberhard Mueller

{BIO 1511045 <GO>}

Yes, I think we can clearly state about 5percentage points are coming when going from
our internal model which includes our operational risk assessment to the partial internal
model that we have to replace the operational risk assessment by the standard model.

Bloomberg Transcript

The difference is about 5percentage points in solvency ratio. So it's not the 20 points
which were mentioned a couple of times or in this range. It's simply 5percentage points,
what caused us in solvency ratio where we've been switching from our internal -- full
internal model to the partial internal model replacing the operational risk component by
the standard model.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

And can you just remind us, the 160% on the 99.97, that hasn't...

A - Andreas Maerkert
I think it's 285 on the 99.5.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Sorry. This 99.97 at yearend disclosure was 185 range or could you remind us what it was
compared to 160% now? It's from your slide, sorry.

A - Andreas Maerkert
Yes, I know what you're talking but what's the exact question?

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

The question is how much has the changed been because of the Solvency II agreement
with BaFin, of how much have you changed anything?

A - Andreas Maerkert
Page 31 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

Pure internal targets, the value at risk, 99.97, it doesn't -- it's not affected by the Solvency
II.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

FINAL

So you haven't changed anything there?

A - Andreas Maerkert
Yes.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

okay. And the second question was?

A - Eberhard Mueller

{BIO 1511045 <GO>}

Only the 99.5% that matters because that's the solvency ratio level agreed with the
regulator. On the 99.97, we simply lose our internal approach as usual.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

And Inter Hannover, Juergen, you can make a comment or -- if you like?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

okay. And the reason why thought about transferring in Hannover to Germany was actually
that it got far more complicated to cope with two regulators within one company because
we had -- we had the PRA in the U.K., we had the BaFin here that was one driver, then also
the business is far more internationalized and we felt we could also capitalize on some
other synergies' internal administration if we have it nearer to our heart.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

If I may add, of course, the advantage that we have in Germany is that we can, in behalf,
enter into a contract within the Hannover which is profit and loss distribution contract
Gewinnabfuehrungsvertrag.
And that means if we couldn't do that when Inter Hannover was a U.K. company, which, of
course, means that the risk of Inter Hannover is really the risk of Hannover Re now. And
that's also why the risk management is more tightly controlled from Hannover Re's risk
management department because I mean it's really our risk through that contract.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

okay. We have another question from Michael Huttner.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

On the 80%, I was looking at slide 8. And I calculated the years 2003 through 2007, the
average of those seven years, the -- yes. And the average of those seven years for the
Page 32 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

ultimate loss ratio for that column is more like 66%. It's not a precise figure. It's not 80%.
So I'm just wondering whether the 80% really should be 66% where there is an excess of
14 points of redundant reserves in there.

FINAL

A - Eberhard Mueller

{BIO 1511045 <GO>}

You are optimistic. We have -- as I mentioned, we have a certain realization, loss ratio
realizations, which were random events on the positive side. So 2003 contributing here
with a loss ratio of 51.3. It's the same random event on the positive side than it used to be
in 2009 with the missing catastrophes ending up at 70.1.
So you are right, the average of 80% of the more recent underwriting just 2000 and 2014
which is potential for positive development but definitely up to the final ultimate loss ratio
being 66%. So forgive me for this.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

okay, do we have -- another question from Andrew Broadfield here.

Q - Andrew Broadfield

{BIO 7273415 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. It's Andy from Barclays again. Thank you for taking another question. You've
talked a little bit about potential harmonization on the S&P or the rating agency model to
your internal model in terms of the diversification benefit or -- yes, I think it was that.
I'm just thinking you've got a 160% coverage on your 99.97% You've got a fairly
comfortable buff on your S&P rating at the moment. Solvency II is obviously very
comfortable, it's not an issue for you.
And what are you targeting in terms of your -- or what is that capital ratio that you're
targeting? Is the S&P this north of a billion that you want to target and therefore the S&P
requirements come down? We see more capital come back. What is that steering number
and how you're trying to manage it and how do you expect it to evolve? I'm not -- just in
terms of that reconciliation to -- or harmonization process?

A - Andreas Maerkert
We have an internal target of maintaining 105% capital level of S&P requirements. That's
our sort of target that we maintain internally. I mean we entered with S&P into discussions
about -- they have a framework also for recognizing internal models. But up to now, their
framework allows to only a small percentage.
We have 15% recognition of the internal model relative to their capital calculation. But
there is still a long way to go until we -- the full internal model approved on the also S&P
and then -- and that would be the next step.
So I guess we will still need to convince over time that the internal model risk assessment
is more suitable and then we will decide how we can potentially relieve or use capital on

Page 33 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

that basis. But that's not something that's going to happen next year. There's not a lot of
hope on my side that the rating agencies will approve internal models next year.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

FINAL

okay. I don't see any further questions on this topic. Oh, Michael Huttner, another one.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Yes, very quickly. So the -- how much business are you getting from Solvency II later this
year?

A - Andreas Maerkert
That's very difficult. We haven't carved out a number. We see a number of opportunities,
we also see a number of threats that come along like larger groups maintaining more,
doing more centralized retrocession, on the other hand, we had this structured deals that
are becoming more prominent.
We have monoliners that have requested that -- have requested and may request more.
So it's a very mixed picture and I don't have a premium figure for you, that's because of
Solvency II.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think on a worldwide basis, as I mentioned, we have the Solvency II-like systems
implemented in China, in Australia for a long time, in South Africa, in Bermuda, Mexico,
you name it, all is going towards a risk-based systems.
And there, I see more chances than threats from this risk basis and because all of these
systems, they really recognize reinsurance and -- I mean all the Solvency I, you have these
cutoffs on the use of reinsurance, these haircuts.
And now, the Solvency II is a regulatory framework which actually recognizes reinsurance
both on the SCR side but also on the own fund side where the so-called risk margin. So
we have a strong benefit from using reinsurance under risk-based framework.

A - Juergen Graeber

{BIO 20978001 <GO>}

And maybe I can add a little bit here. We've seen indeed more demand as far as Solvency
II trigger covers are concerned. There was a period when we had hoped for demand and
there was very little in the early days.
And it has picked up a little bit what kind of covers are we seeing that is mostly quota to
share so people really reduce their premium volume and also the reserves they are
holding on their balance sheet.
And we're seeing more demand for so-called aggregate covers where people are
protecting the tail end of the distribution curve. So mostly for TVAR between 100 and 200

Page 34 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

years. And they do this to get capital relief not infrequently on multi-line. And multi-year
basis.

FINAL

Now. So our structured reinsurance team, they work on these solutions, they see
significantly more demand in Europe. And as Andreas has highlighted, we also have it in
other parts of the world where capital-based systems are following one way or the other
at the Solvency II regulation. So it's picking up.

A - Claude Chevre

{BIO 17369098 <GO>}

And so I mean, of course, we see demand increasing but we see also certain solutions
that we have been providing for many, many years which are going to disappear.
Let's take a typical solution where you have typical kind of treaties where you're charged - you have 100 expected claims, you're charged 200 premium. And at the end of the
year, you say, after 10% of expenses, we provide with profit sharing.
So if the result is good, you get the profit share back. So you understand immediately that
in this kind of solutions, there is no risk contrary. So the client keeps the whole volatility on
this book.

Bloomberg Transcript

And this is the kind of solution which under Solvency II, under SAM, under C-ROSS, under
all those risk-based capital regimes are not efficient anyway anymore which means that
we're going to lose this kind of business but we're going to replace it with reasonable
risk-based business. So that's just from my side, maybe.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

okay. Well thank you very much for your questions. Before we break for lunch, we -- I'd like
to hand over to Klaus Miller, who is responsible for the Life & Health business in Northern,
Eastern and Central Europe, which includes also U.K. and Ireland. And his responsibility
also extends to the Northern America. He will give us some more details about the
medium profitability outlook of the Life & Health business.

A - Klaus Miller

{BIO 16886879 <GO>}

Yes. Welcome to the bright side of life. You might have locked out (inaudible) because the
lunch break will be shortened by 12 minutes.
Some presentations usually start with something like the evening news. The evening news
is where somebody says good evening and then proceeds for 15 minutes telling you why
it isn't. That's different here. I really have some good news for you.
And it all starts even with the title, the -- when Ulrich asked me what you want to present
on, I know exactly what is caught to his heart and so he would accept any title as long as
the words growth and profitability are in it.

Page 35 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

So I've just added Life & Health and then I guess it was Karl Steinle who told me, "You
have to talk about the medium term because short term would be Q3. And Roland has
not yet finished the Q3 numbers. So anyhow it would be Ulrich job to talk about that." So
Q3 is out of the scope. And long term, we all know that we are all that. So that's not very
interesting either.
So I would like to tell you a little bit about the growth and profitability targets we have on
the life side. And there was one question in Ulrich's presentation which I would like to pick
up at the very beginning. It was from Michael Huttner I guess.
He asked Ulrich what about this huge value of new business, when does it turn into IFRS
profit just to make that deal. Ulrich said, it might be even more than this huge figure, it
might be twice as that. Usually, he's quite good at estimating that. I think twice as much is
the right figure. But it spreads a little bit.
We have basically three contributors to the value of new business. We have more.
Everybody contributes to that, otherwise, we would not like the business. But the three
largest ones are mortality solutions in the US, financial solutions in the US and longevity.

Bloomberg Transcript

And as Ulrich pointed out, yes, the capital costs are included in the value of new business.
So when you go down in the P&L, you see first, we have three mouths to feed here, first
are the employees, we call that salaries and expenses and administration expenses.
So what is left is called IFRS EBIT. Then we have to feed the taxman. What is left is called
net income. Then we have shareholders and the feed there is dividends. And what is left
is then the value of new business, which increases the value of the company.
Ulrich mentioned these three pockets. And he was absolutely right to say in average,
maybe it could double the IFRS or the value of new business could double when it comes
as IFRS earnings later on.
But this value is very much from these three different pockets. US mortality, the organic
business is extremely profitable but it's a long term because of capitals are significant and
earning these costs of capital, if everything works as expected then we don't need these
expenses. But highly we have to pay this dividend. So you will see that part before in the
EBIT.
Longevity, even more so, even longer term and we do not earn much more than the cost
of capital in the longevity business, something in that value of new business is significant
contributor but it's really, really long term. So for longevity and mortality solutions, the EBIT
coming out of this value of new business would be substantially higher than the value of
new business we have shown.
Slightly different situation with the financial solutions business, Ulrich mentioned about five
years, that is why for financing business, cash financing of acquisition costs, this is

Page 36 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

somewhere between three and 10 years usually for our business. And average duration,
probably five years, fine.
But then there is financial solutions business from the US And this also is long term. But
the financial solutions business is usually booked as FAS 113. It's deposit accounting,
basically fee income, extremely profitable, more than USD100 million each year. But
carries more or less no capital cost. According to our internal model, we have to book it as
deficit accounting. It carries no -- or yielding no additional capital cost. So there is not more
than what could come out of this.
Going on with answering a few questions, one of the questions in the last couple of years
was, from this audience, we have concerns about US mortality especially the so-called
Brock portfolio and Australian disability. And you have to listen today because it might be
the last time we'll talk about that. We think we have solved the problem now.
VNB, I talked about it. And I know we'll give you a few more information about the new
business initiatives we have. But let's start with these three ingredients for the increasing
profit we expect from the Life & Health business.

Bloomberg Transcript

One is in-force management. And you might be a little bit surprised because many
people say it's very difficult to do in-force management on the life side because you have
long term treaties, premium is fixed. Yes. And no, first of all, you can do something on the
claim side, not necessarily in mortality.
So the last time that somebody was revived, that's about 2000 years old. But on the
disability side, things can be done. And we have started doing a few things in Australia, for
instance.
But even on the premium side, in the US, YRT premiums can change. You cannot just
change the premium because you want so, like we have made an awful lot of money,
now, we want to make more money and tell the client we increased the premium. This
doesn't work.
But if we can show that and you know in the years 2000 to 2005, underwriting discipline
in the US was not really great. If we can show that, the client does not fully stick to what
was agreed to in terms of underwriting standards and the treaty then it is possible to
change treaty terms.
Of course, the client has the right to cancel the treaty and recapture it if we increase
rates. And we will never ever be able to recoup the profits or the money we have lost in
the last couple of years. But going forward, we can get to at least the breakeven.
So we have increased rates in the US, the YRT business. And we expect next year about
USD15 -- 1-5 -- million more premium for the same business. So this is down adjusted. We
are still working on that, that might be more in the future. But what I am telling you about
today is just what we have already achieved.
Page 37 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

The other thing I will elaborate a little bit more on is letters of credit. We have found ways
to optimize that and (again, at the rate) of, I would say nearly all our LOC costs in the
future. And we have already closed a deal structure on the 24th of September. So quite
recently this year, which will save us USD28 million in LOC fees as of now per annum.
That means about USD7 million as of October this year and USD28 million next year. And
about the same for the next couple of years of costs going down over the next 30 years.
But the total savings in present value terms is a medium term three-digit number.
We also talked to clients about optimizing post-level term rates that after the level term in
the US, the rates go significantly up. You have very high lapses. And by optimizing these
rates, we can optimize the net income for the company and also for the reinsurance.
This is early days because what we have just seen is the first post-level term of the 10year term. The portfolio we bought was written in 2000 to 2005. So from 2010 to 2015,
all the 10-year terms matured and entered into the post-level term with all these high PLT
rates. And this is something what you will see again for the 20-year term and the years,
whatever, up to 2025.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have seen rate increases in Australian group business. Claude was able to -- well, his
colleagues in the Australia were able to increase premiums by about 100% for some
group business.
We have also terminated some business in the US like a 300-million health contract where
we have not been able to agree new rates for the client, reported underperforming and
decided to give that up.
So you'll see an awful lot of volatility in our top-line in the future that could happen but
Ulrich doesn't care as long as the bottom-line is fine. So I take that as a guidance to act
accordingly.
About the value of new business, we have already talked a little bit. I will elaborate a little
bit more on that. Then growth strategies, there are quite a few things going on and I will
tell you more about that, unfortunately, only about the things which are known in public
already.
There are a lot things going on which I don't want to be, let's say, placed on our website
and I can't give you all the secrets here. But there are lots of things you might not know
but they are basically publicly known and I can talk about that.
What I will do -- but back to the Scottish Re acquisition. And what I have shown here is the
EBIT of the Scottish Re portfolio that includes (Brock) and the two other smaller blocks we
have acquired, (Big Mac) and Clearwater. So it's a total Scottish Re portfolio.
And you see that in 2009, we have shown a significant value of business acquired,
USD143 million. The next two years, '10 and '11, basically performed as expected. We
Page 38 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

knew from a technical side it was thinly priced.

FINAL

Then we saw significant deterioration, significant reserving from our side in 2012. 2013
seemed to be more or less back to normal. That is not correct. We had a significant
recapture on, not one, many different clients in 2013, which had a substantial positive
impact on the result of (Brock) of about 16 million. And we saw that result in 2014 as well.
Overall still without going into difficulties and trouble with discounting the values, adjust.
And added it up, we are still USD42 million positive. The question is, what can you do
when you see a situation like this?
Of course, you can increase YRT rates, you can work on letters of credit, I will talk about
that. But the other thing you can do is you can try to look -- make this look smaller than it
really is by adding profitable business.
And that's basically what we have done as of 2010. You see on the left bottom side, the
bottom left side, the USD42 million again and you see the new business, the organic
business we have written in that time. And this add up basically 20, 22, 23 million each
year to the bottom-lin.

Bloomberg Transcript

Over this timeline, it was USD69 million. So in total at the end of last year, it was a profit of
USD111 million over the lifetime of this portfolio.
So what we expect to do is, of course, to grow this number. This should increase. We do
not expect that this stays at USD42 million if we have losses in 2015 and we have some in
the first half year.
You have seen the accounts. Then the USD42 million will become smaller. The USD69
million should become bigger. But over time, this problem should disappear. And this is
something what I would like to show you on the next slide.
Please note that this is the net amount at risk. This is the risk measure. This is the portfolio
we have in-force. And in 2009, the Scottish Re portfolio was 95% of the total portfolio in
the US mortality solutions. And only 5% was with other business, organic business.
The premium, if it's YRT premium, it increases. So over a long time, you might see stable
premiums. But the risk behind this premium decreases because the net amount at risk is
something that should go down. And they have gone down significantly.
Today, although the net amount at risk might still be, I can say, broadly the same as
before but now, 29% of that is very profitable organic business and only 71% is the old
Scottish Re business.
So this has improved significantly over the last five years and it will continue to go like that.
So in 20 years, the blue part of the bar will be nearly gone and it will all be the great part

Page 39 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

which we believe is very profitable organic business, what we are writing.

FINAL

Then I also mentioned letters of credit costs. Starting in 2009, we have letter credit cost
slightly increasing up to 2011 then we bought another block, Clearwater, which was
profitable. We already knew that the (Brock) portfolio was thinly priced. So the pricing for
Clearwater was better.
Also, there were some changes in the LOC structures, what we brought from banks. So
the prices went up. This was planned. In 2012, we had nearly USD50 million of LOC costs.
That would all include annual LOC costs. And we started thinking about getting rid of that,
not getting cheaper letters of credit but really trying to avoid this. And something really
had changed in, let's say, the mindset of the regulators.
Initially, they asked for Triple-X reserves and said "You deposit cash," then everybody
found out cash is very expensive. So LOCs will do. LOCs were accepted as long as they
came from accredited German -- oh, not German, a US bank or some German bank,
whatever you need a kind of license in the US to provide these LOCs.

Bloomberg Transcript

At the regulator front, if you have an LOC from a bank, everything is fine. For many banks,
that might be true, for some, it wasn't. In the financial crisis, they learned that there are
some banks -- nothing happened to the business. But the letters of credit disappeared.
Whatever Lehman Brothers has issued was suddenly not worth much. And the regulator
realized that maybe they should also accept other sources of guarantees.
So the business. So far, flew just from the US to the Irish subsidiary. All of this US business
is in the Irish subsidiary or most of it.
Theoretically, Hannover Re Germany could say, if the business really trend sour, we have
USD50 million losses each year. We could say, "okay, we don't pay that. And if Ireland
cannot pay any longer then therefore we let them default and let them go under, we
don't pay the claims as Hannover Re Group." This doesn't work.
As long as the problem is solvable from a Hannover Re Germany point of view, we would
always pay the clinks. All our business would be over if we let our Irish subsidiary go under.
If we have to do that because there's a pandemic and we have 5 billion claims, that might
happen.
But as long as we've talked about 50 million or even more, even 100 million, Ulrich would
not be happy, I would not be happy and my supervisory board would tell me a few not
that nice things," but we could still pay that. And as long as we can pay it, it's not an option
to that Ireland go under.
So what we did was we basically provided a kind of guarantee to Ireland that we would
pay the claims and the regulator accepts that. So before that, it was a deal between the
US and Ireland and Hannover Re Group have for -- have the theoretical. And I would like to
stress that, only theoretical option to let Ireland go under if it happens.
Page 40 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

Now, instead of using LOCs, Hannover will step in if necessary. We doubt that this will ever
be necessary, first of all, because we don't believe that the business would be that
problematic, in any case, we could increase capital if necessary, or pay the claims one way
or the other.
But we did not really change the risk for the group. It was not an option to let the Irish
company go under and now, it's legally not even an option. But it doesn't change anything
for us other than we don't pay the LOC fees any longer. We save USD28 million each and
every year.
You can look at it as we have printed our own LOCs, sort of explanation. The technical
details are a little bit more difficult but basically, Hannover Re in Germany is now also liable
for the US business up to the Triple-X reserves, not beyond that. But up to the Triple-X
reserves, if at any point in time, Ireland is not able to pay that.
So this is one of the problems we believe we have solved and we have USD28 million less
LOC costs with USD15 million higher YRT premiums for the same business. We know that
next year, the result will be 43 million better than it otherwise would be.

Bloomberg Transcript

Other tricky question, is that now close to zero, is it about zero, are we rich, are we still
making losses? This has to be seen. There is some more business where we can increase
premiums. There is some more letters of credit where we can save the LOC costs. At the
end, we believe that we will end up with a zero or small profit in the midterm future. But
as of now, we are saving already USD43 million each and every year, okay, decreasing
over time.
Next page is the disability income insurance business in Australia. And what you see here
is probably worse result of the last years then remember, what we have put here are the
technical results.
Net for our own account, we retrocede a lot of this business. But what we have not
included here -- because it's just technical result and IFRS EBIT, we have not included the
tax effect we have from this double taxing agreement with Australia.
In Australia, you could have chosen and we have done that a couple of years ago that you
get taxed for 100% of the business in Australia and then, of course, if 90% of the
business goes to Germany, they are taxed on the profit here as well.
So we have paid double taxes or what is the case here in case of losses, we can deduct
taxes twice. So the IFRS profits or losses you have seen in our results are significantly
lower than these technical results.
And what is also not included here is that we retrocede a lot of business. These are net
technical results for us but we get an over writer for the (session) to our (Retrocessions
there). And this is also included in the IFRS results but not in our technical results here. So

Page 41 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

this looks much worse than what you have seen in the last couple of years in our balance
sheet.

FINAL

Why I'm showing this to you, we have increased reserved significantly in the year 2013
with an extra AUD100 million going into that. And in 2014 and now, '15, we expect this to
be broadly even, plus/minus a couple of million cannot always happen with changing
interest rates, with introduction of new mortality tables and disability tables.
There will always be a little bit of volatility but we have no reason to believe that we will
see anything similar to what we have seen in 2011 or '13.
This is the disability income individual business which we have already canceled in 2009
which is now in runoff.

Bloomberg Transcript

The group business also had its ups and downs and was quite profitable till 2011 than we
had three years of negative results basically because some lawyers started developing
new business model trying to convince people that they should go to courts and not back
to work.
And so the group business which is only up to three years rate guarantees sometimes
even just one-year rate guarantees, this is back into profitable areas already by now, even
that profitable that we have not been able to renew one treaty where the client expected
after pretty good year, significant rate decreases, we don't agree to that. And have given
up more than 300, was it 360, AUD360 million in premium just because we couldn't get
the rates we wanted.
Question is what do we do with these reserves here, this 100 million? This is basically over
this business which is we knew to much better terms. But the result here is these are
negative results, we would expect if we have not increased the reserves significantly.
So this means there are 18 million taken from the reserves we have set up additionally
and flow to the bottom-line result so that we get to zero. So this is a decrease of the
additional claims reserves we have set up as a cautious method. So the TPD business
should be already back in line with our profit expectations.
One thing we have not discussed so far is every now and then, we have questions about
longevity, do you really believe in that, are you making money of that? Ulrich mentioned
profits come much, much later.
Reason is that you can't make much of a mistake in the very beginning because in these
longevity swaps, the swap current, pension payments, again, the expected pension
payments and the expectations today is exactly the pension you have to pay out today. So
they can't get at times zero.
After a year, if we expect 1% of the people should have passes away and it's only 0.8% of
the people then it's tiny. But this gap could widen and we have designed the profit
Page 42 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

structure in a way that we earn the money according to the risk we are running. So after
five, 10, 15 years, when the risk is the highest that this has widened, if it's not -- if it has not
widened then the profits will come through.

FINAL

You can't make a loss in the very first year because you know there are 1,000 people next
year, that should be 990. And maybe it's 992. And the two more doesn't create a huge
loss.
So from all the -- and this year is the enhanced annuities business. What we have written
in 2009, we expect today according to our analysis that mortality is about 100%, which is
good for longevity. It wasn't that much business. So all the confidence interval is quite
large.
In 2010, when we look at that now, it's a little bit below 100%, that's bad. But the
confidence interval is wide enough to cover even up to I would say 112%. So it could well -very well be profitable.

Bloomberg Transcript

At the same then, we have changed our pricing a little bit. It was possibly on the market to
charge a little bit more. So now, in '11, '12, '13 '14, this went up. And the total on average
we believe that we have a very healthy profit margin in the longevity business. But you will
only see it in the next five, 10, 15 years, most of that.
This is enhanced annuities. This is immediate annuities individually underwritten. Now,
block transactions, in a way, you have to -- this graph is in terms of the data points and
confidence intervals exactly the same as before.
But here, it means we have written three treaties in the year 2008, Company A, B. And C.
Somebody told me there is a typo I guess. 2012 is K and not H. So it's not the same one
as in 2010.
These are large portfolios. That's what you can see especially when the confidence
interval is very small. In total, we are above 300%. That's where we should be, where we
want to be. You cannot expect to get the same levels as with enhanced annuities where
you're underwriting individual policies.
Here, the mortality is pretty clear. If you get a huge block of business, pension fund with
100,000 people then mortality is clear. You can't price for 20% return. That doesn't make
-- it would make sense but you can't get it. So we are very happy with these block deals.
Again, most of the profits will come in the years five to 15.
Are we still writing new business? Yes. We do on the pension fund side. This is the quoting
activities in the last years. So in 2009, we've quoted for 23 blocks and we won I guess, it's
three blocks. Then it went up, down.
Most of this in the U.K. This is the dark blue and the lighter blue is quotes outside of the
U.K. what you see is that this goes down a little bit here in the last years. It goes down in
Page 43 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

total because we have decided not to quote on some blocks.

FINAL

We see basically everything in the market. I don't think that there is any deal that we have
not been asked to participate in. But we have rejected to do that in some cases just
because too much work and we have to pick the ones we think we have a bigger chance
to win. And in some areas, we just believe that whatever we quote will finally not be the
winning quote anyhow and then we say just the work to participate in them.
So we pick and choose more than we did in the past. And we also tried to shift a little bit
away from the U.K. and to quotes also in the US and Canada and Australia and South
Africa and some European countries. So although probably for a while, the U.K. will still be
the biggest producer of these pension blocks. We shift that to the rest of the world.
I guess this is something what you had seen before and I don't want to dive too deep into
that. This is our reinsurance universe and I guess Claude Chevre explained that in one of
his sessions earlier.
I would just recollect this in a sense that I'll give you a counter example, what is not within
the white triangle what we look for. Not in the white triangle is, for instance, high quota
shares in U.K. mortality.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the U.K., they have a 100% quota share. The reinsurers take 100% of the risk. The
insurance companies still do the underwriting on their own. Maybe the claims
management on their own, they just pass on the risk to the reinsurers.
Some reinsurance -- reinsurers are happy to write this business. We are not. And why do
we believe we should not participate on that, it's not part of these five categories we
have defined. High growth markets, U.K. might be a growth market. Some people will
grow in the U.K. but I doubt that the traditional players will be that. Other people will take
market share from them.
These large players are not companies in transition. They still do the same thing as they
always did in the last years. These are not alternative distribution channels. They just sell
these via the independent financial advisers.
This is not directed to underserved consumers. It's just the traditional policyholder. And it's
not hard to quantify risk. And this is the main point here. You get an awful lot of data from
the big players and they'd tell you exactly they will go for the cheapest.
And because you really can't analyze the portfolio, the margins are extremely thin, rates
are thin or even from my point of view, sometimes negative. So if these are not hard to
quantify risks and the client knows more about the risk than we do then that's not a good
starting point for a corporation.
So we concentrate on things like the vitality concept. I will talk about digitalization and
micro insurance and some other things we have already mentioned. Claude mentioned
Page 44 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

even Solvency II-like. In China, they call it C-ROSS deals for financial solutions.

FINAL

We concentrate on Australian group business. We have some direct to consumer
activities. We have recently started an Internet platform to sell policies in Malaysia, an
insurance company but the risk is mostly passed onto us.
It's cooperation with an I.T. company, extremely easy to sell policies within 7 minutes, very
few questions, you get that. I'm not talking about EUR20 million cover and maybe ringgit
in this area. But certainly not large (sums insured).
And I have talked about things like runoff management, (Hailubaga Lim) we are active in
Germany with (Hailubaga). And in Australia as well. We are also active with somebody else
in Lichtenstein and Switzerland. So we have now two runoff platforms. We are managing
both as minority partner for the time being. And I will talk a little bit about our point-of-sale
systems and where I think this will go.
But first, vitality, this is lifestyle underwriting. And in contradiction to what most of the
people believe, lifestyle underwriting is not about giving you additional credits or
reductions in premium for improving your health. You might want to do that.

Bloomberg Transcript

And for health business, it might work. So if you start exercising and start with a healthy
lifestyle, that might have some effect or will have some effect on your health insurance.
And you might feel just better, go less often to the doctor.
But it will not change your mortality in the next five years. Claude Chevre is running
marathon, I'm playing chess. If I would join in on his morning runs and training sessions, I
don't think that would improve my mortality, probably quite to the contrary. On the other
hand, if he starts playing chess, I don't think he gets any brighter.
Vitality, the concept, helps you to select people. These are affinity groups. And we are the
main supporter of this worldwide. We have developed that with Discovery in South Africa
that is well known. We are their reinsurer for many, many years. We have helped them to
transport back to Australia. We have helped them to find a license provider, an insurance
company in Asia.
So are participating via reinsurance and that, we have helped them to find somebody in
the US We are reinsuring that. We are talking together with them to people in Canada, to
the -- in the U.K. and Continental Europe. So we are promoting that together with
Discovery. And we expect an awful lot of business from that and the reason is why should
that profitable business.
And these are figures from Discovery, vitality figures and the impact on mortality, critical
illness and lapses. Just to explain that a little bit, 100% is the people who are not
participating in vitality. So this is the market average.

Page 45 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

Then just the people who have signed up for vitality that could have various different
meanings like you go to a gym regularly and you agree that whenever you swipe your
card in the gym, somebody tracks that you go that twice a week for two hours.

FINAL

They don't check what you do there. You can just sit there or like me, go to sauna, which is
quite healthy as well because we relax. But nobody tracks how much weight you lifted or
whatever you did there. But at least you have been there twice a week for two hours.
You have bought very healthy food. You have done other things which are good for your
health. And if you are willing to accept that, could go as far as using one of these
wearable devices which then sends regularly information to somebody.
But that's not even necessary. Just for signing up for that shows that the people who sign
up for vitality concept have on average better mortality than the people who don't.
It's not really surprising because these people obviously care for their health. They might
not have the willpower to exercise like me but at least they take care of their health, they
go to the doctor regularly. Then, of course, it gets better when you get moderately
engaged or highly engaged, that's fine.

Bloomberg Transcript

Where it doesn't have an effect is on CV illnesses. If you talk about cancer, heart attack
and stroke, even the people who care for their health cannot really predict that -- these
three things. And these are the main diseases covered by critical illness cover.
And what is also interesting is lapses, when you start -- when you enlist for the program,
your lapses go down a little bit because you wanted to do this and you stick to it even if
you don't engage. But at least you had a certain commitment to stay with the policy and
do something.
But if you start exercising then, of course, you would lose all the benefits you get from
that. Maybe these three vouchers from Starbucks or whatever, it's an offer, you would lose
that if you -- if you lapse your policy. So there's a significant impact on lapses.
And now, just think about this just for signing up at 20% of your premium as additional
profit. So what Discovery could do is offer the same policy for 90% and still make a 10%
profit or maybe 95% is enough. So make 15% profit.
Whereas the market trade is probably 105, very thinly priced, on average, 100 is the
claims you have to pay and you're charged 105. So the difference for vitality is from 105 to
the real mortality. That's what they make and that could double, triple or quadruple your
profits.
These are the things we try to support. On the lower left, you'll see vitality, that's what I've
just explained. The Internet platform in Asia, that's Malaysia, what I've just mentioned. We
also cooperate with distribution network in the U.K.

Page 46 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

We want to build a brand name, maybe even establish a life insurance company, getting a
license. Apparently, we have designed all the products for them. We reinsure them 100%.
We do that. 20 minutes ago, I said we don't do it, we do it. But we do the full medical
underwriting for that with our systems. We also do it with the latest version of our in-house
plug and underwrite point-of-sale system, reflex.
Vitality is basically all of that one way or the other. Digitalization can have an awful lot of
meanings. But that basically means reducing expenses for the sales force. That's what you
have to achieve.
Reflex is something what we have developed and this is -- you can say just another pointof-sale system, everybody has one. But the focus here for us is the process analysis. It's
not that we want to add another 500 diseases which then can be automatically
underwritten.
This would cover about 1/2% of all the policies, all the applications. What we want to do
here is add third party data like the drug register in the US They have other, what's it, the
car register where you -- I guess in Germany, it's called Flensburg, where you collect your
points for speeding. They have something similar in the US and you can link that through
the underwriting process.

Bloomberg Transcript

It's a very easy to modify route sets so we want the client to be able to change routes
themselves. So it's not that they have to ask an I.T. company to change the route. They
can do it on their own.
And it's not -- I'd say it again, everybody does basically the same quality of underwriting
decisions. I don't see that we can market this system by saying that it's the best
underwriting system. It's as good as all the others but it's more flexible and provides you
with much more information about what you have done.
Last month, you underwrote 2,000 cases and you can drill into that and analyze that most
of them were accepted, about 150 were rejected, 60% of that due to heart diseases,
20% due to something else. And you can fine-tune the underwriting for that.
And the last one which I will mention only briefly is micro insurance mainly in Asia would
make sense in some other part of the world as well, could be Africa, could be Latin
America. It's huge potential but also digitalization plays a role here.
You cannot ensure a few 100 people without the help of digital devices. This doesn't
make any sense. You can send people there, agents, independent agents, brokers, that
doesn't work.
You also have to make sure that fraud protection is in place. You have to find ways to
collect premium. You could do that via mobile phones. And in many cases, these are
state-owned schemes where we cooperate with the state who provide that.

Page 47 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

Will this make us rich in the short term, midterm? No, you will see a meaningful effect on
the P&L at some point in time. But it will not be overwhelming in the sense that this is
another 200 million profit, I doubt that, this will happen in the next five to 10 years. But at
the end when this -- these countries improve, their quality of life, suddenly (inaudible) will
get higher.
And the last slide basically goes back to what Ulrich already said and that's what he
basically requested growth both on the top-line as well as bottom-line. These are the
numbers. You had seen the value of new business and this will turn into IFRS profits
including the capital costs at some point in time.
So far in the last five years, we have delivered on the growth. Every now and then, it's a
little bit stable, just 200 million but (inaudible) 800 million more. I just mentioned that we
have given up already 600 million this year.
Nevertheless, we hope that 2015 will follow this blue line there. We're quite confident that
it will, a little bit above, a little bit below. We will see if the IFRS profits will show up in the
midterm future.
Thanks for that. And now, you have to decide whether you want to ask questions or you
want dessert.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

So some -- some colleagues have already made their decision. We start with Will Hawkins
here and then continue with Kamran.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Thank you. William Hawkins from KBW. Just briefly, when you were talking about the LOC
change for US mortality, you gave us the figure of $28 million for the expected
improvement to profits.
I'm surprised you've not said there are some compensating spike in capital intensity
because presumably, Hannover Re is putting up more guarantees. But that wasn't
referred to during the presentation that was talking about the -- you know, why the
required capital for underwriting Life & Health changed. So is there a -- there should be a
compensating capital cost, I would have thought.

A - Klaus Miller

{BIO 16886879 <GO>}

No. Why should it?

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Because --

A - Klaus Miller

{BIO 16886879 <GO>}
Page 48 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

We have this business --

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

FINAL

-- we have more guarantees taken before.

A - Klaus Miller

{BIO 16886879 <GO>}

-- business. Nothing has changed. So far, Ireland had the business and the whole risk but
we don't care where it is in the group. Andreas Maerkert calculates the capital
requirement for the group. And whether it comes all from Ireland or all from Hannover, it
doesn't matter.
There is no trigger in the internal model that said, "okay, we could let them bust." That
doesn't -- that's not part of that.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

And I think the other thing is the risk that is guaranteed here is, I mean, triple X reserves
which are very remote. So an actuarial in calculation would associate no probability to the
tail end of this risk and therefore, I mean, that part of the risk according to the internal
model and according to the rating agency models, you need hardly any capital.

Bloomberg Transcript

That's the same tail end of risk we are accepting in our financial solutions business.
They're also the capital requirements are close to zero.

A - Klaus Miller

{BIO 16886879 <GO>}

Explanation is correct, Ulrich. But still if there was capital requirements and it was all in
Ireland, it was all in the group before and now we have shifted a little bit.
Yes, (inaudible) here. You're correct. Because we cannot provide a guarantee for free.
Ireland has to pay Hannover for that and the small chart of the $28 million do not end up in
Ireland but they end up in Germany. You cannot argue that there is a higher tax rate and
there are little bit of costs to the profit which ends up in Hannover and less cost to the
profit in Ireland at this time.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Kamran?

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

All right. It's Kamran Hossain from RBC. I just have one question about your comments
from the bulk market. You mentioned that you spot the UK market still be the biggest
market going forward. What are the obstacles --

A - Klaus Miller

{BIO 16886879 <GO>}

Longevity.
Page 49 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Yes. Longevity. What are the obstacles getting the US market tightening up?

FINAL

A - Klaus Miller

{BIO 16886879 <GO>}

Not really obstacles. We are currently quoting for US business. It just happened a little bit
later. There was an awful lot of presence onto the UK pension funds and they were just
early on the game and try to derisk and then we went there.
Remember in the 90s, in end of 90s, we were the only ones who wrote these deals. All
the other -- when I grew up in the Swiss Re company, I was told you can't write longevity
business, you should never ever touch that. Market has changed. Everybody is writing it
and for good reasons I think it's a good business.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Okay. Another question from Andrew Ritchie and then from Olivia.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Just a question, when I look at the Australian life insurers, primary Australian life insurers'
result, you can get them actually on a quarterly basis from the regulator website, they're
continuing to make quite significant losses in disability both individual and group and it just
dictates that the primary market is just going to continue to reflect the problems in the
reinsurers that you're reserving.
You've kind of said, well, this is going to carry on under the present valuing of the losses
upfront. So is it the case that we could see the reinsurers doing okay and then you dealt
with the problem but the primary market continues to make losses? So I just ignore the
primary results than trying to -- the future risks?

A - Klaus Miller

{BIO 16886879 <GO>}

I don't know what the reinsurance do. We have stopped writing disability income insurance
in 2009 and we have to deal with the problem we have but we're not adding to that any
longer and we believe we have dealt with the problem.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Is the claims environment still -- they're very dynamic in terms of frequency and severity of
losses?

A - Klaus Miller

{BIO 16886879 <GO>}

According to my knowledge, I don't know whether Claude can be a little bit more precise.
The claims levels are sufficient according to our reserve and that means they're
significantly worse than they were five years ago. So we have now reserve up to that level.
They have not come back to what they once were. Anything you would like to add?

Page 50 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

A - Claude Chevre

{BIO 17369098 <GO>}

FINAL

...observant, that's also what we did to our reserving. You see that determination rates
become even worse than what was anticipated a few years ago.
So you see the people will get into disability. They will hardly never return back to work
and this is what you kind of observe in Australia. But on our book, we have reserved that.
That's what I explained also a year or two years ago.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

So the primary industry could still be getting worse for a bit basically?

A - Claude Chevre

{BIO 17369098 <GO>}

Absolutely.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

And second question, on the longevity in the UK, how often you get information from the
savings and the schemes, I mean, because I think there was some, in the years gone by,
there was a delay not just for Hannover industry in terms of how quickly you got
information on how much you got updated mortality days. What is that -- how quickly do
you get it?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Klaus Miller

{BIO 16886879 <GO>}

Usually we get annual portfolio information and, of course, we get quarterly accounts but
that's just the accounting portfolio information once a year. When you look at the slides,
you'll see that for the block assumptions we have not put in 2013 and '14 and the reason
is that the full information for 2013 is probably only available in 2015, early 2015.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

So it's a two-year kind of -- right?

A - Klaus Miller

{BIO 16886879 <GO>}

Two years, yes.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

A - Klaus Miller

{BIO 16886879 <GO>}

To be precise, we get it annually but not for last year but for the year before. Pension
funds and administration are two things which do not well fit together. Olivia?

Q - Olivia Brindle

{BIO 17273762 <GO>}

Page 51 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

Hi, there, it's Olivia from Bank of America. I have two questions on the longevity side
again. So firstly, you comment that you went one out of seven deals and that's largely
around pricing. How big does this spread tend to be on the price ranges and I'm just
wondering why you would come out just one out of seven, is it because you think other
are being too aggressive, is that because they applied different capital, charge?
I mean, your diversification benefit seems to be quite high already on the life side. So are
these applying even more? You know, just your thoughts on why it's only one out of
seven.
Then secondly, a more general question I guess from the market, if we think about the
balance of supply and demand, there's obviously quite a lot of latent demand from the
UK pension funds but it seems like the sort of supply from the reinsurance industries still a
little bit on the cautious side. Do you think at that time pricing has to go up or actually
maybe it doesn't necessarily move quite as much as the industry would like?

A - Klaus Miller

{BIO 16886879 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

First question, one out of seven, we have probably half of that. So out of seven, three are
what I would call early failures, first round and we are not in it because obviously the client
has very strange ideas sometimes by their actual HRO advisers.
Then some of these deals never get done so there are quite a few deals where the
pension fund goes out and says, I would like to do a deal and then they get five quotes
and don't accept any of them. Then on the other three or four, we might win 24%, 25%,
33% whatever.
Every now and then, people have different ideas probably not on the real claims.
Experience is an all actuary thing. They calculate the same things. So the pricing difference
might only be 4% margin, 4.5% margin that makes different.
But we also have seen that one huge deal we saw a couple months ago, somebody
wants to place 16 billion of liabilities and I thought we should be very bullish. I asked my
colleagues whether they would support that and I went in and said, okay, we take half of
that, 8 billion. That would have been the largest deal we would have ever done.
And I was surprised to learn that the whole deal went to one party which was a US life
insurance company who believed that the diversification effect with UK longevity is so
great that they also priced we would never ever have been able to meet.
You can argue and this is what I do and Andreas Maerkert agrees, S&P does not fully
agree to that. It's uncorrelated. If I back solve the pricing for this special deal, there must
be a highly negative correlation being assumed by this party and we would never ever do
that.
So you could theoretically argue that the pension fund was paid to give the business to
somebody else. We don't do that. We still want to make money. And the other question,
Page 52 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

sorry, I lost that, market and supply?

Q - Olivia Brindle

{BIO 17273762 <GO>}

FINAL

So the -- yes, the balance of supply and demand on the UK longevity side and what that
means for the pricing.

A - Klaus Miller

{BIO 16886879 <GO>}

They've gone a little bit more crowded in the last couple of years and this is why you have
seen that we did not even quote on these deals. We see in general that the pricing is
better than the rest of the world but that's natural.
Where it is crowded, it gets competitive. The UK is quite easy. Everybody speaks the
language. When you go -- okay, the US is well but in some other markets, when you go to
France, we have done the first deal in France. You need a good client relationship. You
have to speak French and we believe the margins are for the time being larger in other
markets.

Q - Olivia Brindle

{BIO 17273762 <GO>}

Do you think in UK that pushes after the time because there is so much more than on
relative to the current supply or?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Klaus Miller

{BIO 16886879 <GO>}

I have to give you the theoretical answer. It should but I'm really convinced that this will
work without any let's say interim period where we might decide not to participate in any
quotes for three or four years, I don't know, it could happen. The pricing discipline is core
to our -- to our business model.

Q - Olivia Brindle

{BIO 17273762 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Okay. Are there any further questions? We will take another one and then I think we break
for lunch and keep the other questions for later. So Vinit, please.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Okay. I have two quick questions, Vinit here. Just from the the collateral cost, is it such an
easy win and is the rest of the market also doing this already or because it looks like why
it wasn't done earlier or, of course, maybe the regulators have changed the view or
something.

A - Klaus Miller

{BIO 16886879 <GO>}

It's -- technically it's not that easy because what the regulators want is something which is
similar to a letter of credit. Letter of credit, you can sell, you get cash immediately.
Page 53 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

Then, of course, the bank turns around and asks for the money back and maybe you have
cash in the LOC without any good reason then you are liable for that so the whole
documentation for this is significantly. It's not like a promise to pay. It's something what
you theoretically could cash in but it would really hurt you if you do that without Hannover
Re Ireland failing on claims payments before.
If that happens, okay, then you can cash it in and that's fine. But if you do that or if they do
that, that would really hurt them. They have to sell these guarantees back to us first. It's a
contractual obligation to do that so we have the first right if they want to cash it in.
It's a lot of cycles. I can probably tell you a little bit more about how this works but
probably it takes 15 minutes so we should have dessert together.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

And just quickly, these enhanced annuities, you have walked -- you have withdrawn from
this market two years ago or one year ago are reduced exposure, no?

A - Klaus Miller

{BIO 16886879 <GO>}

No. Not really.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

(inaudible).

A - Klaus Miller

{BIO 16886879 <GO>}

The market reduced significantly because the UK government decided that you don't
have to take your company pension money and buy a pension but you can get one-off
payment.
So instead of using GBP30,000, GBP40,000, GBP50,000 and buy a life-long pension
which only might be whatever GBP200 a month, you can just take a one-off payment and
live happily ever after or not ever after, perhaps a year and then the money is spent.
And so there was a change in the law and this basically crashed the market so it's
something that we withdraw but somebody in the government said it's a good idea that
the people have a choice to buy that instead of having to buy it. Probably, they were
fishing for complements or votes in the election by doing so.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Okay. Well thank you. We will now break for lunch for about 45 minutes and, well, please
enjoy the meal and hopefully you have also some aspiring conversation in the dessert of
course and please be back at 1:30 as not to miss Roland Vogel's presentation. Thank you.
Welcome back, everyone. As a gesture of our transparency, we would like to invite you to
take a brief glance at Roland's desk. What you will see is the calculation of the
Page 54 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

equalisation reserve. It's development over the time and the implication for the German
GAAP profit needless to say that we can by -- get by without an update on the
investments either.

FINAL

But I'm sure I'm not giving away too much of it to reveal that he has got a good deal more
besides this on his desk. So Roland, over to you.

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

One or two other issues on top of that. Yes. So this year I have the pleasure to execute
the after lunch session. I think Claude was complaining to be in charge of doing that in the
previous years so I will try to do my very best to keep you awake with three topics.
First of all, also a tradition like Eberhard redundant reserve numbers, I look at the current
investment portfolio as well as the reinvestment yields in the current and also where it's
been with its point of maturities and the forecast of the amount of money which will
mature and how we will invest and today, we're trying to give you an idea as to -- at which
ROIs we will invest our money.

Bloomberg Transcript

And if you had already a glance at the numbers, not very surprising, nothing really brand
new. We're getting used to interest rates being solo as they are. On top of that, I have
included a little bit of investment special which is real estate. We intent to increase the
quarter offer real estate in our portfolio.
Quite remarkably, we will have to ask our supervisory board to confirm and approve that
so I don't have the real plan numbers. But as we plan to grow that portfolio and
experience has been very good, it was my idea to give you a little bit of insight where we
are invested today and what the returns of that portfolio are today.
Then I gave myself a challenge to talk about German GAAP or Germans (here) will be
used to that at least to a certain extent and as the German GAAP numbers are so really
driven by the equalisation reserve. I even have included some very technical slides about
the calculation of the equalisation reserve which I would argue is obviously the Solvency II
version 1.0 and it's just to demonstrate that volatility-based and risk-based capital
requirements are not invented by today's actual risk but have already been invented by
German civil servants 80 years ago.
But we also have -- this has a meaning for our dividend potential for that it might still be
interesting. I don't expect you to memorialize all the technicalities of that.
But first of all, I think a quick look at our investment portfolio as it stands today. Nothing
really material had happened. The fixed income portfolio has gone down from 90% to
89% and really nothing to write home about you.
What maybe is already recognizable is something which we internally have called a little
bit of our barbell strategy to get rid of the belly and invest a little bit more on the very
high quality side and more also on the low quality side.
Page 55 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

You see that here that the government quarter has increased from 21% to 23%. That is
already a reflection of increasing the liquidity of the overall portfolio to a certain extent.
That here on that slide is that the expense of the covered bond portfolio. Here, a new
market participant moved a lot and we will see the market interest rates as well as the
portfolio interest rates for the covered bond portfolio in a second and that gives you also
an idea as to why we have decreased that portion a little bit.
Listed equity is here, a little bit below so nothing had happened by the end of the first half
year. We have taken the opportunity or one opportunity in the Third Quarter so will see a
little bit but only a slight movement in that quarter by the end of the Third Quarter.
Nothing really which changes the portfolio.
As such, moreover, you see the real estate portfolio was 4%, EUR1.7 billion and as I
mentioned, this should increase over time over the next years. Here I think a slide which
you are used to for quite some time, it compares the market yield with the portfolio yield
and you see that the portfolio on an ordinary income basis yields as approximately 3%.
Today, we reinvest the money if we reinvest each and every dollar or you will get exactly
at the composition of the portfolio as it stands today. The reinvestment yield is 1.8%. It's
around that number for quite a while. Nothing really crucial has happened so this should
not be a surprise.

Bloomberg Transcript

So the difference between the portfolio yield and the market yield is 120 basis points,
modified duration five years. So if -- that would be a real proportional basis that would
mean these fixed income securities would run off over the next 10 years.
We have a difference of 120 basis points which indicate that we would be losing 12 basis
points a year and I think that is also which you have been experiencing for quite some
time.
Here you can -- I was referring to the covered bonds, here is the biggest difference
between the market yield and the portfolio yield, 3.3% as the market yield. So the elder
longer data and securities are still earning much more than the reinvestment yield today
with 1.4 and this is why.
Obviously, it's recognizable that these securities are both by again one big new market
participant driving the prices down and this is why we feel it's no longer that attractive to
be there. On a quality basis which you can also see that down there, one shoot on the
basis of this barbell strategy by more at the end of that barbell and get rid of the belly a
little bit.
We would expect to see the AA and AAA bucket increasing as well as the BBB and BB and
below and in the middle, we should get a little bit lighter in the future. The overall risk
appetite has not changed.

Page 56 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

Here is also the usual slide which we showed to you at that occasion. It shows you that
during the second half of 2015, we do expect to see mature -- more maturities of EUR1.4
billion and the maturing yield is to 3.2%.
For the next year, we expect to mature EUR3.3 billion and the maturing yield is 2.8%. If I
take the next year on that basis, we lose 2.8% and we reinvest at 1.8% so we lose 100
basis points for those EUR3.3 billion that translates into EUR35 million around this -EUR35 million in net investment income.
If I try to compensate that was additional cash flow and higher assets under own
management, I would need EUR19 billion at a rate of 1.8% to make up for that money. Up
to now, we have -- we had a positive cash flow of around EUR2 billion is that a little bit
lower.
Again, that all depends on the assumption that we do reinvest exactly where we are
invested today and we will see some shifts and if these shifts have positive effect, we
should also longer term be in a position to compensate the decreasing yield with
additional volumes and keep the net investment income at least stable.

Bloomberg Transcript

This is then a projection of the ordinary return exactly on that basis so nothing brand new
and this gives you the expectations that next year we will if everything else is equal 2.9%
ordinary. If interest rates go up by 100 basis points, this will be 3%. If interest rates go
down by 100 basis points, this will be 2.8%.
Again, I think you've seen that before, nothing really extraordinary but as an update also
to confirm to you what we are doing, here I think the last slide for this update on
reinvestment yields, you see the expectations on an asset class basis.
Here you also can see that for instance for the real estate portfolio, the returns are quite
attractive. The expectation is 5.3% and that was also the reason why I thought I might give
you a little bit of an overview of the real estate portfolio as it is today.
So that is now my second topic. We have a real estate quota of around 4%. There are in
our investment guideline, we have 5% as the target today. As you have always deals in
the pipe and once in a while you sell something, if you have a target of 5%, it's always a
bit difficult to achieve it and this is where we are around 4% right now, a little bit over that.
And as I mentioned, we intend to increase that medium term. We could really foresee
that we double that quarter because we feel this is really where the illiquidity is paid well
and with the barbell strategy increasing the liquidity on the higher quality side, we feel
that we can afford it.
And where we are invested today is shown, first of all, on this slide. You see that we have
around 77% of our real estate portfolio, the EUR1.7 billion. We have invested today our
health as within direct portfolios.

Page 57 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

Direct means we have internal structures where we have gathered them but we know
each and every investment, each and every real estate object individually. We see it
individually. We decide as to whether we want to buy it or not.

FINAL

We work together with three portfolio managers. So first of all, it's USA. direct portfolio
32%. We have in Germany 22%. We will see some details about it on the next slide. And
we have an Eastern Europe portfolio around 23%.
The rest of the 23% is invested in funds where we do not know all the individual holdings
where we also take a little bit more in opportunistic approach and where also the risk
profile is a little bit higher.
As reinsurers, we always concentrate on a broad diversification. We also do that in our real
estate portfolio against three different managers. We have our regional focus on very
mature and transparent markets especially for the direct holdings.
The direct, as I mentioned, dominates with around 3/4 of a total portfolio and that quarter
also reflects the quality profile, very high quality in all the direct portfolios that is always
premier locations and we take a little bit more risks via the funds.

Bloomberg Transcript

And we also do observe and concentrate also on the diversification of the various sectors.
You see the managers are diversified. The geographic diversification is there plus the
sector diversification. Here we have a focus on office space where also we have the best
experience and the best knowledge with our managers as well as internally.
Direct holdings in Germany, you see while we have holdings in the major cities in -- here in
Germany with a little bit of focus in Munich, this is more or less coincidence has nothing to
do with reinsurance.
But here for instance in Munich is a good example. We have here invested in office as well
as in retail as well as in the logistic sector. So although the 42% seemed to be associated
with some concentration risk, here internally we have then allocated that Munich risk in our
portfolio to the various sectors so this is why we feel still comfortable with that.
Otherwise, we would really have clear diversification guidelines to make sure that if one
city has a big problem or one area has a big issue, this will only hit a part of the portfolio.
Again, current market value is EUR312 million. We, right now, feel that the German market
is not very attractive so we don't expect that to increase. Although as you can see the
budget is remarkably higher but right now the returns we get here in Germany are not so
attractive so we don't expect to grow that portfolio here.
That is a bit different in the US Also here same approach, the major and very attractive
cities in the USA. where we have individual holdings. So for instance in Washington, we
have to buildings, for most of the others it's only one.

Page 58 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

And we invest up to an amount of around $100 million. We could do more but that would
be already a high amount for one single object. Also here you see office, retail and
parking with a focus on the office building.
Next direct portfolio is Eastern Europe which might surprise you. So years ago, we had the
opportunity to look at the existing portfolio and to certain extent which had suffered quite
remarkably so values had gone down and we had the opportunity to kind of pick and
choose and we then looked at the portfolio.
It was quite attractive. It is worth mentioning that everything here is dealt within euro so
there is no foreign currency risk associated with that. We have the good tenants. All the
contracts are based in euro terms and the return expectations are remarkably higher.
Again, this portfolio is rather new so the valuations have not picked up that much. But I can
say and I'm proud to say that not a single investment which we have here has a negative
valuation development. All of them are positive. Here we also expect to do more so we
will broaden the scope, Eastern Europe to Southern Europe and increase our investments
in that area.

Bloomberg Transcript

So then that leaves me with some indications of the performance. The IRRs which we
have been able to produce here are 5% and around 10% for the real estate portfolio as
such for the fund investments. Between also 4.5% and 14% for the direct investments
which I think is really very attractive and this is also why we feel we should do more in that
space.
If we look at our year-end results 2014, the real estate had contributed to that
performance with IRRs also between 6% and 15% for the funds and 5% and 11% for the
direct portfolio.
On an IFRS spaces, we had a contribution of EUR100 million. It was net investment income
which means that 4% of the portfolio has contributed 9% of the ordinary investment yield.
I think I mentioned that before we have to -- this does not include the ordinary
depreciation because they are not part of the ordinary investment income so this is a little
bit inflated but still it is very attractive and we will try to capitalize on that in the future.
So the prospects are we intent to broaden that on the same basis direct holdings, some
funds in, as I mentioned, Eastern Europe and Southern Europe although that has turned
out to be a bit more difficult. We will broaden the US portfolio a little bit South either. So
we have some markets in North and South America on the table where we will look at.
Asia is something we did look at but still -- and we might see something but we will have
to decide of that whether we go there or not. This is seems the intention and I hope that
some years down the road we'll have a bigger portfolio with the same attractive returns
contributing also and supporting our ROIs in the future.

Page 59 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

So that's it for the investment side and now I still have a little bit of time to talk to about
German GAAP and the equalisation reserve. And I have I think various messages from that
chapter which I'm trying to convey.

FINAL

Well first of all, a German GAAP balance sheet does not look so different from other
balance sheets. It includes some complicated components. Based on very conservative
approach, it offers also opportunities and options to steer but it has to be managed.
As the basis for our dividend payment and also the dividend potential in the future, it is to
be managed. But I will also try to convey that we don't have any limitations with regard to
dividend continuity as well as capital management measures in case they are necessary or
they do make sense.
The equalisation reserve is expected or the contribution to the equalisation reserve is
expected to decrease remarkably over the next years. There are two extraordinary items
which I will explain a little bit later which lead to the fact that we expect no longer
contributions to but to withdraw out of the equalisation fund in the future and that should
increase our flexibility or financial flexibility remarkably over the next years.

Bloomberg Transcript

And as side note and this is why I hope I don't bother you too much for the technicalities,
it is interesting to see how or again already on the first indications or the first calculation I
found internally at Hannover Re was the calculation of the equalisation reserve of E+S Re
in 1956. So already back then, some people felt that insurance and reinsurance companies
should have additional funds or capital based on the volatility of their business segments.
And this is again why I -- I will lead you through the calculation and also demonstrate a little
bit as to why it's not that easy to steer and control that going forward on a very detailed
basis. So here's a balance sheet that is, well, obviously only the short version of the
balance sheet on the asset side.
No surprises whatsoever. What you see here is only the SE so that is not a group. But on
the other hand, everything that was on the asset side is valued according to the lowest
principal values and the usual German GAAP conservative things.
But we should look at the liability side and you see if we add together the subscribed
capital and the capital reserve plus the retained earnings plus the disposal profits of the
year, we still end up at an amount below EUR2 billion.
So if I ask Andreas and did ask not too long ago others out here now compared to the
Hannover Re SE company according to Solvency II and as also the SE includes all the
values within all our holdings we have, the corresponding Solvency II and the capital
number for the Hannover Re SE is $12 billion. So there is quite a difference between
German GAAP and the Solvency II numbers.
And if you go a little bit lower down to the equalisation reserve EU2.8 billion, that number
is already higher than what you see as hard capital a little bit over and above that number.
Page 60 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

By the way, which is important and has always been a component of attractiveness, the
equalisation reserve and contributions to the equalisation reserves are taxable. So that -these amounts have not been taxed have reduced the taxable profits of the Hannover Re
SE here internally.
So that I think is enough of the balance sheet. Here you see five-year comparison some
balance sheet numbers. The retained earnings as you see is a balance sheet number. The
allocation to the equalisation reserve over the last five years shows you that at least for
the last four years approximately EUR300 million on average have been contributed to
the equalisation reserve every year and have decreased the German GAAP profits
accordingly.
So the EUR421 million in 2014 as a profit for the financial year would have been far higher
without the contribution to or to the allocation to equalisation reserve. Then we have used
a little bit of profit carried forward. You can kind of compare that to retained earnings.
This is tax -- these are tax amounts. These are also a balance sheet number so these are
cumulative numbers so we have increased the profit carried forward and again this -- you
can treat them as retained earnings and they would be available for allocation as
dividends.

Bloomberg Transcript

So there is -- most of our profits are that so for instance for 2014 was EUR515 million if we
add the retained earnings to our dividend potential according to German GAAP would
have been approximately EUR900 million last year and again the equalisation reserve
contribution had been deducted beforehand.
You see the dividend payments so we paid out nearly the whole disposable profits. So
the profit carried forward had increased on the basis and you see that the payout ratio
according to the German GAAP basis was always very high in 2014 even 100% and that
then translate into the IFRS number which you know very well.
So now this graphs shows you one more time the development of the equalisation
reserve over the last year so from EUR1.5 million to nearly EUR3 (million) since 2005 until
2014.
Let us look at the technicalities I already warned you. It gets a bit complicated now but still
I think it's an interesting exercise to go through the different steps when we had our
strategic retreat early this year. I invited my finance director to explain that to the board
and he translated his slide named the 12 Steps to Heaven and here I have decreased to 12
steps -- to six steps so we already had deleted one of the other complications of the full
calculation.
So what do you do and I do now something which you shouldn't do. First of all, you
shouldn't have a slide or you do that step by step. Okay. So first of all, you shouldn't have
a slide with so much text on it and the next thing you should never do is to read it to your
audience and this is now exactly what I'm going to do because it's necessary to do it this
way.
Page 61 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

So based on the observation of the loss rations over15 or 30-year period, depends on
the line of business and the volatility, a standard deviation for that line of business is
determined. So again, already the civil servants of 1930 knew about standard deviations.
That standard deviation is then multiplied by 4.5. We can find the sophisticated
explanation as to why that is 4.5. It obviously is a factor which means is a waiting for the
standard deviation and it is multiplied by the earned premium which is important and this
is, of course, you also can steer that.
So if you manage on premium, you would be in the position to steer your contribution or
withdrawal from the equalisation reserve. Then you multiply that to that standard variation
times 4.5 times the earned premium for line of business to establish the provisional
target amount.
That is also important because that defines the maximum amount for line of business
which is then is to be filled up over time if the results are positive. If the targets -- so the
provisional target amount is reduced, there is another complication if you had based on
the experience of the last three years.

Bloomberg Transcript

So also in here the regulator has seen that the last three years might be more important
that the first three years of the 30-year period and this is why you have this rate of the
last three years on top of that, if the target amount is not yet reached 3.5% thereof is to
be allocated to the reserve irrespective of the performance of the business. You can
interpret that a little bit as a inflation factor.
If the loss experience in the financial year was better than in the observation period, then
the difference between the two ratios is to be multiplied by the earning, we do the math
together. By the earned premium in the financial year, the product of this calculation is to
be allocated.
If the loss ratio is higher than the loss ratio in the observation period ten you can withdraw
and again, this withdrawal is reduced if based on the waiting of the last three years.
Let's do the math together. I hope I don't -- do not confused you too much. We have a
simplified example here. On the upper left-hand side, you see we look at a 15-year period
and we assume that the loss ratios which we have seen vary between 85% and 96% with
an average of 90.2% which is seen in the middle of that page.
If we do the math and we arrive at the standard deviation for the first year of 5.2 -- at a
deviation of 5.2 and minus 5.8 and the average then is multiplied or squared to the
squared deviation. We see that the average squared deviation would be 30 in that
example and the standard deviation square root of -- of the squared deviation would be
5.5.
So very actuarial thing and then I think Andreas in your internal model you don't do
anything else. You look at the past experience, you look at the volatility and then you do
Page 62 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

your math with the standard deviations. Maybe we are not forced to do Monte Carlo
simulation here, I agree with that.

FINAL

But principally, you could argue. It does make sense to a certain extent and only to a
certain extent. So then we do the math. We take the standard deviation, multiply it by 4.5
and arrive at 24.7.
We assume that we have in that line of business EUR100 million in premium so we
calculate the provisional target amount with the multiplication and we end up at nearly
EUR25 million as a provisional target amount for that line of business.
Now we have a little mistake on your handouts. So the 94.4 is, that was a typo, is 86 on
your presentation. If you don't mind, please change it to the 94 because otherwise the
math didn't work -- wouldn't work.
And again to really also finalize that math, we do all calculations. We assume that the last
three years had a positive impact here and that reduces our provisional target amount
from EUR24 million to EUR12 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

So now we look at the loss ratio of the last year which would in our example be 94%. We
look at the loss ratio of the observation period. We are obviously higher by 3.8 as a factor
in that case.
Then we do it again if we reduce the provisional target amount, there's also another
provision which caused for a reduction of a potential withdrawal from the equalisation
reserve in the same proportion and this is why in that case based on that math for this line
of business, we would base on a higher combined loss ratio as compared to the
observation period. We would withdraw EUR1.3 billion out of the equalisation reserve.
So you do that for the various lines of business. There is some optionality around how
many lines of business you do the math for. And so on the one hand, this is a very strict
rule based things. You cannot argue about the 4.5. You cannot argue about the three-year
or the 15-year observation period, very fixed thing but, of course, you can do things like
(seeding) of premium and if you reduce your net premium, your provisional target amount
would decrease.
And if your equalisation reserve is higher today then your reduced provisional target
amounts by reducing your net earned premium, you would take out. It also works the
other way around. And this gives you and again I would like to remind you about the
EUR2.8 billion which we have in there. So we are talking big numbers in that regard.
Still to steer all that on a line of business basis over the course of the year is not very easy
but on the other hand, you have the optionality, you can combine lines of business to a
certain extent and you can manage that by reducing or increasing your premiums for
instance by internal retrocession and we did that to also increase our flexibility here a little
bit.
Page 63 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

We have especially one line of business and see this business internally to Ireland where
German GAAP is not known and thereby reducing the provisional target amount and we
will mostly likely take out of that line of business a remarkable amount of the equalisation
reserve.
So the next slide shows you the expectations on everything equal basis for the next years
to come and please bear in mind that the last four years, we had contributed to the
equalisation reserve approximately EUR300 million. For the next years, we expect
reductions and the two things which are already mentioned is the internal retrocession in
one line of business where we manage with the equalisation reserve down.
And the next issue is in 2017 and this will most likely go on also for the next years is that in
2017, the 15-year observation period for our fire industrial line of business will end. The fire
industrial line was hit by the WTC event in 2001 remarkably.
It has pushed up the standard deviation remarkably and I did the math together with you.
So the standard deviation for that one line of business will decrease remarkably. In the fire
industrial line of business, we have approximately a billion. And based on the very
decreasing volatility as from 2017 onwards, the contribution to the equalisation reserve will
go down also for the next years.

Bloomberg Transcript

So the message here is and if you remember the EUR900 million we had last year which
we most likely will also have available this year, if everything else stays equal, we would
not have an additional EUR300 million contribution to the equalisation reserve but a
reduction of EUR68 million for the next years to come that will even be higher.
So that money will get free and we will have the ability to strengthen retained earnings, to
strengthen the losses carried forward and is thereby to increase our financial flexibility and
also the dividend potential for the next years to come. So we do not foresee any
limitations in that regard on the basis of these assumptions. So I hope I did not confuse
and bother you too much with that but this is what I had to say today.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Well thank you, Roland. I'm not sure if there are any questions. Well we start on the righthand side with Mike Huttner.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Hi. On the real estate in Solvency II , how expensive is it in terms of --

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

It's approximately 20% before and around 11% after diversification, capital requirement for
the portfolio.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Page 64 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

So the return equity then is 40%?

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

FINAL

On that basis?

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Pre-tax.

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Yes, on that basis.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Okay. Okay. Okay. It makes sense. Then the other question is what's -- I keep forgetting
what tax should we use for the group that was prompted by equalisation number

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Well the equalisation number is only valid obviously in Germany and here approximately,
well, 35-ish.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Then the last question and I guess is this swings from EUR300 million contribution to
release between EUR60 million and EUR140 million? Is that the amount of the increased
dividend?

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

I think I mentioned the word financial flexibility, Michael. What we want to demonstrate
here and this is why we put that on the agenda is that we heard various times because
obviously also our friendly competitors did these presentations and showed their
numbers to the community.
And also we mentioned before that you should never forget every time we hear about
criticism about 35% to 40% couldn't it be more and then we say, guys, please bear in
mind this is the accounting standard we have to base our dividend payments on.
So this is on the one hand to demonstrate we are flexible and the flexibility will increase
and it can also be managed. That is a one point. And on the other hand and we
mentioned before, as long as ROEs are in a very acceptable range, we still see
opportunities in the markets.
There is not a real pressure to start capital management methods. But if that changes, it
gives us the opportunity. I think my CEO early this morning mentioned something about
the dividend policy that we might maintain the higher payout ratio which we have seen if

Page 65 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

the world doesn't go under and doesn't change. I think that is the message. Yes. We have
not limitations to do that if the circumstances provide for it.

FINAL

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

And Michael, if I may add, this is all pre-tax. So I mean, the difference will be taxed.
Naturally, on IFRS, this is not a factor because if they've just been reduced to differ tax
liabilities.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Okay. We continue with In-Yong on the right-hand side.

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

In-Yong Hwang from Goldman Sachs. Just on the last slide there, can you give us what the
trends in the equalisation reserve level would be like if you didn't have any internal
retrocession to fill in and try to manage the reserve there?

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well we wouldn't have started to manage that, In-Yong, it is -- and I'll try to explain that. If I
do that without anything, it will be difficult to really see and you never exactly know which
line of business is it where so the expectations are difficult to calculate.
We did that here for one clear standard. So if I let everything else equal, we were also in
the equalisation reserve hitting the provisional target amounts so the maximum amount
per line of business in more and more lines of business.
So on the other hand -- so that reduces a little bit or dampens or gives a cap to the
contribution. On the other hand, we see a lot of growths. For instance, just from the US
dollar basing this because the US dollar had hardened so much then your premium goes
up then your provisional target amount goes up. So we would have seen a remarkable
contribution.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Then we continue with Vinit.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Vinit Malhotra from Mediobanca. So Roland, my favorite question again, in the maturity
patterns, does a significant change between what do you expected for '15 last year and
what are you predicting now for '15, is there a change -- so just to give a number here, I
think it was in the plus EUR 4 billion range presented in last year's back and this year,
you're talking about EUR2 billion to EUR2.2 billion range so the actual amount of maturities
in 2015.
Is there any change that would have triggered this in your view? So that's the first
question and I can ask the second one later.
Page 66 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

FINAL

You have to bear in mind that we look at not only at one single portfolio. If you look at the
Hannover Re balance sheet, you see EUR37 billion, one portfolio, easy to steer.
That is not the case. We have lots of portfolios with lots of different modified duration. I
think I'd mentioned that more than once before, Bermuda P&C portfolio 1.7, UK Life
portfolio 11 point something. So we steer the maturities for these single portfolios and
what we see on a group basis is to a certain extent the result of all that.
So everybody investment committee of this group starts with a question, any changes to
the duration of your liabilities and then we steer the ranges for the modified durations for
the asset managers according to that. Moreover, we had realized based on these
considerations and to go a little bit away from just steering interest risk to cash flow,
pattern risk.

Bloomberg Transcript

So where we had heterogeneous expectations, we did manage that to a certain extent.
So with every new dollar I invest, I can then or it was every turnover in the portfolio which
we have seen, I can then steer the single portfolios on another basis.
So what I'm trying to say that there has not been the very top-down approach to steer
that but we had looked at the various portfolios and see that as a result. I'm still thinking
about whether this comparison which I really don't have so in my mind because the
passes are passed for me whether there is systemic thing in there and we might have to
come back to you on that because some of the -- the assumptions which we have here to
do the math is for instance, if I have a three-month duration, how often do I reinvest that
within a single year.
So we might have to look if we do the comparison to last year as to whether we are
comparing apples to oranges on that basis, I could well be -- I would not be in the position
to address that immediately. But I'm a bit suspicious that there is a little bit of systemic
approach that -- because I would always look into the future, not into the past.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. And I'm just thinking because you mentioned that number of -- from the
Germany GAAP balance sheet a number closer to EUR2 billion and in this regard, I mean,
if I look at the -- again, sorry for repeating this but I need the clarity here, the 99.97
solvency -- internal model excess solvency was quoted on Second Quarter as 135 where it
says 160 in the slide here which is roughly EUR2 billion reduction in the excess over your
100%.
I'm sure there's not much of a marriage between German GAAP and internal model but if
you could just comment that is it all market-risks driven and this is why I asked this
question also about what's changing the asset because if you lose 25 points from internal
model due to market risk in six months then is there something happened? So this is just
why --

Page 67 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

FINAL

As we mentioned before and also I think Ulrich alluded to, the most material part of that is
assumption changes especially for the market risk where we had rather low contribution
to the overall risk before and we had to, as we said, adjust some of the scenario
generators to a little bit higher risk that was once significant contributor and more over
the shared volumes especially driven by the US dollar came on top of that.
It was not driven by the investment considerations to take more risks. So for instance,
what I refer to as the barbell strategy is explicitly based on the assumption that the overall
risk at least from our standpoint outside the internal model would not increase.
If then by model changes, the capital consumption increases, we would then look at it and
decide as to whether we are willing to digest it or not and the answer was yes, we are
willing. For instance, to the highest hurdle which we have also discussed beforehand which
would still be the rating agencies, that model change had no impact at all. So in that
regard the excess -- you say the tangible excess capital which we have outside that
calculation didn't change at all.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

I would say -- I would add sense, the drop on the 99.7 from 160 to 130 in very rough terms
to the largest part was actually currency driven because, I mean, our capital, why we have
increased the US dollar capital business changing the financial currency of our Bermuda
companies to US dollars from euro, we are still euro heavy on the capital.
So that manned this US dollars exposures driving the SCR, the SCR increased more
significant than the capital. The capital, of course, increased as well because the currency
OCI increased but it was most significant on the SCR.
And the exact details actually Andreas know because he explained that in great detail in
the executive board because you had exactly the same question and he said, well, if it
turns up and down like this, what's the value? So we got that explanation.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

I have seen multiple indications from Will Hawkins -- so, that's your -- your question there.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Thanks. Just on the claims equalization reserve. I'm confused on the points of principle. I
can see the claims equalization reserve in German GAAP is still important for how work
Page 68 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

and how much tax you pay. Surely, once next BaFin has adopted Solvency II, isn't this
calculation completely irrelevant to your financial flexibility and your capital position?

FINAL

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

No, you should bear in mind the German GAAP is the basis for the regulation. It is also the
basis for the taxes. But the main addressee still, according to the German accounting
rules are the public, the datas. And all that. So the reason why we account and publish
account according to German GAAP is not regulation while the regulator uses the German
GAAP results for Solvency II. It no longer use it as next year. But that is just a regulation.
Moreover, you have the reason to publish accounts and that law, HGB law, is still in
existence. So we are still -- we are still forced to publish these accounts and according to
the German -- to the German GAAP law that the HGB, that calculation is still the basis for
any dividend payment and so that stays in place. And again, has nothing to do with
regulation, first of all.
So regulators use these accounts. And based on the Solvency II, the regulator doesn't
need it anymore but the rest of the reasons to produce these accounts and especially the
law is still in existence.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

The only way we're getting away from German GAAP would be moving the domicile of
the company to another country.

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Or if the German lawmakers says, hey, let us talk about IFRS equivalence acceptance. So
we would be allowed to move as other jurisdiction did like Island or Bermuda. They still
have their local accounting rules but they have accepted -- well, if you reduce audited
financials according to IFRS, you are no longer forced to do the local thing. So that would
be an approach. But I think we are far away from that in Germany.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

But I mean I should add that law is not just for insurance companies. I mean, it's for all
operations on any company in Germany.

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

It has to be audited and all -- so, if you have a corporation -- you have all these laws to
follow and that it go -- doesn't go away because one industry regulator has a new -- has a
new jurisdiction or has a new framework.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

It looks to me we have a few more questions. We start with Andrew Broadfield and
continue with Frank Kopfinger. And then (Olivia), please.

Page 69 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

Q - Andrew Broadfield

{BIO 7273415 <GO>}

Thanks. Andrew Broadfield from Barclays. Just on the -- again, on the equalization
provision, the static assumptions that you put in to show that fade down, just wondering -I guess our expectations are that it might just get a little bit tougher the next couple of
years and I'm just wondering is that deterioration in underwriting profit? Would that be
absorbed as well by the profit -- by the broad equalization provision, i.e. we don't have to
really put an assumption around deteriorating underwriting results when we think about
the close in the distributable capital out of German GAAP unless because -- how much
deteriorates by equalization provision to some extent will upset that?

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

First -- one problem and I give trace equalization reserve as a solvency to 1.0 which, of
course, was a little bit of the financing. Because you feel something. One issue always had
been a systematic issue with the equalization reserve was that with interest rates going
down, combined ratios have to become better.

Bloomberg Transcript

Still, your profitability hasn't changed at all. That is these communicating things because
that -- with regards to the equalization reserve, that only concentrates on the underwriting
results is always better underwriting results, you have to contrarily read more and more
and more and more but you don't have the relief on the asset side which we usually
would have.
So there was a systematic condition that's just 300 based on that even if it the net
income is still the same because the net investment income goes down, the underwriter
profit gear goes up, it's a systematic transfer to the equalization reserve because that
only considers the better underwriting result and compares it with the 30 years that was
worse when the interest rates was still far higher so that was a little bit the reason why the
contributions were so high. And that, of course, has nothing to do with the comprehensive
and good risk base management system.
So I'm not quite sure whether I understood your question correctly if we now see
deteriorating underwriting results. Is that what you suggested?

Q - Andrew Broadfield

{BIO 7273415 <GO>}

Yes. So --

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

One would use it well -- there would be a tendency that you withdraw, that your -- that
your German GAAP results got better by that. That had not been included in that. So that
was really based on an everything equal we achieve our 96 -- below 96% combined ratio
assumption.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

I think there's one thing to add as far as the underwriting result is concerned, whilst
Eberhard has demonstrated redundancies on the IFRS accounting, our lot reserves we are
Page 70 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

holding on -- on German GAAP are still significantly higher than what we are holding on
IFRS because German GAAP principle is prudent rather than best estimate.

Q - Andrew Broadfield

{BIO 7273415 <GO>}

FINAL

So if I to square that away this EUR2.8 billion of equalization reserves is the billion on IFRS
reserves plus another number on German GAAP reserves --

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

On top of that.

Q - Andrew Broadfield

{BIO 7273415 <GO>}

On top of that. Okay. Then -- and then you mentioned something -- I just -- you made a
partial comment about for a tax liabilities, not that -- not necessarily is it good for IFRS, I'm
must wondering whether you could --

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

No. It's -- I think it does -- the comment was that it doesn't have any impact on the IFRS
results because all the tax effects are already deferred -- in the deferred taxes on IFRS
balance sheet.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew Broadfield

{BIO 7273415 <GO>}

And just finally, on that tax issue, is there an issue in Germany about -- is there a time
value to deferring your tax payments but -- by reserving -- in deferring your reserves? Do
you have to -- when you release your reserves just to pay tax --

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Well yes, I could have done that as well. You have a nearly as formulaic ) -- is that an
english word? I hope so -- assumptions to discount your last reserves according to -- for
tax reasons. So there is a mechanism to have -- to have lost reserves discounted but only
for the tax balance sheet and to value them more realistically.
Also, that is very formula driven so it doesn't reflect your individual situation. So in that
regard, principally, the answer would be no, it doesn't make sense because if you
increase your last reserves, your discounting values would also increase and to a certain
extent, this will already be taxed beforehand. Still, I think, if you add a hundred to last
reserves, that is totally fully tax deductible and only part of that addition would then be
discounted. So it would have, in essence a positive impact on my tax payments.
Because if I -- if I now decrease my equalization reserve, no impact on the IFRS balance
sheet because it's -- the deferred taxes will decrease then in parallel and show no
problem for the result but I'll lose some cash which if I pay that to the German taxman
which are no longer able to invest.

Page 71 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

The steps from the German GAAP results to the results of the tax balance sheet is, I
guess, another six steps --

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. That will be that. That will be it.

Q - Frank Kopfinger

{BIO 16342277 <GO>}

Frank Kopfinger, Commerzbank. I've also a question to the equalization reserve on the
figures that you showed the reduction, EUR68,145,140, can you break it down what the
contribution is from the -- an industrial line since this is probably the driving force?

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

That is the driving force. That is -- you could argue -- via this internal retrocession which we
have done outside Germany which reduces the provisional target amount, we, to a certain
extent, smooth a little bit what is to be expected from the WTC standard variation trigger
in 2017 already today.

Bloomberg Transcript

So that amount -- if you -- if we would have done anything, the one-off in 2017 would have
been far higher than the amount which we see here. So we see that. And as we have
concentrated on that one line of business, the contribution, to that withdrawal comes
from that one line of business.

Q - Frank Kopfinger

{BIO 16342277 <GO>}

Okay. Then my second question is on your retained earnings. Obviously, this is to
precondition to any potential buybacks in the future. Do you have any target level that you
want to reach? Because, currently, with 380, this is probably at a very low level to have
some buybacks.

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Well we -- we have not defined a real target level up to now. I mentioned before that
according to German GAAP you can also do other things. You have four parts of your
investments. You have really the lowest value of principle which I realized those hidden
reserves I could increase.
We have -- if you have holdings in other subsidiaries, you can kind of write them up if you
want to because, also they would be valued at the lowest principle, lowest value principle.
So you can manage your German GAAP result which is very conservative.
And as it is so conservative, your various options to manage that. So and we have also
started doing some measures in that regard which I have mentioned here. But the
contribution to the -- to the retained earnings should or to profits carried forward which is
essentially the same thing.

Page 72 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

I would say we would at least to double them and longer term, it will just be unavoidable
to increase them even more other than to pay them out.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Well Olivia, please.

Q - Olivia Brindle

{BIO 17273762 <GO>}

Just one very quick one I have left. You mentioned the acceptable ROE and the context of
the dividend. So I just wanted to confirm is that still the 12th to 13% level that you've talked
about before?

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

With a -- with a little side view to my CEO, I would say yes. I did -- this is -- we are still
comfortably above the hurdle and that all also depends on the development of the
denominator of that equation that is a capital. We have seen spread levels going out. So
our corporate portfolio might have lost something in value. The US dollar has weakened.
So we see that coming back as well.
But if now the hurdle is around the 10% area and we are still comfortably above 250 basis
points over and above that hurdle, I would still see that as a comfortable situation if we go
under that level, we might reconsider and look at capital management options.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Okay. Two last questions. One from Andreas Schaefer and from Guilhem.

Q - Andreas Schaef er

{BIO 4667112 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks. Just two little questions. One on the dividend payment last year or for this
year. It is 100% payout ratio on the German GAAP distributable earnings. So is that just
coincidence or was it just to have the maximum payout ratio this year? And the second
question, do you have any sort of calculation? What are your unrealized capital gains on
your real estate portfolio?

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Well we'd have to look at the your seconds. It is remarkable. We do value with outside
valuators every second year and do an internal valuation every year, of course, we are in
the triple digit million range. Everything else, I would have to look it up. I don't exactly
know.
So as I mentioned, for instance, for the -- for the eastern European portfolio, we have
values. They are also a little bit higher. But as we own them only for two years or so, we
still carry them at the face value.
So here, formally, I don't have today no valuation reserves but the values would already
be higher. So again, I would -- I would have to come back to you. The first thing was the -Page 73 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

Q - Andreas Schaef er

{BIO 4667112 <GO>}

The dividend paid out this year --

FINAL

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Well it was a coincidence -- well, there are some options. Again, as it is so conservative,
there's also some optionality to steer that. As a good old German GAAP chief accountant
to pay out of retained earnings something which you -- and, of course, we are -- we are
willing to do that and it is part of our options but if you can avoid it, maybe that this is as
you were talking to such an accounting dinosaur like myself, you would still try to avoid it.
Well if we then say look, this is capital management, we have retained earnings, we have
increased retained earnings, we don't need the money anymore, then I wouldn't -- I
would avoid that. But if that is avoidable and maybe it was due to a certain extent.

Q - Guilhem Horvath

{BIO 18460437 <GO>}

Just a quick question on -- I read an article on some local rules in Germany which limit the
freedom -- which could decide on what you want to invest. I don't exactly know this kind of
local rules but does it ring a bell?

Bloomberg Transcript

And second, this -- didn't insurers were apparently thinking that these -- these rules would
not be enforced with Solvency II but does it chance that they will be? What's your view on
that and what (inaudible)?

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Not exactly if I -- if I understand you correctly. If you talked about the capital and
Kapitalanlageverordnung which is the rule for German insurers where they can invest and
what they have to -- that is not valid for reinsurers. That is just for insurers.

Q - Guilhem Horvath

{BIO 18460437 <GO>}

Okay. Then --

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

So we don't have those limitations.

Q - Guilhem Horvath

{BIO 18460437 <GO>}

Okay. Good. Thanks.

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Okay?

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Page 74 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

Okay. Well thank you Roland. I think you just picked the right theme when I look at those
number -- large number of questions which we have received. Well thank you for that.

FINAL

Well it's almost time for another coffee. But before we go there, I would like to remind
you of the questionnaire for the feedback. So thank you for that. And well, we should be
back at 3 o'clock. Thank you.
Welcome back everybody. We now can dive straight into the presentation -- in the last
presentation of today and it's about property and casualty and --and this year's annual -annual executive meeting, we have explored in great deepness the question how we can
explore business opportunities and so Juergen Graeber will dive into that issue now.
Thank you.
+++presentation

A - Juergen Graeber

{BIO 20978001 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Before I get started, I would make one or two remarks. First, on the title of my
presentation, A Dip into Newer P&C Opportunities. Why new or why not new? What I
present to you this afternoon is not completely new. It is newer in a sense that the
evolution of products has started in a sense that there is more speed. There is an
acceleration of premium development. And therefore, we call it newer. And no, it's not
entirely new.
And the second is that one part of my presentation is cyber liability and cyber insurance
and I don't know whether you know what my recommendation at Hannover Re is, I'm the
man who still has a office full of paper. My office is without smartphones and tablets and
anything modern equipment. In my office, people just talk and listen. So I'm probably the
least equipped person to speak about this subject.
Okay. But before we go into the details, let me just connect my presentation to Ulrich's
this morning. I have been here and spoke about growth opportunities, probably some 15
times in the last couple of years and they were always different. And overtimes, we tried
to explain that our policy of trying to grow is not just one cycle, it's per lines of business,
it's divided opportunities, they are short term, they are midterm, they are long term.
And a couple of years, I spoke about the opportunities in China and they materialized. But
what you have seen in the last couple of years when you look at the compound annual
growth rate of more than 9% is a combination of various factors.
They were long-term factors of decisions we took in 2006. For example, Ulrich highlighted
this morning ILS, insurance link securities. In 2006, we had a retreat. In 2008, we
established a department. We needed another two years to ramp it up and the full flow
started in 2010.
And today, we are in full swing of our ILS department, fantastic top line contribution,
fantastic bottom line contribution. So quite some lead time of almost four years.
Page 75 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

The same, for example, (Bahrain), when we set up our company in (Bahrain), to be
established, we had to get all the approvals, lead time, two years. But also, what we saw
the last year in particular 2015, you -- and I may dare to say us -- we were bit surprised
about the growth we had in the First Quarters of 2015.
Why do I say that? We were negotiating contracts with the customers and some
succeeded. So we got all of a sudden very attractive, one-off opportunities and we were
able to bring them into our top and bottom line. And so, for example, the growth in 2015
as a combination of things that were started quite a while before and other things that
were more a kind of one-offs on very short term basis.
The more midterm ones were the (inaudible), the ILS, the personal accident initiatives. But
also the private lines initiatives and also, for example, initiatives we had in China, in the
primary business segments. So multiple factors that all lead to growth in the last couple of
years.

Bloomberg Transcript

What I want to talk about today are two segments which is a primary -- sorry, which is
cyber insurance and agricultural. And to give you a ballpark figure, just that you know
where we are standing here, the volume we have in cyber insurance is still double digit
top line and the volume we have is in agriculture is three digits. So it's already grown up.
It's a teenager. So to say, the agricultural business where as the cyber insurance is a young
girl or boy in terms of development. So less mature at this point in time.
I purposefully selected two segments. They're not the only ones that we developed in
terms of sourcing our business but I wanted to do two deeper dives just to go into the
details and I will give you more precise numbers later on.
But let's look at some trends. For us, trends are friends. If we select the trends in the right
way, we generate organic growth and all we have to do is then retain relationships,
stabilize the relationships and hopefully harvest the trends, top and bottom line.
One trend is the development of the internet society. When you look at the internet
penetration, it grew from 8% in 2001 to 40% in 2015 and is still increasing and you all can
observe that. People cross pedestrian areas. They don't look at cars. They look at their
smartphone, they drive cars and they look at their smartphone. They don't look at the
street.
You see it everywhere. The internet penetration is there. It's visible in our day-to-day life.
But even more impressive is the sold smartphones. From 2011, the worldwide population
of smartphones was 270 million. In these days, it's 1.2 billion. If you compare that with the
population of 7.4 billion, that tells you something. That means in the developed market,
everyone except me has a smartphone. And in the less developed markets, there is a
huge potential to further increase.

Page 76 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

And the same in terms of Internet of Things, i.e. the developments that one has to expect
are also quite severe. Also, the trend is our friend here.
What do we like in terms of these trends? We like the risks. Insurance is all about risk and I
remember discussions I had once with a journalist who said, well, how can you be
successful as an insurance industry or as a reinsurance industry if you don't accompany
your customers with the risks they have. So if all these companies have risks through cyber
kind of exposures, then we must find ways and means to insure.
First, the primary insurance company and then, of course, the reinsurers. How do these
risks look like? Well in terms of cyber insurance, we have data breaches, business
interruption because of discontinuation of IT services. You have hacker attacks.
For example, to make this a bit more plastic, hacker attacks, we invited a speaker on one
of our conferences and whilst he gave his speech, he dialed into all the smartphones of
the people in the audience. He sent fake messages and he also gave us a live
presentation how we could stop a factory in Korea by dialing in to the computer
equipment because the firewalls were inactive or not secure enough.

Bloomberg Transcript

So hacker attacks are an exposure and need to be dealt with. Privacy breaches, i.e. data
supply that goes in to the public environment. Trojan attacks, your private computer, each
of you, probably have had Trojans. I don't know how frequently you update your firewalls,
the recommendations of these professional hackers is about every hour. So you should
update your firewall.
And still the they get through by the way, viruses, property rights infringements, yu have
all kinds of exposures here. And who is affected? It is not just commercial operations. It's
also private people. It's everywhere because the date exchange, the data flow in our
community has changed significantly in the last decade.
What types of cyber insurance are there and where are gaps? We differentiate between
first party losses, i.e. own losses. I will describe that in a minute a little bit more in detail.
And third party losses, i.e. one is your own equipment, your own data and you have an
impact to cyber attacks or what so ever or certain kinds of breakdowns. And are called
third party losses because you don't, as a businessman, protect your business
environment, somebody else suffers because there is a data release. Then a third party is
affected and you should consider or should consider developing products on liability
insurance.
So if I go into the first party type of coverage and try to explain that a little bit, what is
covered or when there is a loss of data and information in your system, well a cyber
insurance policy could actually secure the -- or cover the costs for securing the data, for
replacing, restoring and recollecting the data. So that they're after your business
operation continues.

Page 77 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

Usually, you have time deductibles on this policies, a very basic kind of coverage because
data is property. So to say. Then another kind of first party losses network interruption, it
covers the loss of income because your business is interrupted, that's like a property
policy when a fire burns down your factory and you can't produce the goods anymore if
you don't have the data to start your business process. Then also you can't produce the
goods or whatever your production is about.
Then, of course, you have the issue around, for example, notification expenses and I will
later on explain to you how much that can be but if, for example, there is a privacy breach
in your data system and as data leakage and you have to notify your customer, it's not
one customer, it could be 40 million customers that you have to notify.
And if you assume $0.50 per notification, that's a $20 million loss, just for notifying
customers about data breach in your organization. So there are various kinds of cost
surrounding cyber exposures and, for example, setting up a hotline, having call centers.
Imagine if those organizations who deal with millions, not to say billions of data sets, have
a data leakage and they all of a sudden need to inform their customer, they get lots of
inquiries. The costs are huge.

Bloomberg Transcript

And of course, for example, the legal defense costs. All of a sudden, you get sued and
you need to defend your organization. You want to, yes, deal adequately with a case like
this then, of course, a cyber policy would cover the legal defense cost.
Then, of course, there are extortion payments or could be extortion payments, penalties,
whatever have you and that would also be to be covered.
If I move on to the third party coverage, this is when because of your actions, a third party
is affected. The protection would be from losses arising out of the failure to protect
sensitive personal information, for example. So somebody sues you as an organization as
an individual and you would buy coverage here. Or you would actually be sued for an
adequate protection of your network and your data, again, a liability case.
And the last one, media liability. If somebody uses that information that has leakage into
the public domain, then of course, you also want to protect your organization.
There is type of coverages and I will show you what is covered and not covered today. If
we look at this somewhat in transparent page but I will guide you through this particular
page.
Today, you have many sorts of policies, say property, BI, general liability policies and to
some extent, you have already cyber coverage included here. Cyber is not a well defined
kind of insurance product in the first place.
So for example, if an insured object, i.e. a property is destroyed by a fire and because of
the fire, there is a loss of data. Then to the costs following the lost of data are covered
Page 78 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

already by the property policy. So there is a coverage but it requires a kind of a traditional
trigger event, yes?

FINAL

And the same is on the BI or for example, if you go to the almost right inside D&O, if
organizations buy D&O coverage and because of a breach of duty, there is -- let me
choose one, again, a loss of data because of a breach of duty which is covered under
D&O policy, you also get a kind of a cyber coverage under your D&O policy.
So now -- if you look at cross, all the exposure types that you have and you look at the
green ticks here, you will see that there are lots of gaps where there is no coverage and
no policy today.
And the demand is driven very much by the fact that people want full coverage on cyber.
So you add all the other kind of circumstances to make sure that this coverage becomes
more comprehensive, that there are no gaps that do exist by partial protection within
existing insurance policies.

Bloomberg Transcript

And this is very difficult because the cyber policy should not be a catch-all policy. It should
also be a name policy so it should define the events and the amount of cyber insurance
policies that are floating around go from extremely wide coverage to very narrow, almost
like a named peril coverage and you find different types of cyber insurance policies all
around the globe.
Yes. But the key idea is that's covered the gaps that are not covered by today's existing
policies a very brave target of the insurance community but a very rewarding one too.
You all have seen what is the main risk on cyber insurance. It is not the tiny little attack to a
computer. It is this scalability of the events. If somebody has developed a Trojan that gets
to a particular type of firewall, they can get to all firewalls in the world where these
firewalls are used.
So it's million times that this event can occur and whatever is positive when you have a
good business idea, for example, like Google and it's scalable, it becomes a very
interesting idea. Here, we see the flipside of the coin. If somebody gets through a
firewall, they can do it a thousand million times.
And so it's the amount of scalability that is the concern, that is the higher risk in the
segment and it's also very difficult to define when it comes to RDS type, realistic design
set type of scenario assessments. But this is what we are talking about and you know that
-- you know the size of the organizations and the data sets. I don't need to go deeper
here into what has been in the public domain already.
What kind of loss potentials do we see? Well we have clearly defined guidance in some
markets, in particular in the US Where the regulatory environment clearly says, well, if you
don't protect the data, we will, for example, give you certain amount of penalties.

Page 79 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

It's your duty so we should actually provide you with penalties because you're not doing a
proper business here. You should protect the data. You have that in many markets in the
U.K., the protection of private data is very tied, very important to the customer groups. So
this is one segment.
Then, you have in the first party area the main exposure is I have noted a few here,
notification. To notify your customers, the amount of work is between $0.50 and $5.
Imagine there is a leakage on data for 100 million people and you need $5 to notify them.
You have $500 million loss to your P&L as an organization. It's a huge amount that you
have to deploy and you cannot say, I don't care, I don't notify them. It is an obligation to
notify your customers about data breaches the minute it occurs.
Identity theft. When we employed this -- this hacker to show us the exposure -- and by the
way, he was a white sheep, not a black sheep -- so, he did that to demonstrate the case.
He said, well, I can steal your electronic signature anytime you want. You want me to order
something on your behalf ? I do it.
They can easily access your ID. They have systems when you key in your password and
your name, they will identify and then they will use it. But they're not interesting in doing it
for a single person. They want to do it for a million people.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then they would order a bank to pay $2 to a single person and they do it a million times.
And to restore impaired electronic signatures is also quite costly.
Defene costs are also high and of course, well, if there is lost income, if you lose
customers because of data leakages, the amount of loss to your business is quite
significant. You remember from D&O policies that there's a saying, well, if there is
leakage on bad news, the impact on the stock price is tenfold. Yes?
I would assume something can also be calculated for cyber insurance. So if there is bad
news leakage because you couldn't protect your data, you will immediately have an
impact on your entire customer base.
Then the third party environment, the class actions. You know, the minute something
happens, there will be lawyers all over potential customers and recommend that you
should sue the leaders and the organization to get compensation. And of course, they try
to achieve a settlement, the average settlement these days is already a $1 million but
they're shooting for higher amounts like they do in the D&O environment. Then you have
to either protect yourself with a legal cost to defend the settlement or to structure a
settlement or you right away have a policy loss.
This is the last scenario and there are figures quoted that the annual loss to the global
economy from cyber attacks is already well above $400 billion. Very difficult to define, to
quantify but the ballpark figures are just very sizeable.

Page 80 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

Where are we these days with the development of the markets? The most advanced
market is surely the US They were the pioneers in the cyber security. Since 2003, there is
an increased regulatory activity in relation to data protection which has fueled the demand
for cyber insurance and estimation suggests that the cyber insurance premium in the US is
already one and a half billion gross.
This very much reminds us of the establishment of the D&O coverage some 30 years
ago when this business started to protect corporations and individuals and there's quite
some -- there are quite some parallels as far as the development is concerned.
The expected growth rate is 38%, penetration rate in US is already 34%. If you look to
Germany, to Asia, other parts, people start thinking about it. But there is no awareness
process yet.
In Europe, first guidelines are there. Data privacy protection directive in 1995 and the
volume is already increasing. We're looking at around about $900 million expected for
2018. Expected growth rate is 50%. Our penetration at this point in time, very, very low.
And all other countries are watching us. It's the kind of the usual situation. US first, Europe
five years later and then all the other countries in the world between 10 to 15 years.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we have the assumption that from the US into Europe and because of the global
exposure framework of cyber insurance, the move from the US into other parts of the
world will be much faster.
So if I conclude on this segment. And so what -- what can we assess from this kind of
scenario? Surely positive on the development side, the demand will increase. The
insurance penetration will increase. The exposure is partly known and unknown to both
primary insurers and reinsurers.
But one should not be afraid of risk. One should manager risk and ensure the risks. So we
are in here as reinsurance companies with the primary writers to assess potential and
start to walk then eventually to run and hopefully into a successful business model.
On the flip side, there's enough capacity and you may say, well, how can there be enough
capacity if we have to assume it's not (actually sound), it's not concise enough, there are
still question marks on the coverage, how wide or how narrow it should be. But the way
the market approaches cyber insurance is so called short limits.
So when policies are issued even to large organizations, they offer very small limits
relative to the size of the organizations. It's maybe $10 million, $15 million, $ 25, million US
which relative to the exposure isn't inappropriate insurance limit.
But the only way to actually enter into unknown territories where it's not yet actuary sound
is by managing the limits and even offer sublimits and keep the overall limits short so that
if there are systemic risks, for example, one particular cause triggers many cyber
Page 81 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

insurance policies to a loss that you control it by having short limits on each. That's the
only way an insurance industry in the early years can respond before we provide full
coverage.
And of course, the premium adequacy is not yet actually solid. With every year, there are
new claim circumstances, there are new kind of assessments. With every year, you add
one more year of experience and overtime and, of course, the population of risks, it
becomes more solid from an actuary point of view in terms of the premium adequacy.
At this point in time, all the insurance community -- community can say is is there enough
danger money for the risks, not knowing exactly what the premium should be. So it's a
very difficult situation. So it's a high risk area in that respect with some first mover
advantages and the outcomes is a bit unknown.
So how do we approach it? And I will spend a few more minutes on this particular page

Bloomberg Transcript

So first, what you want to do is you want to have a group-wide strategy because
otherwise, you have in all your branches and subsidiaries and all your underwriting centers
individual attempts to define cyber. And one would offer a broad coverage, the other one
would define it more narrow, one would go for first party, one would go for third party.
There's a kind of an in homogenous approach. So first is a cyber strategy.
So we have grown into the cyber strategy at Hannover Re and said, well, do we like or
dislike? And when you go into the strategy, you start exactly where this question, the dos
and don'ts the likes and the dislikes. So what kind of name perils within a cyber policy.
Do we think we can ensure or primary companies can ensure and we can reassure them
and which are the coverage forms that are too broad where you don't want to touch the
risk because you can't really quantify the exposure nor can you measure the premium
adequacy.
Then the evolution starts and you start to fine tune the process and you need to
differentiate, what kind of price will I need for a financial institution, what do I need for a
protection line of a car manufacturer and how much do I link that to the risk management
process within the company so that pricing tool process starts and we at Hannover Re and
the evolution of broadening the pricing tools from a very basic model into segments
specific models into excess layers into primary policies so that we can quote individual
cyber risks.
Then you have to define the target markets. We have clearly started at Hannover with the
US and the London market, i.e. lights of London, they are very much in the forefront and
we work with all the key players in this markets.
So it's not that you select just one or two, you go into a very broad approach if you're
satisfied about their underwriting approach and you quote a share with these experts on
the cyber insurance products. And they are the usual names both in the US as well as in
Page 82 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

London. There's very little yet in Europe on the continental Europe, be inside or in Asia or
in Latin America.
Now, you start to think, well, what beyond the quota share can you do and whilst I'm
standing here, we are preparing a cyber cat product which will be reviewed tomorrow for
the first time by wider team. And this is a delicate one because how can you define cyber
catastrophe. Is that an aggregation of losses that have a common cost? Or is that a
common computer equipment?
How do you want to define that? Do you want to do it loss occurring or risk attaching
policy? What kind of notice period do you want to add?
Do you want to make it a short term product and say, well, if you don't notify us of a loss
within the term period, next year no coverage. Or do you say you have to notify us within
the next 36 months of an event that could give rise to a claim under a cap policy.

Bloomberg Transcript

We're in the midst of developing this but where we have to be mindful is that now
Hannover doesn't take in a systemic risk so we have to control our limits right away and
we have to start working on a realistic disaster scenario. Is this a EUR2 billion type of loss
or is this an EUR80 billion type of loss? What kind of RDS scenarios can we imagine off
and we have commenced the work to?
So before we actually release too many limits on the cap product, we will, on a parallel
basis develop this realistic disaster scenario to make sure that we are not overloading the
company relative to the capital that is at our disposal. Then you start all over again. It's a
kind of an evolution and then hopefully spiral upwards into a meaningful market.
Hannover these days run about EUR60 million in premium and I hope that 2016, we will
have three digits and it's growing nicely and if we are successful, many companies will
partner with Hannover and will enjoy our expertise. It's all built around the center of
competence. We cannot set up a particular department or a particular company because
we try to tried to mirror the distribution channel.
And the cyber business in the broker community, for example, sits everywhere.
They have small little kind of cyber experts in areas, departments -- various departments.
So to be able to mirror their distribution network, we have to have it in all our
departments but we have to make sure that we built some competency somewhere and
that's why we choose the center of competency concept here that feeds all the
underwriters around the globe as far as our universe is concerned.
Okay. That's about cyber. Now, second stop, we move on to the next part which is
agricultural business. And I would do it in similar way. I would look at the risks first and then
the opportunities and then a little bit of evolution.

Page 83 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

What are the risks that we do see in agricultural business? They are the usual ones. We
have droughts, we have frost, we have heavy rainfall. We could have wind. We could have
all kind of heat waves.

FINAL

Whatever destroys the result of an agriculture product is part of the risk driver. Most of
the risk drivers are uncorrelated to cat exposure. By the way, that's the same with the
cyber business. So it's nicely diversifying development that we are seeing here.
Insurance products in agricultural are already quite developed. We have the single risk
insurance is one peril or risk. For example, you ensure against hale. You insure the crop
against hale and that's a very basic product. Very clearly defined, very simple.
Then you have two more risks. It could be hale and it could be drought in one product.
You could have farm package policies that goes far beyond already. It could include
farmhouses coverage for the crop and everything.
The most development and very wide coverage is the MPCI, the multi peril crop
insurance. Quite frequently also including cats supported by governments and getting a
wider coverage all around the globe.

Bloomberg Transcript

You have revenue insurance plans and also the index products are getting more spread,
i.e. you measure certain kind of rainfall and you say if the rain fall is above X, then the
insurance product would respond.
And of course, here, we are touching on insurance products that are almost at the
borderline to become a derivative, a financial derivative. All these products are there but
they are much more frequently deployed these days and let's have a look at the demand
structure (wider).
Well when you look into the year 2050, if we take a little bit of a strategic view, the
world's population will probably be around 9 billion. The population increases these days
by round about 200,000 people per day. Yes?
So the population increases rapidly all around the globe. The arable land is dropping. And
to be able to feed the increasing population, you need at least a thousand calories per
day.
And because of deficiencies in distribution, you actually need to produce 2,000 to bring a
1,000 calories to every person in the world because we over produce in our western
world when we can't ship it over, we destroy to keep the prices up. So there are
distribution deficiencies.
So we believe that much more agricultural products have to be developed and the world
has to do it quickly because otherwise, we cannot take control of the poverty all around
the globe.

Page 84 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

And already, in 2013, the expected population is likely to be 8.4 billion and it needs a
massive increase in food supply to actually bring the thousand calories per day to people
in the world.
So what are the trends? Population is growing by 2010,000 per day. The strongest growth
is in Asia and people leave more and more in urban cities and they leave the rural areas.
So less people in the rural areas to produce agricultural goods and to actually keep the
people in the urban areas.
When you look at China, just one example, in 1985, the average Chinese person
consumed 20 case of meet per year. By 2000, it was 50K. Now multiply that by a billion
people know how much more you have to produce. Yes. It's a huge amount that is being
needed.
The economic growth actually takes people out of poverty. They can afford to buy food.
This is something we see in countries like Mexico, Brazil, China, India. So that will also lead
to demand. It will lead to different types of demand.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then, of course, on the flipside, the natural resources get more and more limited. The
water is more polluted. The arable land is declining. Desserts are expanding on a
worldwide basis and that will lead to rising prices. At the same time, there is more
demand.
We believe that here, the mega trend is, again, our friend. And that's why we started a
number of years ago to employ expertise in our company and I will tell you later on what
we did with this expertise.
When we look at the figures a bit more detail, some of them are showed, I think, last year
or the year before, today, all countries, the agriculture insurance premium is below 1% of
GDP. The forecast is eventually, it will be 2%. Less of a development in the high income
countries but severe developments and massive growth in the middle income and low
income countries simply because the food needs to be produced and therefore
insurance is needed to actually make sure that it's productive.
So if you do the number crunching, emerging markets are expected from 2009 to 2025
that the insurance premium will increase to $15 billion to $20 billion and the large part will
be China. I'm not sure whether I should call China as an emerging market these days any
more. But China has released a 10 points program late last year or early this year that
agricultural insurance should be in the forefront of insurance companies to make sure that
Chinese people get food also in the rural areas and when Chinese government releases
a recommendation, it's a must to the insurance industry. So they will enhance the
insurance penetration rapidly and the same will happen in India and Brazil in some of
these countries.
When we then look at the ratio of insured versus cultivated areas, you can clearly see in
the US most of the cultivated areas are insured, 88%. When you look at China, the
cultivated area has a similar size but the insurance penetration is only 45%.
Page 85 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

So much higher risk in case of unusual weather events. That's why, clearly, the Chinese
government is pushing the insurance of agricultural exposures. So when you go to India,
it's even more extreme. Same size, again. But insurance penetration only 15% and Latin
America a similar picture. So clearly, an area where insurance penetration and the trends
from the insurance penetration will give us tailwinds in terms of business production.
So how big are these markets today? you remember the figures I showed you on cyber
insurance? When we look at the US, there was a rapid growth period between 2005 to
2009 and since these times, the market is round about $9 billion in premium. So quite a
sizeable market and not insignificant amount of these is offered to reinsurers.
Because in the US, the lion share of this business is MPCI business, it's with a few players
only and they're top heavy. The top heavy on MPCI business so they're branching out for
diversification reasons and by huge quarter share through the stop loss treaties on their
MPCI on their MPCI accounts from the reinsurance community.
China, you can see the trend here. It's an unbelievable trend. And now, you imagine for a
minute, that it's most that this amount of volume is mostly with reinsurance companies,
PICC, China United. And Ping An. They ensure the lion share of this agricultural business
and just look at the CAGR here, 54%, a huge development patter and with the 10-point
program just released by the Chinese government is going to last.

Bloomberg Transcript

Because they will clearly force the insurance companies to ensure next to 100% of the
cultivated areas in the agricultural business. So one should expect a further continued
growth in the Chinese market too.
When we look at India, again, a large market. The compound annual gross rate of 28% of
cost on the lower volume, insurance penetration, much lower but the trend clearly is
different here too and we have signals that the insurance penetration in agricultural
business in India is going to continue. So again, a market for high growth opportunities.
Latin America, a similar picture even though on a -- on a somewhat smaller scale 23%. But
again, if (I think) for a minute, I would have a 23% annual growth rate in any other line of
business and it's profitable, I would thankfully offer my capacity, our company's capacity to
have this automatic growth in this market.
Okay. Now, let's look at Hannover Re and where we see our opportunities. The way we
are segmenting these markets are basically -- it's basically done by three main criteria.
One is where are the big markets of this world that have more than 25 million acres of
agricultural area --that's one block -- the big markets of this world.
Then we say where is the population very big, i.e. where is food needed. That's the
second criteria. And the last one is where is already a very sizeable GDP where you have
just the financial strengths that the government and the strengths of the GDP can support
subsidies into the development of agricultural business.

Page 86 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

When you cross these there, let me talk about not the pattern in middle but the other
ones. The other ones we do business to. But in terms of developed and in size, the ones
in the middle have the power to develop huge premium and also opportunities. And we
have clearly earmarked our strategy, the markets, US, Russia, Brazil, China, India, Mexico
as the key markets.
Now, you can say you're copying brick type of considerations even though the Mexico
doesn't sit too well with a -- with a brick kind of definition. But it's coming from a different
kind of consideration. GDP to do the subsidies population big enough and, of course, it
must be a production country so that there is a need to ensure.
And this is really where we are targeting -- where we try to make our in roads and
develop successful premium in the agricultural area.
But that said, of course, we do business in Turkey, in Argentina, in the Philippines, in
Korea, in the U.K. and in Germany too. But in terms of the growth potential, I'm not
exclusively talking about growth potential. These are the key markets for us where you
can easily add multimillion per year, increases in your premium volume and hopefully also
in the bottom line.

Bloomberg Transcript

So how have we done? We started to set up a small department. We try to employ
various skill sets. They're all from the industry, from the agriculture industry and we started
to develop our business.
There wasn't a historic connection to our Latin American business. We were first strong in
Latin America and it's due today when you look at our 2014 distribution, the south
American or Latin American business is 32%. That's for historic reasons. That's where it all
started in our company.
But ever since and with this change in strategy approach, we have started to branch out.
And these days, North America is 27%. We are in contact with except for one, all the key
underwriters in MPCI business in the states. We have decent stop loss portfolio on hale
and MPCI business in the states and it's in 2014, already 27% of business.
And in Asia, it's 17% and our teams have quite ambitious growth targets in China and India
which the board didn't suggest to them but they volunteered to set that as their own
targets because they wanted to make the strategic inroads into these two markets.
In Africa, Australia, a little bit on the lower side. Europe also, not insignificant. We have a
strong position in Poland, for example, that we operate with a market leader in Poland. So
Europe, also for us is not a bad market as far as agricultural business is concerned. For us,
the average annual compound ratio, 26% and you can see here, even though I don't know
what the final figure will be in 2015, we might actually get close to EUR500 million. That's
quite a ballpark figure.

Page 87 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

Its top line, of course, agricultural business doesn't have right away double digit margins.
They're more in the single digit margins, they have some volatility but it's uncorrelated
volatility with stress tested our agricultural portfolio against the cat portfolio. There are
some correlations. It's not minus but it's also not plus one. It's probably plus 0.1 on the
positive correlation. So it's weakly positively correlated to that nat cat exposure.
What kind of products do we have in agricultural? Well I mentioned already, the lion share
is multi peril crop insurance. Hale is the oldest form. It's also a decent block but it's
shrinking in terms of size.
But what is actually growing is also livestock and aquaculture to a lesser extent,
bloodstock, bloodstock is basically insurance of horses where we are really cutting back a
little bit but livestock and aquaculture is developing nicely because many of the oceans in
the worlds are overfished. And aquaculture is a growing business worldwide and needs
insurance too so we're growing nicely here.

Bloomberg Transcript

And forestry is also quite nice. We're strong in Scandinavia. We're strong in Indonesia. So
those markets that have big forests or big rain forests which are used for production
purposes and provided that everything is fine with the governance on these projects, we
ensure quite a lot on the forestry side and it's decent, double digit margin on the forestry
business as is on the aquaculture business, for example. But this will most likely not shape
up in a different way but it's likely to stand like this.
So what is our approach to future agricultural business? We believe that we have a
dedicated international team and they are very well connected with many government
organizations. You won't believe how much of these business is actually dealt with
government organizations.
So they go to the source of the origin, where the subsidies are. And then the insurer is
found locally but the product invention actually takes place between specialized teams
and governments. That's where the origin of the business is and then insurance
companies are selected to administer in many markets.
So we believe in our specialized team, their reputation is already very high. They get
invited to Congress as they speak to governments and their advice is very much liked
these days.
We work with strategic partners, World Bank, IFC, many other strategic partners and also
non-government organizations. We're branching out into something you wouldn't think of
right away, aquaculture, forestry, business. And in the end, we're also developing micro
insurance on the agricultural side.
So if you think of India for a minute, all these small farms, they need tailored products to
protect their little kind of farm land so that has also developed in a nice product
development.

Page 88 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

And we tried to be innovative. So we entered into corporation with satellite companies so
that we, from satellites, can measure the loss significance. For example, there is a freeze
loss in Mexico like it occurred a couple of years ago that we can measure from the
satellites how big the area is that is affected.

FINAL

You can see that from satellites and you can do advanced claims management via
satellites. We have teamed up with companies to make sure that we have these abilities.
Okay. Conclusion. Well we believe that our growth is to, some extent, safeguarded by
expert knowledge. We don't show this specialty line business. It's embedded into our
traditional business. Agricultural is not part of our specialty business that we show to the
outside. It sits everywhere in the Chinese department in the Latin American department.
Of course they are teams, they are pockets of experts but it's not separately shown why.
Again, we mirrored the distribution channel and there are no specialized brokers for
agriculture business. So why should we set up special agricultural teams.

Bloomberg Transcript

We believe that this business has nice entry barriers. Like, for example, credit and surety
business. The community of reinsurers dealing meaningfully with credit and surety
business is a handful.
And we see a similar kind of pattern here without expertise. Ulrich highlighted this
morning how the reinsurance cake is distributed amongst hundreds of reinsurance
companies only those who have the expert knowledge can actually make the inroads into
cyber or agricultural because if they don't have the expertise, what can they bring to the
table and the discussions with the customers.
And there is still evolution of product and innovation so these products change constantly
and they are not as solid as a motor insurance liability policy or a property policy. We are
still in an evolution process which is a challenge and also in that respect just attractive and
last but not least, what you see on the top line, there's more than just nat cat.
So to the extent that nat cat is declining, that aviation is climbing, that marine is getting
into a soft market environment as Ulrich explained, we are involved in various initiatives to
grow here and there but what we can tell you is will that fuel the growth in 2016 or 2017 or
2018. Some move faster, others need a little bit more lead time until the relationships are
established or until governments buy into it.
So it sometimes like sitting on a stone to heat a stone. So it takes a little bit of lead time
to get this business into our staple of attractive business opportunities.
Well and then I'm ready to listen to your questions.
+++qanda

Page 89 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Well thank you. We already have some questions here from Xinmei and Michael Huttner.

FINAL

Q - Xinmei Wang

{BIO 17860767 <GO>}

Thank you. Xinmei Wang from Morgan Stanley. So on the cyber, you talked about cyber cat
cover. So what do you think about the possibility of alternative capital coming in to fill that
coverage gap instead? And my second question is when you think about cyber, do you -do you have that thing about target or an ambition of how much the P&C booked you
would like to be cyber over the next couple of years?

A - Juergen Graeber

{BIO 20978001 <GO>}

Yes. Maybe I'll start -- thanks for your questions -- with the second question. We would
never have kind of strategic targets how much it would have to be. We hope it can be a
similar take -- can take a similar pattern like the D&O business, grow to three digits. But if,
for example, we have massive increases in Chinese anota share treaties then the
percentage may drop again. So I hope that underwriters and opportunities are taken up
but it's not -- it must be X % of our P&C business. We don't have this kind of target.

Bloomberg Transcript

The first question is this kept product -- a product for alternative capital? I would say yes,
maybe. Why? It's very much short tail in nature and that reminds me of something that we
should structure it a bit more tailish but they can't get in.
Yes. It could be a source where these markets could come in. But at this point in time,
alternative markets like to follow established routines at the primary level as long as we
don't have them and we don't have them on our side. I doubt that the alternative capital
markets will step in right away.
They will probably give us a lead time of three to five years and then they follow suit. It
would be my assumption.
So I hope that we have a little bit of first mover advantage here as a community. And the
minute we offer it to the broker distribution channels, all other reinsurance companies will
pick up within three to six months.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

My question were directly related, I'm sorry. But on the -- is there any benefit of Tianjin in
terms of pricing and maybe you can talk more broadly about pricing of the account
renewal. Then -- and this is not related to you -- I'm really sorry -- but during lunch, I picked
up a comment that as much as your reserves in nonlife are huge and the life, a little bit
light. And I didn't understand why. But maybe that's not quite appropriate.

A - Juergen Graeber

{BIO 20978001 <GO>}

Well if I may. I wouldn't comment on the first part. I would give this to, maybe Andreas or
Ulrich. The second part on the -- on the light reserves. Tianjin and pricing, well, whenever

Page 90 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

there is a larger claim with cat or man-made, the question arises, was this expected? If it
was expected, there's very little reaction of the market. If it wasn't, there is some reaction.

FINAL

And I would dare to say this claims somewhere in between because actuaries will say,
well, at the very tail end of my TBA calculation, yes, an event like this is included. But
underwriters would say, no, I didn't expect this. I want some price increases.
I believe the amount of increases will be limited and I tell you why. Markets that have
strong underlying growths will trade the opportunity or the responsibility to pay back a
market for an unexpected loss by a growth. So I would have the expectation that, in
particular, Chinese customers would say, well, if you stay with us, the future growth will
pay you back. But don't force us next year to give us a meaningfully higher margin.
But at the same time, we would say, well, maybe halfway through. So one would end up in
some trading and try to find a win-win balance which will not be as strong as it would be if
a loss like this would have occurred in -- in our western world, there would be much more
technical reaction to this. But they will trade the gross opportunity against the payback
responsibility. That's my assumption. Haven't started the negotiations yet, though.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well if I may answer on the life side fee reserve level, I mean, the half significant surplus
can be life reserves as well. What that, however, refers to is on the benefit reserves the
future positive cash flows, I mean, this is, I think -- Klaus, correct me if I'm wrong -probably in the region of 1.6 billion, this is just the runoff positive results that we are
expecting.
The different -- really different to the nonlife reserves. So nonlife reserves is future
negative cash flows. And so redundancies on the -- on the sufficiency, I think, in life you call
it sufficiency. The sufficiency on the Life & Health reserves is a positive cash flow.
When it comes to -- and therefore, of course, it's -- you cannot really, I mean, utilize and
to buffer results unless you sell them. Of course, if you sell them, then you get the money
for it, maybe just a haircut. But you cannot just like you do this a big -- but theoretically, you
can do this with nonlife reserves and to release part of that.
So these reserves releases without selling the reserves, we haven't got that on the life
and (health). It's a major difference.
The other different is that one Life & Health, it's a discounted reserves which is quite
appropriate because you have positive and negative cash flows in the future and, yes, we
have provisions for actuaries development. But again, as they are -- I mean, part of the
best estimate reserves and are -- in excess of this trick actuarial calculation, I would say.
I mean, there's a difference. So there are two very different beasts. If you look at the
runoff there, you -- what we are expecting if you just stop now, what will happen to the
reserves, both will generate profits.
Page 91 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

Did I explain that correctly? Okay. Thank you.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. We have another question from Andrew Ritchie.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Thanks. Just two quick questions. First of all, have there been an insurance claims in
cyber? Not specific to how to you but for the market and maybe just give us a sense as to
whether small market as it is and has it been profitable so far.
And second question is related on agriculture. I guess, when we look at the MPCI results
of US primaries, they seem very volatile and it's very hard to figure out how profitable that
business really is. It doesn't look that profitable overtime but maybe just give us some
premises as to is there a pricing cycle in agriculture? I appreciate -- there's a lot of state
involvement with the caps. Do you have any, sort of, sense of how profitable it is?

A - Juergen Graeber

{BIO 20978001 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Well maybe on the first one, have there been claims on cyber? Yes. There have been
claims. But so far, it's a profitable line of business. So they have not been very sizeable as
an insured claim. Why? Just simply because of insurance density at this point in time.
On the agriculture side, I would probably partly disagree on the volatility of the BCI
business. As you know, this business in the states has certain kinds of bells and whistles
and adjustment features and caps.
So it does not go to very extreme limits because then certain kind of caps come in. And
secondly, most of the primary companies buy quite comprehensive stop loss protections.
So they manage their volatility down to acceptable levels.
Now, if I take the flipside, as a reinsurer, you get a combination of proportion participation.
Here, you assume volatility and then you provide coverage, i.e. stop loss coverage and
you assume even more volatility. So our results should have more volatility than the
primary companies.
And we indeed have seen that in the early years of ramping it up. We got a large loss
from Mexico. We also, many years ago, had a company on the West Coast in the states of
the name of ICH, Insurance Company of Hannover. And they were involved in MPCI
business and that was not as attractive in those days as we had hoped.
But ever since we found a proper balance between proportional and stop loss, we found
a balance between auto generating cash flow, managing volatility a bit better and what
actually helps in terms of the total portfolio is that you may have losses in the states but
maybe your Polish business is fine or your Chinese business is fine.

Page 92 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

So we've seen diversification now in our portfolio just simply because of size. Yes. But will
it, in the end, not be business with a double digit EBIT margin. The answer can only be
yes. Because to the extent that it is sometimes subsidized business, you cannot subsidize
business with a -- for, let's say, 18% EBIT margin. No government would ever do this and
would accept that as a kind of situation.
Maybe in the early years it might occur from time to time but the longer the business is in
the market, the margins are more like short limit property margins, maybe 6%, 7% on
proportional business.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

And just for another -- you commented that you thought cyber was similar to
development of D&O, the D&O market. I mean, maybe this is about a kind of rumors as
to what happened to the D&O market. It developed. There was a period of losses.
People worked out kind of what the right limits were and then it's now a mature-ish
market. I mean, how would -- what are the similarities for early D&O.

A - Juergen Graeber

{BIO 20978001 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well what other similarities, the protection is more or less a protection for the
management in a sense that in company can't operate because of certain kind of
mistakes. So you want to protect your own company against your volatility from certain
kind of actions where they are external or internal influence.
What they have in common is that both classes tend to have huge potential for class
actions, D&O and cyber. And that's why we believe because of this class action potential,
yes, that your share price drops different through the market development, yes?
Say, the market stays solid and your share price drops right away that will be class action
started. And this can happen on the cyber exposure like it can happen on the D&O side.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

So the D&O to WorldCom, Enron, the financial crisis to kind of mature. So I guess, it does
have the same thing.

A - Juergen Graeber

{BIO 20978001 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Okay. Well thank you, Juergen for your presentation and the questions.

Page 93 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

We -- without further ado, Ulrich will now summarize the day and take a brief look forward
and but I'd like to emphasize the world brief. We will not providing a new -- fresh guidance
for the day. The initial guidance for 2016 then have to wait for the conference call on
November fourth.
After this, I'd like to invite you to join us in the hall for snacks and drinks. In doing so, I
certainly would like to thank you for your participation today, also on behalf of the
management and the entire investor relations team.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

So thank you, Karl.
Briefly, briefly on the wrap up and the concluding remarks, well, the guidance remains
unchanged as Karl already mentioned. I mean, the growth, 5% to 10% currency adjusted,
that's pretty certain by now because majority of the business has been written and -- of
course in newer terms, it will look solidly double digit, also that is quite certain.
Return on investment around 3%. That is pretty certain as well. It looks up to know unless
there's major turmoil in the market and provided that there are no major losses ate push
the aggregate losses significantly.

Bloomberg Transcript

Above the large loss budget between now and here and we should end up this net profit
for the group of around EUR950 million and I have to add. So this is not a point estimate.
So this is an estimate in the -- in the area as we normally do these things.
Dividend. Our strategic ratio is 35% to 40%. However, I mean, the capital increase, as I
showed in my presentation this morning. If all thinks the equal, we will probably be able to
act similarly than we did for 2014.
Key takeaways, we feel that we underwrite place being in the reinsurance business. We
feel the business is growing. There's demand for the business because we are offering
growth -- I mean, hedging tools and good products for our clients and therefore we feel
that we will be able in the medium term to achieve our bottom and top line growth
targets, bottom line is more important than top line.
Capital management, we manage towards attractive ROEs as long as we have attractive
ROEs. Any additional capital is welcome because it gives us additional flexibility and
safeguards, the longevity of the company. However, if the ROE drops below certain levels
and the minimum is, of course, 900 base points, accessory free, then we will manage the
capital growth downwards.
Andreas told you that we are well ahead with our Solvency II internal capital model actually
being the first internal capital model that has been approved. And Eberhard in his last
presentation on these kind of occasions actually showed you the usual development of
our non-life loss reserves and, in particular, the sufficiency levels and the excess reserves
that we are having at least according to Towers Watson. Still a very healthy buffers.
Page 94 of 95



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2015-10-14

FINAL

Then Klaus gave you the reasons why we can believe and that we are confident that in
the medium terms, the profitability of our Life & Health business will continue to grow and
this is actually regardless the market cycles that we see on the P&C business.
Roland explained to you how we tackle the low yield environment and that we can even in
the current low yield environment maintain the level of our -- of our investment earnings in
absolute terms. Then Juergen just explained to you that we still have areas of profitable
growth in the P&C business even in the current soft market.
And with that, we feel that the continued positive development of Hannover Re is
safeguarded for the benefit of all stakeholders in particular of our shareholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

With that, thank you very much for listening and thanks for joining us at this year's investor
day.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 95 of 95

