Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2016-04-19

Q4 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Jonathan Stanley Hill, Group Chief Financial Oﬃcer & Executive Director
Lance Henry Batchelor, Group Chief Executive Oﬃcer & Director
Matthew Atkinson, Chief Marketing Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Andreas van Embden, Analyst
Ben Cohen, Analyst
Blair Stewart, Analyst
James A. Shuck, Analyst
Nick Johnson, Analyst
Ravi Tanna, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Morning, everybody. Can you hear me? Is my mic on? Welcome to Saga's second set of
preliminary results year-end since we became a Plc back in May of 2014. I'm Lance
Batchelor, I'm the Group CEO. I know most of you in the room. A few new faces as well.
Welcome to you. I'm going to be followed up here by our CFO, Jonathan; and then
afterwards, by our Chief Marketing Oﬃcer, Matt Atkinson, on the far right there.
I realize it's slightly unusual to have the head of marketing present at a results session.
However, the Saga brand has an enormous amount of potential and value. We're just
beginning to unlock that potential. I'm really excited for you to hear about some of the
work that Matt and his team are doing and the implications that that has for our business.
After we've all presented, I will come back up and the three of us will have plenty of time
for some Q&A.
There's our agenda. That's me. Here we go. Saga has produced another set of strong
numbers. We've delivered on all of our key objectives that we set for the year. And in fact,
in some areas, we've exceeded them. We've grown our proﬁts while we continue to grow
our customer numbers across the whole business. Our model continues to generate very
high levels of free cash ﬂow. We're continuing to reduce our leverage. And very
importantly, we've announced today a dividend of £0.072 per share, equating to 57% of
our net earnings. As you know, this is ahead of market expectations. And we've also
raised our future dividend payout guidance to 50% to 70% of net income.

Page 1 of 22



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2016-04-19

FINAL

Let's just remind ourselves about the strategy. Now we presented this strategy for the ﬁrst
time in January 2015, and it's almost unchanged. 16 months on, we're making real
progress and the model is really starting to perform. Firstly, our core businesses are
growing. We've reduced our capital requirements, we've launched the motor insurance
panel that we talked about a year ago, we've ordered the ﬁrst new ship, and we've built a
great team.
Secondly, we've continued to invest in the future growth of the business. Saga Investment
Services, which is our investment management JV with Tilney Bestinvest, was operational
just in time for the key end of the tax year. Thirdly, we're maintaining our simple operating
model, one that focuses on the core businesses in order to produce very high amounts of
free cash ﬂow. This cash-generative proﬁle has been further enhanced by our recent
review into capital allocation with our underwriter, AICL.
As a result of that, we entered into a quota share agreement with NewRe to cover 75% of
the risks on our motor book. This allows for the capital held within AICL to be released
gradually over time, leading to an enhanced ability to increase dividends to shareholders
while continuing to pay down debt.

Bloomberg Transcript

Finally, last year, after having identiﬁed that it did not ﬁt with our core business model,
we've divested Allied Healthcare, which simpliﬁed the business and reduced operational
risks. So we've been able to deliver on each of the key areas of our strategy in the last 12
months, and we have a clear plan laid out for the next 12.
Let's look quickly at insurance which, as you know, is the largest part of the Saga business.
I'm pleased to report that we grew customer policy numbers across all of our key
insurance lines. We launched the motor underwriting panel as planned, learning from our
previous success with the home underwriting panel. This has been further supported by
our underwriting performance and our approach to pricing for risk. Our own underwriter,
AICL, has priced underwriting risk to better reﬂect our excellent underwriting
performance, which has allowed our retail broker to be more competitive in our core
market.
We've also completed the acquisition of Bennetts, the UK's leading motorbike insurer.
We've capitalized on our advantages in home insurance, continuing to drive eﬃciencies
through the panel, and also of our travel and medical insurance businesses, which have
grown strongly. Finally, our Solvency II approach was approved, retaining our strong
capital position with a coverage ratio of 170%.
Turning now to travel. In 2015, our travel business had a very strong year. We saw
signiﬁcant proﬁt growth and we are on track to deliver our challenging plans for that
business. We won huge numbers of awards, reﬂecting our focus on exceptionally high
customer service and our diﬀerentiated oﬀering. Our cruise business continues to
perform very strongly, and we started preparation for our new ship, which is due for
delivery in 2019. And that, of course, will materially add to PBT within our travel division.

Page 2 of 22



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2016-04-19

FINAL

Moving on to emerging businesses. We continued learning about the new opportunities
that we've identiﬁed for Saga. Saga Investment Services platform launched, as I said, at
the end of the ﬁnancial year as planned, just in time for the ISA season. We started, for the
ﬁrst time, cautious marketing and selling of the new service. I'm very pleased to report
that we do now have our ﬁrst real paying customers on this platform. And in fact, we've
got over 500 of them so far who've invested over £5 million. It's small, but it's a good
start.
Our private homecare pilot in Hertfordshire is performing strongly. It's moved from what
we call pilot category to trial status. So we're now working on the most eﬃcient way to
scale it up and to gain volume. Our customers love it, carers love working within it, and
the potential of that business looks good.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our retirement village pilot in Wiltshire has gone well. Our customers have responded
very well to marketing sales approaches from Saga, and we're working with Rangeford
homes to help them to deliver a superb service. I actually visited that village about three
weeks ago; it's a very impressive project.
Our people underpin everything that we do at Saga. They're a very important part of the
strategy that we've outlined. Now we saw considerable senior talent join the team last
year with a new CFO, Jonathan; and CMO, Matt, who you're going to hear from today. But
also, a new Group HR Director, Karen Caddick, who's spearheading our ambition to
employ the best talent available; and a new Managing Director for Saga Investment
Services, Nici Audhlam-Gardiner. Her knowledge of the wealth management and ﬁnancial
services space is driving that business forward. These folks have already made a
signiﬁcant contribution to the running of this business and to how we think about it and
how we approach new opportunities to improve and to grow.
So it's been an important year. I'm very pleased that we continue to build a track record of
both ﬁnancial and operational delivery. However, we're already three months in to the
current year, so I want to run you through the priorities that we've identiﬁed for the
business in the coming year.
Firstly, we're going to grow our insurance business, leveraging our competitive
advantages in those markets using both of our panels, as well as, of course, our own
underwriter, which is now mostly reinsured. In travel, we're going to continue to broaden
our product range, whilst developing and enhancing our digital oﬀering, maintaining the
excellent service standards on our ships and working with the Meyer Werft shipyard in
Germany to ensure delivery of our new ship on time in 2019.
Secondly, we'll continue to invest for future growth. In Saga Investment Services, we're
going to start to bring in customers who require detailed ﬁnancial advice and we'll be
investing larger sums. In homecare, we're going to expand cautiously while we qualify an
expansion model for that business. And in retirement villages, we're going to look and
see how we could add scale in the future.

Page 3 of 22



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2016-04-19

FINAL

Third, we're always going to work on maintaining our simple and eﬃcient operating
model, generating additional free cash ﬂow from the various initiatives that we've put in
place: the motor panel, quota share agreement and the more eﬃcient pricing in AICL.
Fourth, a new addition to our strategic aims. Having spent almost two years getting the
foundations of this business sorted: deﬁning the strategy, getting growth into all of our
main businesses, reducing leverage, building dividends, divesting allied, building a great
team. Having done that, it's now time for us to accelerate our work on the brand, on our
customer relationships, on going more and more digital, and on cross-selling.
That's the main reason that I joined this business. And as I said earlier, Matt's going to tell
you more about the things that we can do better in that part of the business, the exciting
initiatives that he's got in place to further build the brand and to grow value.
I'm now going to hand over to Jonathan, who's going to take you through the numbers in
more detail. He will then pass on to Matt, and Matt will talk you through that strategy to
become a customer-driven business. Thanks.

Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Lance. And good morning, everyone. It is very pleasing to be able to report such
a strong set of results in my ﬁrst full set of preliminary results. We have reported good
growth across the business with trading proﬁt 5.2% higher. A strong increase in available
cash ﬂow has allowed us to further deleverage from 2.6 times to 2.3 times at the end of
the year.
And based on these numbers and our future expectations for the business, we have
proposed a ﬁnal dividend of £0.05 per share. This will give a full year dividend of £0.072
at a payout ratio of 57% of net earnings from continuing operations, excluding the one-oﬀ
beneﬁt of the purchased Acromas tax losses. And additionally, as Lance has mentioned,
we have raised our dividend guidance to 50% to 70% payout ratio.
Looking now at the group P&L. Revenue from continuing operations increased by 7% to
£963 million. Insurance revenues were up by £20 million, while travel revenues were £42
million higher, beneﬁting from the full year beneﬁt of Destinology. Trading EBITDA and
trading proﬁt grew by 5% and 5.2% respectively, and PBT was £176 million. This is after
higher amortization of acquired intangibles and losses on the fair evaluation of
derivatives, partially oﬀset by lower non-trading cost impacting the year-on-year numbers
by around £6 million in aggregate.
Proﬁt before tax from continuing operations increased by 55% to £176 million, with the
prior incurring material one-oﬀ IPO and exceptional debt costs. As a reminder, the prioryear loss after tax was due to the write down of Allied Healthcare. Basic earnings per
share were strongly ahead at £0.133 with the prior-year again impacted by the IPO and
debt costs.

Page 4 of 22



FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2016-04-19

Before I go on, I want to cover oﬀ two other points. Firstly, we have until now primarily
reported on and guided to trading EBITDA. As the business is maturing as a Plc, we are
going to move away from this measure and move towards a more meaningful earnings
metric, which better reﬂects shareholder value in the long term. The presentation of this
year's numbers will focus on trading proﬁt as a more appropriate metric for measuring
our performance. Trading proﬁt is trading EBITDA less depreciation and amortization,
excluding those amortization of acquired intangibles. And going forward, we will also
focus on PBT as a key metric.
Secondly, we have adjusted the reporting segments to more accurately reﬂect the
business as it is today. We therefore now report our insurance products together,
including motor, home and other; tour operating and cruising combined make up
insurance – travel. Thank you. And emerging businesses and central costs, together cover
personal ﬁnance, which is previously in other ﬁnancial services. Continuing healthcare
services, previously in its own segment, the media businesses and our pilots and central
costs.
Our core insurance and travel businesses performed strongly during the year, helping to
drive the group's trading proﬁt. Combined, these businesses increased trading proﬁt by
9.1%. I will now look at each of these businesses in turn.

Bloomberg Transcript

In motor, trading proﬁt increased by approximately 18%, despite a highly competitive
motor market. Underlying core policy numbers continued their upward trend and
increased 3.1% in the year, excluding the impact of Bennetts. And with those Bennetts
policies, growth was around 15%.
Revenue growth reﬂects a reduction in our core underwriting business, oﬀset by the ﬁrst
revenue contribution of Bennetts of around £10 million. Our core underwritten business
delivered an increase in trading proﬁt of around £8 million, which I'll cover oﬀ in a second,
with the remainder coming from a strong performance in our broad (14:51) Direct Choice
business, and our claims handling and credit hire businesses.
There was limited proﬁt contribution during the year from Bennetts, given that the peak
motorcycle renewals occurred during the spring before we have purchased the business.
And secondly, there's limited proﬁt contribution in these numbers from the motor panel.
We have retained our focus on achieving the right balance between growing customer
numbers and growing proﬁts.
In our motor underwriting business, proﬁtabilities improved as lower net earned
premiums were more than oﬀset by improved claims experience, increases in other
income streams and lower operating expenses. Net earned premiums were 2.7% lower,
mainly due to falling or ﬂat premiums during the back-end of 2014/2015 as these earn
through. And secondly, a reduction in the business written for the AA.
The group has not seen the increase in claims frequency being reported elsewhere in the
market. We continue to believe that this is largely a result of the characteristics of our
current customer base, with the majority of customers being retired, therefore lessening
Page 5 of 22



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2016-04-19

FINAL

the impact of lower fuel costs and current economic and employment growth. Also,
claims severity during 2015 has been broadly stable. Again, positive compared to inﬂation
and personal injury claims costs reported elsewhere.
The combined operating ratio at 74.4% has improved by 3.5 percentage points, partially
as a result of the £2 million increase in reserve releases in motor, reﬂecting an
improvement of claims experienced on large and small PI claims. The pure operating ratio
improved by 1.9 percentage points with lower revenues more than oﬀset by the beneﬁt of
our expected claims cost and lower operating costs.
The motor panel has performed well since its launch in the summer of 2015, with the new
external underwriters accounting for around a quarter of the net premiums underwritten
on renewals in January 2016. And we're very positive about how that is progressing.
AICL's participation continues to be key to the panel's success both in motor and in
home, allowing us to ensure competitive tension and eﬃcient pricing towards our (17:23)
broker business.

Bloomberg Transcript

The panel is currently made up of ﬁve insurers including AICL, as with the home panel, it
takes time and increased numbers of participating underwriters to ramp up the full
eﬃciency. And we are aiming to get another couple of underwriters on the panel this
year.
Favorable claims development experienced during the year to 31 January 2016 has
resulted in a reduction of reserves acquired in respect of prior-year claims. This has been
driven largely by large and small personal injury claims and by other classes resulting in
consistent overall reserve releases year-on-year of £68 million. The strengthening reserves
in 2014-2015 is an allocation of the reserve surplus and represents surplus on top of our
cautious best estimate. There has been no deterioration in the 2014-2015 year.
Moving on to Solvency II. We gained regulatory approval, obviously, for the use of our
Undertaking Speciﬁc Parameters route at Solvency II during the year. And under Solvency
II, the group had an SCR of £129 million at the 31st of January 2016 and available capital
was £220 million leading to a coverage ratio of 170%. This strong capital position is at the
top end of the range we expect for our coverage ratio. This will reduce at the half year
given that AICL pays its main dividend during the ﬁrst half of the ﬁnancial year. We have
assessed the sensitivity of our solvency capital ratio at various potential changes, and we
believe that our solvency position is robust.
In March of this year, we announced that we had entered into a quota share agreement
with NewRe to cover 75% of the risk of the motor policies of our in-house underwriter
AICL from the 1st of February 2016. The highly competitive terms of this arrangement are
a testament to the quality of our book and historic underwriting performance. The
agreement will help to reduce our exposure to underwriting risks and will lead to a
gradual reduction in capital deployed in the underwriter. Combined with our more
conservative investment policy outlined in our interims last year and more competitive
pricing by AICL, this will result in an increase in available cash ﬂow, allowing us to pay

Page 6 of 22



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2016-04-19

FINAL

down debt as we have previously thought and increase dividends to shareholders faster
than previously anticipated.
In home, despite a very competitive market, we continue to capitalize on the eﬃciency of
the home panel, further reducing the net rate available to our retail broker. This enabled
us to grow revenue by nearly 9%, which also beneﬁted from higher core policy numbers
and increased proﬁts from the proﬁt share agreement with New India. Trading proﬁt
increased by 3.2%, with growth in revenue partially oﬀset by increased operating
expenses.
Revenue in other insurance lines grew by 6.4% to £92 million, with increased travel
insurance volumes and improved margins on private medical. Trading proﬁt was down by
£4 million, primarily due to two factors: an increase in the marketing investment earlier in
the year in respect to legal services; and then the impact of the administration of Parabis
Law, who were our third party, providing legal products to the group.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our travel business has had another strong year of trading, delivering a 27% increase in
trading proﬁt. Revenue growth of 11% was mainly due to our ﬁrst full-year impact of
Destinology, but also beneﬁted from growth in Saga Holidays and Titan. The proﬁt growth
was driven by three factors: both Saga Holidays and Titan businesses delivering higher
revenues and proﬁts with increased higher value, higher margin, long haul, and thirdparty cruise products; Saga cruise delivering improved yields; and ﬁnally, higher
proﬁtability in Destinology. So, a really positive year for the travel business.
Moving on to what we now I call our emerging businesses which includes our wealth
management business, Saga Investment Services, personal ﬁnance businesses, Saga
homecare, our publishing business, and the retirement village pilots. The segment's
revenue and gross proﬁts both increased in the year.
The increase in trading loss was due primarily to the normalization of listed company cost
amounting to around £6 million of the increment with the remainder being additional
investments in new businesses such as Saga Investment Services.
Cash ﬂow performance for the year continued to be strong with the group achieving an
available operating cash ﬂow of £178 million, approximately 75% of trading EBITDA. The
£15 million increase on the previous period was driven by higher dividend payouts from
our restricted businesses, travel and AICL, both of which registered strong increases in
proﬁts; and therefore, we're able to pay higher dividends.
At the interims last September, we announced plans to reduced net debt-to-EBITDA ratio
to between 1.5 times and 2 times with the dividend payout ratio of 40% to 60% of net
income. We expected to be towards the bottom end of this range by the time we receive
delivery of the ﬁrst new ship in mid-2019 and before any debt associated with the ship has
drawn on (23:42). We then expect to move towards the bottom of the range, again, in
anticipation of the second ship being delivered two years later subject to us exercising
the option. And after this point, the group would remain within this target range moving
forward.
Page 7 of 22



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2016-04-19

FINAL

With the quota share agreement we announced earlier this year, combined with a more
prudent investment policy and the expectation of vehicle possibly becoming smaller as
the panel develops, we expect additional capital will be released from the underwriter
gradually over time. The 1.5 times to 2 times leverage range remains our intension, but
with this higher dividend guidance range of 50% to 70% of net income.
During the current ﬁnancial year, insurance proﬁtability is expected to beneﬁt from higher
policy numbers, the positive impact of the panel, the ongoing beneﬁts of the eﬃciency
improvements that we make within the services businesses, our broking business. This will
be partially oﬀset by approximately 1% proﬁt impact of the recently announced quota
share arrangement and by reduced level of reserve releases which are expected to
contribute materially during the year, but on a reduced level from last year.

Bloomberg Transcript

We believe that the steps that we have taken in our underwriter to reduce our exposure to
potential losses and price risk more competitively, combined with our ambition to grow
our footprint via the motor insurance panel, will result in a higher quality of earnings. And
we are conﬁdent that we can drive continued proﬁt growth in our motor business,
beneﬁting from the written earned beneﬁt of the motor panel and the ongoing eﬃciency
improvements, more than oﬀsetting the reducing reserved releases.
Strong growth in the tour operating businesses will be oﬀset by the impact of a twomonth wet dock maintenance period for the Saga Sapphire, which started recently. As a
consequence, travel proﬁtability is expected to be relatively ﬂat year-on-year. Subject to
market conditions remaining materially consistent, the group is targeting to deliver for full
year 2017, both PBT growth of 5% to 7% and ongoing customer growth while, at the same
time, continuing to deleverage towards our target range. As previously described, the
additional capital released gradually over the next few years from AICL will provide that
enhanced cash ﬂow, which will enable us to pay the enhanced dividend payout ratio.
I'll now hand over to Matt.

Matthew Atkinson

{BIO 21848472 <GO>}

I thought Pierce Brosnan look pretty good (26:46) 60. I'm absolutely delighted to be here.
I think against the backdrop of the numbers that you've just seen, I've joined a very strong
business with a very strong future and a strong foundation for future growth. What I
wanted to do in the next few minutes is to give you a sense of the forward (27:07)
destination and plans that we have to evolve the brand and some of the marketing
activities, to give you a sense of my enthusiasm and optimism, but also my practical
approach to creating action and future growth for the business.
I mean, essentially, there are four things I want to give you a sense of direction of travel
and some of the actions that we're already taking. The ﬁrst is about rejuvenating the
brand and how we plan to evolve the brand proposition over the coming months and
years. The second is about how we're going to do that through strong foundations of
looking at customer insight, understanding customers deeply, and using their insights to
transform the customer experience.

Page 8 of 22



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2016-04-19

FINAL

The third is a crucial investment in involving our multi-channel capability to adapt our
models to the new world of multi-channel customer behavior. And the fourth, which is
strongly related to the ﬁrst three, is about how these activities will improve what we're
going to describe as core product holding per customer.
So, let's just talk for a moment about rejuvenating the brand. 98% prompted awareness.
It's a pretty big number. And actually, a lot of brands would kill for that level of awareness
and also would have spent millions and millions of pounds to get it.
And my plan, obviously, isn't to start spending extra money. My plan is to take that
number and do some work to convert it into what I would call mental availability. The
opportunity for the brand is to do some really critical work around how we turn that level
of awareness into what we call in the world, diﬀerent salience. Be known for doing things
that the customer really values. Ah, Saga is the company that does those amazing cruises.
Oh, Saga is the company that does the amazing travel and motor insurance. And our
opportunity with that level of scale is clearly to transition that into improved numbers and
improved conversion over time.

Bloomberg Transcript

That, of course, starts with a better understanding of the customer. One of the things that
was extraordinary to me when I ﬁrst joined is that we don't really have a way of measuring
the brand in real detail. And so, some of the work that we've immediately done is to
implement some new measurement system into the business which will come to fruition
in June of this year.
What that measurement system will start to allow us to do is to really decode that
awareness level to start to drive diﬀerent sets of activities and actions that can improve
our performance, but we've already taken other steps. So, for example, in the ﬁrst few
months of my tenure along with my partners in the business, we've started to really dig in
to customer insight and understand the underlying reasons why customers behave the
way they do. One of the things that Saga was really good at in the past was kind of a
numbers-based measurement of customers, but what we're starting to do increasingly is
get under the skin of customers, to talk to them and really understand their motivations,
their choices, the reasons why they do what they did. Using that kind of insight is a
massive opportunity for us to further diﬀerentiate our oﬀer and to do things that are
distinctive and diﬀerent.
The other thing that we're also doing already is to implement a new way of measuring our
customer experience. Historically, what we've done, as we've mentioned the customer
experience in a really eﬀective way, but what we're going to start to do is to deaverage
those measures and start to do measurements along the customer experience in real
time. These kind of systems will enable us to improve customer journeys, to unlock new
value, to remove redundant processes and to improve an already stable and eﬀective
operating model.
But what is also happening as a result of these activities is we're already starting to use
them to our advantage. Now, I expect you won't be able to see the full detail of this, but
as a result of that insight work, one of the things we were able to do in our Christmas

Page 9 of 22



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2016-04-19

FINAL

through to New Year travel trading campaign, we start to represent the beneﬁts of Saga in
a very diﬀerent and distinctive way. The core message here is really, what that did for us as
a business is to transform some of our core metrics. It improved our consideration scores.
It improved our diﬀerence scores. And more importantly, drove a better return on
investment for the overall campaign which, as you will have seen, has produced a strong
set of numbers in our core business, and we will continue to do more of these things as
time develops.
The other area that this insight is really driving is how we can transform existing assets that
we already had. You saw that wonderful picture of Pierce Brosnan on the front of the Saga
Magazine. One of the things that we've started to do is to think about what our digital
content strategy is aligned to some of our core assets.
And this is a real opportunity for the business because most of our competitive set don't
have the frequency of contact and opportunity that we do. We have a magazine with a
very high subscription readership, but through a little work of thinking about the content
and thinking about how we can use that content across our multi-channel footprint, we've
been able to shift our numbers to have 1.8 million monthly visits to that content.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, that number is actually a signiﬁcant opportunity for the business. That gives us 1.8
million opportunities to capture that data and append it to the GMD (33:06) to shop in a
more personal way with a targeted oﬀer and to do things that improve our operating
model and to shepherd people from that content across into our trading businesses.
And already in the ﬁrst part of few months of doing this work, we've seen a 33% increase
in the number of leads from this kind of content going into our overall business. What
we're also going to do as a result of the insight is re-launch The Magazine at the end of
the year, and it obviously presents a very signiﬁcant data opportunity for us.
Now, this is the one that I get really, really excited about. Now, I joined a business with a
massive data asset. And actually, to be honest with you, our marketing operating model is
really eﬃcient, but clearly customer behavior has changed. And what we need to do is
adapt our marketing and model to be more multi-channel. The opportunity here is really
to connect up Internet and multi-channel with our physical data asset.
So, we're in the middle of implementing a new marketing cloud-based system which is
called the Adobe marketing cloud. We're in the process of implementation and the
capability will be live at the end of this year. What this really does without going into too
much detail is it takes our data assets and it connects it to the Internet, so that we have a
single view of the customer as they travel through our business.
What that means is we can do really simple things. So, you go to that website, you're one
of those 1.8 million customers. You download a pension guide. We append that to the
database. We can immediately see that activity. You happen to be in the process cycle of
renewing your motor policy. When you shop in the contact center, all of that data will have
been fed in to the contact center to enable somebody in the contact center to have an
appropriate, targeted and relevant conversation.
Page 10 of 22



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2016-04-19

Another opportunity is we have MySaga. And thanks to the business, we have 1.2 million
registered customers in MySaga. And these are the people who go on a daily basis to
administer their relationship with Saga. Imagine that we can take all of that history, that
browsing history, the things that customers have done, so that when they show up in
MySaga, we're able to personalize a relevant oﬀer or activity into that contact. That leads
to a high level of conversion. It leads to a marketing operating model. It gets much more
eﬃcient over time. So, this is a real step change for the capability, and we'll start to
improve the way we're able to personalize, target and change the customer experience
over time.
Finally, what that means is a reconcentration of our eﬀort. Historically, you will have heard
us talked about the number of 2.6 products per customer. We're going to shift our focus
there to talk about real products. What that included historically was a single product plus
an add-on. So, for example, you've had motor and legal, that counted as two. In this new
world, we can concentrate our eﬀort on real products, and the real number is 1.7. And so,
my concentration and the team that we've already set up is going to be using these new
capabilities to increase that number over time. Because they're more loyal, it creates
better economic value, and we have signiﬁcant headroom in our business to create future
economic value from this focus.
We've already, as a result of setting up the new team, had a couple of trials in place, and
you can see the numbers for yourself. So, we've done a simple travel-to-travel trial. We
have taken that team and focused them on travel customers to travel insurance, 1,800%
increase in the numbers. So, you can see there's a really signiﬁcant opportunity for us. The
second trial has been in our Investment Services business where we've concentrated our
eﬀort on customers who hold multiple products, perhaps they hold two or three. And
actually, what happens is you see a massive and signiﬁcant improvement in conversion,
almost 18% uplift. So, the future focus of these activities and program is all about
rejuvenating the brand, changing the customer experience and improving the core
product holding per customer, and investing in the capabilities that were already being
rolled out to do that.
So, in the future, the things that I'm going to be talking about are measuring obviously
those increases in customer value but Net Promoter Score and the core product holding
per customer and how that changes over time.
I'm going to hand back to Lance now.

Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Thanks very much, Matt. As you can see, some very exciting work going on in this area.
I'm absolutely delighted to be working with Matt again for the third time in our careers.
I'm looking forward to keeping you updated on our progress. Now, I'm going to sum up
now with a brief look at current trading before concluding with a reminder on how we're
going to continue to implement our strategy of growth and shareholder returns in the
coming months.

Page 11 of 22



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2016-04-19

FINAL

Last year saw a sustainable rise in motor insurance premiums from the end of Q1. And we
have seen this trend continuing into Q1 of the current year. At the same time, our claims
experience has continued to be stable, as Jonathan said earlier, with no apparent
negative ﬂuctuations in frequency or in personal injuries. As such, AICL is continuing to
price competitively and to win business. And the insurance panel, the motor insurance
panel is behaving as anticipated, allowing our retail brokers to be more competitive
outside of AICL's traditional core market.
The home insurance market continues to be a very competitive place to operate, but our
proactive management of the home insurance panel means that we're very well-placed to
compete. Within what we call other insurance, PMI continues to perform well, the medical
insurance. On travel insurance, we have seen some impact of the falling demand for
traditional winter sun destinations and for single trip travel insurance policies. But
demand for the annual and for multi-trip policies continues to be very strong. Overall, you
should expect continued robust performance across all of our key insurance lines.

Bloomberg Transcript

On travel, we typically have excellent visibility into the travel business. We've already sold
a signiﬁcant proportion of our trips for this year, both in tour operating and also in our
cruise operations. Also, as previously highlighted, we will be undertaking some necessary
maintenance on Saga Sapphire during the current year, which will have a budgeted
impact on the cruise businesses' performance.
And ﬁnally, let me just remind you of the earnings structure of the business and of our
plans to continue to deliver on our strategy in the coming year. As you can see from this
simple graph, over three quarters of our trading proﬁt originates from areas where we
have no capital at risk. This is because once we operate our own cruise ships and we
underwrite some of our insurance policies, the majority of our business operates as a
brokered model.
By further growing our core businesses, we're going to continue to capitalize on the
initiatives that we've already put in place in order to grow in a non-capital intensive
manner. Capital in our underwriter will continue to reduce as the quota share agreement
takes eﬀect and as AICL prices more eﬀectively to accelerate cash and proﬁt generation.
The overall contribution from our underwriting activities in AICL will also continue to
reduce as the insurance business grows via the motor panel, meaning the majority of our
future earnings will come from broking activities. When combined with prudent
investment for growth, maintenance of our simple operating model and our continued
focus on customer centricity, this is going to result in future free cash ﬂows supporting
increased returns to shareholders via a progressive dividend policy.
All of this means that moving forward, we are fully focused on creating a business with low
capital intensity and high earnings resilience with increased free cash ﬂows leading to
higher dividends. We have great conﬁdence in the sustainability of this dividend policy.
So, that completes our formal presentation, I'm going to open up to questions from the
ﬂoor. Please, can I ask you to wait for the mic, to state your name before asking your
Page 12 of 22



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2016-04-19

question. I'll triage the questions and pass them on to the team if appropriate.
Who should we start with? So...

FINAL

Q&A
Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

Thank you. Good morning. It's Ravi Tanna here from Goldman Sachs. I have three
questions, please. So, the ﬁrst one relates to your earnings guidance and your switch from
EBITDA to PBT of 5% to 7%. I understand there's a 1% drag from the quota share deal. I
was just wondering, is that purely the ﬁxed fees that you're paying to NewRe or should we
expect a further drag relating to proﬁt sharing or proﬁt commission arrangements that
you have there?
The second question was, how long should we think about until your motor earnings
proﬁle normalizes? Clearly, you've got reserve releases coming oﬀ a transition to the
capital-light model and 25% of premiums already going through the broker panel. So,
should we expect 2017 to be the trough as it were?

Bloomberg Transcript

The third question is on Saga Investment Services and the wealth management JV. I
guess, ﬁrstly, should we expect any further costs from either of those entities? And
secondly, with the Legal Services product, do you – will you continue to be selling that
product or what's happening now that Parabis has gone into administration? Thank you.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Thanks, Ravi. I suggest Jonathan takes the ﬁrst two of those questions and then I'll pick up
on Investment Services and Legal.

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

You should assume that the 1% is pretty much the cost, that is the ﬁxed fee and there is an
immaterial element which is a proﬁt share. That's quite a straightforward one to start with.
I'm just trying to pick up on the second question, Ravi, you're talking about the
normalization of proﬁtability. We've got various things going to be going on in our motor
business. You've got the impact of the panel and that has a couple of eﬀects. That is the
eﬀect of a written earned beneﬁt as we get more broke and less underwritten business.
So, as that percentage grows over time, you will get a beneﬁt until that stabilizes.
Going the other way, you will have reserve releases reducing, and that will happen
gradually over time into the future. And then, the third element, that wasn't raised but is
something we deliver year in year out, is improvements, eﬃciencies across our broked
business in terms of how that's run by Roger and the team. And we clearly see that the
beneﬁts of the written earned beneﬁt plus those eﬃciency beneﬁts that Roger delivers
year in, year out should more than oﬀset the impact of the reducing reserve releases. And
as well as that, we have a bigger motor book than we did before.

Page 13 of 22



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2016-04-19

So, I think – does that answer the question, Ravi? Okay.

FINAL

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

On Saga Investment Services, we've always been clear that the level of investment
required to get that oﬀ the ground is quite low, low-single-digit investment. It will – it's not
expected – has not been expected to breakeven for at least a couple of years where we
get it oﬀ the ground. Remember, it's a 50/50 joint venture, so costs and then beneﬁts are
shared with our partner, but it's not material to our results. And on legal, that was our
pilot.
The partner that we were working with went into administration. And consequently, we've
paused that project while we review alternative suppliers. We still believe that there is an
unmet consumer need in the space. What we learned during that pilot process was that
Saga customers were very interested in the proposition. So, the team is, if you like, taking
a pause, drawing breath, ﬁnding the right alternative supply structure. And then, I think
you should expect to hear news from us again.

A - Matthew Atkinson

{BIO 21848472 <GO>}

And the other thing we did do is ensure that we got another supplier to ensure that we
got no customer detriment through this process.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Blair, I think you had your hand up before. Yeah.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Thanks very much. It's Blair Stewart from BofA Merrill. A couple of questions on the panel.
Firstly, I think you've indicated that one quarter of the volume is going through the panel
as things stand. Could you give us a broad outlook there? Does that go to the half or what
do you think in rough terms? I know it's diﬃcult to say. And as that happens, should there
be any impact on the P&L? Do you make less money from the panel than you would from
underwriting? I know the proﬁts emerge more quickly in the panel. That's one set of
questions.
The other question on the panel really is just to your expectation for growth in the policy
count. I think it was up 3% in the last year. With the introduction of the panel, are you able
to tap more customers that you wouldn't normally have reached? So, should we expect
that 3% to continue to grow?
And ﬁnally, on the dividend, we get dividend ranges from lots of companies, and some
are just indicative and they have no intention of moving up the range. And some
companies do have a real intention of moving up the range. Where does Saga sit in that
range? Thanks.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Page 14 of 22



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2016-04-19

FINAL

Okay. I think we'll split the answers. So, I'll just answer the question about the panel
percentage. The key point to make about our panel is it is genuinely a level-playing ﬁeld.
AICL sits on that panel and so do a number of other supplies, and there will be more that
come on to the panel in the coming year. And essentially, all the underwriters sitting on
that panel ﬁght for share. And it's up to them and their strategy and their risk assessment
as to how much volume they choose to win on that panel.
Our broking business will pick the best priced supplier and go with it. Therefore, we
cannot predict and we don't try to predict the right number for third-party underwriting.
We've been operating a panel for ﬁve years now with home, and we've seen an ebb and
ﬂow to AICL's share on that panel. We passionately believe in being on the panel
ourselves with our underwriter. Because, if you like, that keeps the panel honest and it
means that we continue to learn about all the dynamics of the marketplace. But we don't
have a target number for what percentage AICL takes or third parties. What we want is to
get the best possible price and the best possible service for our customer.
Do we publish AICL share on the home panel? I'm not sure we do.

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

It's somewhere just over a quarter.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

There you go. We do now. And Jon will talk about the P&L with...

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

Yeah, sure. I mean, setting aside the written earned beneﬁt and the underlying economics
of a broked versus an underwritten, clearly, the underwriter is pricing to a 3% return on
net premium to the extent that we can get a cheaper piece of underwriting from
somebody else. We will make more money in our broked business and marginally less
money in our underwriter. But at the same time, we will require less capital to be retained
within the underwriter. So, from a proﬁt prospective, we do not expect a signiﬁcant
detriment or any detriment, in fact, from moving to this.
I mean, the key point here is the customers who are likely to go to the panel are people
who are probably at the riskier end of our driving set, where we aren't – which doesn't
necessarily sit right within our sweet spot, and others are likely to come with a better price
than we would price that. So, we think this will not be negative to underlying economics.
The next question was in terms of policy count. We have been very clear all along that we
will continue to use the levers around proﬁt and volume in order to deliver an earnings
stream across our range of products. We have a choice should somebody come to us
through a direct channel to the business, a cheaper distribution channel. We have the
choice of still spending the marketing money we had intended to spend on a higher
priced channel, or we can decide to deliver the same amount of growth and deliver more
proﬁt. We always have that metric, that ability to play those two levers of growth and

Page 15 of 22



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2016-04-19

FINAL

proﬁt, and we'll continue to use those to ensure that we can try to drive a sustainable level
of proﬁt growth while delivering customer policy growth as well.
And then your ﬁnal question was, are we actually going to do what we say we're going to
do. Sort of. I think the most indicative point that I can give you is we've gone from 49.5%
to 57% in one go, and you should expect us to continue to be progressive in the range
over time and move that forward. We've taken a big step forward in the ﬁrst year. You
should expect us to move forward again as we move into the future.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Thanks. It's James Shuck from UBS. I had three questions, I think. Firstly, just on the
reserving situation, could you just clarify the comments on page 8 of the report? You talk
about competitive approach to pricing, meaning that in the future, more proﬁt will be
realized in the current year while historic reserve releases will reduce over time. I'm not
sure why competitor pricing, as such, had really inﬂuenced that emergence of proﬁt.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think what you're saying is you're going to be reserving less conservatively on new
business and therefore, the releases will come down over time because you book the
earnings upfront a little bit more. But perhaps you could just clarify that for me, please.
Secondly, on the allocation of surplus onto the 2015 year. So you've obviously seen what
looked like negative development on 2015, which you're saying is just a reallocation of the
surplus. I'm not entirely sure what's happening there. Could you just explain to me why
you kind of added to that that surplus, particularly if my interpretation of the ﬁrst
comment is right because it seems to be that, therefore, you will expect further releases to
come through. I suppose connected with that, it seems like you've restated the reserve
release from last year by £10 million, meaning that the pure year as such was not as
proﬁtable as we initially thought. It's not clear to me why that was the case.
And then my ﬁnal question is around the non-trading items. So you have a number kind
of below the line items, which, I think, had a £7 million release from contingent
consideration from Destinology. You had nearly £4 million write down from Bel Jou Hotel,
and a near £3 million release from legal disputes. All of these things have kind of caught
me by surprise somewhat. I wasn't aware that you actually owned hotels. There's nothing
in the investment portfolio that really suggests that you have ﬁnancial assets as such, so
could you just give us some insight into the investment portfolio and nonﬁnancial assets
that might be a part of trading activities that are held there? And just to clarify the
situation whether there's any other legal disputes. It's a question I'd asked in the past, and
I was pretty sure I got an answer that there was no ongoing disputes at the time, so I was
surprised to see that and that number come through.

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

Should I take those then?

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

I think you can take this.
Page 16 of 22



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2016-04-19

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you very much. That's very kind of you, Lance. I think you've answered the ﬁrst
question, actually, James. The point is that years back we had two eﬀects going on. We
were pricing incredibly conservatively within the underwriter at the point where our policy
count was dropping year-in, year-out in motor. And what we have clearly said for the last
12 months is that we will price not less conservatively, but closer to best estimate but still
within our limit of caution.
And you're absolutely right. What that means is we don't keep piling up reserves, which
we released in the future. What we ensure is that we give Roger and the broke (54:07)
businesses the right price of risk to go out into the market and be able to contract and
compete. So you're absolutely correct, it's about pricing closer to best estimate.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the second point, the allocation of surplus. This is basically just saying the way that we
price within our underwriter is at best estimate plus a return on that of circa 3% of net
premium. Eﬀectively, within our total reserves, we have a surplus that was non-allocated to
that year and all we've done is move some of the historic surpluses out against prior years
to against that year. So there's been no deterioration in the performance, so we're not
expecting the underlying performance in that year to deteriorate. What we've done is put
some of the surplus against that year.
Restated prior year releases, we actually mentioned this at the half year. It was noted then.
We talked about it then. We don't think it's a big issue. In the prior year numbers, there
were £10 million of claims costs which were shown in the current year rather than the
prior-year releases where they should've been. So what we've done is correct them and
make sure they are purely comparable on a year-on-year basis. That okay?

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

And then on the non-trading items, there's a speciﬁc question which I'll deal with. We
owned one hotel that was bought a long time ago. That is one of the few hotels in
Antigua that is actually on top of the hill rather than by the beach. We have taken the
opportunity to look to sell that hotel and have written that hotel down. It's the only asset
we held. The only other assets that we hold within our underwriter, which are propertybased, are the buildings that we use in the UK that we own. There are no other assets
such as the Bel Jou.
Do you have any other speciﬁc questions on the non-trading items?

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Just on any other outstanding legal disputes we should be aware.

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}
Page 17 of 22



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2016-04-19

No. I mean, there was an old dispute around a ship refurbishment, which is what we
settled with the yard. So we had fully provided for it. We then ended up getting some
money back in that dispute. So it was a positive for us.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Thanks.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Thanks, James. Lots of hands up. Ben.

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

Thank you. It's Ben Cohen at Canaccord. I had two questions. Firstly, I think in the past
you've provided some information about the people that you've put on to the database in
the period. And I just wonder if you could say how that is moved in the year and in the six
months, whether you still have kind of good momentum in that? And maybe a related
area, in terms of the cross-sell target that you're looking for, I noticed you didn't kind of
put any number to that. If you're not prepared to put a number to that, would you be able
to talk in terms of the kind of incremental beneﬁt presumably included in the EPS or the
PBT growth guidance that you're looking for? How much of that do you see coming
through from cross sell, if not in this year then maybe in the next year? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Well, on the ﬁrst one, I'll have to get the exact some number for you, unless Matt knows it
oﬀ the back of his head. But it's going to be straight line build basically, carry on (57:32)
added.

A - Matthew Atkinson

{BIO 21848472 <GO>}

Yeah, the database is in good health and is growing. We have momentum in growth as a
result of the business growing and attracting new customers. So the new named process
as we would describe it is in growth as a result of the growing businesses and the growing
performance.

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

Obviously, over the year, we started at 10.8 million, and we ﬁnished at 11.2 million. So, we
talked previously about adding gross 500,000 to 700,000 and around 200,000 people
leaving the database each year so you get a net growth of around 400,000, which is
exactly what's happened during the period.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Whenever we see growth in either motor or travel insurance or both, those tend to be the
two big sources of new names into the database for us and they're both growing at the
moment. So we are seeing names coming in. I think what'll be exciting to talk about in the
months and years to come is the conversion of those names into a more complex
relationship with multi-sale.
Page 18 of 22



FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2016-04-19

So picking up on that point, we're very explicitly not putting hard numbers against the
opportunities for cross sell at the moment. Obviously, we've done the maths on what the
opportunity looks like, but our core budget assumes minimal change in cross sell. So if we
can drive cross sell with more products out over time, we see that as a real opportunity for
the business, hence, if you like, the level of excitement that we have about it. But we're
unlikely to go into the market with speciﬁc targets on cross-sell. What we will instead do is
report looking back, if you like, on how well we're doing every six months or so. Next
question?

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Morning. Nick Johnson from Numis. A couple of questions. Firstly, just coming back to the
25% number in terms of premium income that's not going to the panel in January. It's
quite a big number. I was wondering if there's been a corresponding drop in premium
income to AICL, or is this growth coming from outside the footprint of AICL? Can you just
elaborate on the makeup of that 25%, please?
And then secondly, just a technical issue, I guess, is just the cost reallocation between
segments that you've done based on new revenue split. Is that going to be an ongoing
adjustment period to period? Thanks.

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

The answer to the second question is my hope is not. But, I think what we've got is a
stable base now. I think we've got the allocation real set and we will attempt to stick to
those so we don't get so many movements between categories going forward.
On the 25% panel share, that is primarily customers that we were historically underwriting
that have then moved across to the panel where a better rate has been oﬀered. They tend
to be slightly at the higher risk end of the drivers that AICL was previously underwriting.
So the panel is doing exactly what we thought it would do.
In AICL's heartland of low mileage older vehicles, we are still deﬁnitely the most
competitive within our core dataset that we understand absolutely implicitly. And at the
edges of our boundaries of risk, there are others who take a diﬀerent view of the price of
that risk which is exactly what we'd expect. So yes, there is a converse decrease in
premium going to AICL, yes.

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Thanks.

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

But there is also some growth coming through, as you can see, from the underlying motor
business, anyway.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Page 19 of 22



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2016-04-19

A couple more questions, then, we should wrap.

FINAL

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Andreas van Embden, Peel Hunt. On the cash conversion rate of 75%, just as your
business model develops and you move more into the broker business, is there anything
holding the business back increasing that cash conversion, and where could it go to aside
from CapEx, obviously, in the ship?
And the second question is on Saga Investments. What levels of assets under
management would you be targeting over the next three years? Or maybe, could you
give a level of assets under management where you would be breaking even on that
business? Thank you very much.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

You can take the ﬁrst. I'll take the second.

A - Jonathan Stanley Hill

{BIO 16892113 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, sure. We're at, obviously, 75% in the year. We would expect to be in the 70% to 80%
range over time. There are areas of investment that we will undertake. I mean, we have
some deposits going on the ﬁrst ship, which come out of their respective businesses but
still eﬀectively hold back the cash ﬂow of the business. There are other areas we need to
put small amounts of money in. Fundamentally, I don't believe we'll move outside that
range.
What we're saying about the cash ﬂow is that with the quota share in place, the likely
smaller AICL, the investment policy, our cash ﬂow will be better than we had planned it to
be, thus enabling us to pay that higher range.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

In terms of projecting assets under management, it's very interesting. If you talk to
veterans of (01:03:00), St. James's Place at one extreme or (01:03:03) at the other
extreme. It's impossible to predict what your assets under management growth curve will
be. So, we have avoided the temptation to try and put hard numbers into a plan or a
budget. What we are doing is we're using our database and we are growing, and we're
going to see where it goes to.
The good news for us at Saga is that we'd have to put no capital in to get this business
started, unlike a lot of those other brands that have had to start by injecting tens of
millions of capital sometimes. There's a bit of operating cost to build a small team. And
then very eﬃcient marketing, because we're talking to our own database. We're talking to
customers that we already know. And so, if you like, we're balancing the level of
investment in marketing and learning about the most eﬃcient marketing as we climb the
assets under management curve.

Page 20 of 22



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2016-04-19

FINAL

The only honest answer we can give to you is we don't know what AUM will look like in
three or ﬁve years' time. We do know where breakeven is. I don't want to publish that
number because it's commercially sensitive, but it's surprisingly low because we haven't
had to put huge amounts of capital in. Sorry, that's not a helpful answer when you're
trying to model what Saga Investment Services can be. I totally recognize that. The only
consolation I can give you is we can't do any better than that internally in our own
budgeting.
What we do know is there's an unmet consumer needs. Our customers like what we're
oﬀering. And in a way, it's a typical new Saga launch. You have to see where it goes over
time. Please follow up. Yeah.

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

So, okay. So in that case, you mentioned, I think during your marketing presentation, that
you would be shifting to customers that would deposit higher amounts.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

What is that just average per customer deposit, which you're targeting? Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Well, the ﬁrst wave of customers that have come in came in on the back of the annual ISA
charge. And so it won't surprise you, because I think it's pretty close to industry averages
that their average investment was around about £10,000 a head. But an important thing
to remember about customers in that world is that they invest many times on the same
platforms. So when you look at assets under management, it's not the simple math of one
customer multiplied by an investment. The same customer should come back to you
again and then again and then again to get a kind of cumulative impact.
Now what we're now starting to get is the customers for whom the investment is a much
bigger decision. Because this isn't £10,000 on the ISA, this might be £50,000 or £100,000
of signiﬁcant savings. Those conversations typically, according to the industry experts, can
take six months or even more to get from ﬁrst contact to money actually arriving on the
investment platform.
What I can tell you is we have a number of customers that we can see coming down the
pipe. Some of whom have committed already. And between now and the next ISA
season, our focus will largely be on those kind of more complex transactions. That
obviously changes the average per customer dramatically when you get a few customers
come in putting £50,000, £80,000 in instead.
Again, I've got good visibility into how many customers we've talked to have come back
for second conversation, have indicated willingness and we can make projections as to
Page 21 of 22



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2016-04-19

what kind of assets under management that will be. But until we've been around the
whole loop ones, full year of operating, it's going to be very diﬃcult for us to make any
projections.

FINAL

A - Matthew Atkinson

{BIO 21848472 <GO>}

One note if I may. This is sequencing opportunity as well, so the marketing plan work will
have been done by the end of the year. That gives us a much more joined up view of the
customer. We have very high levels of traﬃc. So that'll allow us to use our current model in
a much more personalized way. So we'll experiment with that when we get to next year,
and that will give us a better way of understanding customer behavior and opportunity.
So to Lance's point, we've tested the operating model. We've got early in signs, but
actually we're putting some capability into this business that will allow us to do – explore
the opportunity even further in the next period.

A - Lance Henry Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

One more questions, or are we there? Looks like you're exhausted. Thank you very, very
much, everybody. Really appreciate you coming along, and we've enjoyed presenting.
Any follow-ups, please come back to us. Thanks.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 22 of 22

