Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

Q2 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Anne Helen Richards
Barry Lee Stowe
Guy Robert Strapp
Michael Andrew Wells
Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou
Paul Chad Myers
Raghu Hariharan
Tony Wilkey

Other Participants
Alan G. Devlin
Andy Hughes
Arjan van Veen
Blair Stewart
Jon M. Hocking

Bloomberg Transcript

Lance M. Burbidge
Nick Holmes
Oliver George Nigel Steel

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

All right, everybody. If you don't mind, we'll go ahead and get started. Good morning. I'm
Mike Wells, Nic and everybody in the room. We're going to follow the same format as the
last presentation where you're going to have me go through some high-level comments,
Nic do a very detailed drilldown on the financials. I'm going to come back up and give you
some comments on outlook in general, and then we'll bring a variety of the senior
management team up here to answer Q&A for you, and we have some other of our key
associates in the audience as well, so we'll get to any level of detail you'd like in the
conversation.
So that said, let's go ahead with delivery. I think we are commenting with our colleagues
beforehand, it was an interesting first half of the year. I mean, no questions, lots of
different challenges globally. I'm very pleased with our success in delivering both cash and
growth. IFRS, up 6%. Free surplus generation, up 10%. The dividend, as you know, is
mechanical but up 5%. Solvency ratio, 175%, which, again, as we've said – I think it's a good

Page 1 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

number. We've never considered it as a particularly good fit for us given about a quarter
of our business or less is actually in the regional target of Solvency structure, and our local
regulators use their own capital regimes.

FINAL

But again, I think from a headline point of view, until this number matures in the industry,
it's important we have a strong number, and we think that's a strong number. So we
thought that was good, clear, results in a fairly tumultuous period.
And what I wanted to focus on in the opening today is what I think there are going to be
three of your key questions. One is the resilience and the relevance of our growth, the
second being the positioning for us in markets whether volatility of interest rates or
equities and just competitively in general. And then, the third and final piece that comes
up a lot is Brexit and its impact on the group or little impact on the group as the case may
be. And then I'll get to more general comments on the business.

Bloomberg Transcript

But I think what you saw in the first half on growth, the structural model we have, the
strategic decision of going with the uninsured middle class that's still seeing two-thirds of
our Asian clients not having owned a product before, that's detached from markets. So
you don't have a high correlation between those transactions and their view on interest or
equity, right. So that's turning out to be a very, very good piece of our business.
In the U.S. and the UK, more and more it is about our ability to gather assets effectively,
perform well for the clients, right, and price and distribute effectively. Again, so those are
slightly more opportunistic, but given the general demographics in those markets as you
saw from the first half results, even in a climate like this, consumers are looking to derisk.
They're more and more responsible for solutions. So again, it's giving us a very
predictable and robust growth.
And then the last piece, which I'll get into a little more detail later, is we're continuing to
invest for scale. One of the questions I think that's fair is that our continuing size, each
year we get bigger and bigger and bigger. Can we continue to grow? And I'm not sure we
spend enough time in all the things we're doing to invest for that growth, but we think
we've got plenty going to continue to grow at the rates we've seen historically.
So moving to markets, again 16% of the business is now, the revenue is now coming from
spread-based products. We moved away from these 10 years ago. With the start, it's
taken time. This can be anything from de-emphasizing fixed in the U.S., moving away from
bulks in the UK, and moving away from UL and (03:42) the Asian markets. There is an
implication of top line. So, our competitor can hold up a graph now and say, aha, we have
them beating this part of this market. I would ask you to consider when you see those
sorts of comments, just prove out the ability to manufacture that product, and the answer
is usually yes, and we probably already had it, systems-wise and capability-wise. And
second, do we have the ability to distribute it, and the answer again I think is generally
resounding yes.
So it's a conscious decision for us to participate, and in the case of interest sensitive
products, not participate in markets because we have better uses of the capital. If they
Page 2 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

FINAL

can or can't make money depends on the company, and in my role is not to tell you which
of them can or can't make money, but I can tell you for us, we have higher uses of capital
and I'll show you some of those returns as we see them in the lenses we're using now.
But I want to challenge that thesis, if someone has it, that we can't capture that market
share if we chose to.
If we gave the U.S. and the UK and Tony, the highest priced product in each market, we
would be out of capital in about two hours of the distribution firepower we have, and
we're clearly not going to do that. But I think that's a key element in this discussion. As we
choose the growth we want, we choose the markets it's in, and we choose the value of
those earnings over the volume.
The balance sheet itself, extremely defensive. We have not stretched for yield. We are
not into aggressive asset classes. We've been talking for the last four years, if you will,
about going up in asset class, managing duration carefully, up in quality, Nic will get you in
some detail on this, but disproportionately, what we own is investment grade.

Bloomberg Transcript

You'll see that in the shocks on spread and we don't think this is what our core business
proposition is and nor do we think it is the right time in the cycle for taking tremendous
investment risks. So we have an extremely conservative portfolio, an actively managed
balance sheet. You saw that in the first half of the year, and I think, again, we'll let Nic get
into some of the details there, but very pleased with the quality credit portfolio, quality of
the hedging in the U.S. and quality of underlying assets on the balance sheet in the group.
A proactive approach to value across the cycle.
An interesting thing we're talking before about Solvency II, so that's a pro-cyclical regime.
We're arguably a countercyclical player. If you look at what we do best, certainly some of
the results you see here, and that is a byproduct of our conservatism at different points in
a cycle. So I think that's – these sorts of times, these stresses show what we can do, we
certainly can do more than this. Again, I'll come back to that in the second half, but I think it
shows the nature of the business on what we want to do.
But our intent at this size, we have a great growing stable earnings base. 90% of our IFRS
earnings now come from existing clients, and if you think about those terms for stability,
okay. So the incremental things we will do from here, we should be more countercyclical.
You should expect that, we should get paid more for that, we should get better pricing.
We should be able to create more unique solutions for consumers from that.
And finally on Brexit. Our UK participation has been selective. I think that's the key
takeaway there, 10% of the M&G's team's assets roughly are in Europe. Poland if you
remember is a rep office for our UK business. So we are not a European facing insurer by
any means and we're certainly not the asset management business.
We will see what solutions come for those clients to be serviced effectively and transact
effectively with M&G. It's a little early in that, but obviously M&G had contingency plans in
place and continues to work those. We want to maintain a seamless relationship with
those consumers, and it's clear as Brexit evolves, at least in my view, you will see clients
Page 3 of 35



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

as you did when we saw a real run up in our bond fund sales. They want to own pound
denominated products, they want to – London is successful, continues as a financial center
because the rule of law, currency, all the various things that have succeeded over a very
long period of time. So we will make sure it's available to clients as they need in the
jurisdictions they want to buy them, in the forms they want to buy them. But that's an
evolving process as the rules evolve and we're fully capable of managing that. So the
Brexit in general for us, minimal strategic and certainly minimal financial impact to the
group.
Let's go to Asia. So where does the confidence come from in the growth? It's the quality
of the growth. Again, I'm going to bring it back to the recurring premium versus single
premium. The quality of it sold, the health and protection focus, and then absolutely
critically, the pan-regional model. And I understand there's been a few questions about
this. So let me go through a couple of these. So the long-term – and the blue shadow box
on your far right of the screen shows, as it should, that the first half of the year regardless
of what was going on, looks a lot like history of this business, okay. There's no material
change in the shape of the business. A continued focus on health and protection,
continued long-term focus on relationships with the clients as it should be, right.
Why does the pan-regional model matter? Well, 7 of the 11 markets were up double digits
in terms of earnings, right. We can't predict which markets in a portfolio that big will have
political turmoil, will have rate movement, we'll have other options, we'll have an irrational
competitor. All those things are the nature of – including our Western markets, but
certainly, our Asian markets. So the footprint we have gives us the ability to be disciplined.
It allows us to back off on a product segment, a market, a country if we needed to, right,
and to accelerate if we see the opportunity there being unique.
So I think you see that in this half's results. It was an interesting period of time, lots going
on, pretty broad Asian results, and getting to the clients we want with the products we
want, with the earnings we want, again value over volume because we have choices, right.
We're not defined by our limited licenses, limited distribution options, limited product or
systems capability. And that's where I think you'll see us continue to succeed across a
broad set of economic environments in Asia. We have tremendous optionality there and
again it's an attribute scale. Should translate to earnings for you. It does.
Again, the earnings base, strongly driven by existing clients, not the new business profits
and the sales, so new clients are an important, we want to keep adding cohorts of
profitable clients to the business year-after-year-after-year, right, as we do in the U.S.
business, as we do in the UK business, as we do in M&G, right.
That is the long-term stability of the earnings of the group, comes from that. But again,
not a particularly unique shape in the first half of the year with the historic shape of the
business and good year-over-year numbers in an interesting period of time. So very, very
pleased with the execution of the team an extension of what they've been doing for a
long time.

Page 4 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

FINAL

Reasonable expectation and that should turn into both growth and cash. So cash and free
surplus generation, if you will, both up – excuse me – our earnings and free surplus
generation both up 15%, good number. Again I mentioned, 7 of 11 countries in double-digit
earnings including Indonesia, right, and markets where we're seeing irrational competition.
We're accelerating other parts of the business, getting good earnings growth out of it
and good profitability out of it.
So again, you see the breadth of the portfolio producing very, very good outcomes for
our investors.
When time in the region, which you also see is the footprint allows us to recruit very
talented people. Rinaldi, we brought a new CEO into Indonesia. He's an incredible add to
the staff, people in the business units can move from one country to another as both their
interest and ambitions and skills evolve. So it allows us to recruit talent. It allows regulators
to look across the region and say, how do they behave for consumers, are they a good
partner for the social solutions that we bring to the market? There's tremendous leverage
in our footprint in a region, and it's not simply earnings based, right.

Bloomberg Transcript

The learnings we have for one market we apply to another. I thought the most interesting
one of these, personally it's not material in your models yet, will be someday, we're
spending some time with the Cambodia team, right. You see our learnings from multiple
markets in that effectively startup. I think it's important to firm our size can still do startups.
You see us doing it in Africa, Laos, Cambodia, other markets, but what you also see is a
very familiar business plan, some familiar faces, and very, very good execution very early
on in the life of those business plans.
The other place you see it is on the bank relationships. As I mentioned to some of you
before, you see the bank relationships are not linear. There's a learning curve. There's a
relationship development phase. There is a product development phase and we're pretty
good at accelerating that just given the share experience we have and Standard
Chartered is still being the standout bank relationship with I think any insurer in that region.
And the others we have are maturing nicely.
So what does this produce? Pretty consistent delivery. 2017 targets, the objectives we put
out, double earnings still look in line and on target. And then, of course, if you back into
that, that implies a tenfold increase in 11 years. So again these are strong growth rates.
Other subjective comment and, again, I know a number of you've been there. The
businesses feel materially different than they did a year ago, three years ago, five years
ago, ten years ago. I mean these are maturing – these are companies, these are portfolio
of standalone companies run with similar sense of purpose, similar sense of value, similar
risk managements. They're maturing very, very evenly and very effectively. And it's quite
impressive to spend time with these teams.
Okay. Jumping to the West. Let's go to the U.S. So, the main event in the U.S., so we're
talking about the last year's DOL. So you have the rules out, you have an April next year
implementation. We said to you at the time, this was going to be a sales event, not an
Page 5 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

FINAL

earnings event. As you see, VA earnings are up 9%. It's actually pretty much captured all
of the net flows in the U.S. VA industry in the first half of the year. That's mostly going to
the respective two products, their flagship products.
As you can imagine, Elite Access without a guarantee in this sort of climate is not as
popular with clients as a product with the guarantee. So I think that's – and you're also still
seeing some of the broker dealers looking at, if it should be on there, qualified plan
platforms.
Jackson has put a number of products and processes in place for these distributors.
Going into DOL, fee-based products based as it turns out the final interpretation of that is
a little broader and a little better for the broker dealers. So most of them are looking that
as a – they can, in fact, charge commissions. So we'll have a two-tier approach to this, a
traditional product approach and a fee-based product approach. There's a part of the
industry that believes that the rules will get better. That's upside. We're fine with the rules
as they are. If they get better, we're more fine with that. And certainly, it could be a little
clearer. But that said, we can function with them as written. And the value of the
consumer, we'll see if that plays out over time, but we think we can build good product for
consumers both on a fee-based structure, and we know we have good product for
consumers in the traditional structure of our VA products.

Bloomberg Transcript

We also, in the U.S., are continuing to look opportunistically at bolt-ons. And hopefully, at
this point of the cycle, there is something we can do, but again, nothing to report at this
time. I mentioned net flows are excellent. Hedges are holding up well. At this point, as the
rules in DOL stabilize, Jackson should see more opportunity.
The UK is probably one of the most interesting stories, I think for us. So this I think defines
our group's versatility at this point. So sales now in the life company post-RDR, postpension reform, post-Solvency II, post-annuity review are now higher than they've ever
been, right. Not surprising with profit product and its various forms is – the distribution
team has done a great job of getting this in front of consumers who are now responsible
for funding their own pension. I'm living here for – coming into my second year.
Lots and lots of conversations with people all around the city about what they're doing
with their money, where they're putting in their ISS (17:28) things. And I'm shocked that a
number of them that are cash candidly. Hope they look more at an investments, but a lot
of the banks sold stuff seems to be cash centric, and we're getting a lot of it. And that's a
great thing. So I think this is – this product provides good asset diversification, good
smoothing for the client, it's a good long-term hold, really appropriate product for a longterm retirement savings. And the more volatility we see the more demand we see for the
product.
So the team is shifted nicely to a capital light model as requested and as market driven.
John continues to staff out his team. We'll show you more of that in November given a
few folks aren't officially onboard with us yet, but I think you'll be pleased that the level of
talent is brought to bear on that business. And again, this is a good example of our ability
to pivot.

Page 6 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

FINAL

M&G, controlling cost, the earnings again at the guidance levels, I gave you at the full year.
Clearly, there's been some challenges in outflows for U.S. equity managers in general –
sorry, UK fund managers in general. But M&G continues to work on not only the current
climate we're in as second half is better than first half, but also what they need to be the
next 10 years.
And again, I'm going to ask your indulgence let Anne and the team, they've been working
on it since January but we'll let Anne and the team, since she's joined, have a good
portion of the November investor meeting and show you where they're going at that
point in time. So obviously answer direct questions for you today on where they are at this
point in time.
But again, very pleased with what they're doing, good combination. The two entities give
us great capability in market.

Bloomberg Transcript

We talked about this before and I think it's been a bit more important in this first half.
Diversification by types of earnings, diversification by currency, right, diversification by the
types of exposures we have and then of course the earnings and profits following that
model. So we like the footprint, we continue to deemphasize spread. This gives us
resilience, it gives us good cushion against some of the rate movement and we think
positions the group extremely well for this climate.
So I'm going to stop there. Last comment, I guess, before I turn over to Nic. We think
having watched what's been going on in the industry, these are good results both on a
relative basis and on an absolute basis. I think you guys know my bias is to compare them
to ourselves. I think they're consistent with what we've been able to do in the past as far
as client acquisition, profitability, flexibility of the firm, its ability to adjust to challenges.
So, I'll come back up after Nic and I'll give you some comments on outlook. But I could ask
Nic to come up, please.

Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Mike, and good morning, everyone. So, in my presentation, I will take
you through the half year results, highlighting the key drivers of our performance in the
period. And then I'll cover the group's capital position.
So, starting with the financial headlines, Prudential has delivered another strong
performance across our main growth and cash measures despite the effect of lower rates
and the expected reductions from U.S. spread, UK annuities and M&G retail, which I
flagged to you back in March. Our progress in the face of these headwinds was achieved
by making the most out of our structural advantages in the countries that we operate, and
by executing with discipline and focus.
On a constant currency basis, IFRS operating profit increased by 6% to £2,059 million.
New business profit was up 8% at £1,260 million, and free surplus generation was 10%
higher at £1,609 million. Currency effects were positive, adding between three points and
Page 7 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

FINAL

five points to our underlying performance. This performance is entirely driven by the
outcome of commercial transactions and does not benefit from any changes to our
reserve in Prudent (21:44). Furthermore, no aggressive actions were taken in any of our
businesses to stimulate short-term sales as we continue to prioritize long-term value
creation over volume.
These results demonstrate the benefit of our earnings diversity by geography, currency
and source, and the power of our Asian platform, which continues to compound strongly,
supported by largely uncorrelated structural drivers. Our ability to deliver growing levels of
profit and cash also provides meaningful protection at times of extreme market volatility.
Therefore, even though interest rates fell to unprecedented levels, our Solvency II capital
at June 30 was trimmed back by only £0.6 billion at £9.1 billion. In contrast our embedded
value, which is a fairer measure of economic value as it has no artificial restrictions and is
not subject to excessive regulatory prudence, was up 9% in the first half to £13.56 per
share.

Bloomberg Transcript

The first-half performance takes us another step closer to the 2017 objectives. Our Asia
IFRS operating profit and free surplus generation continued to compound nicely towards
the 2017 target levels, demonstrating the ability of the PCA team to successfully execute
against the secular opportunity in the region. The market cyclicality that we have
experienced so far in 2016 confirms why targets for our other businesses are not sensible.
Here the focus is on remaining disciplined and on balancing the trade-offs between risk,
value and capital. Cash generation is the best way of measuring how effective we are at
doing this, which is why we have a cumulative free surplus generation target. As you can
see, we're also on track to deliver this goal.
The actions we have taken over the years to improve the quality of our earnings and to
manage risk provide us with meaningful protection, as Mike has already said, against low
rates. Therefore, before turning to the results, I would like to take a few minutes to
remind you what underpins our resilience with the current market environment. So,
starting with earnings on this slide, we have spoken many times of our strategic focus on
insurance and fee income, as these sources are less sensitive to the interest rate cycle. In
today's environment, this is a significant strength.
Compared to 2011, which was the last time that we saw a material drop in rates, we have
more than doubled the size of insurance and fee income, and increased its share of the
total to 76%. We can also draw more comfort now from the greater diversity in our
earnings, with the amount of profit coming from our overseas markets being 2.3 times
higher than in 2011, representing nearly 70% of the total. At the same time, our business
growth has not detracted from our careful management of cost, which have grown at a
slower rate than revenues. In most of our operations, our flexible and scalable platforms
will continue to generate unit efficiencies, which will in turn help absorb the impact of
natural business cyclicality.
Moving to capital, our ability to generate sizable Solvency II operational capital and a
healthy start to the year position (25:25), have enabled us to absorb the effect of markets
on this metric, and report a surplus of £9.1 billion at June 30. Our financial resources
remain strong and provide ample buffers to absorb further downward moves from here.
Page 8 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

FINAL

By taking actions, we have also significantly reduced the sensitivity of our capital ratio. The
sensitivity shown here reflect protection currently in place and incorporate the effect of
action, which have already been taken or are within our control. More can be done if
required.
As I have said before, given our predominant non-EU business footprint, Solvency II is an
imperfect fit for Prudential. It, therefore, underplays the strength of the group as it
excludes sources of real economic value such as the shareholder share of estate surplus
of £0.4 billion. The further surplus in the ring-fenced UK With-Profit Funds of £3.1 billion.
The unrealized gains on Jackson's interest rate swaps of £0.8 billion. The deduction of
£1.6 billion of Asian surplus due to regulatory prudence, and the £2 billion of economic
diversification benefits between Jackson and the rest of the group. If we were to
incorporate all these items, then our Solvency would materially improve to a level that
more closely reflects the true capital strength of the group.

Bloomberg Transcript

We continue to manage our balance sheet cautiously. At June 30, the proportion of
investment grade holdings in both our U.S. and UK credit portfolios was at 98%. These
portfolios are well diversified and subject to strict concentration limit. We continue to
prioritize quality of the yield, an approach that has been in place for many years and is
consistent with our overall philosophy on risk. The fact that both portfolios are higher
quality, more diversified and with smaller individual exposures, means that we are in a
better position now than at any point in our recent history to weather credit events. The
balance sheet exposure to product risk is also well managed. In variable annuities, we
protect our downside risk with extensive hedges, which continue to perform well.
We have updated the charts that show the unhedged VA cash flows at June 30, and have
included them in the appendix slide. These charts compare the net present values of
future guarantee fees with the value of future policyholder benefit, which we then stretch
under a down rate and a down equity scenario. The output which is summarized on the
right, shows that the base position is unaffected by the fall in rates seen so far this year.
The down rate scenario from here does not alter this picture. The down equity scenario
produces an overall negative value, but again, this is not markedly different to the position
at the start of the year.
In this scenario, of course, gains on existing hedges would turn the number into a positive.
These cash flow projections confirm the ongoing health of Jackson's VA back book, inthe-moneyness has remained broadly unchanged in CRN (29:04) at around 9%. So in
summary, our confidence in our ability to successfully navigate the current market
environment reflects the fact that our earnings are high quality and resilient to market
cycles. Our capital and economic financial resources remain healthy, and our approach to
risk management continues to be robust. So, returning to our half year results, IFRS
operating profit was up 6% to £2.059 billion, equivalent to an annualized return on equity
of 24%.
I flagged in March that our 2016 earnings would be adversely impacted in the UK,
reflecting our reduced appetite for annuities. In the U.S., from the impact of lower yields
on spread margin and in M&G as a result of net outflows. These effects have come
through as expected, reducing IFRS profit by a combined £112 million and will continue to
Page 9 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

FINAL

be a feature in the second half. Our profit improvement in the period was predominantly
led by Asia where earnings were 15% higher, reflecting increased income from insurance
business, and by Jackson's fee business, which benefited from stable margins and growth
in the large-base or variable annuity asset.
The half-year results also benefited from an extra contribution to profit of £74 million,
reflecting the effect of actions taken to improve the UK Solvency, which I will come back to
shortly. While there are a number of moving parts, this first-half picture highlights that our
business has the scale, positioning and flexibility to successfully manage through the
current cyclical challenges. I now want to turn to each business in turn. Asia has delivered
another excellent set of results, improving all of its growth and cash measures by 15% or
more. Our focus on quality delivered a 21% increase in regular premium new business,
representing 94% of APE. The result was underpinned by another strong performance
from agency where sales were up 22%, driven by improved productivity.

Bloomberg Transcript

The strong growth in Hong Kong, Vietnam, Malaysia and China continues to afford us the
flexibility to make strategic decisions on a country level. We strike the right balance
between protecting our overall long-term economics and short-term sales headline. New
business profit increased at a faster rate of 20%, boosted by favorable changes in
country and product mix. The NBP improvement is supported by a 26% increase in the
contribution from Health & Protection business, which accounts for two-thirds of Asia's
NBP. IFRS operating profit and free surplus generation were both up 15% driven by
ongoing growth in the scale of the business and the strong bias towards insurance. At a
country level, as Mike have said, we have seen double-digit earnings growth in seven
markets led by Hong Kong, Indonesia and Malaysia.
Eastspring increased asset managed. However, a shift in asset mix meant that revenues
were broadly unchanged. Cost control improved margin by 2 points to deliver operating
profit of £61 million, just ahead of last year. Finally, underlying cash remittances were
higher at £258 million, tracking the growth of the book of business.
Now, as Mike said, all of the quality drivers which underpin Asia's momentum are intact,
which bodes well for our future earnings prospect in the region. Our strategic preference
for new regular premium business with a high protection content provides an in-force
premium base that is both large and growing. Together with our focus on customer
retention, this produces a higher liability base, up 22% compared to a year ago, which
includes a sizeable insurance risk component. This forms a stable and highly valuable
source of predictable income both in good times and bad, underpinning the positive
performance outlook for our business in the region.
Jackson's results continue to reflect its disciplined value-based approach to managing the
business. Sales in the first half were impacted by volatile markets and by the uncertainty,
which surrounded the Department of Labor ruling. As a result, total VA sales were down
27%, broadly in line with observed market trend. Elite Access sales were similarly
impacted, but were also affected by lower demand from qualified accounts. This product
remains a leading investment on the VA in the market and drives the 28% nonliving
benefit mix of our sales. New business profit fell due to lower sales and the decline in
rates. Nevertheless, the overall margins remain very attractive.
Page 10 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

FINAL

Despite these cyclical headwinds, Jackson maintained its IFRS operating profit of £215
million levels. The contribution from fee business proved resilient but was offset by the
anticipated effect of lower yields on spread business. Spread margin fell by 27 points to
217 basis points. And if rates remain at current levels, we expect this margin to now drift
towards the 150 basis point level by 2020.
Jackson remitted another sizable dividend to the group at £339 million. This was lower
than 2015 when capital formation was stronger, reflecting the more benign market
condition at the time. Fee income on variable annuity business remains the dominant
component of Jackson's earnings. This is driven by separate account asset values, which
have continued to benefit from net inflows despite the reduction in gross sales in the
period. Combined with a small gain from market movement, the separate account
balance increased to £138.9 billion, having traded below the start-of-year value for most
of the first quarter. As a result, fee income was flat compared to last year.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have extended our analysis of Jackson's sources of earnings to now show the profit
contribution for each product. These show that after deducting direct and allocated costs,
profits from fee business increased by 9%, benefiting from lower strength. The increase
also confirms what we have previously said that DOL is a gross sales, not an earnings
event. At the time when asset yields are declining and consumers are becoming more
self-reliant, our UK proposition in retail risk-managed products is becoming more popular.
Retail sales were 51% higher with PruFund attracting the lion's share of these sales.
As a result of the onerous Solvency II capital requirement, we have stopped writing bulk
annuity business. Indeed, in the current rate environment, the highest Solvency II trade has
reduced the attractiveness of retail annuities, and we have taken steps starting in July to
scale down our presence in this market. Our core with profits and in-force annuity
business has delivered stable profits of £306 million in line with 2015. During the first half
of the year, we took actions to support the solvency position of the UK. These actions
delivered a £66 million profit from longevity reinsurance transactions and a £74 million
profit reflecting the effect of repositioning the asset portfolio.
Our longevity reinsurance program now covers £10.7 billion of annuity liabilities, which is
about a third of the book. While the value trade-off is appropriate in our minds, these
actions will reduce further – will reduce future annual earnings by between £10 million and
£15 million on top of the previous guidance of £25 million. Finally, in line with our normal
practice, remittances from the UK in the first half reflected the 2015 reported transfer.
The effect of a market-wide retrenchment from equities in the first half combined with
continued withdrawals from optimal income led to a £6.1 billion retail net outflows from
M&G in the first half. I indicated in March that retail business accounted for two-thirds of
M&G's total revenue. So, the 14% decline in retail AUM was the main driver of the 10%
drop in fee income to £440 million. Actions on costs mitigated the overall impact on
margin to deliver operating profit of £225 million, down 10%. Absent the meaningful
recovery in net flows, the first half revenue trends will persist for the rest of the year,
which together with the usual seasonality on cost, we'll see the cost/income ratio move to
around 60% for the full year.

Page 11 of 35



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

Moving on to cash generation. Free surplus after investment in the new business
increased by 10% to £1,609 million. The life in-force result grew by 14% and was
underpinned by the sizable expected return of £1,437 million augmented by positive
experience of £374 million. The former was dampened by the effect of rates, whilst the
latter benefited from UK management actions that I covered earlier. As you can see in the
top right, Asia's in-force momentum provides important support to this metric and acts as
a buffer to the cyclical impact elsewhere. New business strain is higher at £502 million. In
Asia, strain has grown at a slower rate than sales due to changes in business mix.
The U.S. increase is also mix-related driven by higher (39:30) and lower Elite Access sales.
It also reflects the higher proportion of new VA premiums directed to the fixed accounts,
which was up 4 points to 22%. In both Asia and the U.S., the investment in new growth
opportunity remains highly capital efficient with returns well in excess of 20% and short
payback period. The new business strain in the UK for 2016 is on the more onerous
Solvency II basis. The increase here is driven by retail annuities, which despite the modest
sales levels consumed £69 million of free surplus, equivalent to 24% of single premium.

Bloomberg Transcript

Mindful of the many moving parts this time around, this next slide provides you with some
additional details on the movements of the free surplus generation between the two
periods. And I'll leave you to (40:18) at you leisure, but I will draw out a few points.
As you move from left to right, you can see the negative £128 million interest rate effect
on this metric, which mostly relates to Jackson, about £70 million relates to Jackson. You
can also see the positive £138 million offset provided by the UK actions and the additional
£147 million from our ongoing focus to grow and manage the business for value, which
represents the underlying growth driver of free surplus.
You can also see the effect of Solvency II on UK free surplus generation. We're in line with
our guidance. The expected return from in-force after amortizing the transitionals were
£22 million higher in the top row and where our shift in focus to capital-light products
contained the more onerous strain effects of this regime to only £31 million. The negative
interest rate effect does not detract from our ability to continue to grow this measure.
And as I said at the start, we'll remain on track to exceed the £10 billion cumulative free
surplus target for 2017.
The next slide shows how the annual free surplus generation has impacted stock on the
left and cash on the right. I would remind you that form this year, the UK insurance
contribution to free surplus stock and flow is based on Solvency II. For the rest of the
group, free surplus continues to be based on local measures as these remain the biting
constraint.
Stock has increased overall, driven by the resilient operating performance. Market effects
were more adverse this time, reflecting, for the most part, higher negatives in the UK
given the more market sensitive nature of the new regime. After remittances, free surplus
stock finished higher, as I mentioned. Central cash was also up at £2.5 billion.

Page 12 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

FINAL

Completing the overall earnings picture for the period, items outside the operating
results have made an overall net positive contribution on EEV and have largely affect on
(42:35) IFRS. In the IFRS table, the negative investment variance of £0.9 billion was
primarily driven by the asset and liability accounting asymmetry in the U.S. This is further
accentuated this year as Jackson opted to achieve economic protection against fold-in
rates by increasing allocation to long-dated treasuries instead of buying more traditional
instruments.
Unrealized gains on these treasuries are included within the £1.1 billion positive shown on
the next line alongside the gains on other fixed income security. Otherwise, there was no
change to Jackson's hedging approach, which remains economically effective. The net
negative investment variance under EEV, which coincidentally is also £0.9 billion, mostly
reflects the effect of the lower assumed future investment returns on VA's M&E fees, as
under our methodology, these future returns are actively set.

Bloomberg Transcript

Given the group's sizeable non-sterling assets, currency movements contributed
positively in the first half under both reporting basis. The effect of adopting Solvency II
trims £473 million off our UK life EEV, reflecting the extra cost of holding higher capital.
The fact that both IFRS and EEV shareholders fund increased in the period by 13% and 9%,
respectively, is testament to the consistency of our operational delivery and the natural
offsets which exist across our business.
I'll summarize on this slide the movement in the Solvency II surplus during the first half of
2016. Our operating performance remains an important and reliable source of capital,
contributing £1.2 billion of the surplus in the first half. Market effects were negative £2.4
billion. Around a third of this total relates to Asia, reflecting the highest Solvency II risk
margin at lower rate.
Now, unlike UK and European domiciled businesses, transitional release is not available to
us to cushion this effect. Just over a third of the market effect relates to Jackson, where
the instruments we use to hedge against falls in rates are brought in at book value, which
means that the sizeable gains of around £0.8 billion made this year have been excluded.
And finally, about a quarter arises in the UK, where lower rates increased the annuity SCR
and reduced the contribution from with-profit transfers.
At £0.9 billion, currency also provided a meaningful positive on the Solvency measure. As I
have already mentioned, we took action in the course of the year to mitigate the adverse
effect of lower rates and to improve the sensitivity of our surplus to further market shocks.
These included longevity and other liability actions, asset switches, asset duration
lengthening, and additional hedging within businesses in a group.
So, in summary, we remain comfortable with the overall capital level. We have the
operational and financial growth to mitigate negative market effects, and we're better
protected than six months ago against the shocks from here.
I have provided on this next slide, a capital update for our main businesses. The
contribution of our Asia operations to the group's Solvency II surplus has been maintained
Page 13 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

FINAL

at £5.1 billion, as operating capital generation and currency positives have offset the
higher risk margin effect. However, it is the locally-driven free surplus of £1.8 billion that
remains a relevant measure for cash and capital, which is extremely stable.
The U.S. local TAC (46:39) basis capital has been impacted by the falling rates. The
permitted practice currently in place means that the offsetting gains on the hedge
instruments that we use to protect against falls in rates are not brought into account.
Here, unwinding the permitted practice, which is up for renewal next month, would
recapture $1 billion of post-tax hedge gains and restore Jackson's capital to near start of
year levels.
In the UK, shareholder Solvency II surplus of £2.9 billion has benefited from the actions
that we have taken. With a ratio of 138%, Solvency remains within our target range. The
UK with-profit Solvency surplus has improved to £3.5 billion, equivalent to a ratio of 176%.
I will conclude my presentation by reiterating two key points. The first is our belief that the
most important source of capital is the consistent delivery of a growing level of highquality earnings. This is precisely what we have achieved so far this year, delivering higher
IFRS operating profit and improving operating free surplus and Solvency II capital
generation.

Bloomberg Transcript

The second point is the resilience that comes from having a large economically effective
and well-diversified balance sheet, which is both secure and growing in scale. While we're
not immune to the economic and market cycles, we are in a strong position to trade
profitably through any environment.
And with this, I will hand you back to Mike.

Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Thanks, Nic. Appreciate that. Just a little bit on outlook. We obviously feel pretty good
about where the group is and its ability to capitalize on the market and what's going on in
this next phase of the cycle, a couple of fundamental reasons; one being strategic. The
behavior of the growing Asian middle class, the behavior of what someone referred to as
the graying middle class in the western markets. As one getting gray hair, I took that
slightly personally, but that's a – there is a consistency in their behavior which is this derisking of their financial assets of various concerns and directly towards products and
services that we provide.
So, the footprint we have, the capabilities we have, the services we have seemed to be
fitting the major demographic trends. And the more volatility we're getting, the more
investors foresee rates harder to live on or asset returns at lower levels and more
concerning the more valuable our solutions consistently seem to be for clients across the
globe.
There's been a lot of discussion in the industry about cutting and I want to address this
very clearly. This has two issues for us. One, we manage expenses very tightly all the time,
Page 14 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

right? Can we get better? Always. Is that challenge to the team up here? Always. Right?
But we're actually investing pretty heavily in this company.

FINAL

And we do investing in sort of three levels. Things we do that improve the relationship we
have with existing clients, be it service, technology, their access to other products we
have, just anything that grows and develops that relationships, get them more likely to
buy something to stay with us longer, again, to protect the long-term operating (50:31).
The second area is on scalability. We invest in things that we see improve our marginal
costs, improve our capabilities, allow us to do things competitors can't do. That could be
on risks, that can be on our asset management platforms, in the life businesses. It's a key
element to it, because as we get bigger, we should produce a higher return for our
shareholders and we should produce a better product for our consumers. And we're
doing both of those, again, at scale in multiple countries.
And the last piece is things we do for innovation, for new opportunities, for new
relationships, and that can be anything from a bank relationship to entering a new market
in Africa or Asia to recruiting a portfolio team for one of the asset managers, be it
Eastspring or M&G, all those sorts of things that take us into businesses that we didn't
have or capabilities we didn't have quickly. M&A in the U.S. and bolt-ons, all those sorts of
things are in that category.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then when we look at what money we put behind – what capital is being deployed
(51:40) behind the products, the lens is as it's always been, it's on cash payback, its IFRS
centric. It's on the cash flow signatures. It's on the strain. It's on the interest rate sensitivity.
I want to be very clear. We can get more efficient as a group and we will continue to work
on that. But our earnings growth isn't based on us coming up with a material reduction in
what we already have in cutting our way profitability. It's based on growing from here. And
again, I want to reiterate, we have more options for capital than we have capital. We could
invest more, do more, grow more if we chose to. We understand the balance required
with our shareholders on those metrics. So, what does that look like? How are you using
that? What's the discipline of that?
Well, we know there's an expectation on the growth, as you do this investment to do it,
from an ongoing basis, not one-offs, not – we're going to stop and do this for a while and
then come back to profitability. We're trying to give you a very high rate of return of
growth, trying to do that at very attractive returns. The bottom gray box is the return on
embedded value.
I'm going to be defensive on the half year, because it bugs me, at 14% (52:50). 1% of that
is interest rates and 1% of that, just to remind you, is front-end loading of expenses in our
business model. So, it's a little stronger than it looks. But we think these are competitive
returns in this market, given where our risk-free rates are and alternatives. And again, we
think they give us – they demonstrate a bit of our scale and our ability to grow at scale.

Page 15 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

FINAL

The other thing I want to hit on just for a minute is a lot of questions in the meetings after
full year results on dividend. Why do we think it's sustainable? Why is it a better dividend if
we're not growing at a 5% plus the incremental as we did? Where's the confidence
coming from that? Well, first off, it comes from the fact that, in our view, dividend should
be aligned with earnings growth.
Post crisis, you've seen a lot of our competitors not grow earnings per share and grow
dividend per share. And that is not what this management team is going to do, to be very
clear. This is a long-term growth business growing earnings first and dividends second.
And we're doing both as we're growing the value of the company. So, all three of those
metrics are moving at pretty effective rates, but the other model, guys, I don't believe is
sustainable.
If you're growing dividend faster than you're growing earnings, there's only a couple of
ways that can end. You either have an awful a lot of capital to start with or you need an
event later to recapitalize that. We don't believe either of those are necessary for us.
We're growing earnings in a very strong predictable manner. And I come back to one of
my favorite slides from Jackson days and certainly from this role.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our earnings in the first half looked like they have for the last decade. This is how you
should hold us up. We have the responsibility to deliver a few quarter-after-quarter, but
the context of that should be against our own performance and the context of that should
be how does that growth look, how does that profitability look, how does that cash
generation look over the cycle. The relationships we have with consumers are decades
long if we do them correctly. You should get the benefit of that as the shareholder.
So, I think this is one of the most effective ways to look at it. There's a lot of good slides in
the deck, a lot of good slides in the appendix, but if I got one then this would be the one
I'd use. He's smiling. I also like the cash flow testing in the U.S. That's my second favorite
slide. But there's a – I do think this is a business where short-term things we can do can
increase one of these lines, and that's not our objective; grow growth, grow value, grow
dividend.
All right, so, let me just finish with a couple of final comments. So, all this is what we've
been doing. All this is the team that's been doing it. All this is the markets we've been in,
all the things that you knew before coming in. And again, I think the results in an absolute
and a relative level are pretty good.
Is there upside? What else could happen? Well, given the Asian numbers and the pace at
which they're doubling, any more normalcy in Asia is clearly upside for them. In the
western markets, given our success at gathering assets and managing them, any
improvement in market performance, any lighter version of DOL, if that in fact comes to
play, is better. A broader capture of assets under that, more RIA assets coming to
Jackson on that side, they're not factored into how we're looking at the business, but
clearly part of its capabilities.

Page 16 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

FINAL

The improvements we're making to our UK businesses, scalability, capital-light, positioning
them for where that market is going. We see upside there. And again, the general climate
for consumers, the blend between the new expectations of what returns are and what
expertise they need is driving them towards the things we're good at and the markets
we're good at. So, this is a challenging time, we're not suggesting it's not, but we think
we're very well positioned to succeed in, what for a lot of firms, seems to be a very
difficult time and we're growing cash, growing earnings and growing dividend.
So, I'm going to stop there and then open up for questions. And if I could ask some of my
colleagues to join us. And we've got a few more in the audience. This is the biggest stage
we could find. So, we hand them a microphone if you need a specific question.
Raghu, I'll leave you to the honors of hosting this piece.

Q&A
A - Raghu Hariharan

{BIO 15133573 <GO>}

We're just going to wait for the team to settle down. But before you ask a question,
please do state the name of your firm and your name before firing away. Could I start with
Jon there, please?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Good afternoon, everybody. Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. I've got three questions,
please; two on the U.S. and then one on the group capital sensitivities. So, first question
on the U.S., just in terms of the (58:11) you've seen in the VA product in the first half, I
appreciate we didn't get the rules DOL until sort of, I guess, beginning of the second
quarter. And you're going to re-launch, I guess, in 3Q. How should we think about the sort
of outlook for flows for the second half of the year? Because we don't really have a sort
of normal run rate here and also we didn't get a Q1 update. That's the first question.
Second question, the GICs, I'm slightly surprised you're writing GICs again in size in the
U.S. What are the sort of return on capital of that product? And is this just an expense
play? Are you worried about the general accounts just depleting? The second question.
And then just finally, on the Solvency II rate stand sensitivities, just the £2.4 billion that Nic
ran through, it sounded like a lot of that was rates and risk margin. But the rate sensitivity,
you get the 50 bps down on the right hand side of that slide, looks reasonably small. Just
wondered if you could sort of talk, Barry, how much of that is sort of assets versus
liabilities and how much of it is sort of risk margin related? Thank you.

A - Raghu Hariharan

{BIO 15133573 <GO>}

So, Barry, do you want to take the two U.S. comments, and Nic, the Solvency II?

A - Barry Lee Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Page 17 of 35



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

Yeah. Sure. So, the slowdown, it's correct that we did not actually get the rule change until
April, but it was highly anticipated. And because there was uncertainty around
grandfathering, and when we ultimately ended up with an element of grandfathering
which is helpful, it's not full grandfathering, but because there was uncertainty around
grandfathering, the slowdown in production of new business actually started much earlier
back in the second half of 2015. So, that's the reason for the flows. In terms of the GIC,
we feel it was opportunistic. It's just something we do periodically. Chad, you want to talk
about the specific details or...

A - Paul Chad Myers

{BIO 2234559 <GO>}

Sure. So, (01:00:06) returns, generally speaking, we target about 12% un-levered on those
types of products. So, I think that's, generally speaking, what we saw. Keep in mind that
this used to be a material portion of our overall balance sheet. The ability to actually earn
a spread has not been there for a while because financial paper has been relatively pricy
post-crisis, and that's finally started to go away. So, we're actually seeing good
opportunity now to lever off of our AA rating and actually build and invest well against that
during a good spread.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Now, just coming back on the GIC question, on the GICs, because historically, I think,
you said that you sort of reinvest to make it sort of greater than 20% IRR across new
business. Is that 12% unlevered return? Is that a return on capital rather IRR metric? Was it –
the two aren't same number.

A - Paul Chad Myers

{BIO 2234559 <GO>}

Return on capital, on AA statutory capital.

A - Raghu Hariharan

{BIO 15133573 <GO>}

So Nic, your comments on Solvency.

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Sure. There are other advantages. But, as you say, maintaining a stable general account
level has a lot of benefits across the business. Certainly helps with liquidity as well. So, we
take everything into consideration.
Okay. On the sensitivity, look, we – you have to appreciate that Solvency II is only very new.
The sensitivities we gave you reflected the balance sheet that we had at the time. The
balance sheet was not optimized at that time to withstand those sensitivities. We have
taken both liability and assets side actions. I've referenced one of the liability actions in
relation to the longevity, which we started doing that in any event in the course of last
year.
On the asset side, there's a key thing here that across our UK business, but also across
certainly some of the Asian countries, which contribute to the overall Solvency II surplus.
We match our assets for the best estimate flows. We don't match the assets for the one
Page 18 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

FINAL

in 200 cash flows. So, when interest rates fall as they did immediately in the aftermath of
January 1 and then again, you have a mismatch effectively that comes from having shorter
assets than the liabilities on the SCR.
So, what we've done in the course of the year as we look to optimize the position as I
said both in the UK and elsewhere, we traded a lot of our excess assets, if you like, and
increased the duration. So where did we do that? We did that with some of the excess
assets that we have backing our excess capital in the UK, so we switched £2 billion of
extended the duration by something like 15 years.
Opportunistically, there was another £2.8 billion that we did elsewhere in the group across
the piece, which also gives us economic protection for that. Other area is the matching
adjustment was quite efficient. We entered the year with 95% efficiency at the end of – so
there was some ineligible assets.
Now, you get to the law of diminishing returns, but we effectively sold £400 million of
ineligible asset, which gave us some further protection against that. We did some general
asset trading within the matching adjustment constraint to improve, if you like, the risk and
liability, the risk versus yield position. There was another £1.2 billion of that. And of course,
we did some more equity hedging, as I said, elsewhere in the group.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, there's a whole host of actions that in effect by June 30 have shifted our matching to
not just be on the (01:04:05) liabilities plus. Not all the way to the one in 200 cash flows.
We don't think that's sensible, but enough to bring the sensitivities down.

A - Raghu Hariharan

{BIO 15133573 <GO>}

Andy?

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Hi. Andy Hughes from Macquarie. First question, 24% strain of the single premium for
individual annuities?

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

But that's presuming the bulk annuities, it would be even bigger and presumably – and I
know you're outsourcing some of the annuity team to Mumbai, I suggest you probably
outsource them to (01:04:41) instead. That's a huge trend. Is there something too specific
about that? Is the expenses the right number or is that...

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

No, there's no expense, Andy. The people that we're transferring is to administer the
sizeable back book. So, it's what the numbers show. It is what the numbers show. That 17%
Page 19 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

FINAL

or so is SCR, the rest is risk margin. The 18% to 20% depending on where you were –
where the interest rates were in the quarter, the rest is risk margin. We dialed up prices as
we entered the year. So you come to a point where you run against the constraint or value
for money from a customer perspective.
So, we've moved the pricing as much as we can without giving ourselves problems with
the FCA. Of course, it's without the benefit of any reinsurance. The numbers that we've
given you are without that. But even if we rerun the numbers, if you assume you reinsure
80% of that and you – at a 4% or so fee which is a typical fee for these type of
reinsurance, you save a little on the strain, you remove the risk margin component, but it
still leaves you in the teens, right?
And you save some capital, but you give away enough of the returns. It gives you a small
IRR pick up, but it's still at or just above the cost of capital, which is why we said we will –
we have taken action to withdraw. We wrote around £27 million of APEs, £270 million of
single premium, about a quarter of that comes from open market sales and sales with
partnerships. We announced in June that we're stopping selling to the open market and
we've given notice to our partners effective on July that we will not take any annuity.

Bloomberg Transcript

About half of it comes from the with-profit fund, people vesting was effectively – which
was reinsured under the shareholder account. We stopped doing that again on July 1, and
that leaves us with the guaranteed annuity which we're trying to find a solution for. So, it is
onerous and that's why we stopped bulk, and this is why, in this interest rate environment,
you'll see us pull back on retail annuity as well.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Okay. And my second question was about U.S. VAs. Mike, I know you personally love
dollar-for-dollar withdrawals and GMIB. And I see so many competitors had lots of
problems in those products. So, is that going to impact the competitive landscape for
second half of the year? Are you going to see products on the GMIB side being pulled?
And also on lapse rates, obviously, MetLife brought forward the investigation of (01:07:17),
so if lapse rates in your U.S. business come down, it looks like that's probably positive
based on your cash flow disclosures. So, if DOL drops lapse rates, is that positive? Thanks.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Yeah. I think on – just a general comment and you got a number of experts here in the
room on it. So, lapse rates – one U.S. competitor wrote off (01:07:33) £2.1 billion, added £1
billion, so there's an element of – we look at our assumptions at year end. We don't have
– I'm glad we don't have the GMIB exposures, the structures you're talking about. For a lot
of years, we stood up here and said that was a wrong product. Wouldn't waste that
problem on anybody, but some firms have it.
I think the thing that's – the bigger issue in the market was DOL. The firms need – so you
go from a regulatory standard historically that was suitability of product. Are you selling a
product suitable for the client? That would be a good reason for a sell. That's a clearly
good reason for a buy that had all to be justified in the U.S. market, pretty prudent model.

Page 20 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

FINAL

It's been up now to what's basically the same as the reasons (01:08:25) the best product.
It's a difficult business, you're signing off, but this is basically the right product, much more
specific, much more liability. If you're wrong, it's got a different recourse to it.
We think the quality of the VA product that the advisers sell gets even more important.
So, the performance matters, the flexibility matters. One of the other topics that Andy
didn't bring up that we didn't like was the bulk control, and this has been around – I'll leave
you to your own homework or go back and look at those funds versus the funds we have
for our consumers. Just never been a fan of that model. And again, if you're paying for
that and paying for a guarantee, it's always been a question on our mind.
So, I think Jackson's got a very good product set of where the market is going. And I think
the – just knowing what some of the broker dealers think, if they see that, you're likely to
see more concentrations at broker dealers because there's more technical support, more
IT support to go on these RIA platforms and things. So, it's a good question for you in
your travels for the heads of the broker dealers, which products are they willing invest in
to have on their platforms, and I think quality will be a major cut. I think we're in good
shape on that.

A - Raghu Hariharan

{BIO 15133573 <GO>}

Let's go to Lance, please.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Lance M. Burbidge

{BIO 3978332 <GO>}

Good morning. It's Lance Burbidge from Autonomous. I've got a couple of questions on
Jackson as well. So, in terms of launching of the fee-based version of the product, I
wondered, Barry, if you could talk about, presumably, this is attractive for a sales person
to sell because they get a recurring fee which is higher than their commission if the
product lasts long enough. But how does that play with the consumers that presumably
would be worth of, which is not what DOL was trying to do in the first place?
And going back to something sort of Mike has talked about in the past, which is as
interest rates fall, is there a point where this product from a guarantee perspective
becomes unattractive from either your perspective or from the customer's perspective?
So, maybe you can talk about that as well. And then just on the sensitivity for Solvency II,
you like other companies don't put negative rates into your sensitivity. I just wondered,
Nic, if you've looked at what that does or if there's nothing in there.

A - Barry Lee Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

The fee-based product will be introduced. The Perspective II
version would be introduced in September. What it really does, I think, as much as
anything else is it does – it gives an alternative to the broker, to the advisor that it does
not want to deal with (01:11:21) whatever people call it. It doesn't want to deal with the
regulatory complexity of operating under that. So, it gives him an alternative that I think
from a compliance perspective is a little easier.

Page 21 of 35



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

For a sale that's made that has long duration, there is the prospect that the agent gets
paid more. The customer – typically, what companies like ours do in order to fund, if you
will, the upfront commissions is you build about 100 basis points in for distribution. So, if
you accept that the standard fee is going to be about 100 basis points, the customer is
really not going to see a material difference, because we talked before this session, there
is the prospect that as you move towards more fee-based than it's, let's say, 100 basis
points gets locked in, it's the typical fee level that, over time, there'd be pressure on that
to get it pushed down to 75 basis points or 50 basis points, and that could certainly
happen.
But I don't think that it's going to disadvantage the consumer in any way, but what it is
going to do is give a choice to the financial advisor, which is really important. In talking with
broker dealers and talking with the wirehouses, what we're hearing, overwhelmingly, is
that they will operate under the (01:12:49). They accept that, they've gotten their heads
around that. Some of them view it as a long-term proposition; others view it as a bridge.
And maybe within three years to five years, they plan to have transitioned completely off
of commission-based sales and be totally on fee-based.
So, there's no doubt that there's going to be an evolution around distribution in the
industry. And that, in fact, is what I think regulators are trying to get at, because we spend
a lot of time also talking to political leaders, regulatory leaders, people within Department
of Labor, SEC, and what comes through overwhelmingly is they think the product is
complicated for consumers. The reality of the industry has complicated it. It's really not a
terribly complicated product for a consumer to understand, but we need to change the
way we talk about it and use different simpler language, which the regulators, they
welcome that.
But they love the product itself. They love the idea of a product that provides upside that
only equity markets are going to be able to get for the foreseeable future combined with
some levels, some modest level, but some level of guaranteed income for life around
which someone approaching retirement or entering retirement and plan. So they really
like the product. So, there's cause for real optimism for organizations who have a track
record of being flexible, adaptable and sort of get on the cutting edge of things, and
that's where I think Jackson is. Did I answer your question?

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

(01:14:27). I think on the interest rate piece, we've got a couple of issues. We have the
ability to adjust guarantees down, as you have seen us do. The systems have the flexibility
to do that. And then the accounting point of view, IFRS has sort of a market (01:14:42)
consistent element in the drift rate. The discount rate is defined by the current rate and
the discount – the drift rate of the equity assumed performance is defined by rate. So,
you can get quite a ways – the accounting, as rates get lower, gets quite a ways from
what's a reasonable economic set of assumptions. So, that's one of the challenges and
that's the discussion as a management team and with you guys as our investors, how we
view that.

Page 22 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

FINAL

But, at the lower levels, the drift rate assumptions feel kind of ridiculous that a portfolio
with every asset class available basically on the globe can't produce 100 basis point return
sort of thing is a bit of a – over 20 years is a bit of a stretch. If you actually believe that,
you probably would offer a different product. So, that's where I think you'll see the noise.
But, again, we're looking at it. And we do have the flexibility if we believe the fact that the
true economics of lowering the guarantees and we have done that on the withdrawal
rates.

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Okay. Can I, Mike? Can I answer the question on the flows? So, you're referring to our
internal model which flows interest rates pull shocks at zero.

Q - Lance M. Burbidge

{BIO 3978332 <GO>}

Oh, I'm sorry. I forgot to...

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. That's okay. So, when you – so, we start – just to be clear, so, we start with the swap
curves in the various markets that we operate. We then apply the one-in-200 shock. In all
cases, that stays above zero. And then we apply the 50 basis points in there.
The only place where that drops to below zero is in year one in Singapore. And our cash
flows in Asia are pretty much across the piece. The others are 10 years plus out, so
immaterial impact. The other place where it drops to below zero is in the UK between
years not – today in year five, that's in the minus 50. Our cash flows in the UK are even
longer. So, they go out 20 years plus. So, that in fact is immaterial.

A - Raghu Hariharan

{BIO 15133573 <GO>}

Arjan?

Q - Arjan van Veen

{BIO 5197778 <GO>}

Thank you. Arjan van Veen, UBS. Two questions, if I may, first one on Solvency II capital
movements. So, firstly, thank you for your detailed disclosure on page 76 on the
movements there. The £1 billion of underlying organic capital generation represents about
10% of your opening SCR, which annualize at 20% which is the top end of your peer
range. It's also relatively stable compared to the £2 billion in 2015. So, just looking for a
comment on can we use that as a starting point to build forward there's nothing sort of
untoward in that number?
Second question is on Asia in two parts. Firstly, on Hong Kong, so obviously the strong
growth has continued there. And there's obviously concern around both sustainability of
growth and also some regulatory tail risk. So, Tony, if you can give us some comments
around the growth side and also and particularly on the tail risk, the initiatives from the
Hong Kong regulator, which I think will help manage out of it.

Page 23 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

FINAL

On the non-Hong Kong side, we saw obviously some negative growth in this half. That's
partly driven – you've obviously a strong switch towards regular premium, there's some
management initiatives in Indonesia, you stopped selling universal life in Singapore. So I'm
just curious, all these different actions, where do you think – or are we close to – and
obviously, underlying economic growth headwinds there? Are we seeing some light in
terms of where you see that stabilizing and then picking up again, given all that different
moving part?

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Well, Nic, do you want to take the Solvency II piece, and Tony the...

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Thank you, and I think your analysis is correct. I mean clearly, there are some management
actions in there, the benefit which you've accounted for them. Look, we have a business
that generates capital. When you consider that effectively the U.S. comes in on a local
basis and you've seen a very strong capital formation from the U.S. that we've reported
year-after-year as the business has grown. There's no reason to believe that its
contribution to that number is going to do anything other than what it's done in the past
plus (01:18:52)

Bloomberg Transcript

Of course, the UK is under Solvency II and we gave you the Solvency II risk monetization
profiles at the year-end. On an underlying level, you saw £300 million or so come
through, it's £600 million for the year, okay, we have to trim a little off that.
But as we withdraw from – what works against that is the new business strength which will
eliminate as we go into the second half and beyond. And of course, we have a positive
experience that contribute. So, no, we're confident in the same way as we are against all
the metrics, but we ask you to judge us again, we're confident that we can continue to
have a positive slope.

A - Tony Wilkey

{BIO 19184129 <GO>}

Asia. Yeah. Hong Kong growth continues strong up 58% at the half. Again continued
driven by Mainland Chinese and correlated quite well in with the growth in the agency
force, which I think is now close to 16,000. In the first half, in Hong Kong, we've recruited
about 700 to 800 new agents every month. And so that feed into nicely.
In terms of the actions from regulators like – and there's a lot of activity in the first half, I
think the most interesting ones are declaration put out by the China regulator CIRC, I think
towards the end of Q1, early Q2. That they actually put out I guess to the Chinese citizens
on their websites that was state. And if you're going to buy product in Hong Kong, these
are a couple of things you need to be aware of.
I view this as good news. Honestly, in part codification of the process that it's okay for the
business that continue under certain controls. And we did as we've always done. We
immediately took those CIRC statements and put them in an additional disclosure at point
of sale that the agents and customers have to sign.
Page 24 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

FINAL

Now, what the Hong Kong regulator, OCI has done is taking those standards and created
the formal form, disclosure form that effective September 1, all Mainland customers
purchasing in Hong Kong will have to execute. So, based on everything we've seen, so far,
not materially concerned about the impact, and again and as usual, we're ahead of the
curve in terms of implementing those standards.
In terms of the rest of Asia, I think you might have answered the question. Yeah, there
have been some economic headwinds, probably most notably in Indonesia where GDP
has struggled for an extended period of time. And that, for us – I think we talked about
this in the past, that has flown through into on the call phase, the consumer sentiment
index which has been depressive. And remember, in Indonesia, we sell to the middle
market, the mass market, not the mass affluent. So, household disposable income, a little
bit more sensitive than it might be in some of the upper segments which is typically the
people who are actually buying product to bancassurance, not agency.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, yeah, we have felt some impacts. But we continue to grow the business. I mean, if you
look at the – even though the comparable is not great, if you look at the business, we
averaged about IDR 370 billion per month of new businesses in the first half. That's £21
million of new business. Margins staying in line, and almost £200 million of IFRS profit
coming through. We also added on average 7,000 new agents every month in the first
half, and I think we acquired 160,000 plus new customers. So, 800 new customers a day,
and we're a little disappointed that that's not per hour, but we'll get there.
Probably the most – if you look at the leading indicators or drivers for direction, Q2 over
Q1 grew by 11%. That's great news. If you look at Q2 over Q1 last year, it was flat. And the
growth coming through APE per active. So, agents were actually starting to have a lot
more success at point of sales. So I think if one add on the final macro of Jokowi's new
cabinet especially with his new Minister of Finance, I think we feel pretty good about
maybe the economies -you probably know the economy in Indo better than I do, but it
feels like it might have bottomed out. Currency is stable, JCI is up 20% year-to-date,
looks a little bit better. As the economy recovers, our business will recover.

A - Raghu Hariharan

{BIO 15133573 <GO>}

So, Oliver, please.

Q - Oliver George Nigel Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank. Three questions. First, I'm going to refer (1:24:03) back to
the U.S. Are you able to give us a some sort of indication of how much sales from
qualifying accounts actually fell in the first half and ramification (01:24:13) what happened
on the non-qualifying accounts? And how you see particularly on the qualifying accounts,
how that will develop over the next one, two, three years, if you can?
Secondly, the flows both with M&G and Eastspring were a bit low my expectations. So,
Eastspring, can you tell us what's happening there because they were remarkably good
this year, but they weren't too good – they were remarkably good last year, but lesser

Page 25 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

than the first half M&G, perhaps an update on particular funds and how much is left in
each of these.

FINAL

And then third question, perhaps a bit left field, is you talked about raising the dividend in
line with earnings. But obviously, your earnings are benefiting quite a lot from sterling
currency weakness, and your dividend is paid in sterling. So how are you thinking about
sterling relative to your dividend decision?

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Okay. So, Barry, do you want to comment on the qualified accounts first?

A - Barry Lee Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

What is the exact – I know Elite Access, you only talked to the sale side I think, Oliver. The
Elite Access sales from qualified accounts have dropped to essentially zero almost. I
mean they've fallen precipitously because, as Mike alluded to I think earlier or maybe Nic
in the presentation. Most of the broker dealers are now not allowing advisers to sell EA in
the qualified because they feel like the fee in return for the advantage that you get from
the tax wrapper which, obviously, you don't get with the qualified, I mean it's not a new
advantage. So that's been hit very hard. Overall sales, do we have that number at our
fingertips? How much qualified is down versus non-qual?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

We don't have the number at our fingertips in terms of percentage down, but what I
would say is that the mix is about the same as it was last year. So you're looking at roughly
65%ish percent is qualified. But, in the EA...

A - Barry Lee Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

In the non-EA. So, EA has been hit very hard. In terms of how we expect it to develop,
broadly, we think that if recovery's afoot, it's not like it's going to come roaring back in the
third quarter or the fourth quarter. I think it's a gradual thing over a series of quarters to
return to the historic levels of flows across the industry. But I do think that there is, based
on some of the comments I made earlier about the way regulators actually are
embracing, the product concept and just want to look at distribution, I think as we're
successful in evolving distribution, I think there's a strong prospect that we'll see growth in
flows, there need to be.
When you look at the number of baby boomers that are retiring, the assets that are going
to be looking for a home, the fact that interest rates oriented, our parents and
grandparents retired on CDs, which were paying 10% and 12% interest, but that's not an
option. So there's really – there are a few alternatives for people other than going into
equities. And the prospect of a guarantee with the equity upside just, I think, is becoming
increasingly appealing. So, don't look for instantaneous change in sales levels, but over
time, I think there's real cause for optimism.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}
Page 26 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

FINAL

Oliver, if you think of it, the problem we're solving for the consumer, it doesn't materially
change with the new product structure. You're going to have some assets already in
qualified plans rolling over. You're going to have supplemental savings for retirements. So
they may go see, they may go commission, but the fundamental problem we're solving is
the same regardless of DOL. I wouldn't just if I was guessing, I wouldn't think you'll see a
material shift in qualified and non-qualified mix in the U.S.
The exception that might be in a fee-based Elite Access, you get into a different – no,
even with that you're not going to – I'm just thinking all that. No, it should be the same
problem you're solving with effectively the same tools, just different optionality and other
(1:28:19) structure, but I think we get the same outcome.
Let's go – we just happened to have the CEO of Eastspring right here. Guy, you want
comment on flows?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Guy Robert Strapp

{BIO 15272859 <GO>}

So, if we just wind back slightly, second half of last year flows started to slow after China
intervened in both currency and stock market. So, sentiment in Asia started to shift after a
very strong 2014 and for us, very strong first half 2015. You translate it into 2016 and
investor appetite for equity product has evaporated largely. Its money market, pockets of
high yield. All countries that we look – all 10 countries that we run money in Asia except
two, who had positive flows for the first half. So it was confined to Japan where we saw
outflow mainly through dividend distributions in Asia equity income product. And a very
short duration product which is almost money market quasi product in China, which
management decided to close down with the two recent – with the only two funds that
we're in outflow in the first half. So, 8 out of 10 countries is positive flow.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Anne on M&G, please?

A - Anne Helen Richards

{BIO 4145347 <GO>}

Yeah. So I think there's a couple of things to comment on. Two main reasons, I think, what
flows have been under pressure over the last 18 months or so. First was very obviously
related to performance and I think the second bigger driver was around Brexit, uncertainty
on Brexit ahead of that. So, maybe touching on performance. Some challenges over the
past 18 months or so. But if you look back over the last six months, over 60% of funds in
the retail range and now above median. So there's a bit of work to do to repair some of
the slightly longer-term relative performance, but you can see the direction of travel is
right.
And in particular, Optimal Income, which is the single biggest funds there. There, we're
now seeing, against the European sector, which is the most important sector for that fund
to the European share class there. We're now first quartile year-to-date one year and five
years, again, to really rebuild that record. And over three years, again, we're second
quartile.

Page 27 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

FINAL

So direction of travel is very much right in the right direction there. And if you look at the
broader context of flows, actually, what is quite encouraging is to see that we have got
net inflows across quite a few different strategies, both on the retail side and importantly
on the institutional side as well. And quite a range of different things. Real estates, some
of the private debt markets and so forth, global macro, multi-assets.
So there's a lot of work to do to turn net outflows into net inflows but we have some of
the building blocks already in place there. I think the Brexit vote, obviously has relevance in
particular to the £25 billion or so of asset under management that we manage for
Continental European clients. And I think we still don't have perfect foresight in terms of
how that's likely to progress going forward.
So, that's the area of where we're looking at focusing really on client service as we wait to
hopefully get a little bit more unraveling and visibility on the extent to which, for example,
we'll still have European passporting (1:31:45) as the Brexit negotiations would underline.
But in the rounds, that's the picture on that.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

And Nic, do you want to comment on dividend effects...

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

On dividend. Yes. Is it a factor? Yes, it's a factor. Is it more important when we stress test
the dividend to the impact on shocks? No. Is it more important than when we weigh up
the growth opportunities? No. And we take (01:32:12)
Now, that being said, we have always maintained that currency and the part of the world
that we're exposed to is a tailwind for this business. At the end of the day, over the
medium to longer term currency should follow growth in GDP and if you're operating in
countries where GDP is growing faster than the currency in which you're reporting. Then
over time, that will come through into additional earning. So, day-in, day-out, it's a fact
that's not that significant, longer term, I think it's rightly a tailwind for us.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Oliver, we've historically hedged dividend payments, not hedged earnings, but – so there
is some – we tried to dampen some of that a bit.

A - Raghu Hariharan

{BIO 15133573 <GO>}

We've Blair.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Thank you very much. It's Blair Stewart from BoA Merrill. Three questions, please. Nic, you
talked about the implemented practice in the U.S., I just wonder if you can expand on
that? Is that something you're looking to explore? And then could you give us what the
RBC in the U.S. actually was? I don't think if that's a route to getting more capital or more

Page 28 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

cash out of the U.S. It wouldn't be a results presentation without me complaining about
cash coming out of the U.S.

FINAL

And second question on Indonesia, I noticed the profit growth has slowed to 12% growth.
Is that simply a function to any of investing in the business during a period of a time where
sales are coming down, I suspect it is.
And thirdly, on back to management actions, Nic, I was wondering what more can be done
especially to capture some of that surpluses disallowed (1:33:58) I don't think particularly
on the With-Profit (01:34:00) if there is anything smaller that could be done there? Thank
you.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Nic, (01:34:07).

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I mean, maybe I'll say one or two things and then I'll pass onto Chad. I mean, it was –
permit to practice is something that we carried, put in place after the last Financial Crisis
at the time. If you like the balance of the book, it was more on the general account where
interest rates up was a predominant risk. The balance of the book is gradually shifting and
clearly given where interest rates are. The point at which it becomes the permit to
practice is a benefit to us, is further away. That being said, we've had strong capital
formation, even with this in place over the years. But it's something that we're looking at.
Chad, would you add anything to that?

A - Paul Chad Myers

{BIO 2234559 <GO>}

Yeah. I think it's – the bulk of the answer is right there. So, with the permit to practice, we
view that as something where interest rates are low enough, and we're deep enough
with the money, if you will, that there's pretty good to offset up and down with reserves
now. So, there's logical reason why you might take the permit to practice off, and that'll be
part of the conversation we'll have with the state. The thing would be it's still – the reason
we've had it on to begin with is, were you to have rates move up significantly, then there's
going to be an asymmetry between the mark on the swap book and the reserves
because the reserves will pour out under STAT (01:35:27).
So, there's still that kind of tail risk, if you will, if you had a big inflationary environment or
something like that where rates started moving back up rapidly, we'd have a disconnect. I
think it would be harder for us to get that back on, having taken it off. But we wouldn't do
so lightly but it's certainly an active discussion just given the fact what we're seeing now
kind of one-sided market against us even though that economic edge is in place.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

The other thing I'd add, Blair, is you see the – the use more of treasuries as part of the
hedging strategy, because it's more efficient plus volatile, plus they're also under STAT
(01:36:03) graded book. So you're getting quite an understatement of the financial
Page 29 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

strength of Jackson. We haven't ever given RBC other than when we published year-end,
but it's still a very acceptable range for us.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. So, the 12% growth in Indonesia?

A - Tony Wilkey

{BIO 19184129 <GO>}

Yeah. I mean, Blair, you're absolutely right. We have been investing in the business. We've
learned, and Mike often talks about countercyclical opportunities. We've continued to
invest. We've expanded new branches. We've hired more agents. We've upgraded our
people. And we've invested quite heavily in technology to make the whole process more
efficient on the back end in the front end. So, obviously, that has some impact. I don't
know Nic, if you want to expand on it any further?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Sorry. On the With-Profit side – sorry on the – yeah, we are extremely frustrated that I can't
include the With-Profit that stayed into the ratio, not least because it seems we are the
only business now that has a sizable amount. Nevertheless, we've had that debate. The
rules have been interpreted in the way in which they've been interpreted, and we exclude
it. How can we access it? We could distribute it, but that wouldn't be what we wanted to
do. It's the thing that is underpinning, providing the working capital and the risk coverage
to invest in the way that we do in the With-Profit Fund, which is now attracting the
phenomenal flows that we're getting. We could – there's things you can do from this
point, but to get more credit up front, you could monetize the shift, you could hedge the
shift further, but you're giving up the upside that we would do if we needed to within
reason. But on the With-Profit side, it's difficult to bring more credit through onto the ratio.

A - Raghu Hariharan

{BIO 15133573 <GO>}

Nick here, please.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 21515144 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Nick Holmes of Soc Gen. Couple of questions on the variable
annuity book again. Just wanted to follow up on the policyholder behavior assumptions.
Wondered if you could – I know this is an incredibly difficult take area. But I wonder if you
could try to give us a sense of your level of confidence about your assumptions, not just
lapse but also guarantee utilization. Perhaps, looking backwards, what did the last review
tell you and what were you pleased about, what are you worried about?
And then the second question is I've noticed that there was a very large unrealized loss
below the operating line. Now, this, we all know, is a familiar feature of insurance
accounting, but I think in your case, quite a lot of it is to do with the hedge program. And I
just wondered kind of what is your thinking about communicating the performance of the
hedging of your variable annuities? Are you at all inclined to start reporting an economic
type of – I know that's subjective in itself, but there is one very large European company
that does this and it puts it in its operating earnings. Now, is this something that you would
Page 30 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

be interested in doing in the future because my sense is that it would be very helpful for
people to understand the true performance of the variable annuity guarantees and
hedging. Thank you.

FINAL

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

So, Nick, I'll take – start with both and I'll (01:39:48) to U.S. colleagues for help maybe. On
the hedging, I think there's two elements. If you remember the New York meeting, a
number of you were out and we sort of gave you 11.5 hours of everything you want to
know about Jackson. One of the things that we did there was showed you some of the
internal work we do on cash flow testing. Because of the industry's varying descriptions of
metrics, the choices management teams have to define hedging, define risks. Part of the
reason on those, we've always looked at, and if you remember, unhedged. And then, we
can tell you what the hedge looks like and that shock in terms of value at a given point in
time. But we're not getting in a debate of what type of hedge and how is it structured,
and is that better than Met's or PRU's or Lincoln's, et cetera?

Bloomberg Transcript

We intend to keep – at the various investments, we'll keep showing you those sorts of
measures. I think personally, that's the single best way to look at a VA block and how it's
going to perform. And if you remember back at that meeting, one of the things we said
is, it is not just the PV, which, again, that's one of the – that's the easy one for us to
summarize for you, but it's also how does a given year shock looked versus your capital
(01:41:00) for cash at the end of the day.
So, those stresses are important and our intention is to keep showing you that. I think that
gives you a better look at our hedging than anything else – our non-hedged liabilities.
There was a question that came out in one of the meetings about like net amount at risk
versus in the money. Net amount of risk is a shock event. That's not how our liabilities are
structured. It's sort of everybody goes at once sort of model. (01:41:28) it's an incredibly
inefficient way of looking at our liabilities. It may fit a life company with pure mortality
(01:41:34) concentrated in one region. You start to get to say, is that viable. But for us, with
the fact that the guarantees plays out over decades, shocking it to one day can't even
structurally occur. They all can't collect.
So, that's kind of particularly good metric. So, I do think the cash flow metrics assuming
very efficient utilization is the best way to say, do you like to look at what's there? The
actual value the hedges we can mark-to-market any given day, you see some of that
below, some of the (01:42:04) this time was interest rate as well, just the severity of the
rate movement in the U.S.
And your other question on policyholder review, there's multiple levels in the U.S. on
policyholder review. There's an ongoing intellectual challenge quarterly, that is a team that
gets together and say, look for any inefficiency, look for any behavior that's changed, look
for anything that would suggest that our models are wrong, look for new combinations.
Anybody in that committee can bring up any combination of variables they want to be run
and tested, and it's quite detailed. And then we have our formal processes that we follow
as all U.S. carriers do to review our assumption setting, and we typically do those in the
second half of the year.
Page 31 of 35



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

The challenge you guys have – and I appreciate these as investors – is you have firms in
the U.S. that have different structures of liabilities and a VA. They have different
assumptions. There's a lot of assumptions to your earlier point inside our policyholder
behavior. It's not just one number. And so, when you look at that, you got to say, do you
agree with all the things you're seeing in the marketplace? We've got this discussion with
external consultants (01:43:17) for Jackson is marketplace data that's GMIB-based or
they've gone back and raised the fees or they've gone back and put force allocation or
(01:43:25) control on versus our clients.
It is directionally of some value, but we wouldn't build pricing based on it. So, there's – I
appreciate the – it's beyond – it's not just opaque, it's a confusing space that – but I think
Jackson, you'll see us disclose sensitivities, what are we – we've shown before what we
think of lapse rates, what we think of – what our stresses look like in the financial
implications and we'll continue to give you those.

A - Barry Lee Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Mike, can I comment on the reporting as well? Look, I'm aware of what other companies
do in this regard. And we thought long and hard, look, you know our position on
accounting disclosure. We thought long and hard about how we best project that. But you
hit on two of the key points. The first challenge you run into is what is economic. Is it real
world or is it market-consistent? And there can be different judgments that are applied in
that regard or something in between.
Then you hit the other challenge which is to say that you then depart from U.S. GAAP. And
bringing the entire guarantee seizes the calculation of the way you think of the reserves
or the element that you brought in on day one which is when you lock them in that
produces zero profit on day one. The more you depart – we took the view that the more
you depart and make judgments from the base U.S. accounting, the less comparable your
numbers are with the way that everyone else does it. And in the end, we decided that it's
better to take that volatility and be more comparable and answer your question rather
than make judgments that put us out of kilter with the way the rest of the industry is
reporting.
So, yes, we will – so, what would you leave then? Refer you back to the cash flow on the
one side and the other thing is the embedded value because ultimately that does capture
all the fees. And that's factored in the way you move forward how your hedging program
will react. And there are stochastic elements that are run within that to capture some of
the variability of some of the assumption. So, no, we look at it, but we just thought if we
moved, it would be just too artificial.

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

One other valid point that might be interesting for you, too, is around the policyholder
behavior and the validity of the assumptions. And as Mike has said, we're constantly going
through the process of reviewing, and we occasionally tweak as a result of that analysis.
But historically, our assumptions have held very, very well. And I would argue that, given
that we have provided, Mike alluded to this as well, probably the most stable consumer
experience amidst any one at the industry around these products, and given the scale of
Page 32 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

our book, I would say the historical data that we produce on our book is probably the
most credible data available in the industry.

A - Raghu Hariharan

{BIO 15133573 <GO>}

FINAL

Now, go, Alan, please?

Q - Alan G. Devlin

{BIO 5936254 <GO>}

Thanks. Alan Devlin from Barclays. Just one question. You mentioned the bolt-on deals. I
think, you referenced to the U.S. I was wondering if you could give some color and what
kind of things you were considering? Was the Department of Labor forcing you to
(01:46:42) potentially out of the market? Thanks.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

No. The Department of Labor doesn't have anything to do, for us, with bolt-ons. We
wouldn't buy – we're not looking for VA blocks, for example. We've been pretty clear that
that's not something we have an appetite for. What we look for is life. So, life (01:46:59)
technical revenue, further diversification, just get a nice (01:47:04) benefits. There's a lot
of things we get.
The last 24 months you've had some interesting new players in the market, private equity,
some of the Japanese firms and things that bid things up. Typically, what you see is, on
this point, just like a little more rational pricing. But you've got some new players. We've
got some pension funds, multiple Canadian pension funds and vehicles now. It's actually a
very good liability for pension fund. You think about it, the cash flow signature of their lives
look a lot like the cash flow signature of the underlying life (01:47:34) premiums.
So, there's competition still, but we're looking – we continue to look – for all the years I've
stood up here, we're always looking. Oh, yeah, and that was my old role as well. But if we
see something we like, we would do it and we're not in it. There's no obligation or capital
allocated specifically to that. We'll just – it'll be opportunistic as it's always been. But you
do own a very low cost platform in the U.S. They can integrate those and produce some
return in addition to their return the existing owner is getting. So, there's value there.

A - Raghu Hariharan

{BIO 15133573 <GO>}

And then one last one? Andy?

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Andy.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

All right. Thanks so much. I've got a couple more questions. I think, Nic, will be
disappointed if I didn't ask (01:48:13) Indonesia just to double check the persistency and
lapses are okay because that would be my main concern. And I can see there's not much
easy hit from lapses in the numbers, so obviously just double check that. And the second
Page 33 of 35



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

FINAL

point, on Asia, obviously you're sticking with your growth targets. But obviously Indonesia
adds a lot more to the IFRS earnings in the net than Hong Kong. So, is that kind of the mix
can be a bit of the headwind in terms of growth going forward?
The third question is on VAs and regulatory change, so you actually hinted that you're
holding back of some cash for potential changes in the U.S. VA rules, which may or may
not happen. Obviously, they have a big captive and you don't. But they were sounding like
– do you expect any VA rules to come more economic, which might lead to higher capital
requirements? Can you comment on that? Thanks.

A - Barry Lee Stowe

{BIO 15021253 <GO>}

Lapses, if you like, you can see the numbers come through. The persistency pretty much
across actually the portfolio on the protection side is strong. From time to time, you will
some spikes, if equity markets aren't performing. You see some offshore withdrawals,
maybe people taking money out. But we see nothing different this time around to what
we've seen before.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the impact of Indonesia on the growth rates, I think the answer is that the strength of
the platform, don't under estimate the growth in Hong Kong. Yes, a lot of it comes from
the success with profits offering there, the (01:49:46). But the growth within that of health
and protection, which as you know, has a very attractive IFRS signature is not to be
underestimated, and which is – we're building some nice momentum in Hong Kong on the
back of layering, if you like, more protection business to what was previously there. Hong
Kong was underweight in our earnings before and it's now gradually drifting up to its
appropriate weight. So, yeah, there's some (01:50:15).

A - Nicolaos Andreas Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

(01:50:18) regulatory question, Andy, there's – I mean, there's always a prospect that
regulations evolve over time. But we have always had and continue to enjoy a very
positive and productive relationship with Jackson's lead regulator which is the State of
Michigan. And I mean, there are literally weekly, multiple weekly meetings between
Jackson and the state. And I think they are comfortable, A, with the existing regulatory
regime under which Jackson operates, and even more so, happy with the manner in which
we've complied with that regime. And so, I don't think – I don't see a huge risk such as
you've described.

A - Michael Andrew Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

I just want to thank everybody for a very long session. I appreciate the time and the
questions. And we'll maybe up for a few minutes if anybody want to do one-on-one.
Thank you.

Operator
If you've missed any part of this call or would like to hear it again, replay will be available
shortly. Thank you for joining today's call.

Page 34 of 35



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2016-08-10

Page 35 of 35

