Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

Q2 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Alexander Rijn Wynaendts , CEO, Chairman-Executive & Management Board
Darryl D. Button, Chief Financial Officer
Willem van den Berg, Head-Investor Relations

Other Participants
Albert Ploegh, Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Bart Horsten, Analyst
Mark David Cathcart, Analyst
Nadine van der Meulen, Analyst
Nick Holmes , Analyst
Steven A. Haywood, Analyst
William Hawkins , Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good day, and welcome to the Aegon Second Quarter Results 2016 Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference
over to Mr. Willem van den Berg, Head of Investor Relations at Aegon. Please go ahead,
sir.

Willem van den Berg

{BIO 15203834 <GO>}

Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining this conference call. We will
start today's call with a summary of our second quarter 2016 results, followed by a brief
overview of the strategic and financial rationale behind the Cofunds acquisition.
Please also review our disclaimer on forward-looking statements, which is at the back of
our presentation. After the prepared remarks, CEO, Alex Wynaendts will be joined by our
Chief Financial Officer, Darryl Button, to answer your questions.
Alex, go ahead.

Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Page 1 of 24



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

FINAL

Thank you, Willem, and good morning to everyone. Thank you for joining us for second
quarter 2016 earnings call. This was clearly not a satisfactory quarter from an earnings
perspective, as earnings were affected by lower interest rates and adverse claims
experience in U.S., and by the book loss from the divestment of our annuity portfolio in
the UK. Later in my presentation, I'll outline the five part plan that is being implemented in
our U.S. business to improve our results.
I'm pleased with our sales, and in particular our deposits remained very solid. This is a
clear indication that we are successfully repositioning our business by providing attractive
solutions to an expanding customer base. The acquisition of Cofunds, which we
announced today, together with the earlier announced acquisition of BlackRock's DC
business, firmly positions our UK business as the leader in the fast-growing digital
platform market.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our capital position increased an estimated 158% during the quarter, despite adverse
market impacts, as a result of the management actions we've taken. Based on our solid
capital position, and year-to-date capital generation, we're announcing an interim
dividend of €0.13 per share. This dividend will bring the total capital return to shareholders
this year to an expected €950 million.
Here, slide three shows the development of our Solvency II ratio during the second
quarter. As you can see, the Solvency II ratio increased, as the negative impact of lower
interest rate was more than offset by management actions in both the Netherlands and
the UK, including the divestment of the UK annuity portfolio. In the Netherlands, our
Solvency II ratio increased significantly from around 135% last quarter to 154% this quarter,
and I will discuss the actions we have taken to achieve this on the next slide.
In the UK, market movements had a negative impact on the capital ratio, as interest rates
dropped to an all-time low, following the Brexit vote. Additional interest rate hedges that
we put in place before the vote together with a capital release from the second
reinsurance deal related to our annuity portfolio did however more than offset the
extreme movement in interest rates. And I would like to remind you that the 145%
Solvency ratio in the UK does not include the benefit of the Part VII transfers in our annuity
book. These transfers are expected to add another 15 percentage points to the ratio next
year, after completion of the transfers.
As to the U.S., our RBC ratio remains solid, and is at the high-end of our target range. The
decline compared with the previous quarter was mainly driven by the payment of the
dividend to the group in addition to the impact of low interest rates.
Let me now discuss the actions we have taken in Netherlands in more detail. Following the
first quarter movements in our Dutch Solvency II ratio, we conducted a thorough review of
the methodology and the outcomes and identified four key areas of improvement. The
first was implementing additional hedges pre-Brexit to reduce a sensitivity to market
movements, in particular to declining interest rates. The second was a more thorough
application of the volatility adjusted mechanism in the Netherlands. The third was
changing our expense assumption in stress conditions. We have a strong track record of

Page 2 of 24



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

managing expenses and we felt that previous approach did not properly captured the
actions we would take to bring down cost in the longer run. And the four, our other model
and data refinements.

FINAL

In addition, we've made several refinements by using more granular data in our models.
The main impacts of these refinements and the other management actions is a reduction
in SCR, resulting in an increase of the Solvency II ratio.
Slide five provides a summary of our latest Solvency II sensitivities for the group and for
our main units. These updated sensitivities reflect both the management actions we've
taken and the year-to-year – year-to-date market movements. Although sensitivities have
increased to a certain degree, they remain low. Today, I would like to focus on three of
these key sensitivities: our sensitivities to interest rates; to the ultimate forward rate, UFR;
and to credit spreads.

Bloomberg Transcript

So firstly, our sensitivity to interest rates. Changes in the sensitivity reflect the UK annuity
portfolio divestment, adjustments made to hedges in Netherlands, and the lower level of
rates in the U.S. In the extreme scenario of interest rates dropping another 100 basis
points from current levels, the Solvency II ratio of the group and our main units would
remain within that target range.
Secondly, our sensitivity to a lowering of the UFR by 50 basis points. This would reduce
our group Solvency II ratio by 7%. The impact on the Dutch Solvency ratio is obviously
larger at 19%, but would still be manageable. And thirdly, our sensitivity to credit spreads.
The sensitivity increased in the first half of the year partly as a result of the extreme
market movements.
As you can see on slide six, our holding excess capital position increased to €1.1 billion
during the quarter. The Holding received €600 million in dividends, as various (06:38)
units upstream capital. Three-quarter of this was from our largest unit, the U.S. Other
significant contributors were Asset Management, and our business in Spain, and Central
and Eastern Europe. Together, these units upstreamed a total of €140 million, underlying
the importance of these business units and increasing diverse nature of our business. This
quarter, we spent around €200 million on the second tranche of our share buyback
program and €150 million on paying the cash part of the final 2015 dividend.
And in the third quarter, we'll pay an interim dividend of €0.13 per share, an increase of
8% compared with the last year. This will bring our total capital return to shareholders this
year to an expected €950 million, meaning that we are on track to deliver on the capital
return plans, which we announced in January at our Investor Day in London.
As I shared with you earlier, our underlying earnings of €435 million did not meet our
expectations. Let me now run you through the main moving parts on slide seven. In the
Americas, earnings decreased to €270 million as a result of lower earnings from life,
accident and health, and variable annuities, while other businesses performed in line with
expectations. The principal drivers behind this decrease were declining reinvestment

Page 3 of 24



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

FINAL

rates, adverse claims experience in both life and health businesses and lower variable
annuity earnings.
In Europe, earnings increased by 15% to €160 million. The Netherlands delivered yet
another quarter of solid results as earnings increased to €138 million. In the UK, the
positive impact of the accounting change relating to upgrading of customers to our
platform was partly offset by lower UK life earnings, following the disposal of the annuity
portfolio.
Asset Management earnings remained solid at €37 million, although they decreased as a
result of the normalization of performance fees. Holding expenses declined to €33 million
due to lower funding costs following the redemption of senior debt at the end of last
year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me now explain in great detail in slide eight what measures we are taking to address
the shortfall in our earnings in the Americas. As you are well aware, low interest rates in
U.S. are not only leading to declining reinvestment deals, but also to changes in customer
behavior and lower margins on new business. These developments all have an impact on
our earnings and, at the same time, we have to deal with significant revenue changes and
adverse claims experience. We are however determined to take all necessary actions to
offset these adverse impacts and improve our profitability.
Let me provide you with an overview of our five part plan, which is being implemented
across our business in the U.S. So, first, we are increasing the monthly deduction rates on
certain blocks of our universal life products based on expectation as to what the future
cost will be to provide this coverage, both in line with policy guarantees as to maximum
rates to be charged. At the end of 2016, we expect to have implemented 75% of these
increases and we will start seeing the full impact of these increases from our earnings by
the middle of next year.
As you are aware, we're also actively pursuing for rate increases on long-term care
policies to compensate for the continued increase in claims. We have filed request in 20
states and are seeing better progress now than a few month ago.
Second, we continue to launch new products and redesign exciting products to secure
profitable future growth. Furthermore, you will see exiting products that no longer meet
our objectives, which would lead to cost savings in the medium-term. And third, we will
continue to explore all options to dispose of non-core and lower return businesses. Selling
part of our run-off business in such a low rate environment is, however, proving to be a
challenge. But the scope of the current assessment is now broader than just the run-off
businesses.
And fourth, we are today announcing that we're in the process of rationalizing our location
strategy in the U.S., which will lead to a reduction in a geographic footprint. Fifth, we will
accelerate the pace of our expense savings program in U.S., as you can see on the
following slide.

Page 4 of 24



FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

So, I'm pleased that we have made strong progress towards reducing our expenses in
the first half of 2016, and we are ahead of schedule in realizing this year's expense saving
target. In the U.S., we made very strong progress as the completion of our voluntary
separation incentive plan led to head count reduction of approximately 600 people and
yielded significant savings. As a result, this quarter, we have already achieved our expense
savings target for the full year with $60 million of savings instead of the original target of
$40 million. And going forward, we'll continue to accelerate the pace of our expense
savings.
The Netherlands and at the Holding, we're also on track for 2016 expense savings and
making good progress towards our 2018 target, but here I would like to underline, as I've
done before, that expense savings program is being executed in such a way so as to
ensure that the high customer service levels are maintained. It goes hand-in-hand with
continued investments in the business. We are, for instance, continuing to invest in digital
capabilities, utilizing the very latest technology that both supports customer experience
and simplifies our business at the same time.

Bloomberg Transcript

I would like to now turn to slide 10, which illustrates how the exceptional items impacted
on net results this quarter. As you can see, the main driver behind a net loss of €385
million is a book loss on the divestments of our own annuity portfolio in the UK. This
divestment was a key step in executing on our strategy to optimize the portfolio, and it
reduces exposure to both financial market and longevity risk going forward.
Through these transactions, we have significantly lowered both our credit spread and
interest rate exposure, and successfully freed up £0.5 billion of capital. The financial
turmoil and uncertainty following the Brexit vote underscore why the decision to sell our
UK annuity book was in the best strategic and financial interest of our company.
Fair value items were another sizable factor this quarter and the loss is amounted to €378
million. The majority of these items were caused by the impact of decreasing interest
rates on our hedging programs, and this was mainly related to the accounting mismatch
between assets and liabilities on an IFRS basis in the Netherlands. These hedging
programs are in place to protect our capital position and are proved to be very active.
Let me now turn to our strong deposits on slide 11. We are pleased with our strong
deposits in retirement plan and Asset Management, which have been supported by
increased distribution strength following last year's acquisition of Mercer's DC business
and the stake in La Banque Postale Asset Management. This quarter, the number of
pension participants in U.S. and the UK and in Netherlands increased by 15% to 11 million
plan participants, a reflection of the trust customers are placing in us.
Net deposits amounted to €1.2 billion in the quarter, as they were impacted by anticipated
contract discontinuances from the Mercer block. We expect elevated contract
discontinuances to continue throughout 2016, with net deposits increasing thereafter. Our
life and protection sales were down 11% and 8% respectively. This decline reflects our
continued focus on profitability of sales. And on the next slide, I will elaborate on the
actions we're taking to maintain sales at a profitable level.

Page 5 of 24



FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

As rates have continued to trend lower and lower, we're actively redesigning and
withdrawing existing products and launching new ones. This often means repricing capital
intensive products and replacing them with capital-light alternatives. An important
achievement this quarter is that Aegon was the first company in the Netherlands to
receive approvals to launch a general pension fund, so called APF. This pension pooling
vehicle enables separate financial administration for multiple pension plans and allows
smaller pension schemes to benefit from economies of scale, while complying complex
pension regulation.
Our general pension fund, called Stap, leverages our industry-leading administration and
asset allocation capabilities. We have really secured a large contract and are in an
advanced stage of closing two others, strongly position us (16:04) as the leader in the
pension market.
I'm now concluding on slide 13. Although this was a challenging quarter from an earnings
perspective, it was also one, in which we strengthened our capital position and made a
series of significant steps in execution of our strategy. We are accelerating the actions we
are taking to transform our company, to increase our returns and to become a more
customer-centric organization. I'm, therefore, confident that we will continue to make
significant progress towards the 2018 targets.

Bloomberg Transcript

This concludes my prepared remarks for this quarter's results. But before Darryl and I take
your questions, I would like to spend a few minutes to talk you through the acquisition of
Cofunds, which we announced today.
This acquisition is a unique opportunity to further accelerate the execution of our UK
strategy. The acquisition of Cofunds, together with the recent acquisition of BlackRock's
Defined Contribution business, gives us a market-leading position and scale in the
workplace savings and retail platform market. We're able to use this scale and our existing
technology to drive £60 million of expense savings, reducing our combined digital cost
base by 25%.
What's more? This acquisition enables us to rapidly develop our distribution footprint,
gaining opportunity in the retail advisor space, where there is minimal advisor overlap and
a new business relationship with Nationwide, the UK's largest building society. And before
I give you more color on these benefits, let's first take a step back to explain how today's
announcement fits well with our strategy.
I'm on slide 16. Five years ago, we embarked on a strategy to transform Aegon UK into
cost efficient and scalable digital platform business. This enables us to not only compete
on administration, but also on investment solution, Asset Management, and customer
guidance. And since then, we've built a very successful award-winning platform that
services all segments of the market.
We've had great experience to date, upgrading over 200,000 existing customers with
about £4 billion of assets. But continuing with our own customer upgrade program, we will
work with advisors to support the upgrades to new, modern digital solutions as part of the
Page 6 of 24



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

FINAL

Cofunds acquisition. Customers can then consolidate more of their savings in one place
rather than being restricted to one product solution or to an outdated investment
proposition. In the past few months, we have announced several strategic transactions
that enable us to accelerate the strategic transformation of our UK operations from a
traditional life insurance and pensions company to a platform business.
We have divested our annuity portfolio, acquired Cofunds and BlackRock's DC business,
and by doing so, we have reduced our exposure to longevity and financial market risk,
while at the same time, adding additional capabilities and significant scale to our platform
business.
You can see on slide 17, the acquisition of Cofunds and the recently announced acquisition
of BlackRock's DC business, enables us to complete our strategic transformation into a
market-leading digital provider. After these acquisitions, we'll be number one in the retail
platform market and number three in the workplace savings market. We are also able to
provide services to orphaned customers.

Bloomberg Transcript

The platform market is growing rapidly, and we expect the size of this market to be over
£1 trillion by 2020, and this will be made up of business from the retail advisory market,
corporates, and non-advisor business. And we're well positioned to benefit from scale
across all of these markets.
Cost synergies are key elements to acquisition announced today. And as you can see on
slide 18, we will be taking out over 25% of the combined digital cost base following the
acquisition. And we're very confident that we can deliver at least £60 million of cost
synergies. Two reasons, first, because we have a scalable platform technology that we
can leverage to re-platform the Cofunds business. Second, Aegon UK has an excellent
track record of delivering on expense savings. The third benefit of re-platforming the
Cofunds business is, of course, that this also brings significant advantage to our
customers, and their advisors, a benefit include less paperwork, a broader investment
range, and integration of pensions on the platform.
By combining the strong heritage of the Aegon UK business and pensions, with the
market-leading capability for ISAs and general investment accounts brought by Cofunds,
we will be able to offer a full proposition to each of our chosen markets. Offering a wider
range of products in combination with limited overlap in distribution network is expected
to lead to attractive cross-selling opportunities.
Slide 19 shows just how attractive this transaction is from a capital perspective. The net
capital investment is limited to £50 million, as target expense savings will enable us to
reduce expense levels of Aegon's existing insurance business, and therefore realize a
capital benefit of £150 million. Our capitalized strategy is expected to result in
predictable, growing capital generation going forward. Post-integration of the Cofunds
transaction, we expect our business in the UK to generate £70 million capital per year and
growing as the platform grows. The incremental £50 million of capital generation from the
Cofunds acquisition reflects the expected addition to net underlying earnings.

Page 7 of 24



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

FINAL

Let me now summarize why this acquisition of Cofunds is so attractive to us. But firstly, it
requires only a modest net investment of £50 million to generate an incremental £50
million of capital generation per year. Secondly, the transaction has a payback period of
only three years and it contributes to achieving the group return on equity. And thirdly,
Aegon UK maintains a solid capital position, which will enable it to resume dividend
payments to the group in 2017, in line with our earlier guidance.
So, Darryl and I are now happy to take your questions about this transaction and our
second quarter results. Thank you.

Q&A
Operator
Thank you, sir. We will now take our first question from Ashik Musaddi of JPMorgan. Please
go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah. Hi. Good morning, Darryl. Good morning, Alex. So just couple of question. Can you
give us some thoughts about capital generation and dividend upstreaming? It looks like
the UFR benefit in Netherlands has gone up quite a lot, so what does it do to your guided
€250 million of capital generation in Netherlands? And if rates don't go up, interest rate
don't go up, then would you be comfortable upstreaming dividend from Netherlands in
two years, three years? Or do you think that the gross underlying capital ex-UFR is very
weak, it will drag the capital remittance from Netherlands?
Secondly, as you mentioned in one of the slides that UK will start upstreaming capital next
year, but how should we think about it? Shall we think about like €20 million a year
because Cofunds cost savings will not come in two years', three years' time? So, how
should we think about that?
And third question is, can you give us some thoughts about U.S. capital as well, because in
third quarter, you will be doing this cash flow testing as well as updating your assumption,
so what could be the drag on your U.S. capital? And are you feeling comfortable with your
U.S. capital at the moment? Thank you.

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Okay, Ashik. This is Darryl. I'm going to try and hit those in order. I think basically capital
questions for the big three units.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Page 8 of 24



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

FINAL

Yes, the impact of UFR is larger, now that rates have dropped significantly over the last
two quarters, and you'll see that sensitivity that we provided, it's about double of what it
was back in January, so we're saying it's about 19 point for (24:55) a 50 basis point drop
on the UFR. That does have a flow over impact to cash generation in the Dutch
operations. We are downgrading the €250 million per year, down to €225 million, because
of that additional UFR.
You did ask about dividend expectations in the Netherlands, I think, it was your second
question. There, I would just say, first of all, we're feeling a lot more comfortable about
the capital obviously in the Netherlands at the 154% ratio, where we are, but there is an
important conversation and debate happening on the UFR in the Solvency II curve, and
that's an EIOPA discussion that's happening in the second half of this year. I think you know
the proposal from EIOPA is to drop the UFR by 50 basis points spread over the next three
years. So we obviously want to watch that debate play out and see where that goes. That,
obviously, would have an impact on our Dutch capital ratio.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of dividends, I actually still expect to receive a dividend from the Netherlands this
year, but I would say, albeit something lower than the €250 million that we guided to
earlier. But frankly, that's a decision that we're going to make in the fourth quarter when
we have the knowledge of the whole UFR discussion.
In the UK, I think there were – we try to show you where we think capital generation gets
to in the UK, and we're going to – when we put all the pieces together, we're going to
come out around that €70 million, and expect to grow from there. But I think the other
thing you need to think about as you think about 2017 is that, as we put all these pieces
together, the actual capital investment from the acquisition is fairly minor, because of the
expense synergies. And then, we still have some release of capital coming from the Part
VII transfers. So, I think when we sort of put all the pieces together and find ourselves in
2017, we'll have some balance sheet strength that can supplement that €70 million from a
dividend perspective. And that's the way I would think about that.
And then, finally, I think in – your last question was on the U.S., on cash flow testing. Yeah,
rates are lower, so we know that that will have an incremental impact on cash flow testing.
I don't think it's going to be the variety that, I would call, material disruption from the cash
flow we expect to receive in dividends from the U.S., we are and continue to ride at the
higher end of our RBC range in the U.S., but I see some modest compression on RBC
ratio from cash flow testing, but not enough to disrupt the dividend flow.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Thanks. Just one follow-up on this Netherlands thing, I mean one of your competitors said,
I think last quarter that based on first quarter interest rate decline, their cash flows or
capital generation went down by €100 million, and given that what we have seen in
second quarter, it would have been a lot more as well. And you're kind of guiding just €25
million drop. So, what are we missing here, any thoughts on that? Just quick one, sorry.

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Page 9 of 24



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

Yeah, I can't comment on our competitor. We're not seeing numbers that big.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay.

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

But I would say we maybe had some prudent estimates in the €250 million to start with,
but we're not seeing that kind of drag. I think the other impact also is – a thing you have to
also keep in mind is that the new business is quite low right now in terms of any capital
intensive DB business in the Dutch business, that's also extremely low, and that has a
beneficial impact on capital as well.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

That's very clear. Thanks, Darryl.

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Yes.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Our next question comes from Albert Ploegh of ING Bank. Please go ahead.

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. Few questions from my end, sorry to come back to the Dutch cash
flow outlook. You mentioned the UFR impact is only an additional €25 million. So, the
management actions taken itself in the first half that will have done basically no structural
negative impact on the cash flow outlook? That's my first question.
The second question is, if I look at the dividend upstream in the first half or in the second
quarter maybe (29:25) around €600 million. I also saw, of course, contribution from Asset
Management in the Central Eastern Europe of about €140 million, how should I see that
number? Is that basically the majority that you expect from these units in the first half or
can we still expect something for the second half ?
And then, a question a bit forward looking, as also previously you alluded in the previous
question on the assumption reviews, you already gave some answers on the cash flow
testing. We saw some U.S. competitors making already some adjustments in the second
quarter and some also material. How do you look at those reviews with certain element of
confidence or can we expect maybe some material more, of course, non-cash items?
What's the material impact in the third quarter from that? Thank you.

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Yeah. Hi, Albert. It's Darryl. I'm going to try and take those. First answer is a short one. We
don't see any impact from the management actions on the Dutch Solvency ratio on the
Page 10 of 24



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

FINAL

€225 million, so really the €250 million is down to €225 million on the UFR, and there's no
impact on the management actions from that.
On the dividends upstreams, we did receive dividends from Asset Management, few
other places. I would also say there was an extraordinary dividend that came up from
Spain as well and that related to the Santander joint venture acquisition that we had on
that distribution relationships. So there was some capital that was trapped in that for a
period of time and that's released itself and so that is in that €140 million. I wouldn't
certainly expect that to reoccur.
And then, on the third question, I think on the Q3, assumption changes, you were
commenting on some of things that have been going on for some of our U.S.
competitors. Couple of things, there are a couple that have moved their long-term
interest rate assumptions. If you look at that, they've moved them now on top of where
ours already are. So, I think there's probably not a lot of pressure for us to look at that
$425 million 10-year U.S. Treasury assumption. We're really kind of middle of the pack on
that assumption. And then in terms of the rest of it is we're just in the middle of our
normal process, where we'll take a look and review all our actuarial and economic
assumptions for the third quarter, and I don't have any real insight one way of another to
share with you today.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

Okay. Maybe two small follow-ups. First of all, on the – looking back at the Capital Markets
Day in January, if I'm not so wrong, I think you guided basically from let's say holding free
cash flow of €1 billion post-holding costs. I know your remark on the Netherlands that you
do still expect some dividends in the second half of the year. So with all the moving parts
in the first half, I certainly need to update that kind of guidance or do you still feel
reasonably comfortable? And then, on the revisions, I also saw one of the competitors
managing some industry reports on I think it was more on a GMIB book, I know it's not a
material book at Aegon, but do you – yeah, what can you comment on that?

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Well, on the first one, on the net operating free cash flow of €1 billion, that really is the €1.3
billion of the operational free cash flow that we have across the units minus €300 million
of Holding, and that's your net $1 billion. And that still pretty close to being a good number
right now. The only real downgrade we've had is the €250 million in the Netherlands down
to €225 million, and then a modest downgrade in the UK, if you will, on the €70 million
instead of the €100 million. But if you factored that into it, I think you're pretty close,
maybe a little bit downward pressure on that, but not far off.
And then, on your last comment on the GMIB, maybe I didn't quite the question, but the
GMIB is still is a material book for us in terms of the – we haven't been selling it since
2002, but that is still the book that's the source of the $60 million loss through fair value
items below the line that we take every quarter.

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}
Page 11 of 24



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

Okay. Maybe we can take it offline, I thought there were some industry reports on
behavioral assumptions that took one of your peers to take some charges, but...

FINAL

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Oh, well, there was a large GMIB writer in the U.S. that took some large assumption
changes this quarter. You can go back and have a closer look at that, and I'm happy to
have an offline conversation with you on that, if you want.

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

Okay. No worries. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. William Hawkins of KBW. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hello. Thank you very much. Can you just be clearer now about what incrementally is
under review in the U.S.? I'm assuming long-term care falls into that, but if you could just
be a bit clearer. And then, specifically, on long-term care, can you just remind me of the
size of the reserves you're currently carrying, roughly what are the rates increases that
you're asking for in these 20 states? And do you have any issue there about what you
think you're going to be able to achieve versus what you actually want to achieve on that,
because clearly it's a highly regulated line?
And then secondly, in the variable annuity book, if I'm not correct, you're now no longer
sticking with that 70 basis point margin that you guided to just in January. So you've
already alluded to a couple of things, but can you just be clearer about what's gone
wrong in the past few months, and what we should be thinking that 70 basis points should
be in the future? I'll leave it at that for now. Thank you.

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

So, let me give you an answer. So, what we're seeing on our U.S., business is that – by the
way, as part of an ongoing review, we are accelerating (35:21) review on all our products
and business lines, we think we need to rationalize our product offerings, particularly in
our life area. We have too wide range of products, which are all slightly different from one
another, because they're sold to different distributors. And there is clearly an opportunity
as we rationalize the product line to look, by the way, at what products we want to
continue, what products we want to redesign or exit, all in line with our state objective of
having products that are both attractive to our customers and attractive to us. So you
need to look really at – more at the life part of the business.
Let me remind you, long-term care is a business we haven't been selling for over 10
years, so it's more of a run-off business that we talk about, although we have introduced a
new type of long-term care product, which is a very different product, because it's not at
all with open benefits, the new product line long-term care has very defined benefits and

Page 12 of 24



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

it's not at all subject to all the discussion we're having about rate increases. So we need to
make sure that there are two parts to that, that you're well aware of it.
In terms of rate increases, yes, we are filing and have filed and pursuing that quite actively
with over 20 states. The 20 states represent 70% of our business long-term care. And at
this point in time, what I would like to say is that, we are feeling better about the progress
we're making. I don't want to be explicit on which states we have had what approvals, but
I cannot share you that we have made good progress in having approvals.
I also believe that the environment is changing, in particular with the recent bankruptcy,
which was announced by Penn Treaty, which makes clearly the point to regulators also,
because the judges have been very clear about that, that one of the reason a company
would bankrupt is that regulators did not afford and did not allow rate increases that
should have taken place. So you probably hear we're speaking now clearly more positively
about the outcome of the rate increases, which we're able to get through long-term care,
than you've heard us speaking for some time.
In terms of the variable annuity, I will give you a general comment, and if you have further
questions, certainly, Darryl can chip in, but I would say, here we seeing a number of things.
First of all, we're seeing that margins are declining. Margins are declining because of low
interest rates, means that we're earning less margin than we did in the past. We also
seeing that, with our efforts, as you remember, on our efforts to reduce the GMIB book
with our ALSO program, we're also seeing a margin compression, because that business
has higher margins than the margin we have right now. And finally, we see that new
business is effectively replacing older business at lower margins, all as a result of lower
interest rates.
So, in terms of guidance, it is clear that, in today's environment, it is difficult to hold on on
the 70 basis points, which we've guided you. But we also operating now in a significantly
different environment with interest rates much lower with a big uncertainty about sales
outlook, because of the Department of Labor, and a combination of that has led to a
margin compression of where we're.
What we're doing is taking steps here. We can be very explicit. We had actually
restructured significantly our wholesale organization, and that means we have limited the
number of wholesalers plus the people around that support them. We've given them
bigger territories, so that we can hold on the best wholesalers, while having a less large
number of wholesalers that are selling. So, we here also adjusting our business and
structure to the environment, which, because of the rates as they are today, combined
with the uncertainty around DOL, is clearly making more difficult to hold on on the larger
margins.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Thank you. I'll probably come back offline, but on the variable annuity comment, I can see
very clearly that the world has changed since January, and therefore there are incremental
headwinds, but to the extent of the 70 basis point margin was effectively an in-force

Page 13 of 24



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

figure, I'm surprised that that would lead to such an apparently material and quick change
in the in-force figure. I'll back offline on that, but I'm just a little bit surprised.

FINAL

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Yeah. Well, come back offline, but please keep in mind, what I just said it's about run-off
part of the business in the high margins related to our efforts to release capital for GMIB
and it's also effectively what we see, net deposits are lower than they were, because our
gross deposits are lower, that means we have more new business at lower margins.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, guys.

Operator
And our next question comes from Nadine van der Meulen of Morgan Stanley. Please go
ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Nadine van der Meulen

{BIO 15200446 <GO>}

Good morning. With regard to the U.S. RBC ratio, the drop in the RBC ratio, can you
maybe elaborate a little bit more on the drivers behind that apart from the equity market
perhaps, because I was under the impression that lower rates, given the sensitivities that
you've given before, would actually be a positive impact on that ratio? And maybe in light
of U.S. capital, would you mind giving us an indication of where the surplus of the AA S&P
requirement is in the U.S., because a year ago you mentioned that that was $1 billion. You
said that this was quite volatile, it dropped to, I think, around $600 million (40:50) when
we talked about it at the Investor Day. And last quarter, no update was given. So I was
wondering if you could give some details around that. Thank you very much.

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Yeah. Hi, Nadine. It's Darryl. First of all, on your first question, RBC ratio dropped primarily
from the dividend that was paid from the U.S. and so we upstreamed about $500 million
of dividend to the Holding, and that's primarily the biggest drop. I would point out that
actually our sensitivity has now changed in the U.S., rates are now at the point – we used
to talk about with rates would go down, we have a short-term boost to the RBC ratio and
vice versa.
We're now down to the point where rates are so low that rates dropping, and dropping
from here or even where they are now, lower rates does not boost the ratio, because of
the cash flow testing concerns that we have. So there is no benefit in the quarter from
dropping interest rates. I think we actually, we took a small provision for cash flow testing
that will be only – it's an annual calculation, so that will only be firmed up at the end of the
year, but the biggest drop is the dividends.
On your second question, actually we're not disclosing any longer than the excess over
S&P AA. We moved over to only talking about the RBC ratios, and that really primarily – I

Page 14 of 24



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

think, as you know, we manage multiple different capital metrics in the U.S. But the RBC
ratio has the flow through into the group ratio and the Solvency II. They are correlated
obviously, so we're going to continue to discuss RBC ratio and that's also very consistent
with what our U.S. peers do as well. So, it's right, I'm not going to give you that number.

FINAL

Q - Nadine van der Meulen

{BIO 15200446 <GO>}

All right. Thank you.

Operator
And our next question comes from Mark Cathcart of Jefferies. Please go ahead.

Q - Mark David Cathcart

{BIO 19783252 <GO>}

Yeah. Hi, Darryl. I've got a couple of questions. First one is, just wonder if you could talk
about your assumption of €70 million cash from the UK. Have you assumed further margin
pressure in the platform industry as a whole, given the current headwinds in the UK? So, I
wondered if you could talk about your assumptions on how you expect margins to
progress within the UK platform market generally, because they seem to be quite
negative at the moment.

Bloomberg Transcript

Second, in relation to your interest rate sensitivity in the Dutch market, you had negligible
interest rate sensitivity at the beginning of the year. This has exploded to, I think, largest in
the entire sector. Was that mainly because you took off the hedge at the end of January?
Third question is, you talked about no comment in relation to the modeling review Q3, I
think you said that on the call just earlier. But previously, you've always voiced confidence
that you wouldn't have any more monthly mishaps. I wondered, if you could comment on
that. And as an aside, can you confirm that the cash at the Holding is actually all funded by
debt elsewhere within the group? Thank you.

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Okay, Mark, sorry, I was still jotting down the last. I think I missed the last question, I'll
come back to you on that. In order, the €70 million, yes, our guidance on where we're
coming out, we think in cash generation from the UK, that does reflect our view of
continued margin compression in the UK. So that is – we have made some estimates
around that. We do see that pressure and we've built that into that estimate.
On the Dutch interest rate sensitivity, it is markedly higher than what we had before. I think
it's a combination of – yes, largely, we did change some of our hedging programs, we had
– when we were hedging on our full IFRS basis, we had quite a bit of over hedging in
place, particularly as it relates to the own funds in Solvency II. There is a – without going
too long here and too much dilemma (44:58), there is an issue on – a philosophical issue
on whether or not you hedged the denominator in Solvency II. You can create or destroy
economic value by protecting things that move around like for instance longevity and
credit risk, have an interest rate element to it.

Page 15 of 24



FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

If you hedge that, you will gain or lose on those hedges, and while those underlying
longevity in credit unwind, that interest rate hedge won't unwind. So that is a philosophical
issue we continue to struggle with in terms of do we project capital or do we project the
economic value of the organization. We did move the hedges towards Solvency II in first
quarter. We backed away from that position somewhat in the second quarter as we –
when we did that pre-Brexit. So, we're somewhere positioned in between the two, right
now. What that means is we have losses on IFRS, if rates fall, which is exactly what we
have in our fair value items this quarter. And we have own funds or economic gains in
Solvency II, which we also have this quarter.
This interest sensitivity really comes from the denominator impact in the SCR. That,
combined with the fact that rates have now dropped to a new structural low level, has
also made us more exposed as well. So, it's a combination of all of those things, also the –
just a more granular approach that we've had to the modeling as well. So, I would say it's
all of those factors, and that's all built into the sensitivity that we're sharing with you today.
Your third question was on, Q3 foresight. Yeah, so...

Q - Mark David Cathcart

{BIO 19783252 <GO>}

Yeah. You've expressed confidence, I just wondered how confidence you guys now, given
what U.S. peers have been saying.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Yeah. And I think you are specifically asking modeling versus assumption changes, and I
think it is important to separate those. So, I continue to believe that we have the modeling
issues behind us, and I don't really see any further impact from models. In terms of
assumption changes, yeah, it's what I said before, it's still early in the process, and we're
working through those, and I'm really not in a position to give any foresight into where I
see the assumption changes going, (47:12)

Q - Mark David Cathcart

{BIO 19783252 <GO>}

Yeah, and in relation to the UK, I still struggle with that, because you were suggesting that
Retiready was going to break even, and then break even again and then break even. How
aggressive have you been in terms of those platform assumptions, because I think in
reality, platform is regarded as a loss leader in the UK life industry, not a key business?

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Mark, maybe I'd like to add something to this whole debate. As you probably would very
well know, this is a very changing environment. And so, we have embarked on a – and I'd
like to give you a broader answer, because I think there would be of interest to also the
broader look. The reality is that we are moving and have moved quite aggressively from a
traditional model of life insurance and pensions towards a platform model. It's a very
significant change.

Page 16 of 24



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

And then, in the meantime, what we're seeing is that as you could expect that in the
margins, the platform business have been declining. On the other hand, it's not uniform,
because parts of our books in our platform have been upgraded from our old books. So,
all the customers that have been upgraded effectively, we have seen pretty limited
margin compressions, because we're able to upgrade customer's from the old book on
to the platform, while we're providing them a better service capability that allowed us to
justify to hold on the margins, and we have seen limited margin erosion.
Where we see most of the lower margins, of course, is when you look at the business
with advisors and it brings us exactly to the point that is all about scale, and this is scale
game. And therefore, this acquisition of Cofunds, and I would like to bring Cofunds in
here, brings us 750,000 new customers, brings us £77 billion of assets, as you can
imagine, and you can calculate very easily, at a pretty low margin. This is a much more
effective way for us to attract new customers in an environment, where it's all about scale.
This whole game is scale. And what we're trying to do here is use and leverage the
platform we have in the UK, which is a recognized state of the art platform, recognized by
employers (49:26) on the pension side, by advisors, and also by the parts of the business
that I would say is non-advised, do it themselves or orphaned customers.
And what we're trying to do is put – use debt (49:37) to drive scale and therefore also to
maintain our margins in this business. Having said this, the biggest part of the margins we
believe forward are not only about recording keeping, because you're right, record
keeping fees are going down. We see that very clearly in the U.S., for example, where in
some parts of the business, it's very marginal. It's all about providing a service, providing
investment solutions and I've mentioned it in my introduction and also starting to be more
active on the guidance area. And that is where we'll be able to earn better margins than
what you would be earning, if you would be only in a kind of administrative record keeping
kind of platform. So it is a combination of quite a number of factors, where you have
declining margins as well as you're rightfully point on the record keeping part, which you
offset by scale and by providing additional services.

Q - Mark David Cathcart

{BIO 19783252 <GO>}

Did you at any stage consider letting someone else become market leader in platform,
i.e. exiting the UK entirely? Or is it always your intention to maintain a position in the UK?

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

We have a very successful platform, which was built with modern technology, which is very
scalable. As you know, we have the BlackRock's DC business, which was moved to our
business. Effectively, BlackRock entrusting their customers to our platform. I think it's a
clear sign of recognition of the platform. And we think that if we have such a capability and
we are able to take advantage of what I think is unique opportunity to in one-go get
significant amount of assets on your platform, this is certainly something which is very
interesting and being the market leader in this market is very important, because as I said
to you, it's all about scale.

Q - Mark David Cathcart

{BIO 19783252 <GO>}

Page 17 of 24



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

FINAL

And in relation to Dutch dividends, Darryl said wait and see in relation to the decision on
the UFR. If the UFR is minus 20 bps, minus 10 bps over the next three years, in that
situation, could you let us know or tell us whether you believe, in that situation, you will be
able to upstream dividends or is it just a general question mark over Dutch dividend
paying capability? It seems too ambiguous how you express that?

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

What I mean – Mark, let me try to be more clear on that. So, first of all, as it relates to the
issue of Dutch dividend, in general, we're obviously feeling much better about the capital
ratios of where we stand today. I did try to highlight that if you drop 50 basis points on the
UFR curve, granted that would be spread over a three-year period, but that's 19 points off
of our ratios. So that moves us from sort of high-end to low-end, although you could
obviously spread that out over the next three years.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think you also have to consider that the ratio – just the journey we've been on, so the
ratio has moved around quite a bit lately between the first quarter and the second
quarter. So we do want to see that stabilize. That's not market volatility, as I mentioned
before, it was really just our more thorough application of the models and getting into the
granular data, we still had some growing pains in getting through that. So, we need to see
some stability to that ratio. We need to see where this UFR debate comes out, because it
is material on the ratio. But if you factored all of those, those are all of the things that will
go into our management decisions in terms of when and how much to upstream
dividends out of the Dutch organization. That being said, I'm fairly comfortable repeating
what I said before, I do expect to take a dividend out this year, albeit somewhat lower
than the €250 million that we mentioned earlier.

Q - Mark David Cathcart

{BIO 19783252 <GO>}

But some say you do expect to go back to a €225 million dividend paying capability?

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Yeah, very much so. I think that's the cash generation that I see coming out of the
business. So, we have to kind of sort out where the ratio is coming out, where our
sensitivities are, where we're comfortable in that. But yes, €225 million is what I would peg
as the cash generating and ultimately the dividend capacity out of the Dutch organization.

Q - Mark David Cathcart

{BIO 19783252 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks, Darryl. That was excellent. Thank you.

Operator
Our next question comes from Nick Holmes of Société Générale. Please go ahead.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Hi, there. Thank you very much. Three questions. Firstly is, just coming back on the
mortality and long-term care losses in the U.S. that have appeared in Q2, I just wondered
Page 18 of 24



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

FINAL

if you could give us a little bit more color on those. And do you expect the rate increases
you're filing to basically fix that problem?
Then, secondly, just very quickly, just wondered what's your thoughts on the DOL reforms
are at the moment. What is your latest thinking there? And then, third and finally, perhaps
more of a difficult question. I wondered if you could comment on your thinking about the
variable annuity policyholder behavior assumptions that you have at the moment. Clearly,
MetLife has thrown this issue into the open, as an industry issue. And I just wondered,
Darryl, whether you could give us some kind of thoughts going into Q3 as to whether you
feel comfortable with your assumptions. Thank you.

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, Nick. I'm going to take the first and the third, if that's okay. Mortality and long-term
care; the mortality, I would really put that in the line of just normal fluctuation, that's really
not a very big number. We've seen – we've changed our mortality assumptions, as you
know, earlier, and we've seen fluctuation around the mortality in line with this pluses and
minuses. So, keep in mind, we are and have retained more life mortality risk in the U.S., as
we're carrying less reinsurance than we used to a few years ago. So, I would just very
much put that in line with normal fluctuation, and we've seen pluses and minuses around
our assumption.
So, on the long-term care, where we've had a couple of quarters now with poor
performance. We are seeing termination rates in terms of people coming off claim is the
cause for the higher claims, it's deteriorated. And specifically to your question, yes, rate
increases helps that issue, and as we continue to make progress on the rate increases,
that provides a significant offset to that.
On the third question, it was on variable annuity policyholder behavior, you specifically
referenced Met. We did update our policyholder behavior assumptions on the variable
annuity last year actually and we feel pretty good about our assumption. So, we've done a
lot of what Met has done already with one exception, they flipped the old GMIB product
over to fair value accounting. And that probably is a big source of the hit that they took.
We do not have our old GMIB product on fair value accounting. We still have it on the SOP
03-1 accounting, which does create that mismatch between the hedges and the
accounting and that is the source of the $60 million drag in fair value items every quarter
that we flag. So, that's probably the one main difference that we have, but I think a lot of
the assumption changes we've already made those, taking those and feel good about
what we have, so...

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Thank you for that. That's very, very assuring. Just quickly on that last point, would you
keep the SOP 03-1 basis going forward? You won't do what Met did?

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Yeah, I can't comment on that. I have no plans in the near-term to change that. I guess I
could say that, and I'm not going to commit to anything in the longer term.
Page 19 of 24



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

FINAL

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

So, let me the DOL question very briefly, because effectively, there is not very much more
to report right now than a quarter ago. What we see here is that, in most cases, our
consumers are not really aware of the changes. What we seeing is distributors, they have
been very busy looking what the impacts of the rule are, and also trying to assess to what
extent they will use exemption as you know, that's going to be part of the whole debate,
who is going to use what exemptions under these rules. So we are engaging and starting
to engage and communicate with our distributors to know where they are.
But what I would like to say here is that, we're making ourselves ready. We have already
products that are suitable under the new DOL environment, and we'll continue to make
those products ready, and hopefully, by the end of Q4, we should be in pretty good
position.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

And just very quickly following up, Alex, your thoughts on the impact on sales going
forward? Any...

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Again, difficult to say, because I think, in this environment of very low interest rates,
obviously, the product has become less attractive, because of the increased pricing on
the guarantees. It's difficult to say where we've seen the overall market effectively coming
down.
Another question is to what extent is that reflected already in the market as it is today.
Well, we probably expect a further decline in sales overall in the market. That's not
necessarily meaning that for us we will see the same impact, because, as you know, it's
also related to what part of the market (59:09) is qualified and what part is not qualified.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Right. Thank you very much.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Bart Horsten of Kempen. Please go ahead.

Q - Bart Horsten

{BIO 2390919 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. I have a few follow-up questions on some of the topics already
addressed. First of all, on the interest rate sensitivity in the U.S., obviously the decline –
further decline in interest rates has negative impacts, but an increase in the interest rates,
obviously, according to the sensitivity table, has no impact or at least no impact on your
Page 20 of 24



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

FINAL

Solvency ratio. So, I was wondering, whether you could explain that mismatch between a
downward and an upward change in interest rates. And what would be a potential impact,
if the Fed would decide to increase the short-term interest rates? Would that have any
impact on your profitability or on your Solvency?
My second question also relates to the restructuring plan, the five part plan of the U.S.
Could you give a bit more financial detail, because as far as I can tell, you have not
changed your cost savings targets? So could you give some more financial color on these
plans? And my final question is a small one on the net deposit growth in U.S., it was in the
second quarter close to zero, where you had a gross inflow of $10 billion. I think you briefly
addressed on Mercer impact. Could you highlight what the impact going forward will be
and what you expect on that? Thank you.

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

All right. Let me jump in on the first one, Bart, on the U.S. interest sensitivity, so, what you
have to understand is there is a sort of two competing dynamics on the U.S. interest rates
sensitivity. The old dynamic is still there, where if rates fall, we have gains on low rate
hedges that come into cash, and come into our statutory earnings in the U.S. and that
creates a positive. And if rates go up, then we have a loss on those same hedges and
that reduces our U.S. statutory earnings. So that sits there in the background unchanged.
The new dynamic is that, if rates fall, we are in a position where we're starting to post
additional cash flow testing reserves just because of the nature of that overwriting cash
flow testing mechanism. So when you factor those two things – and they are asymmetric,
and when you factor those things and add them together, you sort of get this asymmetric
net result that you're seeing in front of you.

Q - Bart Horsten

{BIO 2390919 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

I think on the – did you want, Alex, on the financials for the...

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Yeah, for the five part plan, I'd like to remind you, Bart, we have given ourselves and we
shared that with the markets in January, on the U.S. a $40 million target of expense
savings for the U.S., we have already achieved $60 million. So, we're well ahead. And what
I will not do at this stage is give you more explicit numbers, but what it is all about is,
accelerating the pace of our cost reductions. I've mentioned specifically number of items,
and in our December IR Conference in New York, we will provide you with more financial
numbers.

Q - Bart Horsten

{BIO 2390919 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}
Page 21 of 24



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

But I can assure you we have a plan behind it, but it's now too early to share this with the
market, because with these things, you've got to do that sharing it first internally, discuss
this with the people and at the locations that are involved before doing that externally.

Q - Bart Horsten

{BIO 2390919 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay.

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

And on Mercer, yeah, the story is a simple one. When you take over a block of business
from a provider with around $80 billion of assets, it is – and expected – and by the way
also priced in as that we would see some lumpiness in these deposits. Often, as you
know, with these plans, they get reviewed in number of times, let's say every five years,
and when there is an event, for example, Mercer being acquired by Aegon is an event,
that sometimes triggers pension reviews. And then, you see, it's very normal to see that
you are effectively losing number of these contracts. In many cases, these customers
were already prepared to make a change, and then the takeover is a trigger event. We
do expect indeed this continues for the Mercer block, that is anticipated for me to
continue a bit until the end of this year.

Q - Bart Horsten

{BIO 2390919 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thank you. And maybe just on the Fed rate rise, would that impact your business
immediately or is that a lagging effect?

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Oh, yeah, on the Fed – sorry, I forgot that part of your question.

Q - Bart Horsten

{BIO 2390919 <GO>}

No problem.

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Yeah. Actually, the short rates really don't do much for our business anywhere. And so, in
terms of impact on our earnings or on cash generation out of the U.S., it's really the longer
term rates that matter. So you have to then just cross over. Does the Fed increasing rates
in the short-term is that something driven by whatever bullish nature that's driving that
and does the market already picked that up and what happens to longer term rates is
what really matters to us.

Q - Bart Horsten

{BIO 2390919 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
And our final question comes from Steven Haywood of HSBC. Please go ahead.

Page 22 of 24



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

Q - Steven A. Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

FINAL

Good morning, guys. You've previously said about reviewing and, sort of, disposing your
run-off businesses that require interest rates to go up before you achieve any kind of
attractive prices. Has this changed? Are prices going to be unattractive now and continue
to go unattractive? And will you be able to sell these businesses or review this business,
should I say, at the unattractive prices?
And then, my second question is on your Holding cash capital buffer. I just wanted to then
work through one of the equations, one of the calculations that you've done. There is a
€200 million share buyback in Q2, and then you've paid €0.13 per share dividend to
around 2 billion shares. Now, that's around €300 million in cost, so I'm just trying to work
out why you've only accounted for about €400 million negative in your Holding company
cash capital buffer for the dividend and the share buyback in the second quarter. Thank
you.

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me take the first question, yes, we did say that for run-off businesses, which is we
would like to dispose, because they are not adding much to our earnings, while there is a
big amount of capital, which is sitting (01:05:46) there that we would be looking at rates
of 2% to 2.5% on the U.S. Treasury. Now, we are looking again at the different options we
have and we believe that effectively we could be able to do a transaction that would be
attractive from us from an IFRS and a capital position at lower levels.
I would like to remind you also here that there is a counterparty risk we have to take into
account because we are not setting a legal entity. We are effectively reinsuring to another
entity and therefore it's a combination of pricing, market conditions and the counterparty
risk, it's more complex than purely a pricing. And just on the Holding expenses, what you
need to take into account is that the script has been bought back after the end of the
second quarter. And as you take that into account, your equation should work level.

Q - Steven A. Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Okay. So there is an additional bit to come out in the third quarter?

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Yeah. Correct.

Q - Steven A. Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Excellent. Thank you very much.

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Right. I'd like to thank you all for participating on second quarter call, and I wish you a great
day. Thank you. Bye-bye.

Operator
Page 23 of 24



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-08-11

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Thank you. That will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation,
ladies and gentlemen. You may now disconnect.

Page 24 of 24

