Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

Analyst & Investor Conference

FINAL

Company Participants
Alexander Rijn Wynaendts , Chief Executive Officer, Chairman-Executive &
Management Board
Darryl D. Button, CFO & Member of the Executive and Management Boards
Willem van den Berg, Head-Investor Relations

Other Participants
Andy Hughes , Analyst
Farooq Hanif , Analyst
Farquhar C. Murray, Analyst
Jan Willem Knoll, Analyst
Matthias de Wit, Analyst
Nick Holmes , Analyst
William Hawkins , Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Willem van den Berg

{BIO 15203834 <GO>}

All right. Good morning, everyone. On behalf of the entire Aegon team, I would like to
welcome you to Aegon's Analyst Investor Conference. We will start with two
presentations, first, our CEO, Alex Wynaendts, who will provide you with an update of our
strategy and the steps we will make to achieve our ambitions. And then our, CFO, Darryl
Button will provide you with an update around capital, cash and returns. They will do a
Q&A session after their presentations and we will provide you with breakout sessions,
where you can meet the other management as well and discuss the business prospects.
With this, I would like to hand it over to Alex.

Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Thank you, Willem, and good morning to everyone here and thank you for taking the time
to join us here in London. It's always good to see so many familiar faces, even some faces
from far away. Also I'd like to thank all the others that are listening, following us online,
investors, analysts and media. The Aegon management team is really looking forward to
taking you through our strategic priorities for the coming years, but also how we are
positioning the company to take advantage of the many opportunities that we see ahead
of us we have identified.

Page 1 of 25



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

FINAL

We will briefly look back of what we've achieved in executing on our strategy since 2011,
before providing you an overview of where we will be taking the company going forward
and the actions we will implement to deliver on our financial targets. As Willem said, after
my presentation, Darryl Button, our CFO will expand on the financials and he will provide
more details on our capital position in a new environment of Solvency II, our cash flows
and the planned capital return to our shareholders.
I would like to start today by saying that Aegon is a very different company today than it
was only five years ago. At that time, spread businesses represented two-thirds of our
earnings. And today, it is fee and technical that make up of two-thirds of our earnings. The
transformation does not however stop here. We have not only transform the profile of the
company, we've also transformed a culture and the way we do business by developing
new ways to connect with our millions of customers across the globe. And we are very
clear about our purpose.

Bloomberg Transcript

We, as a company, exist to help people achieve a lifetime of financial security. This is our
priority, to be there for the 30 million plus customers who have placed their trust in
Aegon. And to be there for the growing number of people that need our products and
services. And just as we are committed to our customer, we remain committed to
creating value for our shareholders by improving returns. As such, we continue to target a
return on equity of 10%.
In terms of capital position, I am pleased to say that our strong Solvency II position of
160% enables us to increase the amount of capital we will return to our shareholders.
Indeed starting today, we will fulfill our commitment to execute on the €400-million share
buyback and we will increase the final 2015 dividend to €0.13 per share.
So saying that we have transformed the company is of course one thing, but
demonstrating it is another. So let me begin by running you through some of the key
achievements in recent years.
Transforming the profile of the company is primarily the result of taking three important
steps. First by addressing legacy issues to preserve shareholder value. And here, you can
see we divested €3.4 billion in non-core activities at over 80% of book value on average.
And let me remind you, we divested Transamerica Re, our reinsurance, our Canadian
operations, quite a number of our Spanish joint ventures, our stake in France and La
Mondiale, and the number of other disposals we've done over time.
And second step is optimizing the value of our back books. And here we have significantly
reduced expenses in established markets and reduced capital allocated to our runoff and
legacy annuity businesses in the U.S. And the third step is growing our fee business in a
profitable way to create long-term value for our shareholders.
Over the last five years, we have been successfully growing our business with an average
12% annual growth in sales, evidence of how we are succeeding and gaining the trusts of
millions of new customers. It is our focus on a global fee-based business, including our

Page 2 of 25



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

FINAL

variable annuity, our pension administration and asset management businesses, as well as
on our protection businesses that has been the main drivers behind the 12% sales growth.
Our success in dealing with the past and optimizing the value of our back book and in
growing sales has been mirrored when looking at Aegon's capital position. We have
indeed successfully maintained a robust balance sheet. Our ratings are strong and our
group Solvency II ratio of 160% is in the upper end of our target range. So we're in a
strong position to return capital to our shareholders.
Over the past five years, we've been able to double our free cash-flows by growing our
business profitably and by deleveraging our balance sheet. This doubling of free cashflows after holding expenses has been the basis for growing dividends to our
shareholders, and I know this will be of special interest to many of you here today and
Darryl will address the capital position and capital deployment plans in greater details in
his presentation and Q&A.

Bloomberg Transcript

The actions we have taken enable us to achieve our 2015 targets of not only doubling our
fee-based earnings, but also growing our operation free cash flows by over 30%. And I'm
disappointed, however, that we haven't been able to meet our targets for earning growth
and return on equity. Not meeting these two targets was mainly due to significant
challenges we face in the regulatory environment in our UK and new markets. Together,
with the continued adverse impact of low interest rates, especially as they relate to policy
behavior in our U.S. life business.
But going forward, we remain determined to achieve a return on equity of 10%, and
today's presentation will be detailing the steps we're taking to ensure that we deliver on
this target. It is a key target for us.
So let me now provide you with an outline of our strategic priorities for the coming years.
I'll be focusing on two things in particular. First, how we are connecting with those who
depend on us and how this approach is also helping us to take advantage of the global
trends that impact our industry and our customers.
Today, we are not only presenting new targets and new plans, we're also reaffirming our
strategic priorities. Our destination has not changed, rather it is the speed at which we
execute that we are accelerating. You're familiar with our four strategic objectives, so let
me take them one-by-one.
First, loyal customers, this speaks for itself. This is the foundation of any successful
business and I will explain in more depth in a few moments how we intent do address
customer needs throughout their lifecycles.
Operational excellence, this means delivering a superior service to customers at
competitive cost levels. Here we're making the necessary investments in technology while
increasing our efficiency through significant cost reductions. The optimized portfolio refers
to investing in those businesses and market segments that are core to us and that offer
the strongest prospects for growth. We will continue to actively manage our back books
Page 3 of 25



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

FINAL

for value. We have, for example started a process, aimed at divesting our UK annuity
book and we'll also continue to lower the capital allocated to relevant businesses in the
U.S.
Empowered employees are essential to us achieving our ambitions, that means
employees who are aligned, committed and empowered to deliver on a strategic
priorities. Today, we'll provide you with a range of examples of actions we are taking to
deliver on these strategic objectives across the group.
Let me now touch briefly on the global trends that are shaping our industry and how our
strategic priorities put us in a very strong position to capitalize on them. From low interest
rates to new entrants and from digitization to traditional providers, you will all be aware of
the main features of the rapidly changing environment in which we operate.
An important point I would like to emphasize however, is that these global trends are not
only increasing the demand for products and services, they are also changing the way we
do business, the way we connect with our customers and the way customers wish to
connect with us. Digital developments have revolutionized the world, accelerating the
trends that shape our environment. The result is that we need to accelerate the execution
of our strategy in order to stay ahead of the curve. And I will detail how we'll do that on
the following slides.

Bloomberg Transcript

But before I do that, I would like to touch briefly on regulation and remind you that we
have recently been designated as a G-SII something that we do not anticipate however to
be a binding constraint for capital requirements.
Where we also seeing more regulatory activity is on consumer protection, which we see
as an opportunity for us, given our focus on better connecting our customers. And this is
true , and each and every one of the market in which we operate. And our experience as
a global company allows us to anticipate and act on customer protection trends in our
different markets.
I very much believe that having a clear and compelling purpose is essentially in order for a
company to succeed. Our purpose to help people achieve a lifetime of financial security
really matters. And when I speak with employees, it is clear that it's something that always
resonates with them, something that gives them meaning to their work, binding them with
their colleagues across the company, and something that all employees can be really
proud of.
I see it as our raison d'être (11:12), our reason for being, and it drives what we do at a
strategic level because in order to full our purpose, we must help customers address their
needs throughout the various stages of their lives. And this is not merely as a product
manufacturer, but more and more as a provider of accessible, understandable and
reliable solutions.
As you're well aware, there's an increasing advice gap emerging. Fewer and fewer
people have to access to advice while their needs are growing as the responsibility for
Page 4 of 25



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

FINAL

providing financial security is increasingly shifting to the individual. And there is a
tremendous opportunity for us. It is here in this advice gap that the opportunity lies for us
to better connect with our customers in order to provide with much needed relevant
information, guidance and advice and the possibility to transact.
Building a lifelong relationship with our customers all starts with providing simple
protection or retirement products, be it individually or through a collective agreement. We
have built a sizable retirement business with assets over €250 billion and 11 million plan
participants in our three key markets. And this is the foundation that will enable us to
benefit from the opportunity of serving our 11 million plan participants as they prepare for
retirement. And I know one thing for sure, they will all retire at a certain point in time.
Today in the U.S. alone, more than 10,000 people retire each and every day, and on top
of that they are living longer than ever before. They also need to take responsibility by
making choices and taking financial decisions that will affect the rest of their retired lives.
So clearly, this large group of people is in need of advice while preparing for retirement.
And as you can understand, this is an important area of growth for us and we have
positioned our pension business in the U.S. and the UK in particular, but also increasingly in
Netherlands to serve a large pool of 11 million plan participants as a source of new retail
business over time.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our recent success in increasing the retention rate in the U.S. from 0% a few years ago to
15% today, it's a very good example of how we're executing on this. And going forward,
we believe we are able to increase the retention rate even further. And on the next slide, I
will explain how these dynamics are shaping, our strategic choices.
So while Aegon will continue to provide attractive protection products, what I would like to
focus on now is how we will optimize our customers' experience whenever they engage
with us and how we will increase our presence in several important parts of the value
chain.
In pension administration, it is essential that we continue to drive scale and expand digital
platforms in order to remain competitive. In asset management, we will expand our
capabilities in offering our customers the right investment solutions with superior
investment performance. And in term of guidance and advice, our objective is to
strengthen our relationship with our customers by improving the way we connect with
them. And by that, I mean, directly with customers or indirectly through our distributors
and by being relevant to them at every stage of their lives by providing meaningful
guidance and advice.
So let me now explain how we're able to better connect with our customers and reduce
expenses by digitizing our businesses across the globe. In simple principle, at the heart of
our strategy is that every customer should be able to decide how he or she wishes to
interact with us, be it digitally, by phone or face to face. And this is an important point. It is
our customers that choose, not us. And in terms of digital, utilizing the very latest
technology, both supports the customer experience and simplifies our business,
therefore, we're stepping up our digital investments in the coming years.

Page 5 of 25



FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

The starting point is different in each of the markets in which we operate. So rather than
one size fits all approach, we have adopted a modular approach through technology
across the company. In some cases, it's more efficient to build a digital layer around
existing infrastructure. In other cases, it's more efficient to start from scratch and develop
entirely new platform. Two particularly good examples of this latest: our fast growing UK
platform and Knab, our digital bank in the Netherlands. And I'm pleased to share with you
that these two initiatives have together attracted 300,000 customers and assets over
€10 billion in total just three years after they were launched.
Technology also plays an increasing role in providing guidance and advice, and we are
implementing new tools such as robo advisors to create superior customer experience.
These new digital tools have simplified compliance management around providing advice
and products. And this is a clear advantage of our practices that have created issues for
our industry in the past.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, as I said earlier, leveraging technology not only enhances service and customer
experience, it also makes it possible to reduce operating expenses. Over the past five
years, our efforts to control and reduce expenses has proven successful. So in the U.S.,
we've kept expense stable while significantly growing our sales by 8% per year.
In the Netherlands, we've reduced the operating expenses of our insurance activities by
20% since 2010. And in the UK, we've reduced expenses by one-third by digitizing the
business and, more importantly, by reducing complexity. And building on the strong track
record, we are today announcing that we will reduce our operating expenses in our
established markets by a further €200 million a year by 2018. This will consist of $150
million in the U.S. and €50 million in the Netherlands. And we will do so by reducing
complexity, by helping customers do more themselves, and by outsourcing a number of
functions that we can do cheaper or better ourselves. Our management teams for the
U.S. and Dutch businesses will provide you more detail on how these cost reductions will
be achieved during the breakout sessions later this morning.
Our third strategic priority is to optimize our portfolio. We are very strict in allocating our
capital to those businesses that create value and growth in order to deliver on our
financial targets. In the past five years, a lot of progress has been made on this front. And
we can today announce a number of additional steps such as the possible divestment of
several of our non-core businesses. And at the same time, we're focused on increasing
the efficiency of our back books, separating the legacy pension business and a new
platform in the UK is a major step in achieving this. Because it enables one dedicated
management team to focus on optimizing the value of the legacy book and another to
work on the growth of our platform.
And building on a strong track record, we want to further grow our Asset Management
business and we want to achieve scale in our emerging market businesses. As of 2016,
we will adjust – so for this year, we will adjust our financial reporting to reflect both the
growing importance of Asset Management and increase the visibility on the development
of our business in Asia. Going forward, our reporting segments will therefore be
Americas, Europe, Asia, and Asset Management and Darryl will expand on this and
provide you with full details in his presentation.
Page 6 of 25



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

FINAL

The optimization of our portfolio, together with the cost savings program and the wide
range of other actions we are taking will enable us to increase our returns, which has been
and will remain a key priority for us. Our objective is to increase our return on equity to
10% by 2018, and this will be achieved by growing our business profitably, by reducing our
expenses by €200 million a year, by paying an attractive dividend, and by executing on
our €400 million share buyback to be launched today.
And going forward, the payout ratio of our dividend will be 50% of free cash flows after
holding expenses. This represents at least €1.7 billion in dividends over the next three
years. And today, we're also pleased to announce that a final dividend for 2015 will be
increased by €0.13, increasing our full year 2015 dividend by 9%.
So, let me complete the overview of our strategic priorities by spending a few moments
on our fourth strategic objective: empowered employees, which is an essential element
to our success. And here I would like to touch briefly on the cultural transformation
program we're implementing throughout the company, which is, as you can see, based on
four pillars: ownership, agility, customer centricity, and responsible business.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, maximizing Aegon's resource and expertise requires a leadership team that is aligned
to common objectives, that shares our values and that is accountable. We expect our
leadership to be focused on the culture of innovation in order to be able to adapt quickly
to changing environment. Also, as part of our strategy, we have rearticulated our
approach to sustainability or responsible business as we now refer to it.
We have reconfirmed our belief that a company should have a positive impact on all
stakeholders. And when I say all stakeholders I mean customers, employees,
shareholders, but I also mean society too. And we believe that the effect on society we
have is important, but also the effect society on us is important in what we do and how we
do it. So we will, for instance, be sharpening our focus on our approach to responsible
investments.
As a long-term investor, we'll pay particular attention to the risk represented by climate
change and the investment opportunities in the transition to low carbon economy.
Embedding sustainability considerations in all our business actions is also an important
part of our cultural transformation. Customers demand it and it is becoming increasingly
important in attracting and retaining the best and most talented employees, especially
from other sectors.
In terms of our leaders at the company, we have recently announced two particularly
noteworthy appointments. So, first, our new Chief Risk Officer, Allegra van Hövell-Patrizi,
who's here today with us, and I very much encourage you to meet with her during the
breakout. And second, our new Chief Technology Officer, Mark Bloom. He will start at the
end of this month and brings a wealth of experience and will be leading the IT function in
delivering innovative business solutions throughout the organization.
So, going forward, our Chief Technology Officer, our Global Head of HR, and our General
Counsel will be members of our management board. So, I think these global functions to
Page 7 of 25



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

FINAL

a management board underscores the importance we attach to being a digital leader and
to the central role that our employees play in transforming our business. And in addition,
we'd not like to forget that the CEO of our Asset Management business, Sarah Russell,
will also become a member of the management board, given the growing importance of
Asset Management to our business.
The strategic priorities I mentioned earlier are being implemented in all business units,
ensuring a full alignment of our strategy. And as next part of my presentation, I would like
to provide you with a brief overview of the actions we are taking in our different country
units and how this is translating into deliverables for the group.
So, let me start with our largest market, the U.S. In recent years, we've made significant
progress in reducing the complexity of our U.S. business while significantly growing our
fee business. And today, we're announcing the next step in our journey as we want to be
one Transamerica in the eyes of all of our customers. And by that, I mean, one point of
contact, one overview, one customer experience. And in order to achieve this, rather than
restructured by products we offer as we were, we're now organizing our U.S. operations
by function. By 2018, this further reduction in complexity of our organization will allow us to
reduce our annual cost base by $150 million per year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Another key point in U.S. is to reduce the capital allocates to our run-off business by
further $1 billion. A combination of increased revenues, expense reductions, operation
efficiencies, and strong in-force management will lead to an increase in return on capital
to 9% by 2018.
We further expect a stable cash flow generation of $1 billion per year, as the growth of our
fee-based businesses is offsetting lower cash flows in spread businesses and lower
technical profits following the assumption and model updates previous year. And during
the breakout session, both Mark Mullin and Gábor Kepecs you all know, will provide you
with a detailed plan of the actions we're taking there.
So, in the Netherlands, we have reviewed our business portfolio and operating models
against a backdrop of declining earnings from the traditional life market and the changing
dynamics in the pension landscape. Our strategic focus is to strengthen our new pension
propositions and to use digital platforms to serve our customers as well as our
intermediaries.
In non-life, which includes property and casualty and income protection, we are
considering our options in relation to our loss-making commercial non-life business. This
will enable us to focus our efforts on the attractive retail and SME segments of the non-life
market. At the same time, we are further improving the efficiency of our business,
resulting in a reduction of our cost base by €50 million by 2018.
The key priority for Marco Keim and Rutger Zomer, the CFO of Aegon in Netherlands,
who is with us today, has been to resume dividend payments to the group. Capital
upstream into the group will be resumed in 2016 based on a solid Solvency II position in
combination with normalized operational free cash flows of €250 million per year.
Page 8 of 25



FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

So, as we have shared with you a number of times in the past years, in 2015, we went
through an extensive review of our UK business. And I can confirm today that we have
started a process at exploring the options around our UK annuity book. Going forward, we
will focus on our successful digital platform that offers us a unique capability in a rapidlychanging environment. In 2016, we expect to upgrade a further 200,000 existing
customers to the platform. And as I mentioned earlier, the remaining legacy business and
the new platform will be operationally separated, as each of the businesses requires a
very different approach.
Our objective here is to optimize the value of the legacy book while driving growth of our
platform. We will accelerate the growth of our platform by consolidating assets of existing
customers and by attracting new customers both in the retail and the workplace space.
So, without taking the possible sale of our annuity book into account, we expect UK to
resume dividend payments to the group in 2017. And Adrian and Clare will provide you
more details on their plans during their breakout sessions.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, let me now turn to Asset Management; it's a business that has grown very successfully
in recent years and has now become a meaningful contributor to overall earnings. And our
focus in Asset Management going forward will be on providing investment solutions to
our customers, leveraging our capabilities for further growth in our third party business,
and expanding distribution such as our recent partnership with La Banque Postale in
France.
Since 2010, third-party earnings have tripled and they now represent more than two-thirds
of our Asset Management earnings. We expect the strong growth momentum to
continue, and we aim to grow Asset Management earnings by 20% by 2018 from a high
2015 base. These earnings enable Asset Management to meet at least €100 million per
year to the group. And Sarah Russell and Sander Maatman, the CFO of Asset
Management, will be there in the breakout session to provide you with more details.
So, let's move now to other markets, where our key objective is to achieve sufficient
scale. We have already achieve this in some, but not in all of our markets. So, let me take
you through the main markets one by one briefly. Central Eastern Europe is a good
example of a business unit with sufficient scale. We will move towards a more centralized
operating model to further improve efficiency, but also to leverage our capabilities in the
various markets.
And given the continued uncertainty and unrest in Ukraine, we are reviewing the options
for our local business. We are also examining the possibility of the sale of our Hungarian
mortgage business, which was been a run-off for several years. And at the same time, we
intend to expand our non-life business in Central & Eastern Europe as this supports our
strategy in terms of better connecting with our customers.
In Asia, we'll continue to invest in growth. In particular, we will leverage our very strong
franchise in the high net-worth market in Hong Kong and Singapore, serving an increasing
number of customers in what is of course a fast-growing and important market. Over the
next few years, we also expect our joint ventures in Japan, India, and China to achieve the

Page 9 of 25



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

critical mass required to compete effectively and to generate attractive financial results.
Furthermore, we'll continue to expand distribution and invest in our digital capabilities.

FINAL

The Chinese economy has of course been in the news in recent weeks. But, it's important
to recognize that we're still talking about a growing market with over 1.3 billion consumers
that also need at a certain point in time to protect their financial security. And at the same
time, a direct exposure to China is still relatively limited.
So, Spain and Portugal, we'll will further grow our successful joint ventures with Santander
and we expect the dividend from Spain and Portugal to grow to €25 million per year by
2018. Our focus in Latin America is to continue growing our joint venture in Brazil. So,
overall, these different businesses will grow their earnings to a meaningful level of €200
million of earnings by 2018.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, before moving to my concluding remarks, I would like to highlight how the actions we
are taking in each of our business units are leading to attractive earnings growth that
supports our return on equity target of 10%. And as you can see on the slide, this earnings
growth is the result of growing our business in all our markets as well as the cost
reduction measures I shared with you. Although, we have started to implement a number
of these cost reduction measures, the majority of the benefit is expected to come
through the later years.
So, let me now conclude. I, like you, am of course disappointed that not all our 2016
targets have been met. We have, however, transformed the profile of the company,
improved the financial strength of the balance sheet, and double free cash flows after
holding expenses; and Aegon has a very strong basis on which to continue to build going
forward.
We'll do so by continuing to focus on improving how we connect with our customers and
address their needs, on capturing a larger part of the value chain, and on achieving our
financial targets. And as such, we are confident that we will create long-term value for our
customers, our business partners, and of course also for our shareholders.
So I'd like to thank you here and thank you again for your interest in our company. And is
now pleasure to ask Darryl to join me and provide his presentation. Thank you very much.

Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Thank you, Alex, and good morning, everyone. During my presentation, I will first take you
through Aegon Solvency II position and our target capital ratios. Following this, I will show
you how our capital framework and free cash flow generation under Solvency II translates
into cash flows available for shareholders over the next three years. Finally, I will detail how
we plan to reach our 10% return on equity target in 2018.
Let me reiterate that we are pleased with our solid Solvency II capital ratio of 160% for the
group, being in the upper half of our target range of 140% to 170%, and it's supported by
strong local capital ratios in our operating units. As Alex indicated, capital return to
Page 10 of 25



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

FINAL

shareholders is one of our key financial priorities in the coming years. This will take the
form of increasing dividends and, obviously, the €400 million share buyback which is to
start today.
Our capital deployment plan is supported by all of our cash-generating units and it is our
expectation that both our Dutch and UK units will resume remittances to the group in 2016
and 2017, respectively. We intend to reach a return on equity of 10% in 2018, driven by
cost savings, strong growth in profitable new business, and capital return to shareholders.
Let's start with our capital position and target capital ratios under Solvency II. The group's
Solvency II ratio is built up by the combination of ratios under local regulatory frameworks
such as the NAIC RBC in the U.S., and those covered by the Solvency II regime. We have
received approval in December from our college of supervisors to use a partial internal
model for our businesses in the UK and the Netherlands.

Bloomberg Transcript

As highlighted on the right-hand side of the slide, we do not just take into account the
group Solvency II ratio, but also manage towards rating agency capital frameworks and
our own leverage ratio and holding company cash buffer target ranges. We continue to
target a group leverage ratio of 26% to 30% and a cash buffer in the holding anywhere
between €1 billion and €1.5 billion.
Aegon's estimated Solvency II ratio at year-end 2015 is strong at approximately 160%,
consisting of own funds of €20 billion and solvency capital requirements of €12.5 billion for
the group as a whole. This is the total sum of our operating units which I'll come back to in
a minute in the holding company. The holding itself has three major components. First, the
excess capital or cash buffer contributes favorably to the ratio. Second, senior debt –
which by nature is not eligible capital under Solvency II – is deducted from the ratio. And
third, there's a relatively small diversification benefit, as there is no diversification benefit
at the holding for the U.S. business.
The quality of our capital structure is high. Tier 1 capital accounts for 80% of our total own
funds. As stated before, we do not receive a capital benefit for our senior debt which
amounts to €1.9 billion. The next senior bond to mature is for €500 million in 2017, and we
expect to refinance this maturity with a Tier 2 issuance. And finally, the majority of our Tier
3 capital represents deferred tax assets in the U.S.
Slide 7; this slide shows that our local units are strongly capitalized. I should note that
these ratios are our best estimates for year-end 2015. Starting with the U.S., the NAIC
RBC ratio translates into a Solvency II ratio of approximately 160%. This reflects a
conversion ratio of 250% of company action level. This is not just the RBC divided by 2.5,
as the diversification benefits between the U.S. life insurance entities are not recognized
either, and U.S. holding companies including the employee pension plan are included on a
Solvency II basis.
The Dutch ratio is approximately 150%, which does not include any benefit from
transitional measures. The remaining outstanding item is the loss absorbency of taxes,
where we have made a prudent estimate. We expect final clarity on this point by the end
Page 11 of 25



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

FINAL

of the second quarter. The UK ratio is approximately 140%,. This includes the annuity book
which accounts for approximately 40% of the SCR. Aegon UK does benefit from
transitional measures, but the impact on the ratio is relatively modest. The ratios under
the other units vary, but collectively contribute a Solvency ratio of 200%.
Approximately 50% of our SCR is regulated on a Solvency II basis. Our risk exposures are
well-diversified both for our Solvency II entities and in the U.S. We intend to further reduce
required capital by, for example, optimizing asset liability management and hedging more
of our longevity risk in the Netherlands. As you can see, credit risk is the single largest
contributor to our required capital. Here, I would like to stress that we are not a forced
seller of assets in any of our major markets. As such, the long-term economic risk we face
continues to come from permanent impairments and not from spread volatility.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me now turn to capital sensitivities. Due to our rigorous ALM programs, including
extensive hedging of our guarantees in the Netherlands and the U.S., market movements
have a relatively low impact on the group Solvency II ratio. The largest single exposure,
not surprisingly, is the credit default scenario in the U.S. As noted on the slide, the
sensitivity also includes the impact of any anticipated ratings migration.
The largest credit exposure outside of the U.S. comes from potential spread widening on
the Dutch mortgage portfolio. Here, it is important to point out that this sensitivity
assumes there will be no offset in the volatility adjustor. And again, I would like to remind
you that we're not a forced seller of assets in our Dutch business due to the length and
illiquidity of our liabilities. This means liquidities-driven spread volatility, which we have
seen from time to time in the Dutch housing market, may cause short-term capital
volatility. This volatility, however, will be offset by higher or lower operational free cash
flows going forward.
Finally, the U.S. ratio is negatively geared towards rising interest rates, which might sound
counterintuitive. This is caused by the fact that under the regulatory framework in the U.S.,
hedges on guarantees are valued at market value, where the liabilities are not fully
market consistent. On an economic basis, rising interest rates continue to be favorable for
our U.S. business.
For the capitalization of our Solvency II operating entities, we have set target ranges of
130% to 150%, which is supported by our sensitivities. For the Americas, we're targeting
an NAIC RBC ratio of between 350% and 450% on our life insurance operating
companies. Together, with the cash buffer target of €1 billion to €1.5 billion at the holding,
this translates into a group Solvency II target range of 140% to 170%.
If the group ratio is above the upper boundary, we aim to return additional capital to
shareholders or accelerate investments in our strategic priorities. In contrast, if the ratio
drops to within the caution zone of 120% to 140%, we will take additional capital
preservation measures. And of course, let me remind you of the legal binding constraint
under Solvency II. We would be restricted from paying dividends and require to submit a
regulatory plan at the 100% SCR level.

Page 12 of 25



FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

The capital framework for the local units is based on the same principles. These capital
management zones, as we refer to them, are designed to give us adequate
management flexibility over and above a 100% SCR level. Let's not forget, 100% SCR is
already a level of capital that embeds a one in 200-year risk event, so our policyholders
are well protected. These capital zones are designed to provide a buffer over and above
the 100% SCR ratio and it is possible they could move over time if our risk profile or our
resulting sensitivities were to change. However, due to our significant de-risking over the
last five years, I'm not forecasting a major shift in our risk profile.
I will now discuss free cash flow generation under Solvency II and how this, together with
the capital framework I've outlined, translates into our capital deployment plan over the
next three years. This slide makes clear that we have delivered on our promises made
back in 2013. As higher proceeds from divestments and lower holding expenses more
than offset lower remittances, we spent €4.4 billion on dividends, deleveraging, and other
strategic priorities in the past three years.

Bloomberg Transcript

While we more than delivered our dividends and deleveraging, capital injections and
uncertainty around the outcome of Solvency II pushed the share buyback forward into
2016, which we are announcing here today. We achieved significant deleveraging over the
last three years. Through reducing outstanding debt by over €2 billion, we have reduced
the leverage ratio to approximately 27% at the year-end 2015, while increasing our fixed
charge cover to around 7 times. This provides us not only flexibility, but also stronger free
cash flows going forward.
Operational free cash flow generation shown here on slide 15 is estimated to be around
€1.3 billion in 2016. In the Americas, we have identified 2018 as the inflection point where
the growth of fee businesses will outweigh the declining benefit from lower fixed annuity
and runoff balances. As such, free cash flow generation in the Americas will contribute to
overall free cash flow growth after 2018.
The Netherlands is also expected to remain relatively stable in the next few years,
despite a shift in our pension sales from defined benefit to defined contribution. This is
due to a continuation of growth in the DB pension back book from ongoing contributions
and investment returns attributable to existing pension customers.
The UK is expected to grow as scale builds on our platform business and Asset
Management, Central & Eastern Europe, Spain, and Portugal continue to be an important
part of our growth story. Free cash flows from Asia are impacted by investments in new
business to support growth, in particular, in Hong Kong and Singapore, and will improve
over time as scale continues to build.
We expect to generate over €8 billion of gross cash flows in the units, which, after
investments in new business, results in €4.2 billion of operational free cash flows in the
next three years. Investments in new business reflects strong franchise and top line
growth profile highlighted earlier by Alex and our critical component in driving future
earnings growth, economic value and operational free cash flows. While the larger units

Page 13 of 25



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

FINAL

are expected to remain stable over the next three years, we do expect increasing cash
flows to come from the remainder of the businesses as I discussed on the previous slide.
€4.2 billion of operational free cash flow translates into expected gross remittances of
€3.9 billion over the same period. The Americas remains the main driver for remittances,
while the Netherlands is expected to start annual dividend contributions to the group of
€250 million in 2016. The UK is expected to start remitting to the group in 2017, rising to
€140 million on an annual basis in 2018. After holding expenses of approximately €900
million, this results in €3 billion of capital available for deployment over the next three
years.
We intend to return 70% of this or over €2 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends
of €1.7 billion and the share buyback of €400 million. The dividend payout of €1.7 billion
over the 2016 to 2018 period implies a payout ratio of slightly above 50% of normalized
free cash flows. We intend to reinvest around €300 million in our units mainly in Asia to
support growth. The remaining €600 million can be used to fund additional growth,
including investments or acquisitions or additional capital return to shareholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

To sum it all up, Aegon has a solid capital position under Solvency II. We expect to grow
our operational free cash flow in the coming years. Together with the resumption of
dividends from the Netherlands and UK, this supports rising remittances. Our main priority
is returning capital to shareholders in the form of share buyback and growing dividends.
And we're therefore pleased to announce, as Alex mentioned earlier, our intention to
propose a final dividend of 2015 of €0.13 per share, resulting in a dividend growth of 9%
for 2015.
In the last section of my presentation, I would like to highlight additional key financial
metrics and how I see them progressing over the next three years. First, we will be
making a voluntary accounting change from January 1, 2016, which primarily reflects our
recorded DAC balances in the UK. As Alex has already pointed out, we're operationally
separating our UK business into three components: the annuity business, the pension
book, and the new platform which includes our protection offering.
DAC will now be tested for recoverability at these individual levels instead of in
aggregate. More importantly, DAC will be written down upfront for all anticipated upgrade
activity from our current pension book to the platform. This will prevent a series of DAC
write-offs in the future as DAC is not allowed to be carried across to the new platform
contracts. Finally, we will adjust our accounting policy for reinsurance when used for
business exits, and this will have a small impact in the U.S.
In total, these actions result in a charged IFRS shareholders' equity of €1.3 billion, the
majority of which is related to the UK. Our financial leverage ratio will increase by 1.4
percentage points, but will remain well within our target range. And in 2016, our underlying
earnings will increase by approximately €20 million and return on equity will increase by
0.6%.

Page 14 of 25



FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

Another change we're making starting Q1 2016 is in the presentation of our business
segments as Alex outlined earlier. The growing importance of our Asset Management
business means that it warrants a separate reporting segment, while it also makes sense
to group our European businesses together. And although the earnings contribution from
Asia is modest in a group context, sales growth is strong and we expect earnings growth
over time as a result. We will provide you with comparable 2015 quarterly numbers
including the accounting changes on this new basis before we report our first quarter
results in May.
I would now like to spend a moment on our model review program. As you know, we
launched the program back in 2013 and it is a very comprehensive and rigorous program.
This has increased the modeling standards and control environment for the organization
as a whole. With one notable exception, the reviews have resulted in very limited findings
with almost no financial consequences.

Bloomberg Transcript

The exception of course being our Universal Life business in the U.S., where the
combination of sustained low interest rates and more sophisticated policyholder behavior
was not adequately captured by our models. In 2016, we are transitioning to a businessas-usual environment and, as you're aware, we are converting our U.S. Universal Life
model to a new valuation platform targeted by the end of 2017.
Let me now turn to expense savings. While, Alex provided you the numbers, let me now
put them into some perspective. We expect to reduce operating expenses by €200
million by year-end 2018, building on our strong track record for the 2010 to 2015 period.
Examples of expense savings include the benefits of the ongoing transformation of the
business in the U.S. to one Transamerica, a continued reduction of legacy systems in the
Netherlands, and the streamlining of support functions at the holding.
Part of these savings will be offset by digital investments already mentioned, resulting in a
reduction of the cost level by a net €150 million by 2018. Some of our restructuring will
lead to charges which are expected to amount to €100 million, of which we're expecting
to take approximately one-third in the fourth quarter of 2015.
The main drivers for the improvements on return on equity will be organic growth and
cost savings. On organic growth, we expect to achieve continued strong sales growth by
focusing on fee-based products including retirement plans in the U.S., indexed Universal
Life products, and third-party inflows in Asset Management. We expect new business
margins to increase slightly in the coming years due to product adjustments together with
emerging scale advantages in the UK, as our platform continues to grow. And in order to
further improve the contribution from new business to cash flow generation, we will
actively reduce payback periods on our sales mix going forward.
As Alex already showed you this slide, I would like to remind you, strong sales and top line
growth combined with cost savings programs in our largest units will drive organic
earnings growth in support of an increasing return on equity target. We have set a target
return on equity of 10% in 2018. The waterfall shows how we plan to achieve this. Starting
from a corrected base in 2015, adjusting for the one-offs in our third quarter results, and

Page 15 of 25



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

FINAL

taking into account the changes we are making on the accounting, you can see the
important drivers of our ROE growth are cost savings, organic growth, and capital returns
to shareholders.
So, to wrap up; we are opening the new Solvency II era with a strong capital ratio,
particularly when compared with our low sensitivities. We are anticipating attractive capital
return to our shareholders, supported by strong cash flows and financial flexibility. And
finally, the entire management team is focused on delivering a 10% return on equity by
2018.
Thank you, all, for your interest. Both Alex and I are now happy to take your questions.
We've got lots of hands. I assume there's mics going around, Willem, is that right? Yeah.

Q&A
Q - Willem van den Berg

{BIO 15203834 <GO>}

Good morning. In the U.S., the capital position at the third quarter, the excess capital, I
think about the AA S&P requirement, dropped to €600 million. Can you give an update on
where we are now there? And secondly, would you mind giving an update on where you
are on the potential litigation issues in the Netherlands?

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Do you want to take the first?

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Yeah, on the capital position, the short answer is we're – not much changed, actually, from
the third quarter on our S&P AA excess capital. We're about where we were where we
ended the third quarter.

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

And on litigation in Netherlands, I don't think there's anything new to mention compared
to what we've been seeing in recent quarters. I think it's important to remind you here
that we at Aegon are taking significant measures already for many, many years in trying to
address all these issues, which we felt we need to address. And as such, we also feel
more comfortable today than we felt some time ago. But still there is an environment
where litigation is still possible but there's nothing new which we should be mentioning
here today. Farooq?

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi there. Thanks very much. Farooq Hanif from Citigroup. Can you talk about interest rate
hedging or protection against high yields in the U.S., because clearly there's a massive
impact on implied RBC ratio from what you're showing in the sensitivities for with the 100
bps increase if yields ever go up in U.S. of course. And, secondly, you mentioned advice
and guidance. Can you tell us a little bit more about physically what that means? So, are

Page 16 of 25



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

you good employee advisors, are we talking about robo advise, what do you mean by
that?
(55:48)

FINAL

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

I think first on interest rates, so as I showed you the little bit of a mismatch in our capital
position, I think that's nothing new, we've been talking about that for a while, it's why
we're running RBC ratios quite frankly towards the high end of the range, given the low
interest rate environment. We know that as interest rates come up in the U.S. we will have
some RBC ratios that will come back down.
Now immediately what happens though is our operating cash flows get better in the U.S.
because the economics are actually geared towards favorable economics to higher
interest rate. So, we'll take some RBC ratio determent, if you will, if we get a sharp rise in
interest rates in U.S., but then our operating free cash flows and our cash generation
going forward will get better as a result.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

(56:28)

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

No. because we continue to run towards the high end – that's why we're running towards
the high end of RBC ratios. We're a long way from any kind of dividend constraint in the
U.S. so I continue to see the cash flow is very fungible out of the U.S.

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

So, I think it's a good question. I'd like to spend a bit more time, Farooq. I think the main
change that I've tried to highlight in my presentation is that, in the past, we used to be a
product manufacturer, effectively having distribution, doing the sales and service with the
customer. And many cases, distribution was not even in our distribution with third party
distribution, you're very familiar with it in here, in the UK, (57:08) anymore in the
Netherlands.
So, what we're trying to do is to move to become more relevant to our customers. But we
see there's an advice gap, because more and more of our customers, effectively, do not
sufficient assets to justify or to be able to afford the kind of advice they need. And that's
exactly the space we would like to get in, those customers that we know need advice,
they need to take important decisions about their retirement. They, in many cases, don't
have – haven't spent much time, I should say, or have very little idea about what they
should be doing. And in many cases, these customers and these people, effectively, are
not interesting enough for those advisors to spend the time because it's so expensive.
So, what we are focusing on is providing – fill that gap, and that means – that's why I'm
using the word guidance and advice by providing simple solutions, simple tools, and you
Page 17 of 25



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

FINAL

can argue what is guidance, what is advice, but providing one of our customers, for
example, a choice out of four investment solutions versus giving – opening him the entire
universe of mutual funds is a form of providing guidance advice. So, we will do that very
much digitally. As I said, it's the only way we feel we can truly connect with our customers
in a way that's relevant. Certainly, when you have 13 million customers, it's an enormous
number.
So, if we look at our pension business, which I highlighted in my presentation, 11 million
plan participants, I know one thing for sure, they will retire at certain point of time. In most
cases, they have no idea what to do, they have to take decisions which impacts the rest
of their retired lives, and this is that gap we will be filling in.
So, that's why we talked about global advisors and all the kinds of tools we have. The
advantage also of digital advice or guidance is that it's a very controlled process. In other
words, we do know the risks to be exposed to many of the issues that we as an industry
obviously have been exposed to in the past because of the very diffident nature of the
advice and guidance.
So, you'll see us do much more in that. And the simple solutions, effectively, is already
guidance advice that requires us to think differently, to be organized differently, but also
to putting tools, mostly digital tools.

Bloomberg Transcript

Nick?

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Nick Holmes of Soc Gen. Two questions on Solvency II please. The first one is, 160% is a
lot higher than the 140% at the bottom of your range. And I wondered if you could tell us
what the main items were that lead to 160% rather than being 140%? I'm thinking was it
mainly in Holland, was it the volatility adjust that, kind of, came out maybe a bit better than
you expected? Or maybe you were expecting 160% all along, I don't know.
The second question is again on the range of 140% to 170%. Now, this range is noticeably
lower than equivalents given by some of your peers, more in the 170% to 200% range.
Now, I understand your argument that you have a more stable ratio, and I wondered if you
could elaborate a little bit more on that. And in particular, did the rating agencies agree
with you on this? Have they accepted that your book of business is more suitable for a
somewhat lower ratio? And also I guess does the Dutch regulator, I know it's kind of not
their job to opine on other companies and other jurisdictions it's more the rating
agencies, but any thoughts on what the Dutch regulator thinks as well? Thank you.

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Yeah. Okay. That's a – there was a lot in there Nick. I mean, let me try, two part question.
So the answer is, why did we finish in where we came? We did – I've been trying to give
guidance throughout the year of kind of how our conversations were progressing, and
early as you know, we had 150% to 200% and so, we thought we maybe be around 175%
plus or minus. And there were a number of items that came in the Solvency II that were, I
Page 18 of 25



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

FINAL

would just say, more rigorous than what we had anticipated throughout the year and
that's why I lower the range down to 140% to 170%, a different 140% to 170% than what
we've chosen to go forward with. That really represented a range where I thought the
results of our conversations could bring us out.
So the middle of that was 155%, we came in at 160%. So yeah, down at the finish line. We
did have some issues resolved in a favorable way and you can see that both the Dutch
and the UK ratios came in towards the higher end of the guidance that we had put out
back in – at the end of Q2.
In terms of your second question, just more philosophically on the range itself and our
comfort with that level, I really do believe that it starts with a fundamental understanding
that 100% represents a solid level of capital, and certainly that's the conversation that
we've had and I've had personally with the Dutch Central Bank. I think, they feel that way
as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

When you do a good job on the framework and you're very rigorous along the way and
you build everything into the ratio for 100% and 200% kind of shocks, then you feel good
about 100%. And then the question is, now, how much flexibility do you want to run as –
from a margin perspective, over and above 100%. And that's where your sensitivities and
risk profiles come into play and that's how we end up establishing the 140% to 170%.
I think, you also have to keep in mind that over 50% of our business, well over 50% of our
business, our entire U.S. business does not contribute any diversification benefits into
those group ratios at the holding and we've even unwound the diversification we have in
the U.S. across the U.S. legal entities and that's the way that Solvency II attaches at the
legal entity level.
So the group ratio itself doesn't have a big additional benefit for diversification for the
majority of our business. As I've mentioned all the way along, the group ratio is important,
but the real driver of cash flows and the real important ratios are our local capital regimes
and that's what's going to drive capital adequacy and cash flows and dividends across the
group.
So I think, we get comfortable with the lower group ratio, knowing that diversification
aren't there. There was no transitional benefits in our Dutch numbers whatsoever, so
that's a very solid, high quality capital number and cash flows are going to be driven by
the solo entities and that's what I think still continues to be the primary driver.

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

I might add that in discussions with the regulator, our regulator, regulators well aware of
differences emerging. It's very difficult to compare one company with another company,
even within the same country and even more compare one country – company in a
country with a company in other country. And the regulators all said they were committed
to spending more time explaining their position. So, you can expect them to be more
clear about their position going forward and hopefully that will help put all these numbers
in their own context.
Page 19 of 25



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

FINAL

It is true of course that the ultimate objective that we all started with Solvency II to make
everything comparable and transparent clearly has not really been achieved and that's
what we're seeing right now, something our Dutch regulator is well aware of and has
committed also to us, at our request, to be more clear and more transparent when talking
to market participants like you.

Q - Farquhar C. Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Hi. Farquhar Murray, Autonomous Research. Just two questions if I may. Firstly, I mean the
share buybacks are clear signal of confidence around the capital position. I mean, my
question is, is that being driven by the 160% itself or is there any kind of building in of kind
of – the kind of business reviews that are currently being undertaken?
And then secondly just on the Dutch Solvency II ratio of 150%, that's the top end of the
kind of targets that you're talking towards. I'm just wondering, given that, what's the
rationale for not up streaming actually in 2015?

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me answer the first question. The fact that we announced a share buyback is
important for us. As I said earlier, we've committed to do the share buyback following the
transaction with the association. We have the room to do so. We have the support of our
regulator to do so. And that's why we are announcing today that we're doing the share
buyback of €400 million. It's really about making sure that the commitments we make
they get delivered, even if there's been a little delay because of the implementation of
Solvency II.

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

I think the answer to your second question, Farquhar, is easy. The answer is we are. So
these – I have shown you the ratios, our estimates for end of the year 2015. We'll now
complete our actual calculations and model runs on those. We will submit those into the
Dutch Central Bank. We will have to solve the tax issue that is remaining open where I
gave you the sensitivity that we have around that. And based on those actual year-end
2015 figures, we will pull a dividend in 2016 – in calendar year 2016 based on 2015
performance year.
So I think we're headed for exactly what you said.

Q - Jan Willem Knoll

{BIO 18247722 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. Jan Willem Knoll, ABN AMRO. On the payout ratio, if you assume a
free cash flow of €1.2 billion by 2018, your 50% payout ratio assumes roughly €600 million
of capital retention by then. My question is, is the 50% payout ratio, operational free cash
flow (1:06:40), is that ambitious enough? And the second question will be on the energy
expansion in the U.S. Can we get an update as to the (01:06:50) developments there?
Thanks.

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}
Page 20 of 25



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

FINAL

Yeah. I mean if you look at the presentation that Darryl has given you, the free cash flow
cumulative is €4.2 billion divided by €3 billion is €1.4 billion and not €1.2 billion, that's the
first thing I would like to say.
We've looked at what is a sustainable ongoing payout ratio, where we do recognize that
there is capital that is being generated. As we said also previously, we will want to create
a buffer and clearly see how we can deploy the capital in the most effective way, including
returning capital to shareholders. And I hope that today we have clearly shown our
commitment to return capital to shareholders because we believe today not only that we
have made a commitment on the share buyback, but today this is the best way we can
deploy our capital, especially, in view of our share price development.

Q - Jan Willem Knoll

{BIO 18247722 <GO>}

What I do, Alex, I assume a growth in the operational free cash flow by 2018, so I assume
roughly you can do, let's say €1.5 billion by 2018, minus your holding cost of let's say €300
million means €1.2 billion of holdco free cash flow so to speak. So, by 2018, actually 50%
payout ratio looks to me quite modest. That's what I mean.
I understand if you take the 2016, 2017, 2018 period cumulative, I understand your
disclosures or your plans. But by 2018, I think the payout ratio looks quite modest to me,
assuming growth.

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I'll do it. You want to say something?

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Well, all I would say is that, that's a fair point. Two things I would say, when you consider
the share buyback that we're also delivering on in the three-year period, we get to a 70%
payout of real deployable capital. I think the other part that you need to pay attention to, I
guess, on the slide and think about then is the extra €600 million of sort of non-deployed
capital that's sort of falling out under the management flexibility.
So, the answer to your question, does it look too modest or not, well, it depends on what
we do over time with that additional €600 million. So there's – as I've said in my
presentation, there is opportunity for that to be redeployed to shareholders, which could
be an additional capital return of some form, or it may get redeployed into additional
strategic priorities or capital deployment.
So, I think the answer to your – math you're doing lies in that €600 million at the bottom. It
depends what we do with that.
There is – based on the cash flow generation, if we decide to allocate all of that to
shareholder capital return then there is room to improve the 50%. If we do something
else with that in terms of investing in growth or whatever, then we would keep it down
lower and, obviously, we'd deployed it differently.
Page 21 of 25



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

Q - Willem van den Berg

{BIO 15203834 <GO>}

(01:09:31).

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

FINAL

Well, it's a big room and...

Q - Willem van den Berg

{BIO 15203834 <GO>}

(01:09:36).

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Yeah. I think what we – we want to say on the energy, you have a break out with Mark and
Michiel later, we said, we've been doing a lot of work looking at our portfolio, they have
the details; you have that in your appendix of on our portfolio. We believe there is only
one specific part of it, which is a small part of our total exposure that potentially could be
at risk if oil prices stay at this kind of level for the next two years.

Bloomberg Transcript

And if you look at that, you'll see that the impact on our capacity to paying a dividend is
not going to be material, even if oil price stay flat for this – at these kind of very low levels.
And so I encourage you to – in the breakout, look at the appendix and Michiel can take
you through exactly which pieces of that portfolio could be potentially more at risk if oil
prices stay very low.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Hi, Andy Hughes from Macquarie. A couple of quick questions, if I could, the first one is
about the DTAs. Are they in the Solvency II ratio and how does that work 100 in 200 stress
because presumably 100 in 200 (01:10:38) stress you have a lot of deferred tax assets,
so do they kind of offset some of the shock effects?
The second question was about operational cash, I'm afraid this is my ignorance, but in
the Solvency II world, is your operational cash from the UK and the U.S. business actually
Solvency II operational cash? And does that mean that it's different to the actual reported
kind of cash capital generation you're going to have or is it going to fly around with market
conditions? So, in the case of the UK, if you sell lots of business from the platform and
generate lots of VIF, are you going to have lots of operational cash come through, right?

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

So, on the first question, the deferred tax assets coming from the U.S., the short answer,
that's where it's coming from and that's where it's being reported. The DTA and how the
DTA is captured in our Solvency II reporting, that's all captured in the sensitivities that
we've shown you. So, when we show you the sensitivities that already reflects any kind of
tearing issues or capital issues related to the DTA.
And your question on the European units, it's all on a fully Solvency II basis, the definition
of operational free cash flow, so it's Solvency II at the target ranges, so we've identified
Page 22 of 25



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

FINAL

the middle of our 130% to 150% is 140%, so that's sort of the target operating range for
our European units. 140% of SCR, that's the definition of Solvency II capital operational
free cash flow generation.
And then, in terms of VIF, so any of our fee business is in the Solvency II world, if you have
fee-based businesses that create a VIF and that goes into your own fund's calculations
and there's not much SCR that's associated with pure fee business. So that can contribute
to capital generation. We would capture that generally through an MCB MB calculation.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Thank you.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Thanks. I'm William Hawkins from KBW. On the base case you presented, what should
your Solvency II ratio be at the end of 2018?

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

On the base case that we presented, what would our Solvency II ratio? I'm not sure
whether we're actually going to give that number because we're not forecasting it. What
we're trying to show is our capital policy that we'll manage to along the way and our
leverage policy that we'll manage to along the way. If we deploy the capital that's
generated along the way, we'll sort of end and start around the same level.
Obviously, I come back to that €600 million, that's not been deployed yet in the slides
that we put there. So if we don't do anything with that capital and keep it, the ratio will
accrete. If we go ahead and deploy the entire €3 billion, we start and end around the
same level.

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

One more?

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

We got one in the back.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Matthias de Wit KBC Securities. I got two small questions. The first one is on Solvency II,
just wondered under Tier 2 buckets, how much room you still have there and what you
plan to do with it, because there are seniors outstanding and I think it would make sense
to replace them with a Tier 2 and that was around €2 billion of capacity. Also wonder
whether you could quantify the retained longevity risk and how much you could still do
there in terms of further lowering the required capital?
And then my second question is on the €400 million buyback program, just wondered
why you split it in two parts, two times €200 million, just wondered whether you received
Page 23 of 25



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

approval for the full €400 million?

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

And on when you would fully execute the program? Thank you.

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Well, I'll take the first on the Tier 2. The short answer is yeah, we have flagged €1.9 billion
of seniors, but which you get no capital credit for. The only senior to Tier 2 trade that I'm
signaling at this point is the €500 million maturity we have coming up in 2017. There aren't
a lot of maturities in the seniors for a while. It's liquidity for the holding. If you think about
that trade for a second, you can pull that trade, but then what's that do, it increases your
group ratio, yes, but it just increases your cost of funds and the cost of your liquidity.

Bloomberg Transcript

So beyond the 2017 €500 million that I've already flagged, I'm not sure that we'll do much
more of that, not immediately anyway. We do have a 10-year grandfathering period that's
kicked off for all our perpetual instrument, so we will have to do some cap structure
restructuring over the coming 10 years, but again, I'm not in a hurry to run out and do that
immediately till we see some of these instruments start to form and see the pricing in the
market.
So outside of the one I flagged, I wouldn't look for us to do much more than that.

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Yeah, on the share buyback, I believe we've been very clear that we have approval and
support for the full €400 million and it's just more a practical way of dealing – addressing
it. We do €200 million now this quarter and then we'll do it later. We have to take also into
account blackout period, so that's part of the technicality. So €400 million is absolutely
approved.
And I think, I hope, we started this morning, by the way. Early.

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

It's definitely this week, I think we were going to try and do some today and we're kicking
off the first €200 million program on Friday. Thank you.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

You intend to finish it entirely in 2016, the €400 million?

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Yes.
Page 24 of 25



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2016-01-13

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

Absolutely.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Thank you.

A - Darryl D. Button

{BIO 7089946 <GO>}

I think we were – we didn't do the longevity part of your question, but we'll just refer that
into the Dutch breakout session, Rutger and Marco can cover that question for you. And I
think we're getting – we're out of time. So we can – we'll pick up the investors questions in
our breakouts. Thank you.

A - Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. Thank you. Thank you very much.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 25 of 25

