Q2 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Delfin Rueda Arroyo, Chief Financial Officer & Director
Doug Caldwell, Chief Risk Officer
Eilard Friese, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer

Other Participants
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Bart Horsten, Analyst
Benoît Pétrarque, Analyst
Farquhar C. Murray, Analyst
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Matthias De Wit, Analyst
Nadine van der Meulen, Analyst
Robin van den Broek, Analyst
Ron Heijdenrijk, Analyst
Steven Haywood, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

William Hawkins , Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is the operator speaking. Welcome to NN Group's
Analyst Conference Call on its Second Quarter 2016 Results. The telephone lines will be in a listenonly mode during the company's presentation. The lines will then be opened for a question-andanswer session.
Before handing this conference call over to Mr. Lard Friese, Chief Executive Officer of NN Group,
let me first give the following statement on the company's behalf. Today's comments may include
forward-looking statements, such statements regarding future developments in NN Group
business, expectations for its future financial performance and statements not involving historical
fact. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Any forward-looking statements speak only as of date they are made and NN Group assumes no
obligations to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result or new
information or any other reason. Furthermore, nothing in today's comments constitutes an offer to
sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities.
Good morning, Mr. Friese. Over to you.

Eilard Friese
Yes. Hello, everybody, and welcome to our quarterly earnings call. I will start up today's
presentation by looking at the highlights of the second quarter results as well as the progress we
are making to deliver on our strategic priorities.



FINAL

Delfin Rueda, our Chief Financial Officer, will then talk you through the financial details of the
results at the group level and for the individual operating segments as well as our capital position. I
will conclude the presentation with a wrap-up, after which we will open the call for questions-andanswers. We also have Doug Caldwell, our Chief Risk Officer, with us to answer your questions.
Let me start on slide three with the highlights. NN Group's operating result of the ongoing business
for the second quarter of 2016 was €321 million. This compares with an operating result of €488
million for the same quarter last year, which benefited from a private equity dividend and
significantly higher technical margin in the Netherlands Life.
Our businesses are focused on further improving their earnings while at the same time having to
deal with regulatory changes and market conditions. Interest rates dropped even further in the
quarter, which continues to put pressure on the results of our insurance activities. And a tax on
assets in Poland introduced earlier this year is an additional expense for our Insurance Europe unit.
Market volatility, as we saw again in the second quarter, creates a difficult environment for the
asset manager to attract net inflows. The current quarter was also impacted by the particularly
severe storms which hit the Netherlands in May and June resulting in higher claims at our Property
and Casualty business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now on the other hand, we continue to make good progress with our cost-saving plans in the
Netherlands. And NN Bank again reports healthy growth in both mortgages and savings. Our
balance sheet and capital position remained strong even in the face of volatile market conditions.
The Solvency II ratio of NN Group increased to 252% which already reflects deductions for the
€500 million share buyback program and the 2016 interim dividend.
Free cash flows at the holding company was €494 million bringing the cash capital at the holding to
€2.3 billion at the end of the second quarter. Finally, we have today announced an interim dividend
for 2016 of €0.60 per share in line with our dividend policy.
I will now turn to slide four. Our brand promise is You Matter. And our ambition is that NN Group is a
company that truly matters in the lives of all our stakeholders. So let me give you some examples
of how we're doing that. We take sustainability very seriously whether it be in investing responsibly,
creating positive change in the communities or managing our environmental footprint.
NN Group was recently included in the FTSE4Good Index for companies demonstrating strong ESG
practices. Our sport sponsorship supports our aim to contribute to people's general health and
financial well-being. We are a large sponsor of running events which is an activity that unites people
of all ages. For example, NN sponsored the 2016 European Athletics Championships held in the
Netherlands, the largest sport event in the Netherlands this year.
In line with our focus on innovation, we recently signed a three-year partnership with
StartupBootcamp to sponsor its fintech and cyber security program. The agreement includes
offering professional assistance to fintech startups by providing employee mentors. By
participating in these types of ventures, we hope to help the industry reach new levels in terms of
speed and customer centricity.
Now on the following slide, I will talk about developments in customer services at our business
units. In the Netherlands, our strategy is centered around providing digital, personal and relevant
services with the aim of enhancing customer experience. We are continually implementing new
functionality to meet the growing demand of customers for 24/7 services and solutions while at the
same time wanting to be recognized and treated as an individual customer.
For example, customers logging into the NN portal receive a personal message alerting them
when the fixed rate period of their mortgage will end within four months. And existing NN



FINAL

customers who request a quote for car insurance through the website are informed through a
message that they might be eligible for a discount if they already have a package of insurance
products.
NN Bank continues to attract new customers and grow its business. As one of the top mortgage
originators in the Netherlands, the mortgage portfolio currently stands at more than €11 billion. And
following a record inflow of retail savings deposits in the first six months of the year, customer
savings now total over €9 billion.
NN is continually developing and launching products that meet customers' needs and at the same
time help us to capture growth opportunities in the insurance markets where we are active. NN in
Hungary recently launched a new accident insurance product which offers financial support as well
as unique medical and assistance services that are crucial for faster recovery after an accident.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Japan, we introduced a new COLI critical illness product for SME owners to support business
continuity should they fall ill. And NN Life in Romania launched an innovative private health insurance
solution which enabled our Romanian customers to insure (06:38) the financial futures of their
families should unexpected medical situations arise.
Let's now turn to slide six. We have a diversified portfolio of businesses with leading positions in
the Netherlands and a strong presence in a number of other European markets and in Japan.
However, a portfolio is never static and we continue to assess our businesses on a regular basis.
This has lead to various transactions over the past year; including the sale of Parcom, a private
equity management company, in December and the acquisition of the Polish financial broker,
Notus, in May. More recently, we announced the sale of our wholly-owned independent insurance
broker in the Netherlands, Mandema & Partners to Van Lanschot Chabot.
And in the second half of this year, NN Re (Ireland) expects to sign the portfolio transfer
agreement for an investment contract and related investments, which are the only remaining
activities of this entity. This will result in the repatriation of capitals to the Group upon completion of
the transfer. In all portfolio decisions that we make, we ask ourselves are we the right owner of
that business. We will always act rationally when considering the best way to deploy capital.
So moving on to slide seven. Improving efficiency in the Netherlands remains a priority and we will
continue to implement a range of initiatives to achieve the cost savings target that we have set
ourselves. At our Capital Markets Day last November, we announced a new expense base target
for Netherlands Life, Netherlands Non-life and the holding entities of €700 million by the end of
2018. This expense reduction program is on track with total of cost savings achieved to date of €32
million.
Following the sale announcement of Mandema & Partners, which is part of the Netherlands Non-life
segment, we have now reduced the target expense base to €685 million to take account of the
costs of Mandema that we will no longer incur. We still have a lot of work to do reach this ambitious
expense base target as we have to deal with upward cost pressure in the form of project
expenses, the regulatory costs especially in the pension business and the need to invest in our
businesses. But we are committed to the target and we believe that these initiatives will make our
company more efficient and agile and will improve the customer experience.
Now let me round off this part of the presentation by looking at our dividend policy on slide eight.
As I mentioned earlier, we have today announced that we will be paying a 2016 interim dividend of
€0.60 per share. This is calculated as 40% of the prior year full year dividend in line with the
guidance given in our dividend policy. We continue to aim for sustainable and predictable
dividends. The share buyback is progressing well with 22% of the total buyback amount already
repurchased as at the end of last week.



FINAL

In total, NN has returned more than €2.1 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share
buybacks since the IPO two years ago, including the current share buyback program and the
interim dividend as announced today. This demonstrates our commitment to return excess capital
to shareholders.
At the same time, we continue to look for ways to deploy capital in other value-creating
opportunities be it organic growth opportunities or acquisitions. Please be assured that we always
act rationally and that we assess all opportunities based on strict financial and non-financial criteria.
And with that, I will now hand over to Delfin Rueda. Delfin.

Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Thank you, Lard. Good morning, everyone. NN Group reported an operating result of the ongoing
business of €321 million for the second quarter of 2016. And for the first six months of 2016, the
operating result came to €626 million. I will go into the main drivers of the operating result when I
discuss the results of the individual segments in the coming slides.

Bloomberg Transcript

A decrease in the net result for the first six months of 2016, as shown in the right-hand chart, can
be mainly explained by the lower operating result and a negative hedge result in Japan Closed
Block VA due to the market volatility.
Please now turn to slide 11 which gives more details about Netherlands Life. The operating result of
Netherlands Life was €190 million in the second quarter of 2016. This is a decrease from €332
million a year ago, which benefited from a €61 million private equity dividend as well as significantly
higher technical margin.
The technical margin in the second quarter last year was supported by €27 million of non-recurring
benefits mainly relating to technical provision releases as well as a €28 million release of the unitlinked guarantee provision.
Even the further fall in interest rate this year, the current quarter reflects a €7 million addition to the
unit-linked guarantee provision. We continue to increase the investment allocation to higher
yielding assets, which helped to offset the impact of the low interest rate environment on
reinvestments. The last 12 months investment spread remained more or less stable at 128 basis
points.
Fees and premium-based revenues were down, reflecting the runoff of the individual life closed
book. Administrative expenses increased slightly compared with the second quarter of 2015
primarily due to higher cost as a result of changes in pension regulations. We had previously
flagged that progress on expense savings may not be linear from quarter-to-quarter due to
upward cost pressure that we have to absorb. Finally, the value of new business in the first six
months of this year decreased slightly to €6 million.
I will now turn to slide 12 for the results of Netherlands Non-life. The operating result for
Netherlands Non-life decreased to €19 million from €45 million for the second quarter of 2015. The
results of Property and Casualty were impacted by the severe storms that Lard mentioned earlier.
And this was only partly offset by a favorable claims development in Disability & Accident. Please
note that the second quarter last year also benefited from a €9 million private equity dividend. The
combined ratio increased to 104%.
Let's look at the two business lines within Non-life separately. The second quarter operating result
in Disability & Accident increased to €47 million from €37 million in the same quarter of 2015, mainly
reflecting a favorable claims development in both the individual disability and the group income
protection portfolios as well as a €4 million positive impact from an IBNR update.



FINAL

The Disability & Accident combined ratio was exceptionally low at 87% compared with 97% in the
second quarter of 2015. The operating result in Property and Casualty decreased to a loss of €30
million mainly due to the impact of the severe storms in the quarter which led to claims of €28
million affecting both the Fire and Motor portfolios. An unfavorable claims experience in Motor and
Miscellaneous also contributed to the decrease. The P&C combined ratio deteriorated to 118%
from 102% in the second quarter of 2015.
Please turn now to slide 13 and the results of Insurance Europe. Insurance Europe reported an
operating result of €52 million for the second quarter of 2016. This was down slightly on the same
quarter in 2015 due to a lower investment margin because of lower reinvestment rates and lower
invested volumes. This was partly offset by higher fees and premium-based revenues.
Administrative expenses were also higher, reflecting the tax on assets of insurance companies that
became effective in Poland as of February 2016. The cost/income ratio increased on the higher
administrative expenses. The value of new business in the first six months of 2016 decreased to
€46 million, largely due to lower term insurance sales in Belgium as well as negative market impact.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving now to Japan Life on slide 14. The operating result of Japan Life was €23 million in the
second quarter of 2016, down from €25 million in the second quarter of 2015. The lower operating
result reflects a decrease in the investment margin due to lower interest rate on reinvested assets
as well as lower mortality results because of a few large claims. This was partially offset by higher
fees and premium-based revenues driven by larger in-force volumes.
The cost/income ratio increased as higher income was offset by higher administrative expenses to
support the growth of the business. The value of new business in the first six months of 2016 was
broadly stable at €49 million as the impact of the decrease in interest rate was largely offset by
higher sales of COLI protection products.
Let's move now to slide 15 and the Asset Management segment. Total assets under management
increased to €197 billion at the end of the second quarter of 2016 compared with €190 billion at the
end of the first quarter. The increase was driven by positive market performance of €7 billion as a
result of lower interest rate increasing the value of fixed income assets. This was partly offset by
net outflows of €0.5 billion mainly of other affiliated assets.
The operating result decreased to €33 million in the second quarter of 2016 from €38 million in the
same period last year. These were down due to lower average assets under management, as well
as a shift to lower margin assets. Expenses also decreased, reflecting lower staff-related
expenses, as well as lower volume-driven fixed service fees.
The cost-income ratio increased slightly as fees decreased more than expenses. The segment
Other is set out on the slide 16. The total operating result of the segment Other improved to €2
million in the second quarter of 2016 from a loss of €7 million in the second quarter of 2015. This
segment comprises the holding company, the reinsurance business and NN Bank. Let's look at this
individually.
The holding result improved to a loss of €24 million, mainly driven by lower holding expenses as
we continue to achieve cost savings as part of our cost reduction program in the Netherlands. The
operating result of the reinsurance business remained stable on the same quarter last year at €9
million.
Finally, the operating result of NN Bank increased to €17 million in the second quarter of this year
from €6 million in the same quarter of 2015. This increase reflects a higher interest margin and a
lower addition to loan-loss provisions. This was partly offset by higher administrative expenses as
we continue to make investments to support the bank's strong growth in the mortgages and
savings market.



FINAL

I will now move on to slide 17 to cover our last segment, Japan Closed Block VA. Japan Closed
Block VA reported a loss before tax of €28 million, down from a positive result of €43 million in the
second quarter of 2015. The result in the current quarter was mainly due to a hedge-related loss of
€38 million due to the impact of higher global market volatility. The second quarter of 2015
included a €12 million reserve release from higher lapse assumptions of out-of-the-money policies.
The second quarter of this year also reflects lower fees and premium-based revenues as the
portfolio continues to run off.
That completes the results of our operating segments. On the following slides, I would like to take
you through the free cash flow and the capital position. On slide 18, you can see the movement in
the holding company cash capital during the second quarter of 2016, which increased from €2.1
billion at the end of first quarter to €2.3 billion. The free cash flow during the quarter was €494
million, which included dividends of €532 million received from almost all segments, of which €150
million from NN Life, €199 million from Insurance Europe and €80 million from Japan Life. A full list
of the dividends upstreamed can be found in the appendix to this presentation.

Bloomberg Transcript

During the quarter, we had total capital flow to shareholders of €263 million. This comprises the
cash part of the 2015 final dividend of €185 million and the amount repurchased under the share
buyback program in the second quarter of 2016 of €78 million.
On slide 19, I would like to talk you through the developments in NN Group's Solvency II ratio. On
this slide, we show the movement of the NN Group Solvency II ratio, the Eligible Own Funds and
the SCR over the second quarter of 2016. As you will see, the format has been simplified by
showing the operating return for all entities in one column. In the second quarter, the Solvency II
ratio increased from 241% to 252%, mainly due to market variances, partly offset by capital flows
being the deduction in full of the €500 million share buyback program and the 2016 interim
dividend.
Let me spend a moment to explain the main movements in a bit more detail. Starting with the
largest movement, market variances, which had a material positive impact on the Solvency II ratio
of 21 percentage points. This mainly reflects the impact of lower credit spreads on highly-rated
sovereign bonds. This movement is in line with our disclosed sensitivities and our large exposure
to German, Dutch and French sovereign bonds.
The operating return had a positive impact of six percentage points. There are two lumpy items in
the Own Funds, being the net result of Asset Management for the full year 2015 of approximately
€80 million and a non-recurring benefit in Japan Life relating to deferred tax assets of
approximately €50 million. As we have noted in the past, the operating return will move around
quarter by quarter. Finally, the SCR remained relatively stable over the quarter.
Finally, on slide 20, let me remind you of the three drivers of the free cash flow available to
shareholders that we expect to generate over time, the first and main driver being the generation
of Own Funds by all segments. So, both the Solvency II entities, as well as Japan Life, Asset
Management and the pension funds.
The second driver is the development of the SCR. The SCR will reduce as they close books in the
Netherlands and Japan VA run-off. But it can also increase as a result of new business growth or a
shift to higher yielding assets.
And the third driver is the reduction of surplus capital in several of our units. These drivers of free
cash flow are volatile quarter-by-quarter and interact with each other. Let me give you two
examples. The tightening of credit spreads on sovereign bonds, like we saw in the second quarter,
increases the Solvency II ratio, but decreases Own Fund generation. As a second example, should
the UFR be lower, this would reduce the Solvency II ratio, while at the same time reducing the UFR
drag, and as a result, increasing Own Funds generation. Taken together, these three drivers



support our guidance that over time, we expect to generate free cash available to shareholders in
a range around the Group's net operating results of the ongoing business.
And now, I will pass you back to Lard for the wrap up.

FINAL

Eilard Friese
Yeah. Thank you very much, Delfin. Going forward, our focus remains on delivering excellent
service to our customers while making our operations more efficient and effective and pursuing
profitable growth in selected European markets and Japan. At the same time, our priority is to
improve the operating performance of our businesses to increase earnings and generate cash. We
are progressing well with these strategic priorities, but there's still more work to do and the entire
management team of NN Group is committed to doing this.
Our capital position remains strong and resilient even in this volatile environment and this allows us
to weather the challenging market conditions. We will continue to execute our open market share
buyback program and we will pay an interim dividend in September. Including these, we have
returned more than €2.1 billion to shareholders since the IPO.

Bloomberg Transcript

I would now like to open the call for your questions. And can I kindly request you to limit the
number of your questions to two per person so that everybody gets a chance to speak? Of
course, feel free to come back with a second round of questions if they have not yet been dealt
with.
So, operator, let's turn now to Q&A.

Q&A
Operator
Thank you, Mr. Friese. Ladies and gentlemen, we'll start the question-and-answer session now. Go
ahead please. The first question comes from Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan. Please go ahead sir.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning, Lard. Good morning, Delfin and then Doug as well. Just a couple of questions.
First of all on UFR. So, on UFR, we can see that your sensitivities haven't changed for 3.2% for 100
basis point decline. What's driving that? And just linked to that, can you give us some sense about
what would be the sensitivity for a 2% decrease in UFR? I am just trying to understand whether it's
linear or not. How should we think about?
And secondly is, I mean sovereign spread tightening has benefited your capital a lot, but there will
always be a risk of that going back. And given that the yield on German bonds and Dutch bonds
are more or less zero, is there any value – is there any way to lock that sovereign spread
tightening, i.e., move into cash or some other asset classes where you are kind of locking in that
spread tightening benefit? Any sense on that would be really great. Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese
Yeah. Thank you, Ashik. I'll ask Doug to take these two questions. Thank you.

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

Hi. Yes. Thank you, Ashik, for the questions. I think on the sensitivities to the UFR, I think there's a
couple of things. I think with rates coming down, it can make it a bit more sensitive. At the same



time, we have a bit more tax offset than we had at the queue – DTA offset than we had at Q4. So,
this is why the sensitivity is about the same as it was then.

FINAL

I think – we're not disclosing a number at 2.2% I think is not something we're calculating at every
level. We also think of the UFR as one element of Solvency II and not just – we do isolate it here to
3.2% because of the attention it gets. But we're careful to put too much focus on only one point of
Solvency II changing.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay. I mean, instead of giving any specific number, can you give us any sense? Is it linear on the
higher end or the lower end, i.e., the impact increases or is it not?

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

It would increase a bit.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

It would increase. It would be some convexity in that.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

And then the second, I think your point is something that certainly has our attention that as
sovereign spreads, especially as the higher-rated sovereign bonds like our German and Dutch and
French holdings have really increased in value due to spreads becoming even more negative. Of
course, it's something we look into as to whether we should lock those in.
It is important to note that these are critical assets for us in terms of managing our interest rate
position. So, if we were to do something like sell them or some other action, we need to consider
that because we still, at this point, maintain our approach to prudently managing the interest rate
position with a tight match.
That said, I think what you see happening and could see happening – what you see happening a bit
in the second quarter is some gains from selling some German bonds and reinvesting in some
slightly higher yielding assets and you may see some of that happening from time to time. Also,
assuming we can manage our interest rate risk. There are a few other tools available that we're
looking into. But clearly, your point is correct that if this can reverse and it may well do so, but there
are actions we can take along the way.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

That's very good. Thank you.

Operator
Your next question comes from Gordon Aitken from RBC. Please go ahead, sir.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}



FINAL

Yeah. Morning. Thanks very much. Just the first question on your SCR. I mean, you talked over the
years that you've basically got two very big run-off books, and the SCR at Q1 increased a little bit
and Q2 is pretty much unchanged if you strip out the market movements. Can you just guide as to
how the SCR should move over time?
And the second question is about really in the Dutch Life market, can you talk about the
competitive environment and the change there? I mean, you've had other players derisking in a
way that you don't need to. There's also been a listing, which sometimes can have some discipline
in that market. But your volume of new business in Dutch Life is pretty low at €6 million. Can you
just break that into sort of DC, new business and also there are news on the DB pensions? And do
you expect that to improve? Thanks.

A - Eilard Friese

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. Thanks, Gordon. Let me take the overall view on the competitiveness of the Dutch Life
market and I'll ask Doug to comment on the SCR question that you raised. So, in general, the
Dutch Life market, what we observed, of course driven by low rates and longevity is that, let's say,
classical pension schemes on a defined benefit basis become quite unaffordable or very
expensive at least for employers that have these programs for their employees. So, at renewal
date, we observe increased activity from our clients to move to change these employee benefit
schemes and we're helping them with that. And it's all in the same direction. It all moves towards
defined contribution. So, that shift is something that we observe and that we actively, by the way,
help our clients with.
However, please note that the majority of the pension liabilities on our balance sheet still remains
the DB (34:16) pensions. And since that is quite a large stock of past accruals, if you will, on these
employee benefit schemes, it only gradually migrates towards defined contribution. Margins on
defined contribution products are lower than DB products, but obviously, it's far less capitalintensive. So, the return of capital is quite good there.
Now, we have a range of products and capabilities that we can offer to our clients, weather it is
through full DC, hybrid DC, whether it's PPI institutions, et cetera. So, in that sense, we are very
well placed to manage this transition in this market. Now, with that, can I hand over to you on the
SCR, Doug?

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

Yes. I think – thank you, Gordon. I think on the SCR, I think I refer a bit to page 20, slide 20 of the
presentation that Delfin went through. I mean, it's certainly true that we do have some reductions
in our SCR every quarter, and so every year that come from our – especially our individual life book
in the Netherlands and our Japan VA book. We see that happening. It will not be the same number
every quarter, but it's certainly going that way as we would expect.
As we also say, we are over time shifting towards more capital-light products in some of our other
regions and businesses as well, which has an impact solely through the ratio. That can be offset in
any particular quarter depending on what we may do on the asset side or new business growth
including in Japan.
So, I think this will move around a bit. But I think in general, those are the items that will move and I
think it will not be entirely consistent every quarter.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator



The next question comes from Farquhar Murray from Autonomous. Please go ahead sir.

FINAL

Q - Farquhar C. Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Morning, gentlemen. Just two questions, if I may. Firstly, just looking at capital generation on slide
19. If I crudely take the €300 million operating return and then adjust for Asset Management in
Japan, one-off, then we seem to be looking at about €190 million in the quarter. Now, is that a
reasonable expectation going forward? And in particular, does it capture the increased UFR drag
that was kind of highlighted last quarter or is that being washed into the market move? Obviously, I
appreciate all these numbers move around a lot, I'm really just looking for a rough sense of
indication.
Secondly, can we just dig a little bit into the Other component on that slide? In particular, I'm just
trying to determine whether we should regard elements about the structural, specifically from
(37:09) on the kind of accruals on qualifying debt. Are those ongoing and roughly what kind of
magnitude might we be looking at there? Thanks.

A - Eilard Friese
Thank you, Farquhar. Delfin, can you please take this?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Farquhar. So, indeed, I mean, we have given you the movement analysis and
showing the key drivers of our Solvency II ratio over the quarter and have pointed out some of the
more material items. The reality is that the operating return under Solvency II is going to fluctuate
quite a bit from quarter to quarter.
As a reminder, the operating return includes (37:54) spreads, the UFR drag, the risk margin runoff,
and other elements. And all of those are influenced by our starting balance sheet position, model
and assumptions, and what has happened in the markets. In addition to that, there is also the
impact of new business, operating variances and contributions from Japan Life, Asset
Management and pension funds.
Given these, I am reluctant to talk about a sustainable level or to provide any precise guidance
step. The reference that we have made and I think is important to repeat the free cash flow
generation. And that, as you saw in slide 20, is formed by three different items, the generation of
the Own Funds, the release of the SCR and the release of the excess capital.
And these will, we believe, vary around the range of the IFRS operating result after tax. And this will
change from quarter to quarter, but that is much stronger and clear guidance than operating return
that will fluctuate necessarily every quarter.
And your second question on the accruals on qualifying debt, well, I think, yes, we have
approximately €20 million in the quarter. And that is something that we'll continue, unless there is
any change on our debt structure.

Q - Farquhar C. Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks so much.

Operator
Next question comes from William Hawkins from KBW. Please go ahead, sir.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}



FINAL

Hello. Thanks very much. Thank you for the reassuring capital disclosure. I'd like to just ask a couple
of simple questions on the IFRS results though. The impact of public dividends on the Dutch Life
investment margin, could you quantify that for us, please? I think it was €50 million in the second
quarter of last year.
And then secondly, you've got a very strong bank results again. I thought you'd been guiding that
over time, that figure should be fading as you're investing in growth, but actually the opposite
seems to be happening. It still seems to be doing very well. So, could you update the outlook for
the bank result? Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese
Yeah. So, Delfin, can you take those questions please?

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, William. Public dividends, not much change. So around €50 million also this quarter.
In terms of the result of NN Bank, I mean, in the quarter, as highlighted in the press release, we
saw a significant growth in the balance sheet, both mortgages and savings. In addition to that,
there was a decrease in addition to the loan loss provision. And that is driven by less delinquencies
and also the recovery in housing market. As a consequence for NN Bank, we believe that that
current situation and trend is to be maintained.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

That's great. Thank you very much.

Operator
The next question comes from Ms. Nadine van der Meulen from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead,
ma'am.

Q - Nadine van der Meulen

{BIO 15200446 <GO>}

Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you for taking my questions. I realize that you were reluctant to
give a normalized level of the operational capital generation. It is interesting to see that the
second quarter, if you take off the one-offs, as you indicated on the slides, the resulting level is
roughly in line with what you were guiding to in the first quarter. In any case, there's still, I suppose
from that level, quite a big gap to the net operating results that you're guiding to in terms of cash
generation of, let's say, €900 million to €1 billion or at that level.
With regard to that gap, you indicated on slide 20 indeed that that is partly from the reduction in
surplus solvency levels. Can you give us some more color what the areas are where you are
thinking about reducing these solvency levels? And I could imagine that quite a large chunk of it is
the Closed Blocks and the Japan VA Closed Block and the Dutch Individual Life business.
So, I suppose the second question follows up on that in whether you can give the capital release
profile of both the VA Closed Block and the Dutch Individual Life business and whether that is
probably unchanged with what you've guided previously? Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese
Yeah. Nadine, thank you for your question. So, Delfin, can you take these?

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, Nadine. So, in terms of where to expect the release of capital – sorry, I think I did
not have my microphone on. So, I'll just start again. Thank you, Nadine. So, in terms of where do we



expect to see reductions in the solvency capital requirement which I think was your question, this is
driven by...

Q - Nadine van der Meulen

{BIO 15200446 <GO>}

FINAL

Sorry. Sorry to interrupt. But it's not the reduction in the solvency capital requirement, but it's the
excess capital over the solvency capital requirement.

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Okay.

Q - Nadine van der Meulen

{BIO 15200446 <GO>}

Yes.

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thanks. Then – well, you have seen that we have had a very strong quarter in terms of capital
generation. And as a consequence, also dividends from the subsidiaries resulting in the €2.3 billion
of cash capital upholding. As Lard mentioned before, if you included the interim dividend that we
have announced on the share buyback that we are executing, we have paid back to shareholders
€2.1 billion so far. We do continue executing our dividend policy and looking into the opportunities
to deploy that capital organically and inorganically. And if that, we will – let's be – let's rest assure
that we will continue with that discipline in order to do it in a gradual, consistent manner.
In terms of the elements on the runoff for the NN Life and Japan Closed Block which, as Doug
mentioned, are the main drivers for the reduction on the SCR to some extent, there is no change
of guidance. So, for the Japan Closed Block VA, we do still expect the portfolio to run off mostly by
the end of 2019. And I would say that approximately €500 million of capital is still to be released
from that portfolio. And the pattern of NN Life, again, we think that it's going to progress gradually.
And it's difficult to say on a particular manner, but it might be around €50 million per year.

Q - Nadine van der Meulen

{BIO 15200446 <GO>}

And so just following up from that, for example, the Japan Closed Block VA, the €500 million that
you indicate, I assume a good chunk of that is the release of the SCR as you mentioned, which is
already included in the operational capital generation number as on slide 19, (45:58). And the rest
of it is not and will go through – well, will fill the gap basically between the number that you show
and the guidance that you're giving with regards to cash being equal to net operating result.

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

To make it clear, the €500 million is obviously the release of both the capital requirement and the
surplus capital associated with this business. So, when you look at the evolution of the free cash
flow, you will have – in this particular case for Japan Closed Block VA will be part of release in the
Solvency capital requirement in part of release of the surplus capital supporting that business.
That's correct.

Q - Nadine van der Meulen

{BIO 15200446 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
The next question comes from Matthias De Wit from KBC Securities. Please go ahead, sir.

Q - Matthias De Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}



FINAL

First question is on the Dutch Life business. On the fee and premium-based revenues, which were
roughly flat on a year-on-year basis. In previous quarter, they were down double-digit level. So, why
is the decline leveling off and what should we expect here going forward, please?
And then the second question is on the UFR. I just wanted to get a sense of your Dutch Life capital
position on a ex-UFR basis. I assume you don't want to provide it, but could you confirm whether
it's ahead of 100%? And could you, in this respect, also comment or provide some insight into the
amortization pattern? So, what proportion of the UFR could, for example, be amortized over, let's
say, a 10-year period of – or is there anything you could say on that, please? Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese
Doug will take the point on the UFR, and then thereafter, I think Delfin on the fees and premiumbased revenues for NN Life. Thanks, Matthias. One moment.

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

Yeah, I think as you noted, we don't really quote our Solvency II ratio adjusting for any one
particular element like this. So, we will, I think, stick to that guidance because there's too many
parts of Solvency II that come together to make the entire ratio. In terms of the question about
amortization pattern, I think we can say a bit more on that. A good, I would say, a vast majority will
run off over the 10-year – in about 10 years.

Q - Matthias De Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay.

A - Eilard Friese
So, Delfin, on the Life fees and premium-based revenues.

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes, Matthias. I think that there is, as you know, some seasonality on the first quarter because there
is the renewals of the pension business coming through. But if you look to the year-to-date
development, still, I think we are around €20 million down in relationship to last year. So, renewals
might also shift a bit from the first quarter to the second quarter. So, that trend is there.

Q - Matthias De Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
The next question comes from Benoît Pétrarque from Kepler. Please go ahead.

Q - Benoît Pétrarque
Yes. Good morning. It's Benoît Pétrarque from Kepler Cheuvreux. Two questions on my side. First
one will be on the investment margins. Clearly, you are re-risking on the Dutch book. Could you talk
a bit more on this re-risking? Where are you now on the re-risking? How much you are planning to
do for the rest of the year and next year? And what type of – what is the kind of investment margin
outlook for the coming quarters? Are you going to be able to maybe slightly improve your
investment margin or keep it stable?
And linked to that as well, I was wondering if you could give us the impact of the re-risking on the
FCR in the first half of 2016? And then the second question will be on the disability business. Could
you update us on the outlook for the disability book? We are seeing very strong claim
developments in Q2 which actually a bit against the trend we have seen in Q1 which was going for



the duration (50:33) there. So, could you guide us a bit more on disability, where are we going
now? Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese

FINAL

Yeah. So, first – so, thank you very much, Benoît. Maybe it's good to hand over to Doug for your
first question. I will take the second question thereafter.

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

Yeah. I think on the investment margin, I think consistent with what we've said for a long time, and
we still remain with quite a prudent investment book with a significant amount of government
bonds and especially high quality. And then over time, we are looking for the opportunities to
move those to slightly higher yielding assets as those are available. We have been, the last year
and a half or so, investing quite a bit more in mortgages, in loans, taking advantage of the illiquidity
of the liabilities and also, more corporate bonds and some other fixed income, spready assets.
That has been gradual and we will continue to look for those opportunities to do that.
Also, similar to the question Ashik gave, obviously, on a market yield basis, many of these highquality government bonds are very well yielding to even negative in some cases. So, that will
continue. And I think the guidance – I think we've generally given on the investment spread as we
expect it to be relatively in line and remaining stable to the level we had in 2013, the time of the
IPO, which was around 105 basis points. So, even with rates coming down, we believe we can try to
– we will be working to keep that in line.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Eilard Friese
Yes. Benoît. And on the Disability & Accident business, first of all, we had a strong second quarter
in Disability & Accident results. By the way, you also need to look at the comparison with last
quarter, same quarter last year, where there was a €6 million private equity dividend included in
2015. So, if you look at what's been driving the good results, it was actually very low inflow and high
outflow of claims in the Individual Disability portfolio. And that was in contract to, indeed, the high
level of claims that we saw in January and February of this year.
By the way, you may recall that in the call at that time, the earnings call, I said that those were
things that happened in the first two months of that quarter and as you can see the months
thereafter going through the second quarter. It was actually a quite positive, favorable claims
development. So that's been driving it, low inflows and high recovery especially in Individual
Disability part of the business.

Q - Benoît Pétrarque
Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
The next question comes from Bart Horsten from Kempen & Co. Please go ahead, sir.

Q - Bart Horsten

{BIO 2390919 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. Bart Horsten, Kempen & Co. I have a few questions on cash and capital. You
remitted €532 million in the second quarter, which is quite high. Have you considered to leave part
of the cash in the operating companies because you didn't need it to shore up your cash at the
holding level which is already quite high? So, could you elaborate on that?
And on the UFR. In Q1, you guided that the lower interest rates would result in UFR drag of €100
million additionally for the rest of the year. Is that still the case? And related to that could you give



an indication of what the impact would be on your capital generation when UFR drops from 4.2% to
3.7%? Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese

FINAL

Yes. So, please, Delfin. Yeah.

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, Bart. We explained in the past our philosophy for capital management based on
three pillars. One of the pillar, which we think is also important in order to maintain also internal
discipline on the usage of capital is that the operating units have to be operating at, what we call,
internally our commercial capital target level. So, even if it shows up in cash capital upholding, we
think it provides more fungibility (55:09) for the group and is the best way to manage the group.
So, we do not consider to leave it in the business unit. And we look at sustainable distribution from
those units to their holding company.
In terms of the UFR impact, clearly the impact of the UFR drag has been negative on the operating
return, but that's already been flagged. There are many items such as the risk margin release and
others that have offsetting impact. And in terms of the sensitivity today, UFR to drop to 3.7%. We
have not disclosed it explicitly within the sensitivity. But I think that if you were to take half that
amount, it won't be that far off.

Q - Bart Horsten

{BIO 2390919 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
The next question comes from Steven Haywood from HSBC. Please go ahead, sir.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Good morning. Hello. In terms of what happened with your NN Re division in Ireland, could you give
us a bit more detail here? And could you indicate what sort of amount of capital repatriation may
be possible from this entity? And then also, for the NN Bank, I don't know if this was asked earlier, I
apologize, but could you explain to us why the number of customers is increasing so rapidly and
how NN Bank is doing and why is it doing so well here? Many thanks.

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes. So, let me take the question. Thanks, Steven, on the Bank and then I will ask Delfin to give
some more comments on the Ireland venture. So, NN Bank is focused very much in the Dutch
market on providing mortgages and saving solutions for customers. And this very much an
extension of the product range that we have in the Netherlands on life insurance solutions for retail
customers and non-life insurance solutions for retail customers and especially because in the
individual life insurance market, the long-term saving solutions market has – that due to all kinds of
regulatory changes in the past, has reduced very significantly that that equity has been taken over
by banking products. And we have moved in to that space to provide those same services to our
client within the form of a bank.
So the role that our bank plays is very much a extension of our product range in the Netherlands to
solidify our already very strong position in the Dutch market. The bank is doing well in its progress
both on mortgage origination as well attracting new customers when it comes to saving solutions.
Those are long-term saving solutions, deposits, et cetera. And we will continue our focus on
growing the bank. The bank is doing well. It's efficient. It operates through the, let's say, the
distribution structure that the insurance group also uses. So it's not a bank with branches or
something like that. So in that sense, it's an innovative bank activity, a very focused bank activity



FINAL

that we have, that we aim to grow further. It's doing very well. And it nicely contributes to the
overall product offering while at the same time, being an origination capability to help us originate
an asset that we actually like on balance sheets of our insurance companies as it is an attractive
asset class with a nice spread that helps us to back our long-term liabilities. So that's, let's say, my
commentary on the bank. Maybe Delfin on the reinsurance company in Ireland.
Yes. Thank you, Steven. So we have a subsidiary in Ireland, NN Re. Its only activity is an investment
contract and obviously is related investments. We are in the process, in advance discussions and
expect to sign a portfolio transfer agreement for both that investment contract and the related
investments to be transferred. And as mentioned in the press release, we do expect that this will
close, that will be signed during the second half of the year. And it will result into after-tax loss
which we don't think is material. And in addition to that, that will free up the capital link to – or lock
into NN Re and this is the capital repatriation that we will bring to the holding company. Once the
transaction has been signed, we will communicate the precise impacts.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Thanks very much.

Operator
The next question comes from Robin van den Broek from Mediobanca. Please go ahead, sir.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

I'm sorry to come back to this. But clearly there's a relationship between re-risking in your SCR and
what that should contribute to Eligible Own Fund generation. I think I missed the answer to what
happened to the UFR drag in Q2. But based on swap movements in Q1 versus Q2, I would expect
that UFR drag hasn't increased as much as in Q1. So if you assume re-risking which keeps the SCR
flat, should we not assume that incrementally you are looking at higher Eligible Own Fund
generation going forward? That's basically the question.

A - Eilard Friese
Yeah, so I'll ask Doug to comment on that. Thank you very much, Robin.

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

Yeah. Actually, I believe I missed answering this question earlier in terms of the SCR. I think as we
mentioned – I mentioned on the slide 20 and also I mentioned as we move from truly – some of
our government bond position toward riskier assets, that will increase the SCR. I think the reason
we're careful to give any specific numbers on this is because first of all the asset markets can
change. So what we were exactly invested in the future is not necessarily what we invested in
yesterday. And also every particular quarter, we may take steps in a different path on this.
The other thing that happened in a particular quarter is you don't necessarily have large
movements because of diversification and other things like this. So I think whether the additional
assets that we buy will end up fully offsetting the runoff of the closed books, it remains to be seen.
I think we can't give specific guidance on that. And it also depends a bit on the assets. But right
now, going into mortgages, especially Dutch mortgages, have been also quite reasonable in terms
of spread risk as well because they're a bit shorter duration. And then we swapped those out with
longer-dated swaps. So from a Solvency II perspective and spread risk, it's not adding substantially
more capital.

Q - Robin van den Broek
So can you – sorry.

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}



A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

FINAL

And in terms of will those assets increase capital generation. At any point we increase the market
spread on our assets, that would increase capital generation. But then again, that will layer on over
time and not all happen at one time and again will be dependent on what we actually do going
forward, which is dependent on financial markets and the attractiveness and availability of assets.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

But given what we've seen in Q1 basically, that UFR drag increased that March; it was pretty difficult
to offset that by re-risking in Q2. That should be easier going forward. Is it a correct conclusion or -

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

So I think maybe, Robin, I can jump in here. There are many elements affecting the capital
generation in a particular quarter. The UFR drag is one of them. As I mentioned, it's the release of
the risk margin but also all the movements in the valuation, the new value of the balance sheet. So
I think that as we re-risk, as we take assets with higher expected return; the Eligible Own Funds will
not change per se. But it will change the expected return from those assets. So indeed, every step
in re-risking have a positive effect in the capital generation. And it will increase or have an impact,
as it has been explained by Doug, in the solvency capital requirement as well.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Okay, thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
The next question comes from (01:04:05). Please go ahead, sir.
Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you for taking my question. I have one left on Netherlands Nonlife. If you strip out the claims of the P&C of the storms, what would be the combined operating
ratio both for the whole Netherlands Non-life as well as for just P&C? Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese
Yeah. Marcelle (01:04:29), this is Lard. If you would exclude the €28 million of claims as a result of
the severe storms in May and June, the overall Non-life ratio would be on that pro forma basis, if
you will. It would be 97%. And if you would look at the Property and Casualty piece of that, it would
improve by roughly, let me see, 13 points (01:05:02) what we published. Yeah, so we obviously
publish the combined ratio as it is. But since you're asking specifically if you take out the storms
how would it look; if you take out the storms, you're looking at 97% for the quarter on the total
combined ratio of the non-life company.

Q - Operator
Okay, thank you.
The next question comes from Ron Heijdenrijk from ABN AMRO. Please go ahead, sir.

Q - Ron Heijdenrijk

{BIO 3653338 <GO>}

Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you for taking my question. Most have been answered already.
Two small ones remaining. In the bank, can you confirm that the only assets that you're putting on
your balance sheet are mortgages or are you investing your savings in other assets as well?
Secondly, could you give an indication of whether the loan loss provisions you saw in Q2 are a
proper run rate going forward or whether or not these were abnormally low in this quarter? And
then on the Disability business, how much of the favorable claims development in the second
quarter is actually an offset of the unfavorable claims experience in the first quarter and therefore



what would be the good run rate of your combined ratio going through those two quarters? Thank
you.

FINAL

A - Eilard Friese
Yeah. Thank you very much for this. I'll answer the Disability piece. This is volatile. So Disability &
Accident on a monthly basis, looking at the claim inflows and outflows, et cetera, is of course some
volatility we'll see in a monthly basis. What we've seen is that – and I've mentioned that at the
earnings call in Q1 is that in the individual book, we saw some elevated claims in the first two
months of the year, which was then basically subsiding in the months thereafter resulting in a good
result over the first half of the year for that book. So there is some volatility as a result of that. The
other piece, Delfin on the bank.

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

Yes, Ron, your first question on is mortgages the only asset, very much so. So it's that they need to
maintain some liquidity. This is a very simple retail bank, as you know, focused on providing
mortgages and savings for the time being. In relationship to the addition to the loan loss provision
in the second quarter, is it a good run rate? There's nothing exceptional, positive or any nonrecurrent or anything to highlight. And as a consequence, I would say so it is the result, as I said, of
some very strong signs of recovery in the valuation of housing in the Netherlands. And we don't
think that this is extraordinarily high or anything to adjust for that tax (01:08:01).

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ron Heijdenrijk

{BIO 3653338 <GO>}

Thank you for those answers. So is it fair then to conclude that the current profitability of the bank
is sustainable going forward and actually going to grow in line with your book growth? And then to
come back on the Disability, how much of the reassignment (01:08:17) of your elevated claims in
January-February has been due to management, i.e., how much were there? Well, false claims is
maybe the wrong term, but how much has been managed away, so to say?

A - Eilard Friese
The nature of our Disability business – and by the way, I'll let the bank comment go to Delfin. So he
will comment in a second probably. On the Disability side, now this is really not the – what we're
doing very actively – if a claim comes in of a client that has fallen ill, then what we do is we help the
customer as soon as possible to get it into a reintegration program. So we're going to – doing a lot
of activity to help individuals and customers to reintegrate and to get back to work and to be
healthy again, et cetera. We do a lot of work and a lot of services around this to do that. So in that
sense, is it management action? Yes, obviously. We have a very active way of managing and
helping customers to get back and to reintegrate back.
Having said that, it depends very much on the nature of the illness, the nature of what's causing
the disability that leads to how long it will take for the customer to reintegrate back, et cetera. So
we did pay a lot of attention. We are known for this by the way. So we are known with our brand for
this that we are very active and that we are helping customers to get back to work as soon as they
can. And we help them with that. But again, it very much – it's dependent on the nature of the
disability or the illness. Yeah.

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

And in terms of the result of NN Bank going forward. Indeed, I think that NN Bank has been growing
from being a very small bank into becoming much more mature. And therefore, we will see these
economies of scale as it grows depending on how the interest margin will stay over time. As it
grows, the bank will need to do some further investments and expenses. And also, one element
to keep into account is the additional regulatory levies that we have now to incur. There is deposit
guarantee scheme that – I believe it was introduced in the last quarter of last year. And that
together with a contribution to our resolution fund, it provides something around €7 million of cost



per annum. So when you look at the cost base in 2015, that was not included. And it hasn't started
– been reflected in our profit and loss account as from the start of this year.

Q - Ron Heijdenrijk

{BIO 3653338 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you. Very clear.

Operator
The next question comes from Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan. Please go ahead, sir.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

All right. Thank you. And just a couple of follow-up questions. I'm not sure if I heard it correctly. I
think Doug mentioned that the majority of the UFR will amortize over next 10 years. Is that right?
Sounds a bit low to me given that – your duration of the book is around, say, 17 in pensions in the
group pension and 13 in the individual life. It should be amortizing over next 20 years. So is that 10
year what I heard it correctly? So I just want to clarify on that. And secondly is, how should we think
about – sir, you're hedging cash flows at the moment whereas some of your peers are hedging
UFR or, say, Solvency II balance sheet. Can you give us some sense about why are you hedging
cash flows even when (01:11:55) zero, any sense on that? Some good bits or bad bits. Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. So thanks, Ashik. Doug.

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

Yeah, thank you. Yeah, I think did speak the way I meant to in terms of the most majority of the UFR
drag or benefit is from (01:12:14). We'll amortize over the next 10 years. It will not be 100%, but let
me explain why I say that. Basically, it has to do with the only cash flows impacted by the UFR are
any cash flows beyond year 2020. So if you go 10 years from now and you move that forward,
most of our cash flows will sit between year 2020 and 2030. There are some, of course, that go
beyond year 2030 that would still be influenced. But that would be influenced for 10 or less years.
So if you just kind of move the whole thing forward on a – if it was on a purely closed book type
basis, we would not have that much impact in 10 years from the remaining impact of the UFR and
in Life. There will be some there, but it will be much, much reduced from what we have now. That's
why we say they amortize over 10 years.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay, that's clear. Thank you.

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

Why are we hedging the cash flows? Well, I think we've been doing this for a long time, also
believing that low interest rates were a risk for a long time, also using economic capital and a lot of
different risk management tools for many years. We believe it's the way to manage.
I think your question becomes is there a point at which you would not want to do that if interest
rates become low. There were several thoughts on that. If I had a nickel for every time I've had
people tell me over the last 10 years that you should stop. The rates are going to start going up.
So you could adjust your interest rate position. I would appreciate that because I've heard it for
many, many years and rates have just continued to fall. Now, of course, we're starting to enter into
a completely new world with negative rates on certain government positions, even 10-year swap
rates are approaching a negative territory. And I think of course it's fair to ask that question. And I
think it's fair to say that we do discuss this internally. The point at this point is we have not changed
our general focus on managing interest rate risk and if we do, we will say something about that.



Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah. So just to clarify, at least at the moment, you're not looking to change that strategy because
the sense I'm hearing from everyone is the rates could continue to remain low. It may not go down,
but it may continue to remain low. I just want to confirm that here.

FINAL

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

I can confirm that we have not changed our interest rate hedging strategy.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

And if I can find the person who can tell me how far interest rates are going to go negative, I would
appreciate that. But they've already – it's very hard to say what happens.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay, that's good. Thank you, Doug.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

The next question comes from Benoît Pétrarque from Kepler. Please go ahead, sir.

Q - Benoît Pétrarque
Yeah. So just two follow-up questions on my side. Now the first one, I was wondering if you could
provide a bit more granularity on the NN Bank earnings. I think overall, it start to be really significant
so that we will (01:15:15) calculate your net interest margin, loan loss ratio and cost/income ratio.
That's the first – just a remark. Second point will be on the P&C. So just to make sure I understand,
so you had a 118% combined ratio in the second quarter. And I need to strip out 13 percentage
points of storm impact, so I will get on a clean (01:15:41) basis at about 105% on P&C. Is that
correct?

A - Eilard Friese
Hi. Let me do – Benoît, I'll...

Q - Benoît Pétrarque
Yeah?

A - Eilard Friese
I'll take the non-life piece. Yeah, so we published our combined ratios, obviously, as they are for
the total non-life company. If you would take out the impact of the storm, and you'd do that on a
pro forma basis, you will end up 97% for the total non-life company. If you would do that only for
the Property and Casualty piece, the Property and Casualty element of the non-life company would
improve on that basis by 13 percentage points. Okay?

Q - Benoît Pétrarque
Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese
And then on the bank earnings and your questions on net interest margin, et cetera, so, Delfin.



A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. Thank you, Benoît. I mean, it's a very generic question, which I don't know honestly from
where do I start.
I think you have some details in the financial supplement where you can see how the flows have
evolved so far. Up to now, we have considered NN Bank to be as part of the segment Other, one
additional contributor to the segment and we have not provided too much explicit detail on it.
That's something that at some point in the future we'll have to consider as it becomes more
relevant. And you have some of the – in the financial supplement some data in relationship to how
it has evolved, the level of capitalization, which is very strong, close to 16% (01:17:34). As you can
see that the net operating ROE has also been improving over time. And the business in NN Bank is
quite simple and straightforward. They have some interest yielding (01:17:54) assets, being the
mortgages. You have some cost of funding and some administrative expenses that has been
increasing as the bank grows, but providing this margin. And as I said in the financial supplement,
you also have done some additions on the position and other savings as well as mortgages, how
this has been evolving over time.

Q - Benoît Pétrarque
Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

The next question comes from Robin van den Broek from Mediobanca. Please go ahead, sir.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning, again. Ashik already asked the question, but I want to follow up on the UFR
amortization period of 10 years. I understand what you're doing. But can you maybe explain how
regulation prescribes you to amortize the UFR because there seems to be a certain amount of
subjectivity in it? So, Doug, I guess this question is for you.

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

I think Lard agrees, I'll take the call – I'll take the question. Yeah. I think I want to – yeah, I can answer
this, and I think I want to clarify one point that may be underlying also some of the question of
Ashik. But I think there is no particular – the regulation is simply on how you set the curve. So,
basically you use the swap curve with some few adjustments up to year 2020. And then you
extrapolate over time toward a forward rate that becomes one year forward rate. It becomes 4.2%
in year 2060. So, you have a gradual increase at least on the current curve.
Then you simply discount your cash flows. So, when we talk about a UFR drag or UFR impacting
your capital generation, in some sense, every year or every period you move forward on that curve
and that impact of the UFR and that adjustment after year 2020 goes away. And so, for those cash
flows – and it goes away for a quarter or for a year for all the cash flows as they move forward. And
so, it's effectively part of your discounting of your cash flows.
I think the other thing that I want to make sure or clarify is that there's two – is also that we're
talking about here the UFR amortization, which is different from the risk margin amortization. So,
we always say we have a UFR benefit – I mean, a UFR drag, and we also have a benefit from the
risk margin. The risk margin takes more time to run off. It runs off more slowly than the UFR and I
think it's good to understand also the difference between the two.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

And how long does it take for the risk margin to amortize? Is it probably...



A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

Longer than – I don't have an exact calculation to give you in comparison. But it's just much more –
it's more slowing (01:20:40). Okay. That's tied almost completely – it's mostly tied – well, materially,
it's mostly tied to our longevity risk in the Pension business in the Netherlands.

FINAL

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

Operator
The next question comes from Bart Horsten from Kempen & Co. Please go ahead, sir.

Q - Bart Horsten

{BIO 2390919 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you. One final question, if I may. On the first page of your press release, you spent
almost half a paragraph on Poland, and you said that you are following it closely. And I was
wondering how you look at it right now and would you also consider exiting Poland if the situation
continues to be like this? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Eilard Friese
Bart, our Polish business is successful and this (01:21:39) business that we've been building over the
last decades in Poland. It's got a very strong position in both the Life Insurance side, the Pension
side and also on the Asset Management side; we have a good business there as well. So, we will
continue to grow that business. We actually did an acquisition, a small acquisition in the beginning
of the year, to cater for additional distribution strength to support the growth of that business.
What we are pointing towards is a development that first of all we had some changes in regulation
coming through over the last periods, which we've been flagging and reporting on. And there is a
very general and high-level proposal now for changes in one piece of our business. At least the
regulation around that (01:22:31) business for pension funds. But those high levels proposals for
those changes are not yet precise, and the consequence is therefore not yet clear. So, we need to
wait for this new legislation to go through various rounds of consultations, and we expect that to
be finalized for 2016.

Q - Bart Horsten

{BIO 2390919 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
The next question comes from (01:22:54) Please go ahead, sir.
Yes. Hi. Some follow-up on the interest margin at the bank. If you look on year-on-year, your
deposit growth was lower than your mortgage growth. Deposit growth was €1.3 billion. Mortgage,
€1.9 billion. Is this the only thing that explains the margin increase or are there also measures? If you
look at the last quarter-on-quarter, your deposit growth is higher than your mortgage growth. So,
what was the evolution quarter-on-quarter? And are there any measures still left outside, let's say,
volume growth that could you help sustain or even grow your interest margin?

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

I think – I mean, we can take this question offline to go into the detail. The only thing I would say
now is that in addition to the interest margin, we should not forget that NN Bank is an originator of
mortgages, also for the insurance companies and also for our Asset Management as some of our
institutional clients are investing into that mortgages through some of the funds managed by Asset



Management. That means that apart from the interest margin, there is also an origination and
service fee flowing through NN Bank.

FINAL

And I think that with that, we'll be happy to go into further details offline to cover NN Bank if you
have any additional questions (01:24:25).

Q - Operator
Okay. Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the Q&A. Please continue.

A - Eilard Friese

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. So, thank you all for your questions. Let me conclude by saying that we are making progress
to deliver on all our strategic objectives but we are fully aware that there is still more work to do.
We are able to fully focus on improving operating performance, thanks to our strong capital
position while at the same time; we remain committed to disciplined capital management. Our
base case is to return excess capital to shareholders while maintaining a robust capital position and
the financial flexibility to be able to pursue value-creating corporate opportunities be it organic or
inorganic.
Now finally, I would like to mention that this was Doug Caldwell's last quarterly analyst call as Chief
Risk Officer of NN Group. His successor, Jan-Hendrik Erasmus, will join NN Group on the 1st of
September and will take over the CRO role in October. I would like to take this opportunity to
extend a huge thanks to Doug for his expert knowledge and clarity during these calls and for his
contributions to all our interactions with investors and with analysts over the past few years.
I want to thank all of you and wish you a very good day. Thank you.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the NN Group conference call. You may now disconnect your
line. Thank you for attending.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

