Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Paul Norton, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Ralph-Thomas Honegger , Chief Investment Oﬃcer
Stefan Loacker, Chief Executive Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Daniel Bischof, Analyst
Jonny Urwin, Analyst
Peter Casanova, Analyst
René Locher, Analyst
William H. Elderkin, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, good morning or good afternoon. Welcome to Full-Year Results
2015 Conference Call and Live Webcast. I'm Sarah, the Chorus Call operator. I would like
to remind you that all participants will be in listen-only mode, and the conference is being
recorded. After the presentation, there will be a Q&A session. The conference must not
be recorded for publication or broadcast.
At this time, it's my pleasure to hand over to Mr. Stefan Loacker, Group's CEO. He will now
be joined into the conference room. Thank you.

Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Ladies and gentlemen, it's now 11 o'clock, at least in Switzerland, and we would like to
start on time with our annual media and analyst conference, this time looking into 2015, a
year which was very intense for everyone in Helvetia because of the integration eﬀorts
that we had around Nationale Suisse and Basler in Austria. I'm very happy now to give you
an update, both on the ﬁnancials, then on the integration process, and last but not least
also, a certain perspective for our future which we call the new strategy helvetia 20.20. I
will be helped in doing so from Paul Norton, side our CFO, who will go through all the
ﬁnancials of the full year's numbers 2015, which then will be wrapped up by a strategy
outlook from my side, after which my colleagues, including Philipp Gmür, our CEO
Switzerland and Ralph Honegger, our Chief Investment Oﬃcer, will be also available for
the Q&A session. But for timing reasons, this time, are not presenting actively their parts.

Page 1 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

FINAL

Let me start by looking into slide number four, which gives you a ﬁrst snapshot on the
operational business development in the reporting year 2015.
As you have already seen, we have reported a pleasing increase in our underlying
earnings of 4% to CHF 439 million. This improvement was primarily driven by the non-life
segment which grew by 22% to now CHF 332 million. This is certainly no surprise as it was
largely driven by the consolidation and the large non-life volume that we have received
both from Basler in Austria and from Nationale Suisse in Switzerland and three other
countries. But also, it was signiﬁcantly good net technical performance that helped us to
achieve these results.
In addition, you have probably also seen it already. We have ﬁrst notable synergies, which
helped us on the cost ratio side which again was contributed to the underlying earnings.
Also, on the life insurance side, we have reported an increase proﬁt of CHF 176 million. It
has been increased by 16%. Only the results of what we call other activities has decreased
signiﬁcantly from the previous years. We will go through that in more detail later on. But it
was mainly driven by higher expenses in our internal group reinsurance which covered
losses mainly from our foreign entities which were not ceded to the third-party market.
And it was also driven by currency losses which we had suﬀered around the 15 of January
last year.

Bloomberg Transcript

The integration on the other side of the two acquisition is progressing very well. Overall,
we have already generated synergies in the amount of CHF 45 million which is, as you
probably know, which is certainly more even – much more than we had originally planned
for the ﬁrst year after the acquisitions took place.
Also on the volume side, the story is mainly driven by the acquisition. Generally speaking,
we have reported a double-digit growth rate in original currency of 11%. Paul Norton will
go through the details in a minute.
All in all, this solid and good business development allows us to continue our attractive
dividend policy in the next step, which means that the board of directors will propose
their shareholders meeting to increase our dividend from CHF 18 to CHF 19 per share.
From the numbers to the integration, setting on slide ﬁve. As you have seen already in our
interim report last September, we have been progressing really fast in the integration,
both of – for Nationale Suisse entities and Basler in Austria. We have more or less
completed all the transaction elements including the legal mergers in most of the
countries now in the year 2016, which was also followed by an operational integration on
the product side, on the IT side, on the org chart side, and on the process side as well.
So, generally speaking, I think that 2015 already saw a large decrease of implementation
progress, in Switzerland, probably, we just have the last third ahead of us. And in the
other foreign markets, we are also progressing very far. So generally speaking, with the
end of 2016, we are largely done with this integration. Probably a couple of remaining IT
migrations will lead us into 2017 although on the customer side, on the process side, this
will be more or less the ﬁnal year.
Page 2 of 31



FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

As you have seen this fast progress and that leads me to slide six, has also allowed us to
be faster in terms of synergy realization. Synergies are driven from staﬀ reductions as well
as non-personnel cost savings. As you can see on the staﬀ side, we have lowered our
head count roughly by 400 FTEs as compared to the situation where the two or three
companies including Basler in Austria were separate. Some of these roughly 140
employees are attributed to our exit from the Belgian market, so certainly we do not count
these FTEs anymore. But the larger part is structural redundancy that we have already
achieved both in Switzerland and also in the foreign markets.
We have a certain movement against staﬀ (8:58) because we are also investing in our
future, so we have a couple of new jobs that were created, need for future topics like
digitalization, IT, SAP or be through in-sourcing of functions that were previously given to
external parties, mainly within Nationale Suisse. We have also generated non-personnel
cost savings of CHF 18 million already fully phased in the results in 2015 which were in
particular achieved in the areas of IT, logistics, marketing and the corporate functions.
So, overall, these CHF 45 million are clearly ahead of our plans that we had for the ﬁrst
year, and they also make us certainly conﬁdent that ﬁnally, we will reach or at least at
100% or even a bit more, our full targets which come up to CHF 130 million in the next
two years or three years.
With that, I would like now to give over the presentation, give over the ﬂoor to Paul
Norton, who will lead you through the ﬁnancial ﬁgures.

Bloomberg Transcript

Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Thank you, Stefan. Ladies and gentlemen, also from my side, welcome to this analyst
conference for the ﬁnancial year 2015. I'd like to give you some more information about
the year's results. As you know, we've moved to what we call the underlying basis which
neutralizes the special eﬀects from the acquisitions and gives a better view of the
underlying performance over a period of time for the next two years. There will be – we'll
present that basis into the end of 2017.
We completed the acquisitions of Nationale Suisse and Basler on the 20 of October and
the 28 of August 2014, respectively. And the numbers for 2014 have been included from
those dates onwards. I mean that you do have diﬀerences and comparability between
2014 and 2015.
If you look at slide eight, results by the business area. We have what we considered to be
rather convincing underlying earnings of CHF 439 million, it's an increase of 4% on the
previous year. This was due to a large extent of the acquisitions both the Nationale Suisse
and Basler Austria in 2014. Against us were lower interest income and exchange rate
eﬀects of the Swiss National Bank's regime (11:38) to lift the minimum exchange rate
against the euro in January last year. These aﬀected growth were measured in Swiss
francs. We increased the result in the non-life business to CHF 332 million. That was 22%
up on 2014. And the major improvement came from the volume contributions of the two

Page 3 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

FINAL

acquisitions, plus an improved technical result. All the non-life units achieved the
combined ratio of below 100%.
The life business came in at CHF 176 million, 16% higher than the previous year. This
growth in proﬁt has driven by a good risk result and lower expenses in Switzerland and
Spain for additional reserving rate (12:22) to interest rate movements compared to the
previous year. The contributions from other activities at minus CHF 69 million was
considered to be lower than the minus CHF 2 million in 2014, and I'll come back to that
later.
We now move to the segment result on slide nine. As we announced when we published
the half-year results, we have changed our segment reporting structure as of 1 of January
2015. Our Group operating segments now consist of Switzerland, Europe, Specialty
Markets and Corporate. This chart reﬂects the Group's new positioning, and we've
amended the previous year's ﬁgures accordingly. By the way, as additional information,
the Europe segment is detailed in the Annual Report into the underlying market units, so
you have enough information to ﬁll your models.

Bloomberg Transcript

Currency eﬀects triggered by the collapse of the euro against the Swiss franc aﬀected the
contributions in Europe, Specialty Markets, and Corporate to the Group result. The
Switzerland segment, which is basically the Swiss country market, again, proved its
credentials as a stable foundation for the Group by processing (13:32) a proﬁt contribution
of CHF 365 million and a growth rate of 28% in 2015.
Europe comprised with the market units of Germany, Italy, Spain and Austria. The
segment result for Europe was down 3% to CHF 98 million, but this was solely due to
currency eﬀects. The result actually increased by 10% when measured in the original
currency.
The result in original currency also rose in non-life business due to the earnings
contribution from Basler Austria and the reinsurance structure. The life was now 14%
higher than in 2014, mainly because of improved risk results.
Specialty Markets includes the business lines marine, engineering, and art in a specialty
lines of Swiss and international market unit, the French market unit is specializing in
marine, insurance and the globally active reinsurance business. The segment result of
Specialty Markets was CHF 43 million, which was 11% higher than in 2014. All the units in
the segment contributed to this improved performance.
The Corporate segment includes the Corporate Center and group reinsurance. In
addition to the ﬁnancing companies and the holding company, its contribution results of
minus CHF 67 million, fell short to the previous year's ﬁgure of minus CHF 3 million. This
resulted from a weak result from group reinsurance, currency losses relating to the
scrapping of the euro peg in January 2015 and the planned ﬁnancing costs for the debt
instruments which we raised in connection with the acquisition of Nationale Suisse, and I'll
give you more on that later.

Page 4 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

FINAL

If we continue with the growth in business volume on slide 10. In 2015 year, the Helvetia
Group achieved the business volume of CHF 8.2 billion, which is an increase of 11% over
the previous year in original currency. This mainly resulted from the acquisition of
Nationale Suisse and Basler Austria. Our non-life business was a growth driver with
increase of 35% in original currency.
In the life business area, the volume of investment linked insurance solutions and deposits
increased by 5% overall, while traditional insurance solutions declined. This resulted in
overall decrease of 4% in the life business.
The Swiss country market posted the biggest growth rate by segment with an increase of
CHF 584 million or 13%. I will return to that later in the next slide. The anticipated positive
acquisition related eﬀects were also apparent (16:17) in the European segment which
posted 5% growth in original currency.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the non-life business we achieved a 19% increase in premiums by original currency in
Europe. All the market units in this segment posted pleasing double-digit growth rates in
original currency. Life business, on the other hand, decreased by 12%, measured in
original currency. This was mainly due to lower traditional life business volumes in Italy
and in Germany which the improvement in unit linked products and deposits could not
oﬀset. All other market units were able to increase or at least maintain that business
volume compared to the previous year.
In the Specialty Markets segment, we also achieved a 29% increase in volume over 2014 in
original currency. Specialty Lines Switzerland/international market unit was the principal
growth driver due to the ﬁrst full year consolidation of the former Nationale Suisse
business. Active reinsurance also posted an impressive performance with 16% premium
growth resulting from targeted diversiﬁcation by region and business lines, as well as the
selected expansion of existing business relationships.
With that I'd like to turn to Swiss home market on slide 11. With the acquisition of
Nationale Suisse, Helvetia strengthened its strong top three position in Switzerland as a
leading Swiss all lines insurance company. In non-life business, we increased premium
volume by 73% to CHF 1.4 billion.
As I've already mentioned, this is mainly due to the acquisition of National Suisse. The
main growth drivers were motor and property insurance and the newly added accident
and health portfolio. All sales channels contributed to this growth. The most important
sales channel in Switzerland in 2015 was once again Helvetia's own sales force. However,
Helvetia was also able to generate satisfying growth in the online sales channel to
smile.direct. smile.direct once again earned top marks in customer satisfaction surveys in
2015. Helvetia is, therefore, already very well positioned in this strategically important
online sales channel segment.
Business volume in life business remained around the prior year level in a consistently
challenging low interest rate environment. In individual life business, premium volume
increased by 7% to CHF 951 million, whereby the main contribution came from the full
Page 5 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

FINAL

year consolidation of the former National Suisse portfolio. The guarantee plan is
demonstrating a positive trend in the sale of modern insurance solutions.
However, overall, Helvetia was not able to build on the growth from prior periods.
Extraordinarily low interest rates made it practically impossible to present customers with
products of similar appeal to those of previous years. Although sales of the second
tranche product (19:33) were again very strong, they were not able to compensate for the
short fall in the ﬁrst half of the year. Demand for full insurance solutions remain consistent
in group life business. As a result, we achieved growth of about 3% in regular premiums,
which are important to for sustainable growth.
However, the regular premium growth did not compensate for decreasing single
premium business in 2015. So group life business fell by 3% overall. We've said the lower
single premium volumes, as part of our strategy, are being very selective about our new
business in this low-interest rate environment.

Bloomberg Transcript

So if we'd like to move to slide 12 and to the combined ratio. The net combined ratio
improved over prior year by 1.4 percentage points to 92.1%. The net claims ratio fell by 0.2
percentage points due to improved net claims experience, which is also underpinned by
the reinsurance structure. At 29.4%, the cost ratio was 1.2 percentage points down on the
prior year. This was partly due to realization of notable synergies. All the market units
achieved a combined ratio of below 100%.
If we move now to slide 13 to the life business. We can see that the operating result fell by
CHF 37 million from the prior year level, mainly driven by the two principle earning
sources, the savings result and the risk result. The risk result improved. However, the
savings result fell mainly due to revaluation of bonds to market value as a result of the
acquisitions. Just to emphasize this proﬁt by source is not on an underlying basis, it's on a
IFRS reported basis.
Proﬁt before tax on hand was up CHF 39 million or 25%. There were two inﬂuences here.
Reserves strengthening was lower overall during reporting year and the prior year was
impacted by the one-oﬀ amortization of goodwill in Italy.
If we move to slide 14, on embedded value and new business margin, we can see that the
Group's embedded value was CHF 3.2 billion at the end of 2015, which corresponds to a
CHF 217 million or 7% growth over the prior year. The life units acquired in the second half
of the prior year, so that's the life business Basler Austria and also Nationale Suisse, were
only included at the end of 2014 to the extent of their adjusted net asset value. So they
were not fully modeled in the embedded value.
In this year, the new portfolios and all the burial insurance in Spain were modeled for the
ﬁrst time and included as all components in the 2015 embedded value. All of these
adjustments increased embedded value by CHF 209 million as of 1 of January 2015.
Embedded value was CHF 8 million higher on 31 of December 2015 compared to 1 of
January 2015 as operating proﬁt was higher on the back of more favorable cost
Page 6 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

assumptions and a positive contribution of new business.

FINAL

There were headwinds on the economic front as a decision by the Swiss National Bank to
scrap the euro ﬂoor resulted in a sharp decline in investment yields in Switzerland, and
negative exchange rate diﬀerences with the EU units. Dividend payments in the ﬁrst half
of the year also reduced the shareholder value of the life insurance portfolio.
The new business volume was down in 2015 and Switzerland (23:25) took a conscious
decision to reduce its sales of full insurance solutions for the occupational pensions, the
second pillar (23:32). And in the foreign markets, new business volume fell, the most
capital-intensive traditional savings products. The value of the new business written in
2015 declined from CHF 26 million in the previous year to CHF 23 million because of the
smaller volume in new business. And in Switzerland due to the considerably lower interest
rates on new investments relative to 2014.
In the foreign markets, however, the value of new business rose year-on-year despite the
lower volume of new business. The ﬁrst full consolidation of the proﬁtable burial
insurance in Spain also contributed to this development.

Bloomberg Transcript

As a consequence, the proﬁtability of the Helvetia Group new business based on the
development of the volume and value of new business, improved slightly from 0.8% to
0.9% in the reporting year. First, the impact of lower investment returns in Switzerland was
compensated from one of the prior units – from the foreign units.
If we look at slide 15, which deals with our direct yields and guarantees in the life business.
Direct yields fell in Switzerland and in EU countries as a result of the lower interest rates.
Nevertheless, the interest rate margin increased in Switzerland. This was closely linked to
the adjustment of the guaranteed interest rate (24:54) the second pillar, occupational
pensions, retirement assets on 1 of January 2016 from 1.75% to 1.25% and a corresponding
adjustment to extra mandatory rates, which have already been reﬂected in the average
guarantee rate calculation. Because that decision was taken in October, we already
anticipate that in the calculation.
We expect the yields, investment yields, will continue to fall as in recent years, meaning,
the expected future returns will, therefore, also fall further, with the margins stabilizing at
approximately at the same level as in 2014. However, it must be borne in mind the
average interest rate, which Helvetia actually will have to meet in future to cover its
liabilities, will also fall. That is because maturing contracts with high guaranteed interest
rates are being replaced by lower guaranteed interest rates, we have extra capital (25:52)
additions to the reserves.
If we look at slide 16, we can see the results of the other activities by source. As I
mentioned earlier, I'd like to talk to you more about these results. The contribution fell
from minus CHF 2 million to minus CHF 69 million in the year-end review. This is mainly
attributable to the technical result for group reinsurance which fell by CHF 41 million. This
was impacted, in particular, by unfavorable claims experienced on the foreign portfolio of

Page 7 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

the – from portfolios of the former Nationale Suisse companies which seeded many claims
for group reinsurance as a result also of their reinsurance structure.

FINAL

As a result, the current restructuring of these unproﬁtable portfolios and the completed
and planned adjustments to the reinsurance structure, we do expect the group
reinsurance will not be impacted the same extent in future. We expect this to be
eﬀectively a one-oﬀ.
Alongside the decline in the technical result of group reinsurance, gains and losses on
investments decreased by CHF 14 million compared to previous year, which can basically
be attributed to the SNB decision to scrap the euro peg in January 2015. Moreover, we
did not obviously have a Nationale Suisse dividend this year which we had in prior years.
Finally, the ﬁnancing costs for the bonds that we've raised in connection with the
Nationale Suisse acquisition (27:27) full year for the ﬁrst time. Corporate costs stayed at
roughly the same level as in prior years because of the achieved synergies whereas the
Nationale Suisse (27:38) proportionately included in the prior year.

Bloomberg Transcript

If we look at investments on slide 17, current income in 2015 came to CHF 988 million
which was CHF 5 million lower than in 2014. There are two reasons for this. The
depreciation of euro and the current investment income earned in euros was a bit less in
Swiss francs than in the previous year. And in addition, persistently low interest rates
weighed on investment income.
Direct yield came out at 2.2% against 2.5% in 2014. This was mainly a result of the lower
terms on the new investments, the reinvestments. In addition to current income realized in
book gains amounted to CHF 117 million. This came from gains in equities and through
bond sales, mainly due to the liberate switch of the bond portfolios through lower euro
yields to currently more attractive U.S. bonds.
In total, the investment result recognized in the income statement was CHF 1.1 billion, CHF
170 million down on the very good, excellent, in fact, 2014 performance.
In the wake of extraordinary interest-driven increase in the previous year, unrealized gains
in equity declined by CHF 370 million. The decrease was mainly due to slightly higher
interest spreads and once again the weaker euro. Performance was in line with the market
at 1.6%. A ﬁnal point worth mentioning is that we earned CHF 79 million on investment
linked insurance solutions for our customers.
On slide 18, you can see the investment result broken down by asset class. Just under twothirds of the current investment income of CHF 988 million comes from bonds and
mortgages which contributed CHF 557 million and CHF 89 million, respectively, in
absolute terms. Dividends account for CHF 60 million and investment property CHF 237
million.

Page 8 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

FINAL

Gains and losses on investments were CHF 117 million whereby earnings on equities,
bonds and property were aﬀected by currency losses. The developments in non-realized
losses in equity came from the previously interest rates and spread trend. Valuation
margins on the bond portfolio fell by CHF 312 million.
The lower half of the table shows the return on new and recurring investments. Over CHF
5 billion in total reinvested or newly invested in 2015, just under 80% of which was
allocated to bonds, primarily the new BBB corporate segment, U.S. dollar bonds and
convertibles.
We were thus to get rather negative rates in Switzerland to some extent. Nevertheless, we
also had to contend with higher hedging costs to cover our foreign accountings prices.
Otherwise, the funds were mainly invested in equities and mortgages. In mortgages,
Swiss life insurers were able to oﬀer attractive conditions due to their long-term liabilities.
Direct yields or new investments – reinvestments totaled 1.8%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Slide 19 brings us back to acquisition-related temporary special eﬀects. Our outlook up
until 2017, which we announced (31:20) conference a year ago, is basically unchanged. I
would nevertheless like to emphasize that these are approximate indications and
individual positions can still change.
We exceeded our 2015 forecast regarding synergies due to the very pleasing progress of
integration. We achieved synergies of CHF 45 million, mainly from Switzerland, the
Corporate Center in Austria. As a natural result, the integration costs in 2015 year was CHF
75 million, placing them above the expected range as well, but in line with the synergies.
We are well on track to achieve our synergy targets and even slightly exceed them.
Financing cost booked in the reporting year came to CHF 13 million, and the amortization
of intangible assets under IFRS of CHF 60 million, which were at the previously
announced level, as well as the additional planned depreciation due to the revaluation of
interest-bearing securities to market value of CHF 43 million.
If we move to slide 20 on changes in equity, we could see that even after the two
acquisitions, Helvetia still enjoys a solid capital position. The SST ratio by the end of June
was within the target range and by the way, just as an (32:40) we are usually half-a-year
delayed because of the time we needed to produce the SST. So we'll refer to June 2015
and that was within the target range of 150% to 200%.
With CHF 5.4 billion, the Group's equity capital was 5.4% down on 31 December 2015
compared to the year-end 2014. This was due to a reduction in unrealized gains and
losses recognized in equity for the AFS ﬁnancial investments, currency eﬀects from the
recalculation of the equity of the European market unit, and the higher value of pension
liabilities due to lower interest rates in Switzerland.
I'll bring my presentation to an end looking at the dividend on the next slide, slide 21.
Here you can see the excellent full year result and sustained balance sheet strength allows
us to increase the proposed dividend at the shareholders meeting to CHF 19 per share, an
Page 9 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

increase of almost 6% over the prior year. Based on underlying earnings, this corresponds
to a dividend payout ratio of 45% which lies in the target range. The dividend payout ratio
is 66% based on the IFRS result and gives a dividend yield an attractive 3.4%.

FINAL

And with that, I'd like to hand it back to Stefan Loacker.

Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Thank you, Paul, for your explanations on the ﬁnancials of 2015. I would now like to
summarize also the look into the future, helvetia 20.20, the strategy which comes under
the motto, integrate, innovate and increase.
Before I really look into the next ﬁve years, please allow me just for a minute to set out
where we stand today after the strategy 2015 is now completed and we are just heading
oﬀ now for the next ﬁve years' phase.

Bloomberg Transcript

Generally speaking, our last ﬁve-year strategy was designated to excel in growth,
proﬁtability and customer retention. With every measure that we can look at, we ﬁnd that
we have been growing the relevant metrics roughly by one-third in the last ﬁve years. So
we have been growing the volume by 30%; the proﬁts by 30%; dividend, 30%; and also
number of clients has done this.
So with regard to what we have achieved in the last ﬁve years, we are really happy. That
growth was much more than market average. And it has been achieved by a mix of
organic development plus the acquisitions that we did. Nevertheless, we can now not just
relax and sit back, we have ongoing challenges as every other company probably as well.
We are facing a slight change and an ongoing change in the customer behavior. We do
have to cope with very low interest rates also in the coming years.
We are now in the middle of these diﬀerent solvency regimes in Switzerland in the SST
and on the Solvency II side in Europe now relevant and diﬀerent and complex to manage
in the phase of a situation where we are still heading for also progress in our market
positioning in the units abroad. So that is a setting which shows you that we think that we
are starting from a position of strength, but we are facing also challenges that will keep us
busy.
Certainly, it helps that – and that you can ﬁnd on slide 24 that Helvetia today is well
positioned. We are in a top three position in our very stable and proﬁtable home market.
As you have seen much more geared towards the non-life business nowadays, as you
have seen generating a bit more than two-thirds, 70% of our Group's proﬁt. So that's
certainly again the solid foundation for our development in the future.
We are also happy with our European franchise. We have presences in four important and
attractive European markets. All of them are proﬁtable and all of them are scalable also in
the future. And we think that especially in this market consolidations will continue and we
are in a situation to use these opportunities.

Page 10 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

FINAL

With the Specialty Markets, we have a footprint which goes a bit beyond our European
traditions, so to say. As you know, this is a very international book of business from its
nature both in the reinsurance, but also in engineering, marine, and to a certain degree,
as well in art.
We are not stopping at the borders of Switzerland or Europe, which means that we can
also capitalize on long-term growth perspectives that we have around our Asian territories
and other places. And it certainly also adds to diversiﬁcation beneﬁts of our Group's
portfolio. So this footprint is here to stay for the strategic periods as you have probably
read. It's not our idea to change it dramatically. With the exit of Belgium that we did last
year, we ﬁnd ourselves in positions that are sustainable and healthy for the future.

Bloomberg Transcript

What we want to do, and that's on slide 25, is to leverage on this existing footprint both
on proﬁt and on premium volume side with diﬀerent prerequisites. In Switzerland if, in
fact, we see more a proﬁt contribution that will come to a larger degree, now from the
fully phasing in of the synergies that are still not fully harvested. But probably the growth
rate will be not the main target for us in Switzerland, especially around the life insurance
in the second period and traditional single business where we are a bit more cautious
than in the previous years. That will give a bit of a headwind against our volume situation.
In Europe and in the Specialty Markets, we do have both a volume expansion that we
think from an organic point of view but also helped by selective acquisitions and an
increase on the proﬁt side, which means that we have to harvest now fully the synergies of
the latest acquisitions and also increase somehow our technical proﬁtability in one or the
other markets through re-underwriting exercises that we still have ahead of us. So the
combination of proﬁt contribution, which is growing from our Swiss business and a
proﬁtable growth opportunity that we have abroad, makes our overall portfolio attractive
and also important opportunities for the next couple of years, are visible within that
footprint.
Our strategy, helvetia 20.20, and you see the beginning of those ideas on slide 26, is
certainly not a revolution. It is certainly capitalizing on what we are, on what we have done
in the last couple of years, but it's designated to keep us relevant and modern for our
customers. It's also giving priority to an increasingly hybrid or digital customer behavior
which we will combine with our given presences in the ﬁeld. We are not heading towards
pure online model in the next ﬁve years, but we have to play on all means that our
customers are expecting. And certainly also our overall ability to innovate and to adopt to
new situations will be more important than in the recent years.
For us, always important is to ﬁnd the right balance between the expectations of the key
stakeholders that we have: customers, employees and shareholders. We do not want to
give advantage to one to the extent of the other. Like our logo, the triangle, which has
equal length on every side, we try to keep these under control and in a Group balance.
Certainly, it's around that it values for customers that comes alongside personalization,
digitalization and more targeted solutions but also for our employees, we are an attractive
and forward-looking employer and also for our shareholders, which can and will expect
an increasing proﬁt and dividend capacity from our Group; everything will be dealt with in
the new strategy.
Page 11 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

FINAL

Clearly, we have started to discuss along the major trends that we see in the future. You
can ﬁnd the summary on slide 27. No surprise, we do see that the insurance market is in a
ﬂux is changing. There is a certain internal dynamic in non-life. There is a repositioning in
life going on and we are also expecting continuous consolidation within the sector and
also some new competitors coming in from outside those who have access to the big
data or those who have access to other means which gives a new opportunity for them to
come also into the life or non-life insurance business.
Digitalization certainly is a driver, I have already mentioned it. It's a technology that is not
only changing customer behavior but is also changing the state of the art in insurance
management. As we have seen, it's not only the large number but it's increasingly also the
small number, the individual number that is as a technical mean helped by all the data in
our focus.

Bloomberg Transcript

So these trends are certainly important and we tried to capitalize on them. On slide 28,
you ﬁnd some of the most important ﬁndings. For the non-life business, we ﬁnd ourselves
in the markets that we are acting in a environment that should allow for a continuous story
of organic growth. With both combined ratios helped by some bolt-on acquisitions in the
markets that we are present and certainly, developing also around digitization and smart
data, the underwriting art, pricing art, and also cost optimization in the processes which
will be drivers in the non-life business.
In life business, situation is more challenging. As you know, we have lower interest rates to
expect – or low interest rates to expect also for the next couple of years. In fact, if we talk
about 2020, today, (43:50) look into forward rates, you do not see much, much of a game
changer here. And that comes alongside with an increasingly heavy solvency capital
underpinning. So that situation really require action.
The main trigger is careful asset liability management and here certainly it would be a bad
time to start with that, but thanks to our eﬀorts in the last couple of years that you have
followed, our duration gap is only 0.5. So that we are really in a good position to unwind
our back book in a proﬁtable way to generate enough returns to capture the guarantees
and the surplus and a shareholders' beneﬁt as well.
But certainly for the new business, the times of traditional life insurance are more or less
over and we have to go strictly in the way of capital eﬃcient new products or de-risk
products, so to say, on the single life side.
For the second pillar, in Switzerland, which is one of our largest pieces of business, we are
largely optimistic or you could say cautiously optimistic that along (45:01) with the
debates on the reform of the Swiss pension scheme, we ﬁnd an environment in the next
couple of years which still makes it feasible to be part of that, also full solution coverage.
You know that the reform should take place by 2020. There is even now a certain piece of
optimism that it will be already voted for in 2018 which would certainly help along with the
conversion rate and other topics that we are waiting for.

Page 12 of 31



FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

Largely, we also think, the third item here that the consolidation will continue to happen.
Probably from our angel more in Europe than in Switzerland which is already a highly
consolidated environment, but beyond the traditional scale driven M&A which will be part
of our agenda also in the next couple of years. Also, innovation and venturing like type of
activities will take place. Also for us, that's an important ingredient. We are already an
active investor in the venture environment, which gives us access to a couple of hundred
startups every year which we – and really analyze and look into in the FinTech
environment.
And we are also now in the middle of a preparation for an innovation center that we will
carry out with the University of St. Gallen, designated to look into the future of the
insurance model. So, with all these maintenance (46:32) out there, we are sure that we will
not miss the point to be an active and relevant player in the changing insurance market in
the next couple of years.

Bloomberg Transcript

Much has been led already on digitization. On slide 29, you ﬁnd the three key ingredients
that we take center stage. Certainly, the topic is so called never ending. It touches many,
many things. But the three key priorities in our strategy will be online business models as
number one, which is covering everything from digital service to digital sales multi-access
by all means.
As Paul has mentioned, we have the advantage of a strong starting point in Switzerland
through smile.direct which is the leading online carrier in this country, is again increased
its volume by 10% last year, now to CHF 80 million, very proﬁtable business. So that's
certainly a good thing to have when you talk about the digital or more digital future. But
we also have interesting projects already since a couple of years in our markets abroad.
But we have to go forward in this endeavor.
Second point is smart data and analytics. Increasing personalization where it makes sense.
On the product side, on the pricing side, on the underwriting side, it goes also into fraud
detection where we can use intelligent data in the larger degree. All these things are not
happening overnight. But if you look into a longer term future, two years, three years, four
years, ﬁve years, we are sure that there is a lot to do in this sector.
Last but not least, process optimization, also not something that we start only now but
have been also active in the last years. But that will also continue more automatic
processes, self-service processes that are linked with our host (48:32) systems that will
also help to not stop in cost advantages in the future.
So, all in all, these initiatives will be carried out in each and every of our country market,
and we do really give an emphasis also from a corporate point of view that we are making
progress in all these items.
Everything certainly is, again, centered around our customers' needs which are changing.
The ROPO eﬀect is happening. People are using more means situationally, a personal
one, the non-life (49:08) mean at the same time, a broker or a bank account or a physical
agent as they want, claims regulation will take place in diﬀerent circumstances. So,
Page 13 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

FINAL

certainly, our promise to the customers that we are a personal and reliable insurer will not
change, but the means in order to fulﬁll these expectations will become broader in the
next couple of years.
The motto of our implementation is simple. It's called integrate, innovate and increase.
Every single business unit of our Group is now crafting its individual measures for making
this strategy happen along this motto. More or less, every business unit is still in the last
phase of the integration of the last acquisitions and also on the process streamlining side
active. At the same time, we are having a plan for the digital transformation also for each
and every business unit and targeted innovation at least now in Switzerland and also
some interesting projects in Spain and Germany going on that side.
Certainly, that all should turn out into higher customer beneﬁt, mainly convenience and
personalization, higher product value by use of smart data for the non-life business and
non-traditional concept in the life business, and certainly also process eﬃciency as I
mentioned through synergies and process restructuring will take place.

Bloomberg Transcript

We cannot do this on ourselves. As you see on slide 32, we need and we are counting on
our employees to make that happen. We have seen in the last 18 months once more how
committed and passionate our employees are even in tougher times which we had
through the integration process to make things happen. And I'm very pleased to have that
team on every level, in every market to make also this new strategy, which we post (51:17)
for more innovation and more changes than we used to have also in the coming years
(51:22) It's not the strategy of making many people redundant. It's the strategy of making
our business relevant. And therefore, everyone can contribute.
What you probably have already looked into our ﬁnancial targets on slide 33. Our vision
for 2020 is to become a company which is earning CHF 10 billion or more on the volume
side. This is something that we cannot just achieve through organic growth. That will play
a major part, but we also need further acquisitions as we go along to reach this target. But
we are certainly optimistic that we will ﬁnd some targets.
On the proﬁtability side, we have sharpened our cost – our combined ratio target from
94% to 96% which was our corridor for the last ﬁve years, now to less than 93% for the
next ﬁve years. This comes along the larger proportion of our Swiss business, of course,
but also the synergies and the technical improvements in all the other places.
New business margin in life which is now reported at 0.9%. Our ambition here is to
leverage it up to 1% or more for the next coming years. On the cost side, Paul has already
mentioned that we are optimistic to fully phase into synergies. We have originally
reported CHF 105 million to CHF 130 million corridor. We are optimistic that we will be on
CHF 130 million or even a bit more in the next couple of years by end of 2017.
Capital targets are also something of great importance for us. We think along the
sharpening on the SST calculations that are to be expected around the ideas of bringing
more standard models into place in the Swiss environment. We think that a good SST
target ratio for the next couple of years will be 140% to 180%. That will still sort out from
Page 14 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

what we know now, that should be a feasible target corridor and an A rating for Standard
& Poor's is still important for us especially for those niche businesses we are in.

FINAL

The ROE target is lifted from 8% to 10%, now to 8% to 11%. As you know, we are not
making a speciﬁc contribution for the unearned valuation reserves that we have on the
bonds. So that's the full equity phased in will bring us to this number 8% to 11%.
And ﬁnally, we have also become a bit more aggressive on the payout ratio which was
30% to 50% in the last ﬁve years. We are now optimistic that we will stay in the lower
corridor, so to say, in the narrow corridor of 40% to 50%. And for the ﬁrst time, we also
gave you an absolute amount as a speciﬁc additional guidance which would be at or
more than CHF 1 billion as dividend for the next ﬁve years.
So, in a conclusion, the new strategy which focuses on integrate, innovate, and increase is
not a revolution, but it should keep Helvetia ﬁt for the future while still remaining personal
and reliable which we think are important attributes to the insurance business also in the
coming ﬁve years.

Bloomberg Transcript

With this, I came to an end of our active presentation. Thank you for your patient listening.
We are now changing to the Q&A session for which, as I indicated in the beginning, not
only Paul Norton and myself, but also Philipp Gmür, Ralph Honegger, and additional
colleagues are available in this room.
I'm now giving back to the operator for – no, I think we can start with the questions here in
the room, as we usually do, and then we go to the queue on the telephone line. So, we
start with possible questions in this room.

Q&A
Operator
55:41

Q - Peter Casanova

{BIO 2168233 <GO>}

Thank you. Peter Casanova, Kepler Cheuvreux. Could you give us an indication what the
premium volume was between the old structure in terms of growth or decline in life and
non-life? Thank you.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Yes, an indication is possible, a detailed number, not anymore because we have really
merged these operations, and they have no ﬂag anymore from which side they come. But
generally speaking in terms of non-life, we would have in a like-for-like situation, reported
roughly 1% growth in Switzerland.

Page 15 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

FINAL

There are some one-oﬀs because we have diﬀerent dates now for premium in car, so
that's mainly the number. We also would have slightly positive numbers in that area 1% or
2% in Germany, Spain, and in Austria while we would have reported a minus 2% (56:41)
almost in Italy, which is still in a situation of depressing car insurance premium.
On the life side, we also have a mixed picture. Organically, we would have even a sharper
decline than we have now, which will be driven by lower – single payments in the second
pillar in Switzerland, and less production in Italy as you have seen also in the combined
ﬁgures because in the foreign countries, Nationale Suisse has not signiﬁcantly contributed
to the life side, which was more non-life business that we have there.
So, all in all, I would say, more or less stable situation which is not bad for an integration
year. I have to also underline that probably now in 2016, we still see some marks of
proﬁtable re-underwriting. So there is a couple of portfolio pieces that we will not reunderwrite now from 2015 to 2016 which is probably then the last piece of reshuﬄing of
our business after the integration. And then, should stabilize and continue to grow
organically going ahead.

Q - Peter Casanova

{BIO 2168233 <GO>}

Excellent. Thank you.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Next questions, please. Over there.

Q - René Locher
Yes. René Locher, MainFirst. So, ﬁrst one on slide 19, so I'm trying to get a feeling where
you end up on a net proﬁt basis in 2017. Now, you reported an underwriting – underlying
net proﬁt of CHF 439 million. You have included CHF 45 million of same synergies. So
there's still – when you target now CHF 130 million plus, and I take the CHF 130 million,
there is still some CHF 65 million after-tax (58:48) So this would mean a plus CHF 65
million and if you take a look at the other activities. Paul mentioned that reinsurers could
be like a one-oﬀs. So this would add an another CHF 35 million sold for 2017 and ending
up then at CHF 539 million. So what I would like to avoid is that they do some double
counting, that some of the synergies are perhaps included in the other activities. So, this is
my ﬁrst question.
And then the second one on slide 33, given that you have quite an ambitious combined
ratio target of below 93%, I was a little bit wondering for cost to see that (59:39) the return
on equity target is between 8% to 11% because you have now some CHF 3.8 billion in
premiums and non-life business. So this means that 1% ratio point would improve
operating proﬁt by CHF 38 million and yeah, perhaps you can explain a little bit, how you
(01:00:02) 8% to 11% return on equity target. Thank you.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Page 16 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

FINAL

Excellent. I think with regard to your analysis on the results components that we had in
2015, as far as I can see from my angle, you did no double counting or obvious mistake.
Nevertheless, I mean the situation is not stable in the future with regard to the investment
results. So that's probably the thing that you have to take also into account that alongside
the interest rate environment and now also the negative equity markets that we had, you
could probably not take the investment return as (01:00:45) given forever. But for the
technical components, I think you're on the right track. Does your question (1:00:51)

Q - René Locher
Okay.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

On the combined ratio, our optimism that we are in a position to repeatedly report
combined ratios net below 93% comes to a certain degree now after the acquisition of
Nationale Suisse. The much larger proportion of our Swiss non-life business, which if you
go into the details, has again reported an 85% for this reporting year of 2015, which is
mainly unchanged to the year before, which is also indicating that the Nationale Suisse
portfolio quality has not diluted our situation and there are still some cost synergies to be
phased in.
And in our markets abroad, again, we have a headwind (1:01:41) situation now in 2015
which was not fully perfect, especially in one or the other countries. I'm also underlying
the situation in Italy. We had to see that especially the Nationale Suisse portfolio was
generating combined ratios above 100%, which has diluted our overall situation. So that
takes time, another, I would say, one year or two years to re-underwrite those portfolios.
So, that, yes, we are already a bit below 93%, but we think there is still room to improve.
So that's the reason why we have upgraded, so to say, our target of 94%, 96% to below
93%. Nevertheless, the ROE is also driven by the capital that we are underpinning on the
life business, which is not so easy to develop in the shorter term to increase the ROE on
the life side. So that the combined ROE in this corridor of 8% to 11% for us, seems a
feasible corridor. Do not forget, we are not making adjustments for the year, for the
unearned revaluation gains on the bonds, which if you were to deduct these, like some of
our peers are doing, that would add, like, 1.8 percentage points to our underlying ROE.
So that gives you an indication of where we stand with regard to our capital eﬃciency in
the balance sheet.

Q - René Locher
Can I just quickly, a follow-up question on this slide 12? So, that was really a positive
surprise to see that European combined ratio of 97.1%. And I remember in 2013 Nationale
Suisse had a combined ratio for its foreign operation of I guess, roughly (1:03:34) 110%.
So...

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

So, it has improved overall but not too much. Unfortunately, it needs a bit more time, but
given the proportionality and, I think, overall, the proportions are broader like 1 to 10 in
Page 17 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

FINAL

terms Helvetia and Nationale Suisse. If you boil it down to the non-life, it was rather 1 to 7,
and that means that the larger contributor to these results are the old Helvetia units, but
there is still component of the new portfolios dragging a little bit. But generally speaking,
the direction is the right one, but as you know in our business, things will not happen
overnight. You need a couple of years to sort it out completely.

Q - René Locher
And last. Is it included Belgium, the 97%, no?

A - Operator
(01:04:32)

Q - René Locher
Okay.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Okay. The next question. please. Over there.

Q - Daniel Bischof

{BIO 17407166 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. Daniel Bischof, Baader-Helvea . A couple of things. So, on the SST, I think you
mentioned standard (01:04:46) model as an important element. What were the other
considerations that you have to come up with this – was it 140% to 180%?
And also, I mean, looking 30% sensitivities to (01:04:56) credit spreads, any indication
that you're still in the targets while it's the range of 150% to 200% at year-end and also
currently maybe what happened?
Then on the life side on page 13, I think it's quite remarkably to improve the risk result,
many competitors mentioned that competition is increasing in that area. And do you think
this is stable at this level?
And then on, M&A, I think you mainly mentioned Europe as an area which you're looking
at, I mean any speciﬁc countries you're thinking of and also what is the capacity or the
M&A approach (01:05:43) that you currently have?
And then the last one, digitalization. I mean, in terms of investments, what do you expect
there in the next couple of years? And should we expect the some sort of straying
(1:05:53) on the earnings in the midterm?

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Thank you for these interesting questions. Let me start with the SST ratio. On slide 77 and
78, you have some additional disclosures here. Yeah. The discussion, unfortunately,
around the SST is not fully ﬁnished. And I would say a year or even two years ago, I
Page 18 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

FINAL

thought that we were now on solid ground with regard to the measurement of the metrics
around the SST. But we are still in a situation of an ongoing discussion both on a strategic
level but also on an operational level.
On the strategic level, there is now the question of moving away from the individual
models more towards standard models, which unfortunately, at least for the life side, are
not yet available. So it is very diﬃcult to say what that means in the future. Does it mean
that our ratio will stay the same, or does it mean that there will be a change in number?
That's certainly something that takes time and there's a common eﬀort under the
management certainly of FINMA, but including also experts from the industry to deal with
this method.
Generally speaking, a larger emphasis on standard model is not a bad thing because it
makes life easier, it makes comparisons easier, but the transition from a complex
individual model and today we have 70 models in our industry in Switzerland to a rather
standard driven environment is certainly a delicate movement. And that's still something
that we cannot fully assess what it means.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the other side, there are also operational changes going on. For those of you who like
to understand the details, we have this ultimate forward rates after a long time, 50 years
plus, which has been set as a principle by 2.9%. No one knows really how the interest
rates will be in 50 years but that has been somehow the answer to that question. But that
has now been lowered down to 2.7% and also some other technically components, which
we thought are ﬁxed, have become a variable. And that makes it easy to understand that.
Generally speaking, the coverage is probably a bit more under pressure than we thought
two years ago given these elements. And that's the reason why we think that for the
longer term a target corridor of probably 140% to 180% might be a feasible one. But that's
still a discussion that needs to be fulﬁlled.
If I come to the risk result, the fact that that was increased isn't (1:08:48) mainly driven by
the consolidation, it's mainly driven by the portfolio of Nationale Suisse Life which also
had a risk proﬁt component in itself on the fact that that is now fully consolidated and has
been the largest part of the contribution in that step result (01:09:08)

Q - Daniel Bischof

{BIO 17407166 <GO>}

So, was that mainly the credit life business they had?

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

No, generally, they had the single life book (01:09:13) of actually CHF 200 million to CHF
300 million. And, again, which had a proﬁtable risk component in it. And that's now
visibly in our numbers. Credit life does not play a major role in that analysis.
On the M&A side, I certainly can underline that we are not having appetite for new market
territories. We are sticking to the market territories that we are already active in
Switzerland and in Europe. And also in the niche businesses that we have. Certainly, the
Page 19 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

FINAL

potential for further consolidation in Switzerland is not really high anymore, so we see
more fantasy in that question in the European perimeter where we are certainly focusing
on non-life business and not on life business as an M&A ingredient.
Our dream, of course, if you have a long-term view will be that we come (1:10:15) closer in
or at the top 10 positions in the non-life markets, in the four non-life markets where we are
present now. Today, we are already number eight in Austria. We are number 9 – no,
number 10 in Italy in the non-life market, so we feel quite happy with these. We are
number 20 in Spain, and number 28 in Germany. And certainly, I mean, the gap to the top
10 is large especially in the big markets. So, I'm not saying that we will cover that gap in
the next ﬁve years. But our idea is to approach stepwise into that direction, while life
business is probably not completely excluded but it's not something that we would
actively go for.
And beyond that scale driven M&A, we are certainly also actively looking into ventures,
also innovation driven M&A where we could see major (01:11:07) someone could add
know-how and value in whatever smart data or analytics. So that is not only a scale gain
for the next couple of years but also skill driven M&A landscape which is a new element.

Bloomberg Transcript

I mentioned that we're already seeing a couple of hundred start-ups a year which means
you have completely diﬀerent processes as compared to the traditional M&A where we
have a couple of projects a year and not many hundreds.
With regard to our funding capacity, I would say given our hybrid capacity today, we are
talking about a given capacity without additional equity of medium three-digit million
Swiss francs that we are talking about. So that should be the suitable dimension for good
bolt-on acquisitions in Europe as we know that from the past.
And on digitalization or digitization, there is no particular cost budget attached to that
priorities of the future, but what we see is that also in the last couple of years, roughly
speaking something around CHF 50 million has been invested in our IT and
modernization of processes. On average, we have had years where it was maybe CHF 30
million and other years where it was CHF 70 million. So that is something that we are
already continuously spending which is then normally activated over a certain period of
usage. And we think that largely within that corridor, we are able to fund and underpin
also our digitalization strategy, so that there will be no particular I would say much (1:13:01)
or visible drag on the results or on the dividend capacity sourced by these investments.

Q - Daniel Bischof

{BIO 17407166 <GO>}

Any sense where the SSTs right now?

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Right now, we are in the calculation of the SST and we're in the middle of that calculation.
We have a time lag of a couple of months and we will report on the number 11% 16%
(01:13:28) in September and that's our usual six months time delay that we have here.

Page 20 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

Next question, over there please.

Q - Operator

FINAL

Yes. I have three questions. The ﬁrst one on the life side, can you maybe give us some hint
on the reserve strengthening? I assume that growth around 10 basis points in the interest
rate guarantee.
The second one on the combined ratio (01:13:55) disclosed the impact from prior years
and nat cat or big losses, can you give us some hints in close lease (1:14:01) terms I mean I
assume prior year was more or less the same as 2014 and nat cat was below 2014 from
communications here?
And the third one for the ROE target 2020, so is it right to assume that if we assume the
same level of interest rate today then the 8% is the one, and if interest rates go up rather
on the 11% side?

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Thank you for these questions. I suggest to hand over to Paul for life reserving and one-oﬀ
items (1:14:34)

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

The life reserving is as usual ﬂows (1:14:40) in the ﬁnancial statements. On chapter...

A - Operator
166.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Pardon?

A - Operator
Page 166.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

166 (01:14:52) So, it increased by CHF 61 million last year. And if you look at the prior year
ﬁgure from 2014 accounts, you can see it's somewhat less than that.

Q - Operator
And that was mostly in the (01:15:07) Switzerland.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

So, yeah. Yeah certainly Switzerland 90% of the if you're looking at (01:15:09)

Page 21 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

Q - Operator
I'm so amazed that these are (1:15:12) not included in the ﬁgure?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

FINAL

It's not included in that ﬁgure, but I mean, it's not signiﬁcant compared with this one.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Non-life one-oﬀs items and something (01:15:22)

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Yeah. The combined ratio this year was not particularly hit by net counts (1:15:31) but there
were one or two large claims more than it was expected in the prior year. We had – I mean
I think we mentioned in the half year at the old (1:15:40) Nationale Suisse book, there was
a very large bakery (1:15:43) in Southwest Germany (01:15:45) There were a quite a few
large claims coming from (01:15:49)

A - Operator
(01:15:55)

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

If you see the nat cat on slide 12. It's roughly about the same.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Let me take out (1:16:07) for the ROE target, I mean, the fact that we are communicating a
corridor means that there is an uncertainty between and we do not want to give a
snapshot guidance. For those you have already seen today, we are at 8.9%, 8.6%. And
there is still something churn (01:16:31) on the synergy side. There are still some elements
which I've already been mentioned previously that we think should be a one-oﬀ and not
repeat on the negative side for the next couple of years, but certainly, there are question
marks around the volatility of the investment results as we go along. But the fact that we
are indicating also 11% should be possible and we are not stopping at 8% to 10% means
that if things go well, a double-digit number is possible and that's what we are indicating.

Q - Operator
Thank you.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Next question, please. We have, for the moment, no more questions in the room. So, I
suggest to give to the operator and we start with the questions from our colleagues
outside. Please go ahead. Do we have questions in the line?

Operator
Page 22 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

The ﬁrst question is from William Elderkin from Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - William H. Elderkin

{BIO 3349136 <GO>}

Thank you. Hello, everybody. A couple of questions please. First one, I was just surprised
that you decided to have a formal volume target in your objectives over the next couple
of years. I can understand why you won't have a growth target, for example, for per share
earnings, but I'd be interested in the thinking and rationale behind that.
Secondly, while you show the interest rate sensitivity to your SST coverage ratio on slide
78, I was just wondering does that include interest rate to the ﬂoor of zero or does that
allow interest rates to move into a negative place?
Thirdly, can you just talk about the stresses that the current interest rate environment is
placing on your business with – from what I can see negative rates in key reference
currencies had for seven years, eight years, nine years on the forward curve? And
particularly, what you're doing in terms of your traditional life business where I think you
had premium volume of something like CHF 1.2 billion last year, really, what those
products are doing for you. What those products are doing for customers? What was the
current reinvestment rates available?

Bloomberg Transcript

And then ﬁnally, I'm sorry, I know this is a lot of question, just where are you putting new
money at the moment and what sorts of returns you're getting on that new money? Thank
you.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Thank you, William. Maybe I can hand over to Ralph Honegger, our Chief Investment
Oﬃcer, with regard to the question of where do we invest our new money and what is
also the perspective going along on the investment side. Given the forward rates that you
have indicated and then we will reﬂect what it means on the life business. So, please,
Ralph, may I give the word to you?

A - Ralph-Thomas Honegger

{BIO 4932832 <GO>}

Okay. Well, basically we do the same things as we already did last year. I mean, especially
last year we went into U.S. dollar (01:19:32), we did invest in before. We also opened the
BBB corporate segment through our investments, so there is also still some room left to
invest in that. Besides that mortgage loans are quite attractive in the ﬁve-year-plus
duration for insurance company due to the insurance cost that banks have on this longterm mortgages and then we have quite a good pipeline in real estate projects in
Switzerland.
On top of that, selectively we go into equity and we are looking at alternative investments,
especially private debt. So this is basically the mix we are investing this year in. As you
could see on slide 18, the average last year of our new investments was at 1.8%. I mean, I
can't really tell what it's at the moment. It's probably slightly above or down not very
much.

Page 23 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

FINAL

What it means for our life business is probably reﬂected, at least partially, on slide 15. If we
turn to that situation once again. Obviously, as you can see the direct yield is having a
clear trend. It's getting a bit less every year from 2.6%, 2.5%, now 2.3% with a certain step
eﬀect in it and that that will continue.
What you can also see is that in the light grey column, our liabilities against our
policyholders is also decreasing which is mainly following two patterns. The most
important one is our second pillar business which is a purely Swiss specialty which, as you
know, there is an interest minimum target that is set for the mandatory part of the
business each year by the local government. And then, we have the so-called extra
mandatory business which is equal in size and importance where we are free to set the
parameters. And both have been adjusted considerably now towards 2015, 2016.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have lowered the mandatory part or the government has lowered from 1.75% to 1.25%.
And we have even done more on the so-called extra mandatory part which has been
lowered now down from 1.25% to 0.5%. And that has given again, I would say, room for
maneuver and that has also stabilized our margin.
On the single life business, since many years, we have been very active in selling what we
call tranche products. So these are like closed boxes in terms of asset liability matching
and we have been really successful in doing so. But for the ﬁrst time now for a couple of
years, especially in the ﬁrst half of 2015 where the situation got quickly more complicated,
we were not in a position to have the right products available. So it took us until the
second half of the year to come up with a tranche product again, which was able to fulﬁll
our margin targets and also have a certain upside for the clients.
So, the traditional business, which is still, I would say, in favor of some of our clients, is
certainly not the key priority for the coming years. What we had as a particular one-oﬀ
probably in 2015 was the fact that our local regulator has reduced the maximum crediting
rate in these products and that usually triggers a last wave of demand as long as the
conditions are still favorable for the customers and that was also happening to a certain
degree in our book of business. But that should be a one-oﬀ and will not repeat in 2016.
Generally speaking, the new business pipeline that we are looking for in Switzerland as
well as in Europe is having less and less components of the traditional life business, not
just for shareholder reasons but also for policyholder reasons, we ﬁnd that modern
products have more appeal.
With regards to your questions on interest rate sensitivities, which are highlighted on slide
78, I'll give over to Paul Norton and as far as I understood is your question, are we also
modeling negative interest rates or do we limit the models after zero, Paul?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

William, I'm going to have to come back to you on that detail, because we did previously
have a ﬂoor model then, but I wouldn't get (1:24:42) below zero. But, I'm pretty certain
Page 24 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

then change that, but we'll come back to you.

FINAL

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

On the growth target, this is certainly is not the most important of our targets. But if you
are in a situation where you come across a so-called magical number of CHF 10 billion
and you cannot avoid oﬀsetting such a target. But as I mentioned previously, this is
something that is certainly also depending from an M&A opportunity, from a pure organic
growth rate, it will be tough or even an over ambitious target, given the fact that, as we
mentioned before, that we are walking away more and more from the traditional life
business, which certainly would allow for a lot of volume but not generally speaking for a
lot of value. So, this is something which is more an ambitious number to become a
double-digit volume in terms of CHF 10 billion to be reached.

Q - William H. Elderkin

{BIO 3349136 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Is that answering your questions, William?

Q - William H. Elderkin

{BIO 3349136 <GO>}

Yes. Sorry. (01:25:48) questions. That's very helpful.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Thank you. Do we have more questions in the line?

Operator
The next question is from Jonny Urwin from UBS. Please go ahead.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Hi there. Thanks for taking my questions. I just had a few questions around the sort of
digital theme. I mean, ﬁrstly, there's a lot of talk in the presentation around what you can
do digitally and what will you? The angles that you'd just like to expose. I'd just be
interested to hear some tangible examples of what you're already doing and also what
you think you can do?
Secondly, speciﬁcally to the Swiss non-life business, how much of the distribution do you
think you can get online in time? And I suppose how do you manage the relationship with
tied agents from doing so?
And then thirdly, I'd just be interested to hear your thoughts around how you think you
can kind of invest in us to compete? I mean, ﬁrstly, in Switzerland, you're up against the
larger multi-lines with a lot of ﬁrepower here, and potentially they could invest more. And
secondly, in Europe, your subscale at the moment you'd like to grow there more
Page 25 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

potentially through acquisition. I mean, how can you invest the right amount in the digital
platforms to succeed in these markets, particularly when the European multi-line
competitors are investing billions, not millions here. Thank you.

FINAL

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Thank you for these questions. I'll start with the last one. Certainly, it's a question of
relative scale, but it's also a question of relative complexity. Helvetia fortunately has only
to transform six business units into a more digital environment and not 60 or even more
than that like some global competitors have to do.
So, relatively speaking, we are in a situation of a manageable size of investments. And
certainly, we are also playing the synergy card as a group, so we are not leaving all the
local presences alone, but we are investing in a common road map in order to keep us on
track with the digital transformation along three clear priorities, the ones that you have
heard; online models, which means online sales and online services, smart data and
process optimization. So those are the topics of focus in which we are investing our
money and maximizing the synergies that we have along our footprint which is
Switzerland and four European markets.

Bloomberg Transcript

Tangible examples are probably the most important one is our existing business, which is
smile.direct, as I have mentioned. It is generating CHF 80 million today out of CHF 1.4
billion, CHF 1.5 billion non-life business, so that you can have an idea on where we are
already today in terms of proportion on the digital side.
It's very diﬃcult for us to give a best estimate in which direction that number will grow
over the next ﬁve years. Certainly, we are expecting a larger number of growing customer
portfolios on the direct side but it is not that big that we are facing a battle between our
traditional agents and that online channel. In fact, we have positioned smile.direct for the
pure online customer. And it has a diﬀerent pricing. It has a diﬀerent service element. It's
in fact, self-service element and we are not targeting the same hybrid customers with the
smile.direct approach, so that should not be something that causes a lot of friction inside
Helvetia.
Other projects will follow. We are discussing a joint venture in Spain with a large telecom
provider, which will go into the direction of pay as you drive. We have other projects in
Germany, which are also including intelligent new sales channels in diﬀerent type of new
products. So that will unfold step wise and we do not have the one big project that will
tackle all these digitalization topics over the next couple of years but a decent roadmap
that we can digest and that will bring the right results.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

And how do you think you can sort of match the – or compete with the investment of
(01:30:30)? I mean, it just seems to me, the position here is very small and it seems a bit
curious that you'd like to grow in an area where it will be very hard to compete. I mean,
isn't it just better to focus on Switzerland?

Page 26 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

FINAL

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

No. That's a question that we have, again, discussed in detail when we were talking about
the fundamentals of our new strategy, 20.20. In fact, we are convinced that for a group of
our size, the dependency on one market alone will be a disadvantage. So we have a
situation certainly that our Swiss business has become even more important now after the
integration of Nationale Suisse. We're even a bit more biased towards Switzerland. We
have been a couple of years ago, rather on a 50/50 level in terms of proﬁts, but now we
are clearly biased towards Switzerland, which is not bad because this is a good
environment and to be a leading player in our home market is certainly a strong pillar.
But to have only that would be certainly not providing enough opportunities, also for a
growth story would not provide for a lot of diversiﬁcation beneﬁts. And that's why we are
convinced that the overall conﬁguration including some European players is the better
option for us.
As I have mentioned we are already in the top 10 in two of the four places which is
certainly large enough to be also proﬁtable and we are doing a good job as a niche
player, certainly, in Spain and Germany where we're also earning money. So there is no
stop the bleeding item. There is no problem with these situations. On the contrary, these
are scalable franchises which should give us opportunities for proﬁtable growth in the
future.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Do we have more questions in the line?

Operator
There are no further questions at this time.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Then I give back here to the room if there are some last questions around the table. There
is one, in fact.

Q - Operator
Yes. So, just on slide 15, can you provide me with the numbers on a Group level, split
between the current income and the guarantees you have on your balance sheet?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

What do you mean by that (1:33:03)?

Page 27 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

Q - Operator
What, I mean, I guess in, like in 2014, you have also showed Switzerland, Europe at then
on a Group level. I mean, you have an average guarantee on your balance sheet. I mean,
not for total Switzerland and Europe, but overall. I'm sorry.

FINAL

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

We haven't disclosed (01:33:25) because the combination of Switzerland and Europe, I
mean, Switzerland is (01:33:31). So in CapEx is roughly the (01:33:37).

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

: On slide 15.

Q - Operator
I can that. I can do that.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Yeah. So the balance sheet split on the reserves, you can ﬁnd on slide 56. Again, as Paul
mentioned, it's like 80% or so is coming from the Swiss reserves. And, therefore, also the
margin is largely driven by the Swiss reality. While the European side is a bit more
marginal now.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Operator
And perhaps another stupid question, but when I took a look at Switzerland like it's 2.32%
and then in Europe, we are at 2.85%. How do I compare these returns with the current
income or the current yield of 2.2% on slide 17? I mean, if I would not seen slide 15, I
would go to slide 17 and just take the 2.2%, right?

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

No, the life has a longer duration.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

And that longer duration is generating higher yield. So if this is just looking into the life
book, my...

Q - Operator
Yeah. I know, it's okay.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Page 28 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

The numbers on slide 18 and 17 are generally integrating non-life as well.

Q - Operator
Yeah. Yeah.

FINAL

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

And so, you have a shorter duration and the lower yield on non-life and the other way
around on that.

Q - Operator
All right. Thank you.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Last but not least, the target of CHF 1 billion cash for return to shareholders over ﬁve
years. Now, when I'm looking at slide 20 of paid out, CHF 201 million for the CHF 19
dividend, so I was wondering a little bit, now, over ﬁve years, your target will hit more than
CHF 1 billion. I don't want a hard number, but again I remember you mentioned in one of
your interviews that following the full integration of (01:35:46), we expect a CHF 2 to CHF
3 increase in the dividend. Yes.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Which is, I would say, still a fair expectation going into the future. The absolute number of
CHF 1 billion is what's that larger than. So it should give you an indication that we are
conﬁdent that we can keep that absolute amount despite the mentioned uncertainties
around solvency which is probably the other side of the discussion. And, yeah, in fact,
what we would expect from today is that we go with a smaller step wise increase of the
dividend and then if the full synergies are available, we have a bit larger steps to be
expected. That's it.

Q - Operator
Thank you.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Just one other point. The dividend (01:36:39) also includes a coupon from a hybrid, which
are (01:36:45).

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Page 29 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

Q - Operator
Sorry, Paul. In this CHF 1 billion?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

FINAL

No. It's not only CHF 1 billion (01:36:54).

Q - Operator
Okay. That's a fewer sales.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

(1:36:56-1:37:11)

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Any questions left? There is one more.

Q - Operator
Yeah. Just a short one on tax rate going forward. I mean, in 2015, you have the low tax
rate, especially in non-life, I mean what should we expect going forward?

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Tax rates going forward, Paul?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Basically, we have a rough tax rate of around about 20% and we expect that to continue.
There is something called Corporate Tax Reform III in Switzerland, which is coming up and
there's a massive amount of uncertainty as to what that means. But for the moment, we
should say, it's around about 20% to 23% is the average. In Switzerland, it's totally
unreckonable in a place like Italy where it can be over 50% but we – on average tax rate,
we say 20% to 23% there.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Excellent. I think that's it for the room here. Anything left in the pipeline? No, that's not the
case. That brings me to the end of this meeting. I would like to thank you for your
ongoing interest in our company. Thank you for your excellent questions and we would
hope to see you be it on the road or in our next meetings in person again. Have a nice
afternoon. Bye-bye from (01:38:37).

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Page 30 of 31



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2016-03-14

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Ladies and gentlemen, the conference is now over. Thank you for choosing Chorus Call
and thank you for participating in the conference. You may now disconnect your lines.
Good-bye.

Page 31 of 31

