Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-02-12

Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Shin-Ichiro Okada
Shiro Sasaki

Other Participants
Futoshi Sasaki
Masao Muraki
Natsumu Tsujino
Wataru Otsuka

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for participating in Tokio Marine Holdings' FY
2015 Q3 Financial Results Conference Call. Please be advised that during the
presentation, all the lines other than the speakers' line are put on mute. And this
conference call is being recorded.
Before we start, let me remind you that the presentation may contain forward-looking
statements based on the current projections, and they may entail risks as well as
uncertainties. Actual results, therefore, may differ from the current projections.
With that, let us start the conference call. Mr. Sasaki, please.

Shiro Sasaki

{BIO 19269575 <GO>}

I am Shiro Sasaki, Group Leader of Corporate Communications and Investor Relations
Group of Tokio Marine Holdings. I would like to give you the overview of Tokio Marine
Holdings' financial results during the third quarter of FY 2015 which we announced today.
I will primarily use PowerPoint slides entitled Overview of Q3 FY 2015 Results for the first
20 minutes or so for my presentation. The PowerPoint slides are available on our website.
From the Home page, please go Investor Relations section and find the material for
conference call.
Now, let us start on page two of the PowerPoint material. This is an overview of our
consolidated results. Net premiums written were ¥2,498.2 trillion, up by 7.7% or ¥179.3
billion year-on-year. This is primarily due to top line growth in the fire and automotive lines
Page 1 of 12



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-02-12

of business in the domestic non-life business, as well as steady expansion of underwriting
in the overseas business and positive impact of depreciation of Japanese yen.

FINAL

Life insurance premium was ¥255.3 billion, up by 64.3% or ¥99.9 billion year-on-year with
domestic and international business combined. This is mainly due to the steady growth of
in-force policies at TMNL, as well as decrease in surrender of variable annuities in former
(02:29) Financial Life.
Consolidated ordinary profit was ¥252.2 billion, down by 3.7% or ¥9.6 billion year-on-year.
And net income attributable to owners of the parent dropped by 15.5% or ¥33.1 billion to
¥180.9 billion. I will explain about the consolidated ordinary profit in more detail later.
Adjusted net income, which is a KPI for our entire Group, remains unchanged from a year
ago at ¥243 billion. I will also amplify on this point later on.
In terms of the progress against the full-year forecast, we have achieved 77.3% of the net
premiums written, 77.4% of life insurance premium, 82.2% of net income attributable to
owners of the parent, and 82.1% of adjusted net income. So, across the board, we are on
track vis-à-vis our forecast.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next, I will discuss movement of consolidated ordinary profit from a year ago. Please turn
to page three. In the domestic non-life business, ordinary profit of TMNF increased by
¥80.6 billion. While the underwriting profit declined, net investment income and other
increased.
Underwriting profit declined due to an increase in net losses incurred by natural cat
events, large scale (4:12) losses, as well as increase in net provision for cat loss reserves
although net premiums earned increased. Meanwhile, net investment income and other
increased due to increase in dividend income from subsidiaries and improvement of gains
and losses on derivatives.
At Nisshin Fire, while the net premiums earned increased, net losses incurred related to
natural cat increased, so did net provision to cat loss reserves. As a result, ordinary profit
declined by ¥7.9 billion, or we know (4:46), our ordinary profit of domestic non-life
business went up by ¥72.7 billion from a year ago. I will explain this business segment in a
more detail later on.
In the domestic life business, ordinary profit increased by ¥15.5 billion year-on-year. This is
mainly due to the reversal of contingency reserves associated with surrender of variable
annuities, as well as increase in interest income from foreign bonds.
In the international insurance business, net losses incurred related to natural cat
decreased. However, due to large losses and foreign exchange losses on local accounting
basis, ordinary profit declined by ¥14.4 billion. As for consolidation adjustments, negative
adjustment increased by ¥83.2 billion year-on-year. This is mainly because dividends that
TMNF received from their subsidiaries increased, an allowance of intra-group dividend to
be eliminated – increased accordingly.

Page 2 of 12



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-02-12

FINAL

So, this is the highlight of our consolidated P&L.
I will now discuss adjusted net income on page 4. Here, I will explain adjusted net income,
which is our Group-wide KPI. Adjusted net income is based on consolidated net income
under JGAAP but compensating for the impact of various reserves unique to P&C
business such as cat loss reserves, and deducting sales and valuation gains or losses of
fixed assets in order to indicate, clearly, the underlying profit and loss from our business
operations.
Adjusted net income was ¥243 billion, flat from a year ago. This is mainly because while in
the domestic non-life business, net losses incurred by natural cat increased, net
investment income and other increased. And profit in the domestic life business increased
due to the steady expansion of in-force book, while profit of international insurance
business declined due to large losses and foreign exchange losses.
Next, I will walk you through the reconciliation from the statutory net income under JGAAP
to adjusted net income. Provision for cat loss reserves has been higher this fiscal year,
which resulted in an increase of adjusted net income by ¥21.8 billion. Other extraordinary
gains and losses and valuation allowances raised adjusted net income by ¥26.1 billion. This
negative adjustment related to the taxable impairment losses at TMNF in FY 2014
decreased this fiscal year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next, I will explain the results of domestic non-life business. So, please turn to page 5.
This is the overview of Q3 results in FY 2015 for TMNF. First, as for underwriting profit, net
premiums written of all the private lines of business increased driven by fire and
automotive business growth. Top line grew by 6.1% or ¥79.7 billion year-on-year. Net
premiums earned increased by ¥69.3 billion and it made a positive contribution to the
earnings. For more details by line of business, please refer to page 7 at your convenience.
Net losses incurred of all the private lines of business combined increased by ¥63 billion
over the year. The main reason behind this increase is as follows; net losses incurred
related to natural cats which happened during this fiscal year increased by ¥41.4 billion
mainly due to damages caused by Typhoon 15 and Typhoon 18.
Provision for outstanding claims reserve denominated in foreign currencies decreased by
¥14.6 billion due to depreciation of Japanese yen. And excluding these factors, net losses
incurred increased by ¥27.2 billion year-on-year, partly due to the expansion of in-force
books and also large losses in Marine and other lines of business, an increase in net
losses incurred by automotive accidents which happened before the fiscal year.
Business expenses of the private lines of business increased by ¥28.7 billion over the year,
mainly due to increase in agency commissions in accordance with top line growth. As for
cat loss reserve, provision increased by ¥26.6 billion year-on-year due to the
improvement of loss ratio on written/paid basis for automotive and fire lines of business.
As a result, underwriting profit of the term under review dropped by ¥47.6 billion to a loss

Page 3 of 12



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-02-12

FINAL

of ¥4 billion. And excluding the impact of cat loss reserves, the underwriting profit
decreased by ¥21 billion from a year ago to ¥65.1 billion.
Net investment and other increased by ¥127 billion year-on-year to ¥294.3 billion. This is
mainly due to increased dividend received from subsidiaries, as well as improvement of
gains and losses on derivatives. And we have also sold business-related equities by ¥97
billion during the first nine months of this fiscal year. Please also note that most of the
dividend income from subsidiaries is eliminated on a consolidated basis. As a result of all
those factors above, net income increased by ¥78 billion to ¥256 billion.
So this next review, the combined ratio results from page 6. The earned/incurred loss
ratio for private insurance worsened by 0.9 points year-on-year to 61.4%, mainly due to a
significant increase in net incurred losses relating to natural catastrophes.
The impact due to natural catastrophes was 5.1 point this year compared to 2.1 points in
the same period last year. The expense ratio worsened by 0.2 points year-on-year to
32.1%, mainly due to an increase in average agency commission rates, associated with an
increase in policies with higher commission, although an increase in net premiums written
was a positive factor. As a result, the private insurance earned/incurred combined ratio
was 1.1 points higher year-on-year reaching 93.5%.

Bloomberg Transcript

The next page, page 7, shows net premiums written and the loss ratio by line. And on
page 8, details of net investment income are shown. Please refer to them later.
Next, I will explain the results for Nisshin Fire. Please turn to page 9. Nisshin Fire recorded
higher net premiums written, mainly around automobile insurance but also, an increase in
net incurred losses including natural catastrophes, as well as the decrease in the reversal
of catastrophe loss reserves and fire insurance.
As a result, underwriting profit was down by ¥8.2 billion year-on-year reaching ¥4 billion.
Net investment income was almost flat year-on-year. Net income was down ¥8.6 billion
year-on-year at ¥3.8 billion, mainly due to the decline in underwriting profit.
Next, on page 10, I will explain the results for TMNL. I will first talk about annualized
premiums. New policies ANP increased by 12.6% year-on-year, excluding long-term savingtypes products due to favorable sales in the third-sector line owning to new products in
medical and cancer insurance while limiting the sales of long-term saving-type product.
In-force policies ANP increased by 2.5% year-on-year due to an increase in new policies
despite surrender as well as lump-sum payout upon reaching target in variable annuities
under better market conditions. Excluding the impact of variable annuities, in-force
policies ANP increased by 12.4% year-on-year, and it continues to be brisk.
Next, with regards to financial accounting, net income decreased by ¥4.4 billion year-onyear to ¥16.7 billion mainly due to reversal effect of recording deferred tax assets of

Page 4 of 12



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-02-12

Financial Life in fiscal year 2014, despite the reversal of contingency reserves associated
with the surrender of variable annuities.

FINAL

Core operating profit increased by ¥1.1 billion year-on-year to ¥21.9 billion mainly due to an
increase in interest income from foreign bonds.
Next, I will explain the results for the international insurance business. Please turn to page
11. Net premiums written for the international insurance business increased by 6% year-onyear or by ¥61.4 billion, reaching ¥1,013.2 billion.
Let me break it down by region. In North America, net premiums written increased by 15%
mainly due to rate increases on the renewal book and an increase in the new business
book at Philadelphia and Delphi. South and Central America decreased by 21% due to the
depreciation of the Brazilian real, but increased on a local currency basis due to strong
sales of auto insurance in Brazil. Asia increased by 2% mainly due to auto insurance sales
growth in India and China despite a slowdown in auto sales in Thailand.

Bloomberg Transcript

Reinsurance increased by 33% mainly in non-catastrophe business and multi-year policies,
despite the softening of the market. Life decreased by 34% due to the suspension of
sales of specific products in Singapore.
Next, I will explain business unit profits for the international insurance business. Please turn
to page 12. Business unit profit for the international insurance business decreased by ¥11.5
billion year-on-year reaching ¥95.5 billion. Although natural catastrophes decreased, large
losses and foreign exchange losses, et cetera had an impact leading to a decrease yearon-year. But we are making steady progress overall against the full-year projection of ¥123
billion.
Let me explain by region. North America increased by ¥10.1 billion year-on-year mainly due
to an expansion of business and a decrease in natural catastrophe losses at Philadelphia.
Europe decreased by ¥12.3 billion year-on-year, mainly due to large losses and foreign
exchange losses.
South and Central America decreased by ¥1.1 billion year-on-year due to the depreciation
of the Brazilian real despite an increase on a local currency basis, mainly due to an
increase of investment income associated with an interest rate increase.
Asia decreased by ¥2 billion year-on-year due to the reversal effect of a temporary factor
in fiscal 2014 in Singapore. Reinsurance decreased by ¥900 million year-on-year, mainly
due to large losses and foreign exchange losses, et cetera. Life decreased by ¥5 billion
year-on-year due to a decrease in new business and a decrease in unrealized gains
associated with the decline in stock prices in Singapore. Results for Philadelphia and
Delphi are shown in detail on the next page, page 13. Please refer to it later.
This concludes my presentation. Now, we would like to take any question that you may
have. Thank you very much.
Page 5 of 12



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-02-12

Q&A
Operator

FINAL

Thank you very much, Mrs. Sasaki. So, we would now like to open the floor for the Q&A
session and the operator is giving an instruction to Japanese audience as to how to place
questions. So, please bear with us for a moment. Thank you.
Once again, the operator is explaining how to place questions for Japanese audience, so
please bear with us for a moment. The first question is from Masao Muraki of Deutsche
Securities.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. I have two questions. First of all, related to the profitability of the automotive
business. As of the end of the second quarter, with regards to historical accidents, I
believe that you have increased the losses you incurred by historical accidents, and I
believe that you haven't actually done an accurate calculation but since then (20:17-20:25)
do you have any update that you can share with us compared to what you shared with us
at the end of second quarter? And also excluding that, looking at the underlying trend of
the automotive business, I believe that the loss ratio seemed to be continuously good,
but how is the profitability of the automotive business trending at the moment? That is my
first question.
And second question is related to investment. On page eight, you have shown the nonconsolidated interest income of TMNF. And I believe that income itself is at ¥21.1 billion,
and normally I think that it is a little less than ¥30 billion on a full year basis normally, and
therefore, I don't think that there is going to be a major impact on the non-consolidated
business at TMNF, but is that correct?
And also at TMNL, so far basically you have been doing the ALM, buying long-term bonds
in order to match that with a – match with the liabilities, but have you seen any change in
terms of the investment policy at TMNL?

A - Operator
My name is Hanada (21:31) from TMNF. To your first question, with regards to the – with
regards to bodily injury liabilities, claims that we reviewed in terms of – as of the end of
the second quarter, there is no update, so there hasn't been any revision made. And
62.4% is the full year guidance in terms of the loss ratio of automotive, and this has
remained also unchanged.
And looking at the actual results of the third quarter, on un-incurred basis, the actual loss
ratio is 62.1%, which is an increase by about 0.2% year-on-year. However, there has been
less/no (22:12) events and also due to the price increase that we did in the past, the unit
price rather went down. However, because the claims related to bodily injury liabilities
increased, and also, natural related losses increased, the loss ratio actually picked up
slightly, or increased slightly.
Page 6 of 12



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-02-12

FINAL

When it comes to Auto frequency, on the other hand, the frequency continues to be low.
And yet, the unit repair cost on the other hand, has been on the rise. And therefore, all
we know, I believe that the profitability of automotive business will be pretty much in line
with our initial expectation on the full year basis.
My name is Kinoshita (22:53) from Financial Planning Department of the Holdings
Company. Let me talk about impact to our bond holdings. As it was pointed out earlier, we
are actually now seeing a material impact to our bond holdings. So, the interest rate is
going to be negative. However, even if that – however, given that the interest rate has
actually come down to some extent already, we have actually not seen any material
impact to our bond holdings. So, no major impact, and we will continue to monitor how
this is going to trend going forward.

A - Shin-Ichiro Okada

{BIO 15401816 <GO>}

My name is Okada from the Corporate Planning of TMNL. With regards to the investment
policy at TMNL, we will continue to execute and we would mark-to-market both assets
and liabilities to ensure that we can manage the differential between asset and liabilities
in the position that is new to the market development. Thank you.

Operator
Here's the next question from JPMorgan. Mr. Tsujino, please.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

First of all, numbers-wise, for overseas or international and the natural catastrophe, your
expectation was ¥27 billion for Q3. Up to Q3, how much has been accounted for already?
And in the fourth quarter, is there any expectation that the numbers may change
somewhat? So that's one simple question first.
And in accordance to that, for international subsidiary, for the full year for the company's
outlook for ordinary profit I believe it's more than ¥150 billion I believe or ¥151.5 billion. But
currently, it's ¥105 billion. So, you're a little bit short against your outlook. So, can you give
us a little bit more flavor on that as well?

A - Operator
My name is Iwata (24:59) from the International Business Department, so ¥27 billion for –
¥12.6 billion has been generated so far for natural catastrophe. For the fourth quarter, we
are expecting ¥10 billion. But against that, at this moment, no major natural catastrophe
has yet happened. That's why we acknowledged.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

How about the water hazards in Mississippi? You have been saying that it had no major
impact, but is that still the case?

A - Operator
Page 7 of 12



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-02-12

We're still looking into it. But so far, there has been no major losses associated with that
incident.

FINAL

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

And furthermore, my next question is, going forward, with regards to your investments.
(25:51-25:56) At TMNF – or the maturity average for JGB, I believe, it's about six years,
seven years. But for the non-life business, especially in a company like yourselves, your
liabilities are pretty steady and it continues to roll over, so you're able to take risk. But you
already do that in equities, so you won't be able to pull out the yen. But with regards to
JGB portfolio that you have in non-life, if you were to extend the duration, do you think
that's likely from a policy point of view? If not, do you have any other ideas because you
didn't really do any hedged foreign bonds before.

A - Operator
My name is Kinoshita (26:54) from the Financial Planning department from Holdings. With
regards to duration and extending it, of course, from a taking yen risk point of view, that
might be one of the options. But with regards to our current investments, we would like to
be thorough in pursuing our ALM policy. That is our basic policy. So, savings insurance or
fire insurance, that is the basis. So, we are not thinking about the options you have
mentioned right now.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

How about increasing hedged foreign bonds?

A - Operator
With regards to that as well, hedging cost has been rising. So, when you think about what
you can gain from it and if it's worth investing, we may pursue that option. But we'll
basically look at the market to see where – what we have as options. And from next
[indiscernilbe] (27:57) onwards, the hedging cost may change, but basically we would like
to closely watch the market. Thank you very much.
I am very sorry. Earlier, you asked about the full year outlook for the international business.
I would like to answer your question from the International Business Development
department. With regards to the investment environment, there is some headwinds
blowing. But like we mentioned earlier for natural catastrophes, it hasn't happened in a
major way for the fourth quarter, which might be an upside to our earnings. So, we would
like to present it to consideration and we would like to watch the situation closely as we
head towards the end of the year. But we're basically in the middle of aggregating other
numbers. So, we would like to announce them when we make our results announcements
next time.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Page 8 of 12



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-02-12

The next question is from Mr. Sasaki of Merrill Lynch Japan.

FINAL

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}

I am Sasaki from Merrill Lynch. I have two questions. My first question is related to the
sales of business-related equities. You have sold ¥97 billion by the end of the third
quarter, and I believe that your full year budget is ¥100 billion. You are pretty much done
with the full year budget. So, are you pretty much done for this fiscal year or you're
planning to sell more equities during the fourth quarter? What is your progress or current
situation of the business for the equity sales?
And second question is related to ESR, given that the stock market is down, I believe that
your ESR of 111% as of the end of September has come down to, probably close to 100%.
So given or assuming that your ESR is now approaching 100%, what is your take on the
current position? Are you starting to take certain actions in order to improve ESR?

A - Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

My name is Kinoshita (30:13) from Financial Planning Department of Holdings. Let me
answer your question related to business-related equities. Under the mid-term business
plan, we are planning to sell ¥100 billion or more of business-related equities per annum.
So, the minimum is a ¥100 billion per annum, and we have achieved ¥97 billion, we have
been selling those equities steadily. And as much as we could, basically our negotiation
with corporate clients, we would like to continue to sell those equities down furthermore.
So, we wouldn't stop this exercise for the fiscal year, we would continue with this exercise.

A - Shiro Sasaki

{BIO 19269575 <GO>}

And to your second question related to the ESR. I would answer the question. I am Sasaki.
Our company is disclosing our ESR, just twice a year at the end of the first half and second
half. And therefore, we are now showing specific ESR number as of the end of the third
quarter. Now, as of the end of the first half, we announced our ESR. That was postacquisition of HCC. And based on that assumption, the ESR was 111%.
And that said, the stock market or the Nikkei average was ¥17,388 and against that
currently, I think that today's closing price was a little under ¥15,000 or ¥14,952, which is a
decrease by about 15% or so compared to the September end. You may not have this
material with you at this point in time. So, I would like to just orally explain to you the
sensitivity. Now, vis-à-vis interest rate because of the execution of ALM, the impact of the
interest rate movement to our ESR is quite limited. It's very marginal.
And with regards to foreign currencies, of course, when the Japanese yen appreciates,
the net asset value of the foreign subsidiaries decline. However, with outside Japan on
the other hand, also a decrease and therefore net-net the impact to our ESR is quite
limited.
Now, with regards to equities. Once the equity market goes down by 30% from ¥17,380 in
terms of Nikkei, then our ESR would become 101%. And the actual decline that we have
seen in the stock market is about 15%, almost half of this 30%. And, therefore, I believe
Page 9 of 12



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-02-12

that ESR is sitting somewhere in between the September end number and 101%. So, this
is still well above 100%.

FINAL

Of course, from the September end to the end of the third quarter, we have sold more
business-related equities and we have also been growing our profit. And so, I cannot give
you a specific number at this point in time. And yet, at this point in time, I don't think that
ESR looks significantly different from that we showed at the end of September.
So, in terms of action, we would like to continue to closely monitor the developments in
the market and we believe that our ESR continues to stay at a position, which shows a
strong financial soundness of our company.

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}

If I may ask you a follow-up question with regards to ESR. Now, looking at the risk appetite
frameworks of foreign financial institutions, since that they are setting trigger points a little
below the minimum floor level and once the actual market hits the trigger level it seems
that more institutions will start taking action. Now it seems that your ESR is coming quite
close to 100% already and yet it is your view that you don't have to take any particular
actions at this point in time, is that correct?
And also toward the end of this fiscal year, with regards to your capital management
policy. Do you think that the current stock market is not going to affect your current policy?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Operator
Now with regards to action, as we explained in the material that we used at the end of
first half, of course, we intend to maintain our ESR at a comfortable level by selling the
business-related equities and based on, of course, our risk appetite framework, we are
managing our risks on a continuous basis. So in that sense, we are taking actions really on
a day-to-day basis.
And in terms of how we look at our ESR and how we appreciate the level of ESR, in our
company as we have communicated before as well, we are measuring the ESR based on
99.95% bar, which is a very stringent level. And furthermore, our net assets value includes,
for example, or we exclude restricted capital from net asset value in order to – for us to
be cautious of the credit ratings. And therefore, we have certain buffer, if you will,
factored in to our ESR calculation already to some extent.
And with regards to shareholder return going forward, as it has been the case to-date,
we would look at the capital position market situations and others in order to see whether
we want to buy back our own shares or not.
And with regards to dividend, as we explained earlier as of the end of the third quarter,
we are well on track. So, I believe that our dividend payout would also be in line with our
original plan. So no change in terms of policies that we are contemplating at this point in
time.

Page 10 of 12



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-02-12

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}

Well understood. Thank you very much.

Operator

FINAL

Here is the next question from Nomura Securities. Mr. Otsuka, please.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

Hello. This is Otsuka from Nomura. One big question related to natural cat? Since the
fourth quarter and the incurred catastrophes, can you divide it into Japan and overseas?
On January 18 and January 24, there was a major snowstorm in Japan, on a reported
basis, if there are any losses, you can let us know, that will be great.
And with regards to full-year outlook, it seems that you haven't made any revision. So,
with regards to snow impact in January, can we believe that the impact was small?

A - Operator
For overseas, around the same timeframe, around the January 25, there was a huge
snowstorm in Washington, as well as in New York. And there was a lot of damage at
around airports and stuff.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

But for the North American business; not for the March quarter, but it may hit the June
quarter next fiscal year. But can you share with us what's happening there? And there was
the earthquake in Taiwan as well. So, if you're being hit by this as well, can you let us
know?

A - Operator
My name is Nakai (38:14) from the Corporate Accounting Department of Tokio Marine
Holdings. With regards to Japan and January snow, I don't have the numbers with me right
now, but the impact, we believe, is going to be small.
TMNF on a standalone basis, we believe it's going to be around ¥70 billion, and we don't
believe it's going to be a great scale that's going to exceed that amount.
I'm Iwata (38:43) from International Business Development. For the big snow storm in
North America for January, actually, we are aggregating the numbers right now. But we
don't believe we're going to be recognizing huge losses. With regards to the earthquake
for Taiwan, we are still aggregating the numbers. But for this as well, we don't believe the
losses related to it is going to be major.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

Thank you.

Page 11 of 12



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-02-12

Operator
There seems to be no question at this point in time. So, the operator explaining once
again how to place questions to Japanese-speaking audience.

FINAL

There seems to be no questions at this point in time. So, Mr. Sasaki, please.

A - Shiro Sasaki

{BIO 19269575 <GO>}

Once again, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for attending the conference call
for the third quarter results of FY 2015. For further clarification and additional questions,
please do not hesitate to call us at IR Department. Once again, thank you very much for
your attendance.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

This concludes today's Tokio Marine Holdings conference call for third quarter results in FY
2015. Thank you very much for your participation until the very end. Please hang up your
lines. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 12 of 12

