Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Gianandrea Roberti, Head-Investor Relations
Morten Hübbe, Group Chief Executive Officer
Tor Magne Lønnum, Group Chief Financial Officer

Other Participants
Christian Hede , Analyst
In-Yong Hwang , Analyst
Jakob Brink, Analyst
Jonny Urwin, Analyst
Per Grønborg, Analyst
Steven A. Haywood, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Gianandrea Roberti

{BIO 6786731 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody. This is Gianandrea Roberti. I'm Head of Investor Relations at Tryg. We
are here to present our Q4 Full Year Results today. We published them earlier on this morning. I
have our CEO, Morten Hübbe; and CFO, Tor Lønnum.
So, with a few words, over to you, Morten.

Morten Hübbe
Thank you, Gian. And if we turn to slide number 2 (sic) [3] (00:25) in the deck, we continue, as
promised, to focus on the stable and increasing dividend. We've announced this morning an
extraordinary buyback of DKK 1 billion for 2016, which underlines a strong capital position,
improved by the new Solvency II regime.
If we look at the technical result of DKK 2.4 billion, clearly, down from the year before. It's impacted
by large claims and, particularly, weather claims, which, in combination, is DKK 210 million more
expensive than the year before, also impacted by one-offs, which in 2014 was positive due to
Norwegian pension of DKK 135 million and this year negative of DKK 120 million due to
restructuring charges to reach the 2017 target. It's very positive that in 2015 we reached the target
of an expense ratio below 15% before one-off costs.
We see a drop in the top-line of 0.8%, but we see a positive trend in Private lines and particularly
Private lines Denmark, whereas our Commercial business is more challenged. And generally, a
positive development in Denmark, whereas Norwegian macro is turning to a more negative
development. If we turn to slide 3 (sic) [4] (01:52), in the fourth quarter, we show a pre-tax profit of
DKK 704 million. We don't show a post-tax profit of DKK 721 million where clearly there's a high
investment income and a surprisingly low tax rate. Bear in mind that there's a change to the
Norwegian tax rate, which is what influences the fourth quarter numbers.
Clearly, for the quarter, also we see that the technical result is impacted by higher claims level in
property. And although some of this is more sarcastic (02:30), we also see an underlying trend



FINAL

where a number of products has a slightly higher claims inflation, which we will mitigate through
price and claims initiatives in the new year.
If we turn to slide number 4 (sic) [5] (02:45), we show a strong development in customer
satisfaction, where our three-year target to double the NPS score has been achieved already after
2015. We also see particularly in Denmark and Sweden, that our retention and three-plus targets
are increasing, whereas they developed slightly negatively in Norway, which we intend to improve
in the coming year.
We continue to drive price differentiation as an extremely important project. And in 2016, we will
be converting a large number of customers to our new improved products. And then of course the
spring of 2016, that's the first time we implement and carry out our new customer bonus scheme
in Denmark, which we expect to have a positive impact.
If we turn to slide number 5 (sic) [6] (03:43), as expected, the efficiency program has a lower run
rate in 2015 than in 2014, with total savings of DKK 165 million for the year-to-date and DKK 47
million for the quarter isolation. Key drivers in cost reductions have been outsourcing,
reorganization and commercial and digital communication.

Bloomberg Transcript

For claims, the fourth quarter, we have increased the focus on collection from third-party insurance
company when they're responsible for claims. And then the continued implementation of IN4MO
system to reduce property claims. Clearly looking ahead, the efficiency program will be the main
driver to improve the expense ratio in 2016 and 2017 to reach the below 14% target in 2017. And
the total efficiency measures will be DKK 225 million for this year and DKK 375 million for 2017.
Now, if we turn to slide number 6 (sic) [7] (04:51), we show that we have reached our expense ratio
target of below 15% in 2015. The main driver has been reduction in head count, which has dropped
some 240 FTE heads during the year but also outsourcing of IT. When you do your modeling,
please bear in mind that seasonality wise, Q4 is often the lowest in terms of cost run rate. We are
on route and on target to reach our 17% targets to have a cost ratio at or below 14%. But when you
do your modeling, please bear in mind that we're not expecting to be significantly below the 14%
market.
And over to you, Tor.

Tor Magne Lønnum
Thanks, Morten. If we move on to slide number 8 (sic) [9] (05:47) and look at the top-line
development, we do have a positive top-line development in private as you can see on top of the
slide, but keep in mind that it's impacted by lower premium discount impact this year. So it's not as
positive as you can read from the 1.1% isolated.
It's important to say that if you move on to the Corporate, you can see that there are some
movements in terms of top-line that reflects that there will be some volume changes between the
quarters, and I think it's more important to look at the flattish development year-on-year.
As Morten highlighted initially, if we look on Commercial, it's still challenged on weak
developments in Norway, and to a certain extent, also in Denmark. But clearly, I mean the worry
point in our own mind is related to the Norwegian business and the macro that Morten highlighted.
Sweden is somewhat challenged from a large definitive agreement that has been terminated, and
I think we have talked about this before. If we talk about what is going to happen in terms of topline for 2016, and that's something that Morten will address at the end as well, but based on what
we see in terms of claims inflation, we have set in order (07:20) some price increases in the
portfolio in 2016, and that will be about 3% across the portfolio. And it's, of course, something that



we think will help both our top-line, but also to adjust for the increased claims inflation, so about
3% in terms of price increases across the portfolio.

FINAL

Moving on to slide number nine (sic) [10] (07:51). You can see that we have a less satisfactory
technical result. The reported combined ratio increased 4.7 percentage points to 88.4%. It is
impacted by a lower run-off this quarter, but also higher weather-related claims of – and large
claims of DKK 220 million.
There is an underlying weakening of approximately 1.3%, which is helped by the improvement in
cost ratio that Morten mentioned, but a 2% deterioration in claims ratio. And this, of course,
reflects back on the price increases that I mentioned earlier.
If we move on to slide number 10 (sic) [11] (08:36), you can see that in Denmark, average price in
motor are down with 2.6% and 1% in housing. We do think that this should be positively impacted
by price increases in 2016. In Norway, average price in motor are increasing again from 0.5% last
quarter to 0.8% in Q4. Housing continued to increase, but at a lower level than last quarter, and are
up 0.6%. And that's one of the areas where we will see price increases in 2016.

Bloomberg Transcript

If we move on to slide number 11 (sic) [12] (09:16) and look at the retention levels, we think it's
actually very, very good that we are able to achieve a retention level in Private Denmark at 89.9% in
Q4, which is the best level in two years, slightly better in Private Norway at 86.4% this quarter, but
still slightly lower than end of last year. Commercial retention is slightly weaker than previous
quarters, impacted by the competitive situation in Denmark, but also the macro/competition in
Norway.
If we move on to slide number 13 (sic) [14] (09:56) and look at the underlying claims ratio, as I
mentioned, we see that the underlying claims ratio is impacted – is up about 2 percentage points,
impacted by higher than expected claims inflation. It's particularly related to property claims, but
also child insurance and general negative claims trend.
The Private segment has a weakened underlying of 0.8 percentage points, and we are concerned
about underlying claims inflation pressure in Denmark, which is, in general, as I said, higher than
expected for 2015. And thus, the portfolio price increases will be crucial for reaching the
improvements expected in 2016 and, as I said, on average, 3% across the portfolio.
If we look at slide number 14 (sic) [15] (10:52), we have highlighted already that there is an increase
in large claims and weather and it amounted to more than DKK 1.2 billion in 2015 in total, which is
about DKK 180 million higher than the annual expected level. Now, keep in mind that we have not
adjusted our expectations upwards for 2016, and we do sort of see the above expectations as the
normal deviation in terms of large and weather claims.
In Q4, large and weather related claims amounted to a total of approximately DKK 370 million
which is DK 50 million increase compared to last year. In our mind, the elevated impact in 2015, as I
said, does not require annual adjustments. Total run-off effect for the year at 6.7%, which is an
increase of 0.6% since last year, slightly lower in Q4 at 5.5%. But keep in mind that, as we have
talked about before, that it had been at a slightly elevated level previously in 2015. The run-off
position is still supported by a strong reserving position.
If we move on to slide number 16 (sic) [17] (12:16), and look at the investment return, we had a total
investment return in Q4 that ended at DKK 201 million, which is significantly higher than last year.
And it means that the full year ended more or less at zero in terms of return, which of course, is a
significant drop compared to last year. But still, if we compare to what happened in Q3, it was a
good performance in Q4.



FINAL

We had the best performance in high-yield emerging markets and properties, slightly weaker in
equities compared to benchmark. End of 2015, we have a slightly lower equity exposure. And of
course, it's important for me to say that we have had a weak performance so far in 2016. But I
guess that is something that we can all observe in the markets these days. There are no other
material changes in the portfolio.
And then finally, I'd like to highlight the fact that we do mark all assets. We do have all assets
marked-to-market, which is different from many of our Nordic and international peers. This is not
for us to choose, but we do follow the Danish regulation. So all assets are marked-to-market.
Slide number 17 (sic) [18] (13:41), when we look at the solvency ratio, ended at 154% at the end of
the year impacted by profits, buybacks and full year dividends. You do know that the internal
model was approved by FSA in Q4. It's also important to say that for the Natural Perils pool there is
still some uncertainty, because it's pending finalization. But we do expect this to come through in
Q1 and everything looks according to what we have communicated earlier.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now on slide number 18 (sic) [19] (14:21), we have chosen to give full disclosure on what happens
after we go over to the Solvency II rules. And the solvency ratio changed to 176% at the beginning
of 2016. There is relatively significant changes. Among other things, we do include expected future
profit of DKK 0.6 billion in the capital. There is a negative effect of changes in the discount curve of
about DKK 0.2 billion. We will be able to include, or to reduce the capital requirement by about
DKK 1.2 billion related to being able to utilize a tax loss carry forward, or a tax asset. There is
additional subordinated debt capacity in the balance sheet of approximately DKK 1 billion. And of
course, that will be utilized to support the 2016 buyback.
Now, as I said, we do expect the Natural Perils pool to be eligible as Tier 2 capital according to the
suggestions by the Ministry of Justice in Norway. Keep in mind that the solvency ratio will be, to a
large extent, unaffected by large equity market swing as potential fall in available capital is offset
by the reduction in capital requirements, i.e., a dampener effect.
And with that, I think I'll leave it back to you, Morten.

Morten Hübbe
Thank you, Tor. And just for a few concluding remarks on slide 19 (sic) [20] (16:08). We reiterate our
2017 targets to have an ROE at or above 21%. Combined ratio at or below 87%, or an expense
ratio at or below 14%. And then our targets to double NPS to increase retention and increase our
three-plus products with our customers. We also show an expectation of 2016 top-line growth
between zero and 2% in local currency.
Clearly, the main significant focus will be on delivering our efficiency program from DKK 165 million
in 2015 to DKK 225 million in 2016, and DKK 375 million in 2017. We continue to have a significant
focus on price differentiation to improve our products and improve our risk selection, and also
significant efforts to converting old customers into the new product.
And then as Tor has mentioned, we increase our focus in 2016 to secure average prices that is
slightly higher than the development in claims inflation. There is a general historic risk that when
claims inflation increases, the insurance industry comes behind the curve; whereas when the
inflation reduces, they benefit from that. And we do see that the wheels are moving slightly faster
particularly in the Danish society, and particularly in property, and to some extent travel. But across
the board, it's important that we are slightly ahead of the inflation curve and not slightly behind.
We focus on nominal stable to increasing dividends, which is more important to us than the actual
pay-out range. And then, we finalize on slide 20 (sic) [21] (18:10) with a quote from John D.



Rockefeller on the importance of dividend and dividend yield. And then, of course, adding to that,
the planned buyback of DKK 1 billion in 2016 to result in a high total yield.
And I think, with that, we are ready to take your questions.

FINAL

Q&A
Operator
Thank you. And our first question comes from In-Yong Hwang from Goldman Sachs. Please go
ahead with the question.

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi. Good morning. This is In-Yong from Goldman Sachs. Two questions from me. Firstly, on the new
176% solvency ratio, I appreciate you're doing explicit guides on what you're aiming for here. But
it's significantly higher than kind of the 150% that you used to keep historically. So would you kind of
now see yourself, let's say, capitalized or do you see that to the increased Solvency II ratio as just
model changes, and 176% in some ways kind of the new normal, or roughly at the level you want to
keep it at. So just your thinking around that, and it would be helpful.
And secondly, on the Commercial segment, I think on the slide, it says structurally challenged, and
you're talking about finding the right balance between increasing retention and increasing sales. Is
there a sense where – do you get a sense of which is a kind of more problematic area? Is the
retention too low, or is sales too low? Is there one area or the other that you're focusing on more?
And just related to that, there was quite a lot reorganization especially in Norway through 2015. I
was wondering what your thoughts are on that, whether that's kind of in place now, and will no
longer be a drag on premiums as much? Thank you.

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
Yes. Good morning. I'll address the first question, and then Morten will answer on the Commercial
segment. First and foremost, we're very pleased to be able to give you the numbers now in terms
of the solvency ratio. And you're quite right, I mean, the solvency ratio increases quite significantly.
Now, keep in mind that when we have been at around 150% in the past, that hasn't been any sort
of particular threshold communicated. And as you know, we are very explicit not to communicate
any surplus capital, or surplus capital thresholds in that sense, because it's relatively important for
us to be able to maintain that flexibility.
What we do promise is a stable to increasing nominal dividend. And as you can clearly see from
what we announced today, we will continue to support our shareholders with distributing capital,
when we see that there is flexibility in terms of our balance sheet. And clearly, going over to the
Solvency II regime now in 2016 up for an additional buyback. And that's why, as you can see, we do
have a capital distribution which is significantly higher than the earnings generated in 2015.
So I think it's clearly sort of states Tryg as a company that wants to be a shareholder-friendly
company, that wants to keep a capitalization that is okay, but we shouldn't be overcapitalized. We
want to support our shareholders with dividend, and we keep to the promise of a stable and
growing dividend. And with that, I think – I'm sure that there will be further discussions, questions
and comments related to the solvency ratio through 2016 as well. But for now, I think I'll just stick to
the comment saying that we feel very comfortable with a solvency ratio of 176%. We feel very
comfortable with a capital distribution of DKK 1 billion through an extraordinary buyback in 2015.

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}



Sorry. Just to follow-up, so the 176%, you wouldn't see that as an overcapitalized position?

FINAL

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
Well, I mean, I didn't say that. On the contrary, I said that we don't really want to disclose what
would be sort of our view in terms of a standard or normal capitalization. We are simply saying that,
as we have said in the past, we know that the capitalization has to be at a certain level above 100%
in order to make sure that the FSA is happy, and anything above that is, of course, discretionary
and something that we need to consider at all times. But I think the practice that Tryg have shown
over the last few years speaks for itself, because we have been extremely disciplined in terms of
the capital approach, and we have distributed annual buybacks of DKK 1 billion for the last three
years or four years. So I think it's better to let the practice of the company speak for itself.

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Sure. Great. Thank you.

A - Morten Hübbe

Bloomberg Transcript

And if I return to your – I think it's quite important, second question on the Commercial segment.
Clearly, there's a very significant difference between Norway and Denmark Commercial in Tryg.
Norway Commercial is clearly our smallest portfolio. It means that we are working on a number of
issues like professionalizing our customer segmentation, professionalizing our distribution. We
have moved from mainly a owned sales force model to now using more franchising distribution
which has been very successful in our Private lines in Norway, that will be growing significantly in the
importance in the future years.
We are working significantly to enhance the customer retention rates from the NPS. When we
started the NPS focus a year ago, Commercial Norway had the weakest NPS in the Group, with an
NPS of minus 21. That has now turned into a slightly positive NPS. But clearly, it has a significant
further journey to take. And on top of that, the negative oil price development means that there's
more pressure on Norwegian macro which will impact our Norwegian Commercial segment.
Danish Commercial segment, on the other hand, is more than double in size, as well our
Norwegian Commercial business. Our retention rate is actually increasing. And our sales increased
some 2% for the full year, and some 6% for the fourth quarter. So those are developing in the right
direction. Our sales still have to improve slightly further. And I guess, here we have a more
supportive macro which is starting to develop slightly positively. And hopefully, the Danish
membership bonus will be slightly supportive as well.
So I think, Commercial, as a whole, will still be behind Private lines in 2016. We'll also have periods
with negative top line development. But clearly, Denmark is improving and has better prospects in
the short-term, whereas Norway is more structural. We have made significant changes to the
organization of both. So both, Commercial Norway and Commercial Denmark has the new head of
business and significant new organization from 1 of January.

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Jonny Urwin from UBS. Please go ahead with
your question.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}



FINAL

Morning, all. Thanks for taking my questions. I've got two. So firstly, it's around claims inflation. You
made some very interesting comments this morning, particularly around Denmark. I mean, I'm just
a bit interested to get a bit more color around what claims inflation is doing perhaps by line in
Denmark, and if you could give us any more color by market as well, that would be great. I mean, I
appreciate that you once put through an average of 3% pricing increase. So that gives us some
context, but just a bit more granularity there.
And also, I mean, I take it from your premium guidance that you're guiding us to at least flat
premium on local currency. That sounds like you're pretty confident of being able to put through
these pricing increases without losing any material volumes. So just to comments around that
would be great.
And then, finally, just around Net Promoter Scores. I mean, I appreciate your comments around the
Norwegian lag, but from what I can see, the Net Promoter Score is zipping along nicely, and you've
already hit your 2017 target. But we're not really seeing any improvement in the cross-sell, or the
retention. Is that all the drag from Norway, or is it just a time lag there? Those are my questions.

A - Tor Magne Lønnum

Bloomberg Transcript

I guess, I can start by commenting a bit on claims inflation, and then Morten will complement sort
of some of the comments afterwards. But if we start, and I think I'll make the comments more by
market. It's fair to say that we do think that we are moving in two different directions for our key
markets, i.e., we do think that the claims inflation in Norway should come down somewhat, but it's
still at a higher level than Denmark.
So I think the expectations, as I said, is coming down a bit, but still at a somewhat higher level than
Denmark. And then, of course, it's important to say that the challenge is to actually forecast what is
going to happen in terms of the Norwegian economy, now with the oil price below $30 a barrel,
that is, of course, continuing to hurt the Norwegian economy to a certain extent. So in principle, we
do expect claims inflation in Norway to come down a bit, but it will still be in the area of 2%,
perhaps even a bit higher.
Now, in terms of Denmark, we do the expect claims inflation to come up. And as I said, on the
slides earlier, we have said – we have seen slightly higher claims inflation in 2015 than what we
have expected, and that's really why we are pushing through with price increases in the portfolio.
And keep in mind what Morten said earlier that we – since the TryghedsGruppen are introducing
the membership bonus this year expected in the area of 5% to 8%, that will, of course, in our mind,
mitigate, to a certain extent, at least, the impact that price increases may have related to the
retention level.
So we have seen a bit more claims inflation in Denmark than what we have expected. And I think
we said in Q3 that it's, in particular, related to the property lines of business and that is both in
Private and in the Commercial lines. We saw an increase in travel insurance claims, although that is
a relatively small line of business. And then, as I said, there is kind of the general uncertainty
around the claims trend and the claims inflation as the economic activity in Denmark picks up.
So that is, in my mind, at least, a bit more flavor on the markets on the lines of business. And I
don't want to become too granular in the question. It's important to say that it's a general worry
about the claims inflation in the Danish portfolio that we're trying to address with the price
increases.

A - Morten Hübbe
And I guess the traditional time lag issue that when we decide to do a price change, it takes 12
months to hit the renewal date of all customers, and it takes another 12 months to end the
premium. So part of it is what we have already seen, and part of it is also guesstimating the more
short-term future, because history just shows that we always get behind that curve.



FINAL

And then if you look at the NPS, I think your question is right. Clearly, we see that the strongest NPS
improvement has been in Denmark where also, we see an increase in the three-plus customers,
and we've seen the increase in the retention rate. The weakest development in NPS has been in
Norway, and particularly, Norwegian Commercial. And that is also where we actually see a slightly
negative development in three-plus and retention rates.
And clearly, in Norway, one of the challenges is our card channel business where the number of
products is very often one and where actually the retention rate is developing negatively. That is
one of the areas where a cross-sales initiative needs to improve that significantly in 2016 and 2017.
We do see in some distribution channels like call center Private Denmark, the degree to which new
customers buy more than three products has already increased more than 7%, which is above the
5 percentage points target. But there are other sales channels where it hasn't increased at all. So it
is broadening the number of channels where we're successful with more cross-distribution, and
then, it is an initiative to contact existing customers to do more cross-sales to them as well. Both
are required to hit our 2017 target, because, yes, three-plus is improving. Yes, retention is
improving, but actually, both need to improve more during 2016 and 2017.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Okay. That's really helpful. Thank you.

A - Tor Magne Lønnum

Bloomberg Transcript

And then, finally, I think, in terms of the question about the premium price increases versus
premium, I think I answered that at least indirectly when I talked about claims inflation.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Yeah, for sure. Thanks very much.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Christian Hede from Nordea. Please go
ahead with your question.

Q - Christian Hede

{BIO 18642300 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. This is Christian from Nordea in Copenhagen. I have a couple – maybe only
one question. Actually, we have started that (34:01) at least. I think, Tor, you were mentioning that
the Tier 2 kind of the buffer for issuing Tier 2 capital would support the 2016 buybacks. Can you
give some more detail on that? Do you see it as – I guess you have DKK 1 billion buffer? You have
DKK 1 billion buyback. It's not 1:1. But is it half the Solvency – sorry, half the Tier 2 capital that needs
to be issued or how do you see it?

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
Yes. Good morning, Christian. I think it's not that I wanted to make the 1:1 relationship. In principle,
I'm just saying that and I think that is more or less in line with what we have communicated earlier
that we really want to utilize the opportunity we have in terms of issuing Tier 2 capital. And as such,
of course, we will take out that Tier 2 capital here in the first half of 2016 or issue that Tier 2 capital
here in 2016.
And then, I don't really think, Christian, that I want to make any more comments around buffer and
capitalization than what I already did because, I mean in our mind, as I said earlier, we feel relatively
confident in terms of our capital situation. We are doing an extraordinary buyback again. So I mean
again, utilizing the balance sheet to distribute to the shareholders. So I think there are some



moving parts. We feel very confident about the 176% Solvency ratio. It's perhaps not spot-on in
terms of your question, Christian.

FINAL

Q - Christian Hede

{BIO 18642300 <GO>}

No. That's fair. Thank you. It makes sense. I guess you need to keep down the equity level to reach
the ROE targets so to be sure to do that (35:54). On another target 2017, you still have the below
or at 14% (36:00) cost ratio. I guess that is obviously under more and more pressure due to a very
low growth. So how do you see that? Have you done extraordinarily much? Maybe you did answer
it earlier, I came in a bit late, so thank you.

A - Morten Hübbe
Well, I guess we haven't talked about that earlier today. I guess it's very important to say that we
did our provisioning during the autumn, to make sure that we can manage the head count
reduction for the 2017 program.

Bloomberg Transcript

So far, we've talked to you about the outsourcing and finance and IT. From week 42 in the autumn
of 2015, we started the outsourcing processes of a number of business tasks, and they have gone
live and they have been increasing in numbers and that process is continuing.
Our automation initiatives are continuing where we launched the first automatic sort of web claims
reporting processes in Denmark in December. That will continue during the spring of this year. So
clearly, we have a large number of initiatives lined up to continue to lower head count and improve
the processed automation and outsourcing. And clearly, that is the route to reach our 2017 target.
And as you mentioned in Norway, I think, will actually have less help on the macro and top-line,
whereas in Denmark, we will probably have slightly more help in the next two years.
But all in all, we have to do most of the hard work ourselves and that is what our plan says. A few
analysts have guesstimated significantly below 14% cost ratios in 2017. And we mentioned earlier
on this call that that is not our expectation. Unchanged is our expectation to reach the at or below
14%, but not significantly below that number.
To my knowledge, there is hardly any insurance companies in the world below 14%. So that is a
very steep ambition to begin with. And I think we are quite clear that we'll deliver that. But also we
don't expect to deliver significantly more than that by 2017.

Q - Christian Hede

{BIO 18642300 <GO>}

Thank you. That's very clear.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Steven Haywood from HSBC. Please go
ahead with your question.

Q - Steven A. Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning, everyone. You mentioned in your results that the match portfolio result is going
to be a bit more volatile going forward. Could you provide a bit more kind of clarity on how wide
the range might be or how much volatility will come through this line?
And then you say that the credit risk adjustment impact is always going to be negative, but do you
know by what amount here? And then I think in your fourth quarter income from associates has a
significantly large positive one-off. Could you explain where this one has come from? Thank you.



A - Tor Magne Lønnum

FINAL

So the first question was about volatility in terms of the match portfolio. And the reason is simply
that there will be – that the new discount curve will create a bit more volatility, in particular, sort of
related to, I guess, the Swedish and the Norwegian book. But to quantify, I don't think that's really
necessary. And I mean we have had the ambition for now the last five years – is it – to sort of stay
within the plus-minus DKK 50 million, and I wouldn't think about it as significantly higher than that
going forward.
Now, the last question you had was about associates. I'm not quite sure if I catch that question.

Q - Steven A. Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
Perhaps it's better to take that offline later.

Q - Steven A. Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Tor Magne Lønnum

Bloomberg Transcript

And then you had one more question which was, Steven...

Q - Steven A. Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

On the credit risk adjustment impact.

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
Yeah. And the question was how much or...

Q - Steven A. Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Yeah. Sort of why is it always negative and how much negatively impact?

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
I think that's a question that we'll have to get back to you on that. So I think we'll just do (40:55) or
distribute something by e-mail. If it's a general – if it's a question that is more of general interest,
it's something that we'll put out on the webpage.

Q - Steven A. Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks very much.

Operator
Thank you. Okay. Our next question comes from the line of Stefan Borg (sic) [Per Grønborg] (41:23)
from Danske Bank. Please go ahead with your question.

Q - Per Grønborg
Hello. It's Per Grønborg from Danske. Two questions from my side. First, a clarification. The 176%
Solvency II ratio, you stated it includes Skandia program, the H2 dividend. Does it also include the
planned 2016 buyback? Should you take that first?



A - Tor Magne Lønnum
No, it does not.

FINAL

Q - Per Grønborg
Okay. I just want to be sure. Secondly, you're addressing price hikes, you're addressing
competition less. How have you seen the competition develop over the last three months to six
months? And do the competitive situation in the market allow you to hike prices, especially in
Norway where you don't have the tailwind from the client dividend?

A - Morten Hübbe
I guess, the best indicator, Stefan (42:16) – or should we call you Per as we're used to? I guess, the
best indicator is the retention rate. And I guess, we see also this quarter continuous increase in the
Danish retention rate. We see support from the Danish membership bonus, and we see clearly
that every time we do a conversion or a price change, that the reaction is very linked to the
magnitude of that price change.

Bloomberg Transcript

And as long as we are sort of at or below the 5% mark in price change, usually, the churn rate
doesn't change significantly to the sort of average churn rates. If we move to sort of the 8% to 10%
plus rate, there is more difference. We contacted a number of customers with price changes in
November 2015 with fairly little reaction. Then we did higher price changes in travel claims, which
had a slightly higher reaction sort of emphasizing the point I made before.
I think if we move to Norway, we see a slightly negative development in retention rates currently.
Actually, if you open up those numbers slightly more, there's a negative retention rate
development in the motor car dealer channel, as I mentioned earlier, but actually the rest of the
Private lines portfolio has a slightly positive retention rate. And I think we expect to be able to push
through the price changes there without any significant change.
I think the dark horse is Commercial Norway where our slightly weaker market position combined
with a more difficult Norwegian macro situation for these Norwegian Commercial customers, that is
where we might have a slightly bigger challenge in terms of pushing through the changes. But
overall, in the bigger portfolios, we are comfortable that that is possible to carry out also in Private
Norway.

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
Keep in mind that when you look at the Norwegian book, there is – it's more challenged if you get
to the Commercial and Corporate segments that Morten mentioned, whereas, of course, we feel
relatively confident in terms of the Private lines in particular. And it's fair to say that we do – we
have seen bankruptcies in Norway now related to the oil service sectors of course. That is one of
the challenges that we see in 2016. But as I said, the important thing is really how we're able to
handle the general price increases across the Private on the SME portfolio.

Q - Per Grønborg
Okay. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Jakob Brink from ABG. Please go ahead with
the question.

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

Hello. Jakob from ABG. Two questions please. The first one is coming back to Per's question just
now on competition and especially in Norway. I get the impression that we still have quite a lot of



FINAL

companies in Norway that are eager to grow their market share. Also, some of the larger ones
which have been losing share for a long period of time. How do you see that? Is that sort of
calculated in your outlook for competition in Norway?
And then secondly, I think, Tor, you had a bit of detail on the run-off gains in 2015. I think you said
that you had communicated it would be slightly above normal. But could you just give us some
more details on what level I could so expect if one or two competitors has been out and being
quite precise and what we should expect over the next few years? Any change you could just help
us a bit on the way there? Thanks a lot.

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
Yeah. Good morning, Jakob. If I take sort of the last question first. I mean, you're quite right. We did
say that the run-off levels would be a bit higher than what you had seen in the last few years. And
in 2014, overall, the run-off releases ended at 6.1%. In 2015, slightly higher again at 6.7%. Now, I
know as you say that some of our peers have been more detailed in terms of run-off guidance. I
think what I would say is that for 2016, the run-off releases will stay at an elevated level. But then of
course, when you get off the strategy period, as we have said before, we must expect a gradual
normalization of run-off releases. And as you know, that's in the area of 2.5% to 3%. And I'm not
really eager to be any more precise than that.

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Just one follow-up on that. You said also that you had a strong reserve position end this year, but is
it better or worse than last year?

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
It's still strong.

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Morten Hübbe
I think on your first question, Jakob, on competition in Norway. I guess as I said, we always think that
the best indicator of competition is through retention rates. And as retention rate is slightly
negative, that shows you that, yeah, there is competition. We've seen the likes of NEMI and
Protector, for instance, being quite aggressive. I guess, we've seen Protector move more outside
the boundaries of Norway to do broker business, to do workers' comp business. They're doing
some of it in Denmark. They've talked about doing it in the UK, et cetera.
Clearly, I think that will probably continue. We see in some cases that their pricing is 20%, 30%
lower in, for instance, workers' comp business than the bigger players. And I guess together with
that, you also see a company like (49:03). I think that both NEMI and (49:06) are struggling with
their financial results. They have, to some extent, been struggling with their capital positions as
well. Protector seems to be doing well in terms of results regardless of the lower prices, and you
might see a dramatically lower reserve ratio. I'll ask you to sort of figure out what that means
longer term.
And some of the bigger players, I guess, we've seen that (49:35) in Norway is doing slightly better
in terms of top line, and I think they're utilizing their membership bonus well. And they're actually
utilizing a higher average price increase than we see many of the other Norwegian players. So, I
think that is a serious and successful approach on their side. And then, I guess, the Norwegian
banks are struggling with significantly higher capital requirements, which might put a slight, slight
dampener on their insurance growth focus.



FINAL

But yes, I think, clearly, also when the Norwegian economy moves into more difficult territory, that
usually means a slightly tougher competition. And it probably usually means that some of the
customers in commercial and corporate will have a focus on achieving a lower price because their
own P&L is challenged. So, I think it's right to be alert about competition situation in Norway, but we
don't see any dramatic changes there.

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

If you should add it up in Norway, do you think it's likely that the Norwegian market as a whole will
see positive growth in 2016?

A - Morten Hübbe
Yes, that is our expectation. We think that it will be less positive and the macro will put it slightly
downwards. But I think still that the price development means that the whole Norwegian market as
such will have a positive growth.

Q - Jakob Brink

{BIO 7556154 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks very much.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. And we have a follow-up question from the line of In-Yong Hwang from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Hello. Just one more question. On travel insurance at third quarter, I think you said it was a marketwide problem and you expect to see significant price increases across-the-board. So, is that what
you're seeing in the market? Are people behaving rationally and increasing prices substantially?

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
I think it's too soon for us to say what is happening more general in the market. In principle, as
Morten said, what we have done is that we have looked at our own portfolio and we have behaved
accordingly. And the price hikes were introduced to the customers in the last part or here in Q4.
So, of course, it's really too soon for us to say how that is going to impact the total market. But
clearly, as Morten said, we saw a bit elevated or a certain drop in retention level in the beginning.
But now, it seems to be more normalized. So...

A - Morten Hübbe
And I guess it's fair to say that travel insurance is not the largest and most expensive product. So,
we're looking at price increases of, say, DKK 200, DKK 250 for our travel policy for sort of an
average customer. So, it's not an amount that ruins a typical Danish family. And I think we should
expect some differentiation in terms timing on when the various insurance companies increase its
prices. But from the pattern we see, we would be surprised if the others would not eventually have
to do something similar.

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
Thank you. And we have another follow-up question from Jonny Urwin from UBS. Please go ahead.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}



Hi, there. Thanks. Very quick follow-up question. I just wonder, given the larger levels of volatility
and large losses that we saw in 2015, have you made any changes to sort of the reinsurance
program? Or is that just a sort of acceptable level of volatility that you're happy to run with?

FINAL

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
Well, first and foremost as I said during the presentation, we do feel that the deviations we have
seen is within sort of the normal deviation related to the large claims. There hasn't been any
particular changes related to the reinsurance program except the fact that we have increased the
cover on top, i.e., that it's a slightly higher cover in terms of our total exposure. But other than that
it's renewed the same way that we saw the year before.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Any indication on pricing move on that?

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
A slightly higher pricing level because as you indicated, we have sent quite a few large claims on to
the reinsurers. So we saw a bit of price increase related to the large claim recovery. On the other
hand, we saw a drop in pricing related to the catastrophe program.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks so much.

Operator
Thank you. And as there appears to be no further questions, I return the conference to you.

A - Tor Magne Lønnum
Yeah. I'll just make one more comment related to the question about the match portfolio. I'm sorry
for being a bit off. I guess first and foremost, it's important for me to say, again, that although we
do expect a bit more volatility related to the match, as (54:56) clearly said, it's not significant.
That's number one. Number two is related to the credit risk and that is something that is added to
the discount curve, not adopted.

A - Morten Hübbe
And then if I might make a final additional comment, there was a question from Steven on
associates and income from associates and what that related to. That relates to a single property,
which we own in conjunction with others, an investment property which was increased in terms of
value. And that is why it is a normal property income, but accounting-wise it comes through the
associates line.

A - Gianandrea Roberti

{BIO 6786731 <GO>}

Well, thank you very much for participating in the call today. And thanks to Morten and Tor. Peter
and I are around all day to answer questions from mails but we will also be at road show the next
few days. So, hopefully, we can see you all. Thanks a lot.

A - Morten Hübbe
Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.



FINAL

Bloomberg Transcript

Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

