Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-05-10

Q1 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Roland Vogel
Ulrich Wallin

Other Participants
Frank Kopfinger
In-Yong Hwang
Kamran Hossain
Michael Haid
Vinit Malhotra
William Hawkins
Xinmei Wang

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to today's Hannover Re International
Conference Call on Interim Results Q1 2016. For your information, this conference is being
recorded. At this time, I would like to hand the call over to your host today, Mr. Ulrich
Wallin, Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to welcome you to our
conference call presenting our result for the first quarter of 2016. As always, I'm joined by
our CFO, Roland Vogel. Given that we also today have our AGM, we have this call rather
early in the morning and we do hope that this would not cause any inconvenience to you.
Coming to slide number one, I'm pleased to report that we had a very good start to 2016
financial year. Group net income increased by 12.7% to €271.2 million. If you eliminate from
last year's results the special effect from the termination fee of the financial solutions
treaty, top line development is in line with expectation and gross premiums declined by
3.1%, forex adjusted by 2.1%. However, the net premium earned, in fact, increased by 3.2%
due to a higher retentions on our life and health business and positive change in the
unearned premiums for our P&C business.
The pleasing business development in the first quarter is driven by strong underwriting
profit in property/casualty reinsurance as well as good and solid results of our life and
Page 1 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-05-10

FINAL

health reinsurance business and on the investments side. This is a specialty gratifying
against a well-known difficult business environment. This is a soft market, in particular, on
the P&C side and the challenging investment environment with ever lower interest rates.
At 13.2%, we were again able to achieve an attractive return on equity (02:38) by further
strategic target and this was achieved despite a further increase of the IFRS capital base
by about 4%.
The book value per share at the end of the first quarter stood at €69.42, and it's, as I said,
increased compared to year-end of last year. Following four consecutive years of low
major natural catastrophe losses and very good results, the property/casualty reinsurance
business continues to be fiercely competitive. As a result, we continue to write our
business highly selective in accordance with our profit-orientated underwriting policy,
which is also reflected in slightly reduced premium volume.
I should remind you, however, that last year, we had a special effect on our facultative
business where we accelerated the premium booking to the amount of around €100
million which, of course, is not recurring this year. The overall profitability of the business,
so far 2016, is still good and certainly above our margin requirements. In the first quarter,
we continue to see good business opportunities in particular in the U.S. but also in parts of
Asia.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the other hand, we also saw some decline in the premium income. This particularly
refers to Chinese motor quota share business, which are bought for solvency relief
reasons and for the new solvency regime, C-ROSS, does not really help those treaties
because it reduced the capital necessary for motor business in China.
With the combined ratio of 94.7%, we achieved an increased underwriting result as
compared to last year. This also then resulted in healthy growth of our EBIT to €300
million which, in fact, is a growth of 17%. You should, however, remember that the first
quarter of 2015, the property/casualty result was a little bit below average. On the other
hand, the life and health result in the first quarter of 2015 was extraordinary good.
We feel that the result is strong and this is particularly due to the fact that we didn't
change our loss reserving policy, particularly regarding the large losses. And we did not do
any active reserve releases. So, on the reserve development side, all you saw is the
normally expected positive development.
In life and health reinsurance, we recorded a solid first quarter result. Gross written
premium increased slightly by 0.3% on a forex adjusted basis. This is on the back of
attractive opportunities, particularly, in Asia and also in our longevity business. At the same
time, also here we have some lost transactions, which did not renew and in particular,
refers to enhanced annuity business in the UK, some Australian group business and also
some business that we have written in our Shanghai branch, which was single premium
business and therefore the business is on the books. But of course the single premiums
were booked last year.

Page 2 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-05-10

FINAL

Nevertheless, the favorable underwriting results resulted in an operating results of €106
million, which is a little bit higher than the average run rate of our quarterly EBIT. And we
believe that signals that the underlying profitability of our life and health business
continues to develop favorably. The drop compared to last year is, of course, due to the
fact that we have the positive one-off effect last year, which I already mentioned.
Also our investment income developed entirely in line with expectations. ROI stood at
2.9%, in line with our target. And on that positive note, I would hand to Roland who is
actually looking after our investments.

Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, Ulrich. Good morning to all of you. As usual, I will try to keep my
comments as brief as possible, which, on the one hand should be rather easy this time as
the Q1 2016 results are fairly straight forward and do not include any material one-off
effects. On the other hand, we this time have included some information about our
solvency ratio at year-end which we have added to my part of the presentation.

Bloomberg Transcript

As already mentioned, the slight decrease on the top line is within the range we are
expecting for the full year. Net premium increased favorably. Ulrich mentioned that this is
mostly due to the change in unwritten premium and not an increase in retention. Also, I
would like to remind you that the very positive premium development in 2015 was
significantly ahead of our expectations and therefore, the basis for growth for this year is
actually very high.
Investment income is in line with expectation excluding the €39 million positive one-off in
life and health reinsurance in 2015. It is almost stable compared to the previous year,
which I feel – can be seen as a success of the current year's environment. Other income
expenses decreased mainly due to less positive currency effects in life and health, and
just for the sake of completeness, the tax rate is back down on an expected level.
If we look at the capital side on the next slide, the level of hybrid is unchanged compared
to the yearend. This is a level we feel comfortable with also as it gives us significant
flexibility to issue more. We will come back to such potentials when discussing the
composition of our economic capital later on.
Shareholders' equity increased by almost 4%. On the right hand side of this slide, you can
see that the change is driven by asset valuations and the currency translation largely
offset each other, therefore the increase is mainly driven by our positive earnings.
The cash flow, on the next slide, continues to be very positive mainly driven by good
results on the underwriting as well as on the investment side. You might remember that
we had shown an adjusted number for the cash flow in Q4 2015 when we received money
from the Chinese financial solutions deal which was due to be forwarded only in Q1 2016.
As expected, we have now paid out roughly €300 million to (11:43), depressing the
reported number for operating cash flow in 2016. Adjusting for that, we had a favorable

Page 3 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-05-10

FINAL

cash flow of €584 million. The remaining €200 million difference between the two effects
will be paid out over the remainder of the year.
Assets under own management were rather stable at a level close to €40 billion. The
negative impact from FX effects was around €900 million, offsetting rising valuation
reserves of around €400 million plus the positive cash flow. In addition, the cash outflow
that I just mentioned for the financial solutions treaty, of course, led to a reduction in cash
and short-term assets.
P&C gross premium decreased by 3.7% on an FX-adjusted basis. This is the result of our
strict margin-oriented underwriting approach and is fully aligned with our expectations
following the extraordinary growth I already mentioned we had in 2015. Additionally, the
previous year's premium was influenced by a non-recurring effect associated with the
accounting of our facultative business where we booked almost €100 million in additional
premium last year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moreover, we did not renew some Chinese motor quota shares as well as a specialty
business from specialty lines, namely, aviation, where rates did not justify to continue.
Nevertheless, net earned premium increased by 5.2% adjusted for currency effects. As
mentioned, this is not the result of the higher retention, which actually decreased from
89% to 88%, but it's due to the change in unearned premium. This development is driven
by the strong growth in 2015 which, as you will remember, was supported also by the
strong U.S. dollar.
At 2.8% of net premiums, major losses were again well below the budget in the first
quarter. The underwriting result is again on a very good level with a combined ratio of
94.7%, which as you might know is well below the target of 96%.
As in the previous years, we stuck to our practice and did not release the unused loss
budget but kept it as IBNR for the remainder of the year. The run-off results in the first
three months was unremarkable. And as in the first quarter of last year, we did not benefit
from any extraordinary positive developments. The confidence level of the loss reserves
should at least remain stable.
Ordinary investment income was in line with expectations. Realized gains were also within
the normal range. These were mainly the result of structural changes within our private
equity portfolio in the first quarter, which means that as in the past, we did not actively
harvest unrealized gains from our fixed income portfolio.
Other income expenses improvement by €9 million mainly driven by currency effects.
Altogether, net income for P&C business stands at €204 million, up by almost 20%
compared to an already good first quarter in the previous year.
On the next slide, you can see that most lines of business showed good underwriting
profitability. The main profit contributors in the first quarter were the target markets, as
well as our worldwide treaty book and not surprisingly, our global cat business was an
outstanding combined ratio.
Page 4 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-05-10

FINAL

Also, marine is significantly below the maximum tolerable combined ratio with – also
benign loss experience shows good profitability. The good combined ratio of our aviation
business was affected by a plane crash in Russia, which was around €10 million for our
account. Additionally, we have been notified that the Chennai floods in India in the fourth
quarter of 2015 resulted in a damage to a number of helicopters and aircrafts, which
combined with a remarkable decrease in premiums, results in this unusual high combined
ratio for the first quarter.
Our facultative business was particularly impacted by a few single large losses and that
already leads us immediately to the large loss slide here on the next page. We can go
through that next slide rather quickly because, as already mentioned, major losses were
well below average on budget. Overall, the bulk of the €134 million in unused budget is to
be carried forward for the remainder of the year. Still, we should bear in mind that the
year has only just begun and we have already had two earthquakes; one in Japan and one
in Ecuador in the second quarter. And those may show up on the large loss lists for the
first half year then. And we will have to wait and see what the impact from the fires in
Alberta will be. Still, these losses should be comfortably covered by the unused part of
our Q1 large loss budget in addition to the budget for the second quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next slide, four losses made it onto the large loss list, all between €10 million and €20
million. Net cat losses, significantly below the expected level. Man-made losses, more or
less in line with expectations.
With currency adjusted growth of 0.3%, the premium development is in line with our
expectations for the full year in life and health. Adjusted for the already mentioned oneoff effect and the extra ordinary positive currency gains within the other income, the result
of our L&H business group is at the same good level as last year. Additionally driven by a
favorable underwriting result, the overall strong EBIT of €106 million is a little bit above the
normal quarterly run rate. What we have seen in the recent past that earnings here can be
volatile from quarter to quarter and therefore, our expectations for the full year today
remain unchanged.
Other income is back to normal or to more or less a normal level, which represents a
swing of minus €24 million compared to the previous year's, almost entirely driven by
lower currency gains. The overall result is also reflected in the EBIT margin for our four
categories with financial solutions and longevity outperforming their respective targets.
Mortality and morbidity came in only slightly below the 6% target which is nevertheless a
significant improvement as compared to 2015.
Net investment income was in line with our expectations and just for the sake of
completeness, the effect from our ModCo derivatives was minus €1.4 million in the first
quarter.
So now looking at the investment, the development is satisfactory despite considerable
volatility seen on the capital markets in the first three months, investment income is in line
with expectations. The decrease in ordinary investment income is largely due to the last
year's one-off effect from the termination fee in life and health. Low interest rates had the

Page 5 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-05-10

FINAL

expected impact on the return from our fixed income book as we did not change our
overall risk position here.
Realizations, at the same level as last year, with the majority driven by a structural changes
within our private equity portfolio. Despite the high volatility in the first quarter,
impairments are again on a very low level, mainly consisting of regular depreciation on
real estate. Overall, the return on investment was 2.9%, which is exactly the figure we are
targeting for the full year and as a result of decreasing yields, valuation reserves
increased from year-end to reach €2 billion at the end of the first quarter. Credit spreads
remained rather stable, at least when you compare the two balance sheet dates, as we
all know, we have seen significant volatility in between.
The next slide shows an overview of how our different asset classes contributed to the
ordinary investment income. The slide on the right hand side demonstrate that we've
kept our asset allocation more or less stable. In the first quarter listed equities are now at
2% as we acted on the volatility in the first quarter to buy another tranche of around €400
million continuing the moderate reentry into this asset class.

Bloomberg Transcript

At 42%, corporates have the highest share in our investment income. The contribution
from government bonds is not surprisingly a lot lower than their share in our portfolio. On
the other hand, 12% income from – 4% real estate investment is a remarkable
performance even adjusted for real estate specific costs, which are excluded here. The
contribution from private equity is a little bit below our expected run rate, also because
the development is somewhat seasonal depending on the distributions from our funds.
So now, as usually or usually Uli is the one to comment on the target metrics, but this time
the honor falls to me as I will also be presenting a few slides on our capitalization
according to Solvency II afterwards. So excluding the one-off effect in the first quarter
2015, earnings per share increased by 12.7%, meaning that we were successful in
achieving all Group targets in the first quarter of 2016. I'm not at all concerned about the
premium development of our two business groups as these targets are to be achieved
over the cycle and for furthermore a year with less growth is absolutely in line with our
strategic target, especially in light of the strong growth of the previous year. Profitability is
favorable in those business groups.
So before going into more detail on our capitalization, I would like to make a few general
remarks on our Solvency II reporting. The figures we provide on the following slides are
for the Hannover Re Group. As a former subgroup of Talanx, the Hannover Re Group
legally is not subject to group regulation. Still, we did apply form and we received
approval for a full internal group model in addition to the Hannover Re SE model. This
group model will also be audited in line with the legally required audit for the Hannover Re
SE. We do that to give all stakeholders and clients the information they need and they are
used too in our industry.
To a large extent, the risk profile and the capital position for the Hannover Re SE can be
seen as an equivalent to the Hannover Re Group. From an economic point of view, it is
equivalent to the group excluding minority interest.

Page 6 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-05-10

FINAL

The Solvency II ratio, as the of 2015, for the Hannover Re SE stood at 231% compared to
the 221% for the group. And this is unchanged from the figure we reported for the end of
the third quarter 2015.
So on this slide, you can see the different metrics we use to calculate the capital
adequacy of the group. Firstly, we – or first, we distinguish between the internal view
based on our full internal model, which is a framework for our actual risk management
within the group.
We also show such numbers on the basis of the Solvency II confidence level of 99.5%. And
the number below, they're having (26:11) solvency do consider two former Solvency II
requirements, and insofar, lead to the approved capital solvency ratio of 221%. On the
following slide, I will explain where the differences come from.
Here, beginning with our internal model at 99.97% Value at Risk, we start with a translation
to the 99.5% quantile as required by Solvency II, leading to a reduction in the capital
requirement of €4.6 billion. We have already discussed the next two steps last year. Firstly,
the haircut for minorities reduces the available capital due to the limited transferability of
the minority's interest under Solvency II rules. Secondly, the required capital increases due
to the calculation of the capital requirements for the operational risk according to the
standard formula as against our own internal approach to measure operational risk.

Bloomberg Transcript

As you can see, each of the two effects accounts for roughly half of the difference
between the capital adequacy ratio derived from our full internal model relative to the
regulatory view.
The next slide should not be new to you, since we have merely adjusted it to the Solvency
II regulatory view as of December 2015. As one of the large global reinsurers, we do
benefit from a significant diversification between the different risk categories. The market
risk and the underwriting risk continue to be the main risk factors for Hannover Re.
On the next slide, we show the bridge from the IFRS shareholders' equity to the basic
own funds. The adjustments for assets under own management largely reflect the other
comprehensive income, the OCI. The adjustment for technical provision give rise to the
biggest difference between the accounting and the economic view. They mainly consist of
the effect from the discounting of technical provisions for P&C and reserve redundancies,
as well as the value in-force from our Life & Health business minus the risk margin.
We then have to consider deferred tax on these items. And in the next step, also deduct
foreseeable dividends, not only those paid to Hannover Re shareholders, but also, to the
minority shareholders of E+S Rück. Finally, we already discussed haircut on minorities has
to be deducted and all-in-all resulting in the unrestricted Tier 1 capital.
On top of this, we add our subordinated debt, the two-dated hybrids are classified as
Tier 2, the perpetual reissued in 2014 as restricted Tier 1 capital. As you can see and I've
pointed out this earlier, we have substantial headroom for further Tier 2 issuances under
Solvency II, leaving us with a high degree of flexibility to improve our overall capital
Page 7 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-05-10

FINAL

position or to act on upcoming business opportunities in the future. Overall, the
composition of our own funds as defined by Solvency II is of a very high quality with 87%
being unrestricted Tier 1.
As you know, we have stopped the full reporting on MCEV this year, because of the
reporting – because the reporting will be full substituted by the Solvency II for the three
reporting going forward. Therefore, we have also no longer applied the 4.5% cost of
capital as suggested by the CFO. But we have instead changed it to the 6% cost of capital
as required by the Solvency II calculations.
On this slide, you can see the development of the MCEV based on those metrics, also
with a view to providing a transition from one reporting basis to the other. Based on the
4.5% cost of capital we have applied in the past, the MCEV is up by 3%, mainly driven
again by the very favorable development of the new business value in 2015 and reflecting
a further increase in the off balance sheet value that we carried.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next slide. If we now go one step further in the reconciliation from MCEV methodology to
Solvency II, you can see that there is actually only rather small differences in the result
from the valuation of our life and health technical provision. This is also one reason why
we have discontinued with the MCV reporting and switch directly to Solvency II. The main
difference between two methodologies is based on minor differences in the capital
allocation and a few assumptions regarding the diversification.
Other differences are (32:00). And this should be – so our entry I'm sure there are also
into the Solvency II reporting. This concludes my remarks, and I'll leave the outlook to you,
Ulrich.

Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Thank you, Roland. This slide really shows you the renewal at first week of April, with which
we are quite satisfied and if renewals for our traditional (32:33) reinsurance business from
Japan and also to some extent from Australia, New Zealand, Korea, and North America.
Despite the prevailing competitive market conditions, we managed to increase our
volume by 9%. And if you look at the sources of their increase, you can see that the price
and volume changes were rather minimal, which also shows you that the rating level
maintained quite well with the exception of some of the natural catastrophe business
where the rate reductions were in line with what we have seen at 1/1, but largely less
pronounced than a year ago. The growth came especially from the Asia-Pacific region.
And here, in particular, also, from Japan that we managed to grow our non-cap (33:50)
business. Also, in North America, based on our very broad portfolio with more than 600
insurance companies we are doing business with, we were able to increase our business
from existing clients.
I would say that when you look into the new and cancelled and restructured business, new
business of €77 million, you can see that we have not written any very large new treaty
(34:33), but the growth is mainly the result of a number of new treaties from various
Page 8 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-05-10

FINAL

regions. We have, in particular, been – continue to be very cautious when it comes to
proportional treaties on U.S. excess and umbrella business, mainly because of our
experience from the last soft market where these treaties, which are very long tail in
nature, eventually resulted in some undesirable results.
We also had some growth on our credit and surety business, which again is with existing
large clients where there were some additional proportional reinsurance being purchased.
And with our market position, we were able to grow our shares there.
Also, our natural catastrophe business, we wrote some new business, which is a
diversifying business. And that actually resulted in – also an increase in our cat business,
but only very small increase.
I should probably mention, again, that we haven't changed our overall risk appetite for
cat, where our market share continues to be below our market share on the non-cat
business. We have continued to see significant pressure on aviation and also the marine
business. We managed to defend our good position on the marine excess of loss
business, where we could keep the volume at acceptable rate. This is not true on aviation
where we further reduced our volumes.

Bloomberg Transcript

Lastly, also from proportional business, where the underlying rates at our view (36:45)
rather low, and you have a better chance to lose money with those rates than make
money. And at the same time, our clients wanted to increase the commissions, we
actually reduced our involvement.
So if you look at the renewals so far here, we had 1.5% reduction in the first quarter and a
9% increase in the smaller AAA for renewals. Overall, that means that our premium
volume on a currency-adjusted basis on the renewed season so far, on the traditional
property and casualty treaty business has been flat. And this is much in line with our
guidance for the entire year.
I said I would come to the guidance. As you can see, the guidance is unchanged. You may
remember that when we reported on the full year results 2015, we changed the group
net income target from – in the region of €950 million to at least €950 million. And I think
the result of the first quarter fully supports this change.
As far as the dividend payout ratio goes, you can see here our strategic payout of 35% to
40%, which allows us to self-finance our growth ambitions. However, with the current
situation being much like it were the last two years, if we are not seeing any new business
opportunities of a large scale, if we are not seeing the large losses being well above our
large loss budget, and if the capital markets behave, we would most likely again consider
an extraordinary dividend for 2016, even though I have to say it's early days, and a lot can
happen between now and year-end.
If you look at our non-life business, you can see that we continue to seek good
opportunities in North America. We already have seen that so far this year. And we also
believe that we will earn the cost of capital.
Page 9 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-05-10

FINAL

In Continental Europe, first quarter was pretty good. We saw increased volume at good
profitability. Overall for the year, we continue to believe a slight decrease in volume for
this business, particular outside (40:09) Germany is fairly competitive. But we still, with our
selective underwriting approach, would expect that we earn the cost of capital.
On the specialty line, overall declining premiums, because specialty lines are particularly
competitive on the marine side. We believe that we have rather high-quality (40:44)
portfolio. Therefore, we believe that the profitability will be well above the cost of capital.
However, this profitability we will only achieve if we forego some of the premium volume.
Aviation, is a class I originally started my career. And it's fair to see that it's in a rather
dismal situation at this point in time. I won't spend much time on it. Credit and surety, we
now believe that maybe we even can see a slight increase in the volume and continued
profitability. And the same is true for the UK and Ireland where we particularly see some
growth in our rather modest primary insurance business. And on the facultative side, of
course, the one-off effect that we mentioned will not be there again this year. Therefore,
we see some reduced growth. But for the full year, we still believe that profitability will be
good.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the global reinsurance overall, situation is reasonably favorable, particularly on the
worldwide treaty, where we see good development, particularly in Asia and Latin America.
There's good profitability. You can see here that on the property tax we say that we're
not earning the cost of capital fully. That's, of course, only the case if we have major
losses to the tune of the expected losses.
Of course, if we have situation like in the first quarter and the previous years, even at the
very slim rate that we are currently getting, we will see good profitability. However, at the
expense of significant volatility and therefore we curtail our exposure to property
catastrophe, structured reinsurance and ILS, that is where we have the Chinese (42:55)
shares and therefore we expect reduced premium volumes there, but earnings and cost
of capital.
If I come to the life and health side, we continue to see good business opportunities on
our financial solution segment. And also, expect the profitability here to be very attractive.
Also, on the longevity business, we see further growth opportunities, despite the fact that
this business, particular on the pension blocks has become increasingly competitive.
In the area of mortality and morbidity, we expect some reduced volume due to large
transactions not to be renewed. However, I would say that this will mainly affect the
growth premium and to a much lesser extent the net premium, because we have
relatively high retrocession on these large transactions, which are subject to non-renewal.
When we look at the overall business, we believe that we will continue to see increased
underlying profitability, of course, in particular, on the, our U.S. mortality business due to
our measures to reduce collateral costs and even due to some successful initiatives to
increase rate on some underperforming YRT business.

Page 10 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-05-10

FINAL

I will then come to our rationale for the profit guidance for 2016 and beyond. We continue,
as we explained to believe that the underlying profitability of our Life & Health business is
increasing, of course, in 2015 due to the termination fee, with a little bit of spikes here.
But if you exclude that, the underlying increase in profitability should prevail.
On our P&C business, we entered 2016 on a very strong position with even increased
confidence levels of our loss reserves, which gives us very good and comfortable buffers,
so that we are quite confident that we will be able to keep the combined ratios below
96%, maybe even quite a bit below 96% as long as the large losses stays in the large loss
budget. Also, on our retrocession side, we bought little bit more retrocession, but
conditions also have improved for us.
On the investment income, in absolute terms, again, outside one-off effects, we expect
rather stable development. I would say if you look at the last – at the five-year average
from the last year, in absolute terms, we should be able to continue at those levels. And
this is despite the continued low interest rate or in some cases, even a no interest rate
environment.
And on the admin expenses, it's (46:46) that we maintain our competitive advantage.
Indeed, in the first quarter in absolute terms, our admin expenses actually declined, but
we not necessarily think that this is a trend for the whole year.

Bloomberg Transcript

With that, this ends the presentation we are giving you today. And, of course, we are now
more than happy to answer your questions.

Q&A
Operator
Thank you. The first question is from In-Yong Hwang, Goldman Sachs

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Hello. I'm In-Yong Hwang here from Goldman Sachs. I've got two questions. Firstly, on the
combined ratio improvement by one percentage point, it doesn't – with your NatCat
budget is still booked and full, and the one-offs doesn't seem to be anything special
about that. So should we interpret this as kind of underlying improvement on one
percentage point, we are seeing quite strongly given the pricing pressure that's still going
into the market. So just a comment on how we should see this underlying combined ratio
improvement would be helpful?
And secondly on the April renewals, could you give us some idea what you're seeing on
pricing. I think one of the competitors today is saying that pricing decline is slowing down.
Obviously, it splits out of volume and the pricing development for your newer data
(48:07), but just some idea what you're seeing in the market would be helpful? Thank you.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}
Page 11 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-05-10

FINAL

Yeah. I mean, if I come to the improvement in the combined ratio, I would say that we
continued to benefit from relative favorable development on the attritional losses. And I
mean, we've largely kept our policy to not release the unused budget profit, and that for
– I mean, if we keep the loss ratio (48:57) stable for the newest accident here and (49:04)
are not happening, our IBNR reserve has actually increased in the first quarter quite
significantly.
I mean, you may be a little bit puzzled by the very low combined ratio of our Bermuda
subsidiary, but bear in mind that Bermuda largely writes property catastrophe business,
meaning, it's a very short-tail business. And, therefore, I mean, we tried to be very
conservative on (49:44) loss reserving. But of course, as it is a short-tail business, there
are always some relief (49:55) from previous years, because the limited time you can
keep those reserves.
We also had an extraordinary effect on Bermuda, because we had treaties that had been
commuted that we had to put €10 million reserve on the Tianjin explosion in China. And as
the treaty has commuted and we had – I mean, we have no liability, and the loss hasn't
been recognized, because it was rather remote. And, therefore this is (50:32), of course,
immediately €10 million positive development in previous year loss ratio, which was
entirely unavoidable.

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

If you then come to the pricing at April 1, mixed picture, I would say. I mean, still, on a nonproportional side, this is easier to comment on. We saw a slowing down in the declines,
but still, declines in most of the property catastrophe business. But overall, I would say,
the property catastrophe business is maybe down 4% to 5%.
On the non-cat business, situation was more stable. This also have to do with the fact that
there are risk losses in the market, and they have an effect on the business. So I mean as
shown in our slide, if you take it all together, I would say great quality decline is low-single
digit. So not dramatic.
If you look at the demand side for reinsurance the first quarter, quite a lot on the
proportionate side, where clients also from the U.S. were seeking pro rata cover. We are
happy to involved in that as long as there is reasonably short-tail business, meaning
property classes or claims made casualty classes.
As I already mentioned on the excess and umbrella business, where a lot of reinsurance is
being sought. We have been trying our ways overall (52:30).

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.
Page 12 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-05-10

Operator
Thank you. The next question is from Xinmei Wang, Morgan Stanley.

FINAL

Q - Xinmei Wang

{BIO 17860767 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning. I've got two questions. So the first is on the solvency ratio. Could you
give us an update on your conversations with the regulator? I know in the past you talked
about getting approval for the modeling of operational risk under the approved internal
model. So just an update on your conversations there.
And then, the second is on reserve development. Given some comments from your
peers over the last couple of weeks, I was wondering if you also had any impact from
premiums – reinstatement premiums or commissions given the low to benign (53:24) loss
environment of that being less than expected and whether that's affected your run-off
results in the quarter or in the last year. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Well, I mean, if you look at the Solvency II internal partial model that's just excluding
operational risk, as far as model changes are concerned, that has been rather stable in
the first quarter. On the operational risk, we have projects to improve our operational risk
model to an extent that our regulators are able to approve that as well, and that is on a
good way. I mean, we expect at the latest in the first quarter 2017, at least that's the goal.
Of course, it depends on our regulator in the end. But that's a goal that at that time, we'll
also get our operational risk model – modified operational risk model being approved.
That should then hopefully also further improve the Solvency II ratios.
On the reserve development, I would say, I mean, 2015 reserve development was quite
positive, because the redundant reserves actually increased quite remarkably, and the
confidence level increased.
On the first quarter, uneventful, no particular changes there I would say. Of course, we are
not having done, I mean, first quarter full actuarial calculation here. As far as reinstatement
premiums are concerned, well, I would say, of course, due to the lack of natural
catastrophe losses, we haven't got any reinstatement premiums on the NatCat business.
On the risk business, I would say the risk losses are at or even slightly above the expected
levels, and therefore the reinstatement premiums there, at least on our books, are pretty
much in line with expectations. I mean, it's nothing extraordinary there.
Commissions. Of course, commissions increased on pro rata treaties as the results are
good, because you have to pay out profit commissions and, yes, it has an effect also on
our results. So the commission level is higher compensating in part for the low loss ratios.
But this is what you always have on pro rata business.
The profit and losses are not attributed on the metric basis, but rather there is a profit
commissions that is mitigating for the client. The effects are very good, you see that
Page 13 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-05-10

results from pro rata treaties.

Q - Xinmei Wang

{BIO 17860767 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Thanks a lot.

Operator
Thank you. The next question is from William Hawkins, KBW.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Hello. Thank you. The Hannover Re SE Solvency II ratio of 231%, could you tell me what the
numerator and denominator are for that ratio? Apologies if it's disclosed to someone.
And could you also tell me, would you apply the same 180% to 200% threshold range for
that entity or would it be different from the Group level?
And then secondly, on quarterly earnings, you made some comment about 2Q events,
but could you just be clearer, there've always been a number of headlines. Do you think
those – from your early plans, still are within the 2Q budget or would be enough to slip in
to the carried over first quarter P&L (57:46)? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Unfortunately, we haven't got those number on the SE Solvency II ratio. But I can tell you
that the difference is mainly the haircut which we haven't got on the SE. And otherwise, I
mean, the compile (58:04) the SE Solvency ratio based on so-called look-through
approach, which means that, therefore, it is very similar to the Group ratio and the
difference as I said is the haircut on the minorities.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

So, can I infer from that, that 180% to 200% is also a fair...

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

... target range? Right.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Yeah. There's a target range that we have said (58:32) as well. (58:35) large losses in Q2.
I would say, from what I see now, of course, very early days, I mean, they could slip into
the carried over unused large loss budget. It's still early days. I mean, if I look at the
Japanese quake, early reports are more – are quite encouraging that the losses might not
be that large for our book. (59:07) on Ecuador that we have the largest market share of all
the reinsurers, which of course, means that we might have an over proportionally large
Page 14 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-05-10

loss there. But, I mean, nothing too concerning. And as the McMurray fire, slightly different
Canada on the cat business like in all our cat business we're a little bit underway. However,
it's really early days there. I mean, today's report are a little bit more encouraging, but we
really have to wait there.

FINAL

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. The next question is from Kamran Hossain, RBC.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Hi. I've got – I guess, just one question from the life and health business. Clearly, that
financial solutions business is exceeding target enormously. So 18% EBIT margin versus
your expectation of your target of 3%. Can you talk a bit about why we're seeing such
fantastic margins in financial solutions?

Bloomberg Transcript

And then the second part of the question is, overall in life and health, you're seeing
premium growth of pretty much flat. But obviously, that's somewhat down to reduced
longevity from the UK and from Australian product. Can you talk about kind of the
trajectory of kind of how much you're seeing financial solutions business grow? Any color
on that would be really helpful. Thank you.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well, I mean, first of all, why do we have 2% target that we achieved the double-digit EBIT
margins? The 2% target is a little bit more from what we traditionally used to write in the
financial solutions business, which has been cash financing business. And on cash financing
business, of course, you financed through, I mean, commissions on quota share treaties
and in some cases, you have to write the fee – the seeding company has to seek quite a
lot of premiums in order to generate enough embedded value that the pre-financing is
being expected to be paid back to see necessary certainty.
In recent years, however, particular in the U.S., some of our business has changed from
cash financing basically to covering tail end exposures on largely mortality and to some
extent less exposures on policyholder behavior exposures.
These treaties are partly not booked as premiums under IFRS. And even if they are, the
premium is normally the same as the profitability because the loss expectancy to these
treaties on actual method is close to zero, but they are still capitalization efficient on a
statutory basis. That's the reason why the margins are so high then compared to the IFRS
premium.
When we look at the development of the IFRS premium, if that growth – I think it will grow
this year mainly because there are re-emergence of relatively attractive cash financing

Page 15 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-05-10

opportunities, which will, of course, boost the premiums a bit, will also lower the EBIT
margin on an IFRS basis.
And your second question, you were wondering on the...

FINAL

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

It's just a different – the growth of the two businesses, so growth of financial solutions
business underlying because (01:03:28) all the moving parts.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well, I think – I mean, the business is still growing. You may not necessarily see that in the
premiums only if it's cash financing because some of them may be deposit accounted.
But I would say if you measure at a covered value enforced, you will probably see a pretty
good growth on that business. And the underlying profitability, more importantly, is
growing as well. So that business continues to be very favorable for us.

Bloomberg Transcript

As far as the longevity business is concerned, yes, on the enhanced annuities in the UK,
for the reasons that have (1:04:09) we see a reduced premium volume and we also had, I
think, some last single premium treaties in China where we also see a reduced volume
after – I think if you exclude those, I think, the underlying growth is still there. You may not
see much of this, this year but I think if you look on a five-year time horizon, we will – I'm
very confident that we will achieve our growth objectives.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Fantastic. Thanks very much. I appreciate the color. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. The next question is from Frank Kopfinger, Deutsche Bank.

Q - Frank Kopfinger

{BIO 16342277 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning, everybody. I have two questions on your Solvency II reporting. First of
all, could you walk us down from your 253% from last year to the 221% as of the end of
2015? What were the drivers? Obviously, it's higher volumes but also, could you comment
on the diversification benefit that you're applying?
And secondly, could you provide some figures in respect to sensitivities? And especially
I'm looking for your credit spread sensitivity for Solvency II. I appreciate you have some
sensitivity for the P&L and the shareholders' equity, but as this is based on a relative basis,
it says it's 50%. Could you also provide some sensitivities with respect to absolute
numbers, so let's say, if credit spreads widens by 100 basis points.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

I think Roland, if you want to take the second one.
Page 16 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-05-10

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Yes. I would do that.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes.

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Should I start with it or...

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well, then I may give the reasoning from the 253%. Of course, it's the increased business
volume and on the reserves, of course, the increased volume of reserves had increased
the cap requirement. Also, we saw in that period a significant strengthening of the U.S.
dollar. And still, I mean, we are a little bit overweighed on our capital on euros that also
have an effect. It had mainly an effect in boosting the volumes that create the SCR in euro
terms. Those were the main drivers there. Diversification is slightly unchanged, I would
say, because the increases in the SCR drivers developed relatively homogenously.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Yeah, so, I will – I must admit I don't have an actual sensitivity based on an absolute basis
points increase or decrease in credit spends available. We may take that up. The question
here is, of course, if we would do that on a non-relative basis and you say, let's assume
50 basis points or 100 basis points, so of course, for German bonds, 100 basis points will
be a very drastic increase.
And if you look at that (1:07:35), might not make that much sense. If you then look at 100
basis points on our high-yield portfolio that may be something which occurs a few times a
year. And in that regard, I'm a little bit skeptical with these absolute terms sensitivities.
Well, if you, for instance, look at the numbers we give you for the 50% range and I would
also say that this develops rather proportionally. So, if you then say, if a 100% increase in
credit spreads would, in rough terms, result in double the number of the sensitivity and
you apply that then to the approximately €5 billion in required capital, that then should
give you a little bit of an indication. Still, we feel very comfortable and even such a
sensitivity of potentially 100 basis points would not result in a sensitivity, which would
immediately give alter to our solvency ratio.

Q - Frank Kopfinger

{BIO 16342277 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

Operator
Thank you. The next question is from Michael Haid, Commerzbank.

Page 17 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-05-10

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

FINAL

Morning. Two questions. So just one clarification. You've mentioned the reserving
movements that we have seen no particular effect in the first quarter. Does that mean
zero reserve releases or does it mean the expected level of reserve releases, something
like €50 million or so?
Second question, on the April renewals, can you give us an explanation why you were able
to increase the volume to such an extent in a very competitive environment? Is it because
the underlying market growth or do you have better access to the market, i.e., is it
Hannover Re specific, or why does this business show up in the reinsurance market?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Would you take the first one, Roland?

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Yes, of course. So I think if we say there were no extraordinary developments to our loss
reserves that means that we have the normal run rate, so it should be around the positive
effect of the number which I have mentioned.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

If I then come to the why we could increase on April 1. I think overall, we have seen a slight
increase in demand for reinsurance at the April 1 renewal, particular also from proportional
treaties. I don't think that this growth of the business is evenly spread among the
reinsurers. It appears that the larger reinsurers benefit from that a little bit more maybe
than the smaller reinsurers.
For us, I mean, we had quite good opportunities to grow the business at 1/4, actually to a
larger extent than we actually did because we recognize that the market is still soft and
reinsurance pricing overall is certainly a lot lower than it was like three years ago. And,
therefore, I mean, we have to be very careful because some of that additional
reinsurance buying might also be a little bit defensive.
So, from that point of view, we looked at a broad-based growth rather than very
concentrated growth out of that, and we were able to achieve that. I think it's also fair to
say that the overall volume renewed at 1/4, of course, is significantly less than what you
see at 1/1.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Page 18 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-05-10

Operator
Thank you. The final question is from Vinit Malhotra, Mediobanca.

FINAL

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Hi there. Morning. So most of my questions have been addressed. Thank you. But just
one, if I can ask. In the MtCR on the European side, there is a rather low or a nice 88.9%.
And I'm just wondering because one of the larger peers have mentioned German motor
needed some longevity adjustment in their case. Have you noticed anything that should
be highlighted here from (01:12:42) perspective below 90%. This level usually indicates a
good level, but I'm just curious. Thank you.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Okay. You don't think about the 88.9% (01:13:00) on Continental Europe. Well, I mean, this
is certainly not for the German motor business where it's close to 100%. I mean, this
refers to a large extent to the motor access of loss business that we have in that class
because that is a very lucrative business. It is quite heavily exposed to volatility. And there,
really the MtCR has dropped very significantly this year, decreasing interest rates because
the value of money is coming down so much. And the other is, of course, on the pro rata
and (01:13:55) business that is quite a bit of natural catastrophe exposure within that book.
And this is the reason why we see this little bit surprisingly low MtCR.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Thank you. We currently have no further questions.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Okay. If there are no further questions, I would then thank you very much for listening, and
thanks for your questions.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for attending. This call has been included. You may now
disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily

Page 19 of 20



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-05-10

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 20 of 20

