Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

Q2 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Andrew David Briggs , Executive Director & CEO of UK Insurance
Christopher Esson, Group IR Director
Colm J. Holmes , Chief Executive of UK General Insurance
Mark Andrew Wilson, Group CEO & Executive Director
Maurice Tulloch, CEO of International Insurance & Executive Director
Thomas D. Stoddard, CFO & Executive Director

Other Participants
Andrew Hughes , Insurance Analyst
Andrew John Crean, Managing Partner, Insurance
Andrew Sinclair, VP
Ashik Musaddi, Executive Director and Co
Colm Kelly, Associate Director and Equity Research Insurance Analyst
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Greig N. Paterson, MD, SVP and U.K. Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

James Austin Shuck, Director
Oliver George Nigel Steel, MD
Ravi Tanna, Equity Analyst

Presentation
Christopher Esson

{BIO 16208369 <GO>}

(technical difficulty)
Aviva, just a few housekeeping things to get through first. There are no fire alarm tests
that are scheduled for this morning. If an alarm does go off, please exit through the doors
on my left and up to the ground level. And secondly, please, we'd like to draw your
attention to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements.
And with that, I'd like to invite Mark Wilson, our CEO, to kick off the presentation.

Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Yes, I believe that is the start. Well. Good morning, everyone. Welcome back to the
auditorium for our first half 2017 results. Today, I think the numbers really tell their own
story. We're seeing growth in top line sales driving growth in bottom line operating profit.
Page 1 of 26



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

And the interesting thing about today's results is that it's broad-based, it's broad-based
geographically and it's broad-based by product. And I think that's a pretty good place to
be. And I think what you're seeing is the result of the foundation we put in place over the
last few years. What you're seeing is some delivery from our quality franchises and you're
seeing growth in market share as well as customers, we think, are showing a greater
propensity to buy, in these uncertain sort of environments, from our brand. You're seeing
some good progress on building our digital intellectual property, which I might add has
moved on a huge amount since you saw it last time. And maybe it's time to show you a bit
more of that later in the year.
What we have here is also a very clean, clear, set of results. And that's just the way you
and we like it. I think we've developed a bit of a rhythm here, we've developed a regular
pulse and strong numbers. And this consistency shows that the group, as a whole, is in
pretty good health. And thankfully, we do keep delivering. Aviva is a show-me story. And
I'm a fairly hard judge of our numbers. But even I can see this is a pretty strong set.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've grown operating profit 11%, up to GBP 1.47 billion. And operating EPS is 15% higher
at 25.8p per share. Our Solvency cover ratio, something we all watch closely, of course,
has increased to 193%. And so over this period, we have delivered another robust period
of capital generation. And cash remittances in the group, of course, rose 56% as well.
Now put all that together and we've declared an interim dividend of 8.4p per share, that's
an increase of 13%.
So if you step back, I think we're delivering good progress financially, we're delivering
operationally. And we're delivering strategically. And I'll just take you through a few of the
highlights that I see in the results.
Now we've done a lot of work simplifying the group, we've sold off the lower-quality
franchises. And you can see this coming through in the quality of the operating profit. Now
I am getting much happier with what we have left in the group. And as these results show,
our diverse quality franchises are delivering. We said we wanted some diversity, we said
we wanted quality franchises and we've shaped the group into that. Now if you have a
look, we've actually extended our track record of growth in operating profit to four years
now. And as I said, operating profit is up 11% and EPS up, I think, a very healthy 15%.
Now I should point out, though, that the 11% increase in operating profits included 5%
from FX. And the way I look at FX, it's a strategic benefit from our geographic diversity.
And we now have nearly half of our operating profit coming from outside the U.K. and that
gives us some balance in a Brexit environment and uncertain economies around parts of
the world. And certainly, that diversity is certainly part of our investment thesis. On a
constant currency basis, 6% growth is still at the upper end of our mid-single-digit target
range. And I would view this as highly satisfactory.
Looking at divisional highlights. Aviva Investors, well, we said it was on a good growth
trajectory. And again, it's delivered, operating profit up 45%. And of course, I would
expect more in the second half, more growth to come, haven't we, Euan? And this, I
might add, is a core strategic business for Aviva. It's taken a few years to get it where we

Page 2 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

FINAL

wanted. And now it is delivering. Europe is also showing considerable improvement, led
by Poland and France. Now I indicated at our full-year results that I thought Poland and
France were disappointing, they were. So -- in '16. And it's great to see them stepping up.
We made some changes, we made some changes to the management there in France
and it's great to see them improving. And of course, Turkey is also performing well.
Turkey has been this hidden jewel, I think, this consistent performer and it's performed
well again this year.
Now notwithstanding in the U.K., the political uncertainty that we have and we live with, our
U.K. business has grown operating profit by a very creditable 8%. On the other hand,
Canada. Canada had a challenging half year. We had elevated weather costs and prior
year development. And that overshadowed some quite good improving accident year
margins. But frankly, I find Canada a bit of a disappointing result. And it's fair to say the
local teams are well aware of my views and they've taken us through their plans and I am
sure they are on top of it for the second half.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to capital and cash. Now we've got an equally robust and consistent growth
picture here. The Solvency II cover ratio, as I said, is increased to 193%. It's fair to say, we
are well above our target working range of 150% to 180%. Tom will add more color on
this. And this excess remains a very high-quality problem.
Now we have maintained operating capital generation at the strong level achieved last
year. I think part of the story here, though, is within this, we've delivered a GBP 100 million
improvement in the underlying capital generation. And as I highlighted earlier, cash
remittances increased to just shy of GBP 1.2 billion. And you know, this is good progress.
We are pleased to see, for example, another GBP 315 million of specials from the U.K.
insurance business, more to come there. They'll pass the halfway mark on their target of
GBP 1 billion of specials by the end of 2018. And I would expect us to be north of that.
Another benefit, I guess, the specials they are paying in our capital position is another
benefit of what is looking like a pretty good acquisition of Friends Life. It's delivered
everything we thought we would and more.
Put all that together, it brings us onto dividends. We've increased our interim dividend to
8.4p per share. This, of course, you can do the math. So it's a growth rate of 13%. Now I
know there will be some questions about operating EPS and dividend trajectory,
inevitable. On one hand, of course, we have the very strong growth in operating EPS, up
15%. And on the other, we have the impact of the impending sale of FPI on operating
profit. Now Tom will cover this in more detail. But suffice to say, there are clearly pluses
and minuses. And all in all, I wouldn't want you to either increase or decrease your
forecast based on either factor. We had a pretty good idea where we were moving when
we set our targets. We had planned to also sell FPI and we got it out the door for what we
think is a pretty good price.
Now turning to our other franchises. Our franchises are pretty much around the world, on
the front foot and delivering growth. We picked up market share across many of our
businesses, in fact, most of our product lines. But just to be clear, just so I'm really clear

Page 3 of 26



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

here, market share is not an objective. It is simply the outcome of some pretty good
execution of a pretty good strategy. And that's resulted in increase to market share. In our
life business, we're seeing increased new business production across just about all of our
markets. In the U.K., we've grown annuities and equity release volumes by 75%. And
we've had strong gains in both the individual, that's up 49%. And BPA, where we saw a
fivefold increase, to be fair, against a pretty weak prior year. But we did tell you at the
beginning of the year we thought we'd see that grow. That's gone pretty well and looks
set to continue. Our pensions are also up 29%. And we've seen very positive trends here,
both in the workplace area and in pensions -- sorry. And on the platforms.
Now this shows that our True Customer Composite strategy is working. And it's not just
about the retail customers. It's fair to say we've had faster traction than we expected in
the corporate market, where these growth figures in the U.K. include a number of
mandates we have won with existing corporate customers. And so what's happening,
you're seeing across general insurance, life insurance and asset management, where we
have existing relationships, we seem to be getting an outsized portion of that new
business. And what that is, is our TC strategy coming together. It's just come together in
this sector a little bit quicker than we had been anticipating. But just as importantly, across
the board, we're seeing favorable trends in mix. In Asia, if you look at China, our value of
new business has, in fact, doubled, which again, is a good result, due in a large part
towards the shift towards protection products that have higher margins, of course.
Now this chart, when you have a look at the chart, it's an important chart. And we haven't
shown it this way before. But I think it shows a pretty good picture. Now it may surprise
you that one of the bars on this chart I'm most comfortable with is the Friends savings
business on the right-hand side of the green chart there, which shows it has shrunk 28% in
local currency terms. Now shrinking guaranteed business is an entirely deliberate strategy
as we chose not to chase volume at unattractive margins in the first half. And instead
increased sales in unit-linked savings and protection, that's where the money is.
Now this is despite us having substantial excess capital. It's about maximizing the return
on the capital and we're going to be ruthless in terms of allocating it, both in geographies
and towards products. And it illustrates we are really being quite active in terms of our
business mix as well as our volume growth. Now to sum up the picture in our general
insurance business, it's on the right-hand side. While Canada's 25% growth, obviously,
stands out, that's in a large part due to the RBC deal. Our real story in this chart is the
steady progress in the targeted areas that we want to focus on. For example, our solid
growth in U.K. personal lines, digital direct premiums increased 13%. But you saw solid
growth across it. And I think this is sort of the right sort of level of growth in general
insurance. As we saw organic growth also in the SME market and global corporate, where
we are -- on global corporate, we're focused only on a narrow range of segments. But
that seems to be growing well as well.
In contrast, we have continued to deliberately reduce premium volumes in commercial
motor. And commercial motor for the industry hasn't been a great source of profit over a
long time. And we are determined to reduce this book to a level that it gets profitable. It's
about profit. But up there, you can see when you have a look around the GI book, we're
actually growing our top line as well. So we seem to be doing both.
Page 4 of 26



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

Now I guess some news just off the press. I don't think our press release has gone out.
But we did talk about it, just on the news wires this morning. Today, we are going to
announce that we have won the HSBC insurance partnership in the U.K. This is a big deal.
It is hundreds of millions of premium, hundreds of millions of pounds of premium. They're
a fine bank, they have formidable distribution. And what they've done is consolidate all
their general insurance business, both commercial and personal, with us. That's a good
win. We won it for a whole lot of reasons, one of them was our digital IP. And just like RBC
and Tencent, our digital IP is gaining traction and it's actually helping us in ways that we
probably didn't anticipate with the big partnership deals. I think a deal of that size, again,
helps secure our growth for the next year. So we seem to be in, again, on this regular
treadmill of growth. But even though we don't target the top line, we're getting that and
it's driving the bottom line.
Aviva Investors, on the other franchises, Aviva Investors is another business which is
delivering. Assets are up and revenue margins are also up as we draw more external
funds in at higher margins. And obviously, scale helps because other than distribution, we
have been keeping the expenses pretty stable there. Profit margins have expanded and
this is despite the additional investments in the distribution. And we made those
investments last year, we've continued this year and that's paying off in fund flows, which I
think you will also see continue. We've seen further progress with AIMS, with assets under
management increasing from GBP 9 billion to GBP 12 billion over the past six months. So
again, that's a steady, regular increase. But it's been probably equally pleasing, again, it
was part of Euan's strategy to see progress in other products. And I think this is some sort
of halo effect, maybe from AIMS, maybe from the brand as a whole at Aviva. But we're
seeing a halo effect. And that's bringing in funds into other areas. For example, we've
seen significant flows into other strategies like high-yield and fixed income and there's
been some pretty big wins just in very recent times that should flow through in the second
half. So that's a nice position.
Aviva Investors is playing an important part of our TCC strategy. And Euan and Andy's
team are working very closely and some of our recent mandate wins have been due to
the pension and health businesses and happiness with the clients on there. So they've
been giving us the fund flows into this. And we'd expect this to help in future results.
Now we believe the world of asset management is undergoing significant change. You're
seeing that with some of the mergers and things we're seeing in the market. And we
believe that having aligned distribution is now critical for future scale and success and
you're starting to see that in our results.
What about digital? Well I think the real story of the first half in digital is our IP, our
intellectual property. And one example is our Ask It Never proposition, which uses external
and proprietary data and a whole lot of work on algorithms, hundreds of people working
on algorithms, to price products without asking any questions and without lowering our
underwriting standards. And in an industry that ask hundreds and hundreds of questions,
that's quite a feat. And it means we can preunderwrite, preapprove, prepopulate quotes
for customers. As it turns out, not even just our existing customers. And we think it's
possible to buy insurance, like most other products you buy in the world, without the usual
inquisition we've seen from the start and the birth of insurance a long time ago.
Page 5 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

FINAL

Now we also continue to expand user numbers. UK Digital registrations increased by 1
million to 6 million, that was about what we had planned for the first half. We would
expect a higher number than that in the second half as we engage with more than 4
million Friends Life customers as we do the Part VII transfer, which follows on from that.
Now what's interesting is that our IP is providing new opportunities and partnerships.
There's a lot of inbound interest from banks and you've seen some of them in our
announcement today. But also, the thing that's surprised, at least me a little, is we're
getting a lot of inbound interest from large global tech firms. So our garage seems to be
the tourist attraction, which is sort of an interesting outcome.

Bloomberg Transcript

People seem to. And the large players and tech firms like our vision of the future, they like
the fact that it's disruptive. And you know what, let's just see how it develops. We're very
aware we've got to put numbers on it, it's going to take some time, let's see how it
develops. But it's looking interesting.
Now for the Oaks, Acorns and Apple trees. We spent a bit of time in the orchard this half.
And we've made some significant progress on our strategic agenda. The objective, as we
set out, was to simplify the group, we wanted to improve focus, we wanted to reallocate
capital more productively. And we've done that. We've simplified our portfolio: We've sold
the majority of our Spanish business; we've exited Friends Provident International in the
last couple of weeks. But it's important to note we've also invested. We've increased our
interest in our Vietnamese joint venture to 100%. And we restruck a new long-term
contract with Vietinbank and it's got much more improved alignment. I know my friend
here, Tom, has just come back from a recent visit to Vietnam fizzing about the
opportunity. And fizzing is not something I'm used to seeing from Tom. But it is again, an
exciting long-term proposition and what we're saying, we're here to make long-term
decisions. And that looks like a very interesting growth market.
Aviva Investors, as I said before, keeps on going as well. And we need to look at how we
use the technology in there, too. But we're getting significant flows from the platforms
into Aviva Investors as well. On technology, we've also announced the digital JV in Hong
Kong, that was since our last results, I think. And Hillhouse, we're still currently awaiting
regulatory approval. It's taken some time, we expected it would, we haven't got it yet. So
at the moment, we're just working on the propositions and the systems and building the
thing. So that we can start when we get regulatory approval. In Italy, we're having a look.
There may be some opportunity for us to be more disruptive in that market, based on our
tech and our IP and our experiences in other markets. So we're having a look.
And as for India, now India is a market where I've previously said I wasn't a big fan. I've
probably been consistent on that for about 15 years. But when the facts change. And it
has under Modi, when the facts change, it's wise to reevaluate your position. Now
innovations in India, such as the digital ID and demonetization, we believe, could
fundamentally change that market. You've also had IPOs trading at 4x EV. And so we are
taking a fresh look at our strategy. We also have now got a greater degree of control of
that JV, as it passed a key term at 15 years. So we are taking a fresh look at that market.

Page 6 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

FINAL

And what about capital? With our organic capital generation, that I think you'd agree has
been going pretty well, you can see the ins and the outs on the slide. We've had
proceeds from disposals on top of that, we've had special dividends from U.K. insurance.
We are clearly in a very good place in terms of our surplus cash and our surplus capital
position. Now we haven't had Q&A yet. But I know this will inevitably give rise to the
questions about deployment.
So let me just talk a little bit about our policy. First, let me be clear about the dividend, this
is funded by operating profit generation and remittances. And you need remittances, you
need the operating profit, operating profit. And we're very clear in our definition. Because
I don't want to return to the bad old days, we want this dividend policy set at a level that's
sustainable. You've also seen that we have a substantial surplus. And as you would
expect, this means we will need to consider a whole range of options.

Bloomberg Transcript

Bolt-on acquisitions. We are active, looking in existing markets. Debt repayments, we've
already given you some guidance of what we think we will do later this year and we need
to look forward to next year. And obviously, also capital returns to shareholders. Now the
actual mix of capital deployment depends entirely on the economics. Now with our capital
position, these options are not mutually exclusive. And I think we are very likely to have
the capacity to do a bit of everything. And if you just look at the debt we've got coming
up and what we'll be doing this year, I think we've shown over the past 12 months this is
exactly what we have been doing and we are likely to continue to do.
Now we will update you more on this fully at our Capital Markets Day. Watch this space.
That Capital Markets Day will be in the end of November. And by that point, we'll have
good visibility on timing of remittances and the cash and the position as we head into next
year. But you know what, this is a very high-quality problem.
So to summarize. We've clearly made a strong start to the year. This is a very clean, clear
set of numbers. Now historically, we've been asked by investors. And many of you in the
room, how we'll deliver growth. We outlined our thoughts on growth at the Capital
Markets Day last year, though to a bit of skepticism, it was fair to say. And this set of
results. But frankly, also the previous set of results, I think do back up our words for
numbers -- our words with numbers. And it's very clear that we just need to keep on
delivering. We now have a high-quality, competitive and profitable franchises. And we are
managing the business to deliver consistent and reliable growth, that's what we're after
period after period. Our focus will be on sustaining that operating profit growth. And just
getting the basics right. And on top of that, by disrupting the way the industry works,
because I don't see any other players in a better position than us to do that. This means
simply serving customers well, it means maintaining discipline on price and underwriting. It
does mean making further improvement in cost efficiency in the digital world. And it
means developing. And we're going to invest more money into our groundbreaking
disruptive IP. And we are investing to grow. I think we've got some great foundations. I
think the balance sheet is something you and I could probably only have dreamed about a
few years ago. We have a strong balance sheet, we've got an engaged workforce, we
know that, we've got excellent franchises, we got a great brand. And if I could be so bold,
I think I have a top management sitting here. And that team and I are simply focused on

Page 7 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

delivery, that's all. And on that note, I'll hand over to Tom to take you through some of the
detail of that delivery.

FINAL

Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Well thanks, Mark. Good morning, everyone. As usual, Mark has hit a lot of the best
highlights. So without fizzing too much, Mark, I'll try to take you through more of the
details and provide you some of my perspectives on how we're progressing. So for me,
there's 3 main themes today: Number one being organic growth; two, the benefits of
increased business focus; and three, prospects for more capital management. We
typically get lots of questions about growth and where it will come from. So it's great to
be able to stand in front of a slide like this one, showing operating profit up 11% overall, or
6% on a constant currency basis. And operating EPS up 15% to 25.8p per share. And what I
find most encouraging is that our profit story is no longer just about expense control, our
top line is growing, too. Life sales overall were up 21% to GBP 20 billion, they were up 16%
in constant currency. And general insurance net written premiums were up over 17% to
GBP 4.7 billion, with a little help from FX and the RBC acquisition, on top of solid organic
growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

As this slide demonstrates, this growth is broad-based across our businesses. And shows
the benefits of focusing on a handful of markets while also being diverse. As an aside, I
note that Canada is one of our less diversified markets. And suffered some setbacks in
the half. And I'll come back and cover that in a later slide.
Finally, you should also recognize that we're investing heavily to support future growth,
including spending on innovative digital development, which is one of the drivers for an
increase in the corporate and other costs shown here.
Now NAV. There's not a lot to say on this slide, book value is about flat, as the year-end
dividend offset the majority of operating profit. Integration restructuring costs are down
50%. And running well below historical averages. And I plan on trying to drive them to 0 in
2018, with a possible exception of any new M&A activity. You should also note that the
sale of Friends Provident International will reduce our AVIF amortization by about 1/3 once
that deal closes. So the gap between operating profit and the bottom line is narrowing.
And basic earnings per share was up sixfold to 14.9p per share.
So turning now to the businesses. U.K. life delivered impressive double-digit growth in its
3 core product lines. Sales were up 36%, driven in part by a 76% increase in annuity and
equity release. Bulk annuity sales were GBP 320 million in the first half of 2017 versus just
GBP 64 million in the prior half year. We're competing more effectively in this market and
seeking to develop a sharper, competitive edge while also maintaining discipline on
margins and capital usage.
So another highlight you can see here is the cash remittances, which in the first half
totaled GBP 922 million, included GBP 350 million of specials, with a possibility of more to
follow after the successful completion of the Part VII merger of our life insurance
subsidiaries later this year.

Page 8 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

FINAL

So if we look in more detail, you can see how growth in our 3 core segments is carrying
U.K. life forward. Long-term savings profit was up 39% on the back of higher assets and
consistent margins within our target range. Annuities and equity release operating profit
was up 26% on much higher sales and margins returning to within the target range on
new business. So last year, our annuity margins were unusually high, as volumes were
lower and we were allocating attractive investment assets across that lower volume.
Now in protection, operating profit this year was up 17%, with higher sales and new
business margins once again exceeding our target range. And we had modest runoff in
profit from our legacy business and relied less on other actions during the half. So all
together, a very solid performance.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now Aviva Investors built on the momentum it created last year, with operating profit up
45% to GBP 71 million. The operating margin increased from 20% to 26%, with revenue
growth once again outpacing increases in expenses. Revenue from external clients
increased to 35% of the total, up from 30%. As Mark said, the AIMS range of funds
continues to grow, with AUM now up to GBP 12 billion at the half year. Profit also benefited
from more success in our growing infrastructure asset origination business. So all in all,
another very solid performance from one of my favorite businesses here at Aviva.
Next, we move to U.K. and Ireland general insurance, which also delivered very solid
performance, with broad-based organic growth across home, digital motor, SME property
and liability and global corporate and specialty lines. Along with this growth, we also
improved the normalized accident year combined ratio. So weather remained benign and
we had a bit less favorable development than last year. But it all in all resulted in a
reported combined ratio of 92.5% for the half year. Together, all of this drove a healthy
increase in operating profit, up to GBP 251 million.
Over in Canada, we had some good progress in terms of growth and improvement in the
underlying combined ratio, marred somewhat by a big swing in prior year reserve
development, which was 3.8% positive in the first half of last year and 1.6% negative this
year. As a result, the reported combined ratio deteriorated to 98.9% and operating profit
dropped to GBP 71 million, which has been one of the weakest results for us in a number
of years. Now looking more closely at this result, we've seen cat experience at about the
same unusually high levels as last year, an improvement in large losses and slightly higher
loss frequency. However, the main story is prior year development, where we've seen
less benefit from Ontario auto reform in the past periods, combined with some adverse
development on a few property cases. We're obviously looking at all this very closely,
including some potential improvements in our claims handling practices. None of us are
satisfied with this result, nor do we expect to repeat it.
Otherwise, we've been very pleased with the integration of the RBC acquisition and
premiums were up about 25% on a constant currency basis, largely reflecting the addition
of RBC. Excluding RBC, organic growth was about 3% in Canada. So let's just see how we
do for the rest of the year here.

Page 9 of 26



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

Moving to Europe. Last year, I would say that by and large, we were underwhelmed with
our performance in Europe. So we made a couple of management changes. And I'm
pleased to say now that our performance has been picking up accordingly. Operating
profit was up 9% in constant currency, with growth in all markets. We also completed the
Antarius divestiture in France, announced the sale of most of our remaining business in
Spain, as well as the end of a distribution relationship through Banco Popolare in Italy. So
we're pleased with the growth and expense discipline demonstrated this period,
however, we believe we still have more work to do to deliver more growth out of
operations in France, Poland, Italy and Turkey. Nevertheless, good performance so far.
Operating profit in Asia was about flat at GBP 115 million. But this masks quite a lot of
change in the business, as well as the benefits of focus. We stopped trying to turn Friends
Provident International into an Aviva business. And after a competitive auction process,
have agreed to sell it to RL360 at a price and on terms that we consider to be very good.
They will run it differently from us and be a better owner of the business than we could
be. So this will allow us to focus more on driving growth and value creation from our other
investments in the region. And we will highlight the profitability of our business in
Singapore in future results presentations.
So on a constant currency basis, the value of new business was up 14% in Singapore. And
over 200% in the rest of Asia, based largely on the performance of our JV in China. Now a
great example of the benefits of focus is our revised joint venture in Vietnam, which Mark
mentioned earlier. Together with our partner Vietinbank, we've completely overhauled
that JV, where we now have 100% ownership and control of the insurance business, have
installed a terrific new management team and have revised our bancassurance
agreement so that we have much more aligned incentives. This will take a few years to
start paying off. But it's a very exciting example of what can happen when you focus on
excellence and driving business performance.
So switching away from the business units. And back to Aviva overall, we remain very well
capitalized, with a Solvency II cover ratio of 193%, still in excess of our working range of
150% to 180%. We've commence our GBP 300 million share buyback program, which will
complete before year-end. And also continue to plan on paying off our 8.25% hybrid debt
later this year without refinancing it. Meanwhile, our underlying capital generation of
approximately GBP 900 million was consistent with the second half of last year. And about
GBP 100 million ahead of the run rate in the first half of last year.
Now I can't promise we'll stay at this pace every period, as we may make investments
that create short-term capital strain, or performance in the business may be better or
worse. But so far so good. And looking forward at other capital actions, it's fair to say that
we have a full pipeline of actions underway for the rest of 2017. Some of these actions are
positive and some negative. And while we don't expect to repeat the GBP 1.8 billion of
other capital actions we achieved in 2016, on balance, what we're working on now should
be positive and significant. Hence, we feel good about our capital position as well as our
prospects for generating capital surplus through year-end and beyond.
Central liquidity also remained strong at GBP 1.7 billion, exclusive of additional amounts
we've reserved for the current share buyback program. And we expect more cash from
Page 10 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

our divestitures of Spain and FPI, as well as future remittances from our ongoing
businesses. So not surprisingly, we're in a good position to fund future growth, as well as
to keep capital management squarely on the agenda going into 2018.
So now before I hand it back to Mark, I want to talk a little bit more about the outlook for
the future. As some of you have noted, we've made good progress on pruning our Apple
trees. At the same time, we're combining our U.K. insurance operations into a singular,
customer-obsessed business. So with this reshaping of the group, it will make sense for
us to take a fresh look at how we're describing our businesses. Ireland, for example, now
belongs with Europe. So we will move towards reporting it under our international
operations rather than lumping it with the U.K. And with a narrower set of European and
Asian businesses, we're likely to talk more directly to markets like France, Italy, Poland,
Ireland and Singapore, in addition to the U.K. and Canada. This should underscore the
benefits of a more focused business footprint, as well as make it easier for you to
understand our progress. We may consider our smaller strategic growth investments in
markets like Hong Kong, Indonesia and so forth, as a portfolio of bets we're making on
the future.
Now the other question that arises from all this reshaping is what does this mean for our
external targets, especially profit growth and dividend trajectory? Well I can't foretell the
future. But I can tell you how we're thinking about it. We're sticking to our targets:
Operating EPS growth in the mid-single digits over the medium-term; and dividend
payout ratio of 50% by the 2017 results, with a dividend growing in line with earnings
thereafter. That dividend payout ratio reflects a balance between reinvesting in the
business for growth and paying out a reliably steady stream of dividends. 50% is not a
cap. It's a guide. If we have an off year, say bad weather perhaps, we'll want to maintain
the dividend. And hopefully its progress, all else permitting, even if that implied a
temporary payout ratio in excess of 50%. We can also distribute excess capital above the
regular dividend rate through special dividend or share repurchases, as we've proven this
year. So as you all look at your models and forecasts, you'll be right to account for foreign
exchange movements and the divestitures of Antarius, Spain and FPI. But you should also
consider the strong underlying growth potential of Aviva's franchises, management's
ability to drive performance, as well as the potential benefit of capital management and a
more focused business footprint.
FPI, for example, delivered no cash back to the center, contributed nothing to the bottom
line and in the end, was merely a distraction. So putting all that aside, we're off to a good
start in 2017, we remain committed to the goal of making Aviva's dividend as dependable
as a Swiss clock, to use one of Mark's metaphors. And growing the business as we -- and
growing the dividend as we grow the business.
So in conclusion, we remain very much on track with operating EPS growth 15%, excess
capital, plenty of cash and dividend growth of 13%.
Back over to you, Mark.

Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}
Page 11 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

FINAL

Swiss clock indeed. So there you have it. We have a very robust, I think a very clean set of
numbers showing good growth, which goes back to back with the last set we gave you in
March. Now I said the numbers would tell their own story today. And we have a number of
the highlights, EPS, operating profit, cash, capital generation, as well as delivery on our
strategic agenda, reallocating that capital around the group.
Now that's quite a few ticks. And not least of which, I guess, the dividend growth of 13%.
But there's also a change in dynamic. As we fixed the business, it took an extraordinary
amount of management time to fix the basic issues and our team no longer has to spend
all that time on fixing the balance sheet or dealing with the cash flow or dealing with the
internal loan issue or sorting out liquidity or being in the orchard all day pruning apples -pruning the Apple trees. And it takes an extraordinary amount of focus and time. And this
means we can now focus our attention on the next chapter of our story, which we have
been, really, over the past 6 to 12 months. And to us and hopefully to our investors, that
feels like a pretty good place to be.
And on that note, Chris is going to -- you've got the balls, he's going to throw them
around the room. And we'll take your questions.

Questions And Answers
A - Christopher Esson

{BIO 16208369 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Colm?

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Colm Kelly, UBS. Just 3 questions, firstly on cash remittances. So there's obviously quite a
significant increase in the U.K. and Ireland life cash remittance. Within that, there was an
additional GBP 315 from the Friends synergies. So if we think about the GBP 1 billion from
Friends Life, there's another GBP 435 million to come. Should we be expecting that in the
second half, along with the Part VII transfer? Or is that more a 2018 cash remittance
impact? In addition, there was GBP 115 million from the internal reinsurance entity in the
first half, is that something that is nonrecurring?
Or how should I be thinking about that going forward in terms of remittances? Second
question on maximizing the return on capital, if we look at the Slide 49 in the pack, it
shows the operating return on capital employed and the strong progress in U.K. GI, strong
progress in fund management. On the flip side, Canada and Asia, the return on capital
employed has been coming down. And given they're 2 businesses, that there's a focus to
grow? Maybe just some insight into the trends that you're seeing there. Then finally on
digital, previously you showed a metric of the operating profit, driven by digital. Now I
appreciate that profit was overlapping with other divisions. But is that a metric you're still
tracking and what kind of growth have we seen in that metric for the first half of the year?

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Let me try these and then Mark may have some additional comments. So on timing of
cash remittances, you're right that after the Part VII transaction, there is a possibility of an
Page 12 of 26



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

additional special remittance. Whether that comes later this year, we'll try to do that. But if
we can't get it in this year, that will then be on the agenda for next year. The internal
reinsurance mixer, I'd sort of counsel you not to spend a lot of time looking at that. It is a
device that we use internally to improve liquidity coming out of our operations. But what
we're trying to do is then basically allocate that back to the businesses. So that you can
see what underlying businesses are generating the cash. So I'd ask you to focus more on
the capital generation than cash remittances coming out of the businesses. There may,
from time to time, be timing differences from one period to the next because of the way
we move business into the mixer and the way cash flows through that. But I'd ask you to
try to look at this in total. In terms of return on capital, I'm pleased you're looking at that,
we will start to emphasize the return on capital story more in the future. As we've gone
through the transition of integrating the Friends Life transaction, that obviously, has
derisked the balance sheet and diluted return on capital. But now that we've got cleaner
comparisons period-to-period, we'll start to look at that and emphasize that. In terms of
the negatives, obviously, Canada there just didn't have a good result this time frame.
We're looking to price business at a sort of 15%, 16% or better return on capital for that
business. So I would expect to see that better in future time periods. Asia, we've got a lot
of restructuring going on there. We will continue to invest for growth in Asia. So whether
we see as much improvement there, hard to say. But we would expect, continuing good
return on capital out of Aviva Investors and really, the rest of our businesses. And we will
look to focus on that as an important performance measure for us in the future. And finally
on digital, we are still looking at what we should be talking about in terms of the right
external metrics around digital. We hope to have more to say when we do our Capital
Markets Day later in the year. I'd just comment that on an underlying basis, the profit
trends we're seeing there are sort of consistent with what we've seen in the past.
However, we are investing more in terms of overall digital development around the IP and
trying to be more aggressive around that.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Clearly, the IP is working. So we are putting -- we're going to just keep on investing in it. It
is working, what we've got is pretty special and we're going to see how that develops.
The other thing I just would say in terms -- Canada, I think we've explained Canada. I think
that also a bit of mea culpa on Canada. I think we actually dropped the ball on a couple of
things in Canada in the last quarter as we integrated RBC. I'm confident the team's on top
of that now. So I think you'll see that pick up again. But we do sit around, we sit around as
an executive team and we debate where we've got our money and that's why you've
seen pruning things like FPIL, when we say, "Where are we going to get the best return
now. And where are we also going to get it in the next five years?" And if you do that, it
puts a big -- a different lens on it. And that's why you're seeing a simpler, cleaner set of
results.

A - Christopher Esson

{BIO 16208369 <GO>}

Andrew?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Throw the ball, don't pass.

Page 13 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

FINAL

Q - Andrew John Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Andrew Crean, Autonomous. Two questions, if I can. Firstly, you said excess capital, you'll
deploy on acquisition, bolt-on acquisitions, buybacks and debt reduction. What is the level
of your excess capital? Is it measured against the 180% ceiling, which would be about GBP
1.5 billion, or is it measured against the middle of the range, which would be GBP 3 billion?
Then secondly, we're at a fairly mature stage in the world economic cycle. Your company's
got more debt leverage than any of its peers and I think one of the concerns some of the
investors have is the level of that debt leverage. Would you be prepared to set a target
for reducing the debt leverage?

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Is that 3 questions? Or just 2?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

I thought it was 2.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

So let me start with both of those. On excess capital, we look at this as a multiyear
project. And there's a couple of things to think about. We've got excess capital, we also
have managed the balance sheet so that it is very tightly controlled and if you continue to
look at our sensitivity to different shocks, we've got that very heavily constricted. So from
my perspective, it doesn't make sense for us to be carrying both a very tightly controlled
balance sheet and a lot of excess capital. And so between the 2 of those, what we'll do is
we'll look to manage down the excess capital, either by returning that to investors,
investing into acquisitions, investing into growth or other sort of partnerships. In terms of
where we'd like to see it be over a period of years, we think we ought to be operating
more in the 160% to 165% range, not where we are. I mean, we're pleased to have come
through Solvency II, et cetera, in a difficult economic environment, above the top end of
our capital range. But that's not optimally efficient for us over a period of time. So I'd say
the GBP 3 billion number that you focused on is sort of a better estimate. In terms of debt
leverage, we continue to look at debt leverage. I think if I look at our overall capital
position and our debt stack, it's very well spaced out over time. So I don't have big
refinancing cliffs. We've been able to refinance it at lower rates as different maturities
have come up. But we've said that we're planning on repaying our hybrids this year
without refinancing them. We'll continue to look at that next year. We've got about
another GBP 900 million. We won't make that decision until that -- we get closer to it. But
certainly, I've got my eye on that. And if nothing else changed, we would look to pay that
off without refinancing it. So we have not set a specific target for debt leverage.
Something we're continuing to look at. But the trend here is for us to be reducing debt
leverage over time.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

And Andrew, I wouldn't want anyone to think that just because we have a pile of cash, that
it's burning a hole in our pocket. It's taken us a long time to get there and we're going to
be judicious. But clearly, we have a fair bit. But just on debt, we're also managing -- what
we have said on the target is we want to be in the AA sort of range and we are. So we do
Page 14 of 26



FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

not see our debt level as a problem, although there are opportunities to bring it down,
like this 500. So you may see it drift down over time. But also, you say versus peers. I'm
not sure what our peer group is. Because when you have -- we don't have a lot of
guarantees. So we're not like the French or the Germans. I mean, the product set is totally
different, we're in different countries. So I'm not sure what our peer group is. So I think we
have to look at debt from an Aviva perspective, the fact that we have a balance sheet
that isn't volatile. And so we're very comfortable with that level of debt. Albeit, when
you've got that much cash, we're taking it down a bit this year and we'll see what we do
next year.

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Yes, I do think we want our cash to be working harder than it is right now.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Yes. And when you have debt stacks at 7 -- 8-and-a-bit and 7-and-a-bit, well, that seems
like a pretty good way to increase earnings, too, doesn't it?

A - Christopher Esson

{BIO 16208369 <GO>}

Oliver?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Oliver George Nigel Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel at Deutsche Bank. I think you're trying to preempt my question here with your
comment then. But if you have GBP 3 billion of potential excess capital, as of today, Tom
talked about some further management actions, later in the second half of the year, that's
potentially going to add to that. Why only a GBP 300 million share buyback? Or perhaps
to ask another question around that, how quickly do you think you can get that excess
capital down to the sort of long-term target levels? That's the first question. And second
question is also about targets. You talk about the mid-single-digit operating earnings per
share target growth rate. But you said in today's meeting that, that built-in the assumption
that FPI and Spain were going to be sold. You've actually delivered more than that in
these results, despite having lower-than-expected reserve releases, despite clearly
investing in the business, despite seeing U.K. positive exceptionals coming down. So quite
clearly, the underlying business is actually performing quite a lot better than that. So I'm
wondering why you're persisting in sticking with this mid-single-digit growth target?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Yes, firstly. So it's 2 questions, maybe Tom will take the second. I'm (inaudible) among you
why don't we do more? Because we're in the middle of a share buyback at the moment,
for a start. I mean, we announced the share buyback, we're -- in what month?

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Just in June.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}
Page 15 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Just in June. We're halfway through that, give or take. It's still got some period to run. So
let's do that. Yes, I accept we're in a better position on capital than maybe most
anticipated. But let's do it one step at a time. We've consistently said we're going to do
this thing prudently, we're going to do it slowly. It took us a long time to build it up and
we're just not going to throw it away. Now bluntly, I want to reward long-term
shareholders, as well. So I guess, they'll have to stick with us a little bit longer, won't they?

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Yes, I'd just say, look, on capital management, we don't want to pre-commit everything. I
mean, part of the point of building financial flexibility and capital strength is to have it
when you need it and to be able to react. So we're trying to give you a clear sense as to
how we're thinking about this so you can predict what we're doing and what we're
thinking about it. But we don't want to pre-commit all of that too far in advance. On the
earnings momentum and the targets, you're right, we're looking at a lot of things here.
The underlying businesses, in many cases, are performing at a rate that's better than midsingle digits. Frankly, that's the way Mark and I try to manage the businesses. We try to
push them for a better growth than that. At the same time, we're managing expenses,
our operating expense ratio is about flat relative to last year. So we're managing the pace
of investment in the business. And we didn't have a lot of other changes, other actions in
this half year. We will continue to look at things in the future. We've got potential
improvements in our balance sheet, we've got a big balance sheet. There's longevity,
persistency, expense improvements and reserves that are possibilities that we'll look at
this year and next year. So there's a lot of levers that we have to manage the business. In
terms of whether we should be upping those targets, I'd say look, let us get there and if
we start outperforming our targets consistently, well then, that story will tell itself.

A - Christopher Esson

{BIO 16208369 <GO>}

Greig?

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Greig Paterson, KBW. Three questions. One is, you don't have triangles in the half year,
which is usual. But usually, we can sort of reverse out to see how much margin you're
reinvesting in your reserves. I wonder if you could just give us some kind of statement on
where the margin in the GI reserves has changed over the period? Second question, I
wonder, if it's possible, if you could split out motor and home, because it's topical. Just tell
us where the combined ratios have gone, on either of those 2, year-on-year. And the third
one. And I'll ask the second question of RSA: Do you think there's something gone wrong
with your underwriting, your underwriting mechanism, that Canada is persistently
producing higher large losses? Maybe it's not just random and it's something to do with
the underlying business. I wonder if you might give some comments there.

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Yes. So on margins, I don't think we're doing anything fundamentally different this period
relative to other periods. In terms of the split on motor and home, maybe Colm or
someone wants to talk a little bit about that. But actually, we've seen, in terms of the
overall performance there, we've seen good performance on both. We've actually seen

Page 16 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

home net premiums written turn up and get some good positive growth there for the first
time in a number of years. So we're happy with the performance on both the motor and
the home side. I'm sorry? In terms of combined ratio? So again, I'll ask Colm to talk about
that a little bit.

FINAL

A - Colm J. Holmes

{BIO 18456463 <GO>}

Yes. What we've seen is the combined ratios have actually improved in motor and home.
In motor, it's predominantly driven by the mix of business. But the market has continued to
harden. So we've dialed down in the broker direct -- the broker channel into our direct
channel. So you're seeing 13% increase in motor in the digital direct channel, that's what's
driven the improvement in core. In household, what we see in this new improvement is
actually growth in the business and we haven't seen the same issues with regards to
escape of water that others have seen. But we did see it back in '15 and '16 and have
been rating for that. So our inflation expectations for 2017 were actually in line with the -what had actually happened in the markets. So we haven't seen what other insurers have
spoke about in terms of escape of water this year, because we dealt with it last year. But
we had an increase in our attritional loss ratio.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Maurice, on Canada?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Maurice Tulloch

{BIO 17683736 <GO>}

Well I think I'd -- probably, the first thing I'd say is I'd start talking about our overall GI
results. So actually, I'm quite pleased, our core is down 94.5, we grew our volume at 11%
on a constant currency basis. And operating profit up 25%. Let me give you a little bit
more color into Canada, I know Tom and Mark have both talked about it.
So certainly, accident years improved to 96.9 from 98.8. But clearly, this story is prior year
development and you've seen the swing from 3.8 favorable to 1.6 adverse. There's
actually 4 underlying points. So the main point, which we actually expected, was the motor
reforms in Ontario auto, which I should say the entire industry has seen. They came in
2010, that's effectively now running out. There was a couple of other factors. There was a
mea culpa on some losses on the December 16 storm. Our teams are certainly working
on Fort McMurray and also the RBC integration. So there's a little bit of adverse that
spilled over one month. And the other point is, the accident years 2013, 2014, we saw the
plaintiff bar effectively stacking physical and psych injuries, which allowed them to get to
the threshold. So you get a little bit of adverse in those years. That is now gone, because
we've had the definition, what's referred to as the cat injury definition change. That was
changed in 2016. So that's no longer prevalent going forward. And I think most
importantly, that business we have priced for years at a 16% return on capital. So when
factors change, we make those changes and we already started making those pricing
changes. We actually started making them in March. So we have some momentum, about
3.5 flowing through Ontario auto. We have another filing pending and we've also moved
up Alberta by 6.5%. So I'm very confident in our Canadian business going forward.

A - Christopher Esson

{BIO 16208369 <GO>}
Page 17 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

Gordon?

FINAL

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Yes. It's Gordon Aitken from RBC. Three questions, please. First, on buying closed life
books and when you acquired Friends, you acquired expertise as part of that deal and
guys who have done deals, because of the history of that business. I mean, there's GBP
300 billion of closed life books out there. It's essentially a duopoly. There's obvious
catalysts, Brexit and Solvency II. It's not part of your published strategy now. And I just
wonder why and maybe that's one of the reasons why you're holding all this excess
capital. And second question on bulks. Can you just talk a bit about the relative
competition between the small end, which you've been operating in for years; the middle
end, which you are sort of pushing into; and the large end, which you seem keen to stay
out of, for the time being. And third, on -- this was the potential for asset rerisking in that
annuity portfolio. What proportion of annuity assets would you ideally target? And would
you go as high as the 40% the regulator has said they would like to see in terms of illiquid
assets?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

I'll hand over to Andy. But I'll just say a couple of, few comments, if I can. What we said on
bulks, we said we still wanted to do the medium-sized, not the large ones. And you'll
recall, we've probably discussed this almost every meeting. And we did move our position
a bit, that we said we'd do the medium ones. So you've seen that come through. What
you've seen is a change in the way we have originated the assets as well. So before, we
were trying to get the bulk and then find asset. Now we're just on the constant stream of
assets out of Aviva Investors, because we can use them in the rest of our annuity book.
Then when we get the bulks, we can put it across. And that's what you're seeing coming
through and should continue to see. We're still sort of saying, mid-size, we see up to
about GBP 1 billion-ish. We don't like the jumbos, we think it's too much concentration risk
for us as well. Andy, do you want to talk about that and the -- also the asset mix behind it?

A - Andrew David Briggs

{BIO 16330585 <GO>}

Yes. So smaller bulks, we continue to be a major player and that's going very well for us.
We've moved to the mid-size segment. We found we can do that profitably, hence, the
results we've had. The outlook for the second half is very good. One of the reasons we
can compete so well is because we get the capital diversification as a multi-line player. So
many of our competitors are monolines. In an economic capital world, they don't get the
same diversification that we do between, say, the life and GI businesses. We work very
closely with Euan and his guys and Aviva Investors. So they are very strong in terms of
originating the illiquid assets, that's a key driver. But to the point you make on the back
book is particularly important. So about GPB 60-odd billion of annuities, we've got circa
GBP 20 billion in illiquids at the moment. We would have over half of that in illiquids out of
choice. So there's over GBP 10 billion to go at. We get typically, a 50 to 100 basis point
uplift. So you see in our results at the half year, we got a reasonable profit benefit from
rerisking the back book. We've only done a fraction of what's available, this will be a longterm or medium-term source of profits for us as we drive that through. It will also keep us
disciplined on the new business side, because if I can make more money putting illiquid

Page 18 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

assets against the back book, I'll do that rather than originate new business. So I mean,
ideally I can do both. But so -- and hence, the annuity profits up 26% in the first half.

FINAL

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

And your question on M&A, I said we'll do bolt-ons. And I can tell you we're very happy on
that segment of the market with our organic growth strategy. And the Friends transaction,
as you know, was done with a very specific purpose. It certainly more than achieved that. It
helped fix our balance sheet; it gave us capital and cash and all the things we wanted. So
that is not an area we're focused on.

A - Christopher Esson

{BIO 16208369 <GO>}

Ashik?

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan. Just a couple of questions. One, with respect to your
M&A expectation, what should we be expecting? Which markets? Which size? Any
thoughts on that? And what are the returns you're expecting on those M&A that you look
to do? The second is, with respect to non-life, can you give us some color about how the
market is progressing in terms of commercial, the growth you're seeing in U.K. personal,
as well as commercial? And some color on your European markets as well. Because
clearly, it has been a step-change that you've started growing in the top line. But should
we be expecting continuous growth in top line with stable margins?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Okay, in a minute, I'll hand over to maybe Colm on the GI. Just a point on the top line,
though, well, we just announced a fairly large deal today. It's going to drive some growth.
So we would expect to keep seeing it. Look M&A -- M&A is interesting. Hopefully, we're
getting a track record for delivering in M&A and not being frivolous and being aligned with
strategy. Now the areas that we are interested in at the moment, there are several things.
I would say you may see us look in the digital space in terms of getting skills we need to
build out our proposition. I'm not going to elaborate too much on that. But if there's a skill
set we need building out our digital IP, well we might buy that. And build that in. So that's
one. Secondly, a geographically, of being open before, places like Poland if we can find
the right deal, we would. Turkey, if we could find the right deal, we would. Canada, I think
one of the strategic weakness of our Canadian business is the fact they're not TCC. Now I
don't want anyone running away thinking we're going to do any big acquisition there,
we're not. But if we could do something that gave us the right license (inaudible) we need
and in segments of the business, well, we might look there, too. So it's got to be
strategic. So I wouldn't rule anything out or in, because it all comes down to, does it match
the strategy. And do the maths work? You saw RBC. RBC has been a really good deal, it's
got more sales than we thought, if you include diversity benefits, that was a ROCE of over
20%, excluding it, it was about 15%. So it just stood up in terms of the numbers. And
remember, I do want also more GI. If you're looking at product, I do want more GI. One of
the reasons for that is it diversifies well. One of our strengths is our capital position
diversifies better than most, which gives us a competitive advantage. I don't think the
market really appreciates that yet. But as we do acquisitions, it might. So it's really all of

Page 19 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

the above. We look at deals all the time. And as you can see, we're pretty disciplined in
our approach. So that's the way it goes. Now your second one was a comment on the GI
market. Colm do you just want to talk about where it's going, add some color?

FINAL

A - Colm J. Holmes

{BIO 18456463 <GO>}

In terms of the growth, I think what we're pleased about this year is where the growth
actually come from. So it's been organic growth and it's come in a mixture of areas. So
we've had 13% increase top line in digital; we've had 5% increase in home; we've had 6%
increase in commercial, non-motor; and we've had 5% increase in our global corporate
and specialty business. They're all in the higher-margin businesses. What we also do is in
terms of the underwriting result, it's actually improved by 19% year-on-year, compared to
last year. Some of that is large losses, had less of an impact this year, sort of in line with
our long-term average. The reason for that is we've been dialing down commercial motor
by 4%. And a lot of the large loss we had in prior years was predominantly driven by van
and the haulage business. So we've actually been dialing down that business. So you've
seen the knock-on impact this year of less large losses in the GI number.

A - Christopher Esson

{BIO 16208369 <GO>}

Andy?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew Hughes

{BIO 1540569 <GO>}

Andy Hughes from Macquarie. Three questions, if I could. The first one, back to the M&A.
So you mentioned before that people shouldn't be really dialing down their consensus
forecasts, as results of the disposals. But consensus is something like 56p of earnings
next year. And you're saying you'll convert 50% of that into dividends. So if you balance
the options for M&A, I'm not sure where you're going to get a better deal than 10%, 10x
P/E with such a high dividend yield. And on the sub-debt side, I think the sub-debt, that
yield has come down as well. So doesn't the current stock price make buying back stock
the most attractive option by quite some margin at the moment? And the second
question was on France. Obviously, you talked about the products changing in France, the
Antarius sale as well. Have you -- how are you progressing with the DVA and the solvency
improvement in France? Are we going to get a special dividend from France towards the
end of the year?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

So I mean, what I actually said, Andy, was I wouldn't put your forecasts up or down on
either of the factors, is what I actually said. And I think we are trying to give you a degree
of confidence that we'll meet our mid-single-digit targets there and that's the way we
look at it. On the M&A, buying it, M&A versus buybacks versus debt, what I actually said,
just to be clear, is it all depends on the economics. You said buybacks are attractive. Now
maybe they are. I mean, buying back debt, 500 debt at over 8 is also pretty attractive,
frankly. So we look at it in the round and that's why we're not trying to forecast what we
do next year. What we do know is we have a large amount of excess and that we need to
deploy some of that. That's actually what we're saying, that's the only message we're
trying to give. So just talk about France and DVA and...

Page 20 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

FINAL

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Yes, let me -- just a little bit more flavor around M&A. As we look at the best uses of
capital for us, it's actually writing more insurance business. So that's where we get the
best return on capital and the best value for shareholders. So as we're looking at M&A,
we really look through 3 screens: We look at strategic fit; we look at our ability to execute;
and then we look at the value that we add for shareholders. And so there are some
potential transactions, like the RBC deal in Canada, that we think are going to be better
than a share purchase. Having said that, we've got plenty of capital and so, as Mark always
says, we'll be looking at all of these tools in complement. In terms of France, we are
making progress there. We've got ongoing conversations, a number of moving pieces,
the benefit of DVA is very strong for us in terms of limiting volatility and stress scenarios.
So again, it will be a good enhancement to the overall flexibility and safety and soundness
of the balance sheet. I wouldn't go predicting a special dividend there now in the short
term. We'll continue to look at that business over a longer period of time. But unlike U.K.
life, I would not predict a special dividend out of France.

A - Christopher Esson

{BIO 16208369 <GO>}

James?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

But we do expect we'll get it, if that helps. But there's a lot of moving parts there.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - James Austin Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

It's James Shuck from Citigroup. I had 3 questions, please. Just looking through the
governance disclosure in the annual reports, there is some very interesting disclosure
around some of your targets there, in the LTIPs in particular. I had 2 questions relating to
that. One is that there's a net remittance target for your managers that seems to be on a
net basis rather than a gross basis. So the number that you communicate to us, I think is
the gross remittances from the operating units upstreams. But then there's other capital
flowing back down to the operating units. So I'm wondering whether when I look at the
liquidity movement in the first half of the year, there's no actual increase in the central
cash pool, even though you've had GBP 1.1 billion of upstream. So I appreciate there's a
dividend to pay; there's something around the buyback. But there's just a slight
disconnect into how I think about capital upstreams versus how much you need to pay
straight back down in order to fund that growth. Can you just explain that a little bit to me?
Secondly, the LTIP ROE target, you have a cumulative target across three years, which
doesn't look particularly challenging. It seems to be that you're already making that ROE.
And therefore, when I think about your capital generation and what you might do with it
going forward, there doesn't seem to be much incentivization to manage that equity
base. If you could just square that with your own thoughts, that would be helpful, please.
Then my final question, slightly tongue-in-cheek. But I just wondered if you had a view
about your mix of profit and where you might want that to get to by 2020 or beyond?

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

So on LTIPs, there's a provision around the definition of net remittances that basically tries
to prevent exactly what I think you're worried about, which is sort of over-dividending and
Page 21 of 26



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

then turning around and putting that capital back in and then counting only the one side.
So effectively, the LTIP would net that. So we do have uses for cash around the group. We
get plenty of cash that comes up out of the operating units. We use that to pay debt, we
use that to pay some center costs. From time to time, we use that to make acquisitions or
investments. So the acquisition or the restructuring that we just did in Vietnam was funded
from cash out of the center. So there are ins and outs. But the LTIP essentially tries to
make sure that there's no gamesmanship around remittances that are coming out from a
cash flow perspective. Then do you want to talk about the ROE or...?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Yes, okay. So the other point on cash flow, just I'm not quite sure I understood your
question. But for example, you're (interested) about funding, just funding the business
normally. You don't put it up and then put it back down again, that's not a remittance then,
is it? So U.K. life gives it up, we don't then put money back down. That's after they've
funded their growth. So they fund their growth first, then they pay the remittances up. So
it's effectively net. So we are talking about the same thing. ROE, we do -- for a whole lot
of reasons, we do -- ROE and our target seems to be different from everyone else. And
it's after, after, after. If I can -- what's an example? We made a book loss on FPIL. That
actually hits your ROE, okay. So it's after, after, after, because we made a book loss on
that just because of the vagaries of accounting about where it was set at the start when
we bought it from Friends and that actually hits it. Our targets aren't an operating error,
really, like everyone else's are. I've thought going forward -- and I've had this feedback
from a lot of investors around the room -- I've thought going forward, maybe we should
just use the similar sort of ROE targets (of everyone else) but I can't remember what the
calculation is now. We'll have to come back to you afterwards, what it would be on the
like-for-like basis. And it's quite a bit higher. So what you're seeing isn't the way everyone
else does it.

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

I think the way Mark and I try to manage the company is to focus on shareholders and
what's good for shareholders. And so we're focused on things that over the long term,
we think are going to drive shareholder value that will show up in the share price. Whether
we've got the optimal LTIP design, I don't know. That's something I think we'll take a look
at.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Yes. And we've got actually, there's (Sara) and then the head of our (MCO) is also sitting
about 3 feet away from you as well. So maybe have a chat with then afterwards.

Q - James Austin Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

I guess my point is, as far as I can tell, even making those adjustments, it seems like
you're already hitting that target. There doesn't seem to be any stretch here.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

No. I wouldn't be assuming that.

Page 22 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Again, if you go all the way to the bottom line. And subtract sort of all the after, after,
after, as Mark is saying, it's just not the same as the operating return on capital. So the
slides you see here don't match to that. And again, that's -- again, also an issue.

FINAL

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

And so, you might be surprised at the number. We can take you through how it's worked
out. I think you might be surprised.

Q - James Austin Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

And the profit mix by 2020?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Sorry, what was the last question?

Q - James Austin Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

And the profit mix by 2020?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Okay, by 2020, I would expect you're going to see, the simplistics of product lever, you're
going to see higher through asset management. It's already starting to contribute more.
You're going to see also higher from GI. So we want to grow both of those. And what
happens geographically, well, Brexit and the government sort of balance that chart out
quite a bit for us. And you're seeing, obviously, some of the international business
growing pretty well as well. We do see Canada remaining core as well. So what you have
in our group, you've got less segments on the chart and it's getting a bit more balanced
and that's a very deliberate strategy.

A - Christopher Esson

{BIO 16208369 <GO>}

We'll do Andy. And then Ravi, please. Andy?

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

It's Andy Sinclair from BofA, Merrill Lynch. Just 2 questions. Firstly, on the HSBC deal that
you've just signed, I just wondered if you could give us any more color on that and what
your expectations are from that deal? And secondly, just 2 questions today, on the
dividend, you mentioned that 50% payout ratio is not a cap. But is it safe to say it is a floor
for 2017, at least?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

The, I mean, HSBC has been quite a long process, by the way. And it was -- someone
asked me this morning, was it a competitive process? Yes. It was a very competitive
process. Andy, you want to talk about your expectations? I've got quite a few.

Page 23 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

FINAL

A - Andrew David Briggs

{BIO 16330585 <GO>}

Yes, I mean, it's a 10-year extension. But also an expansion. So previously, we had some
products in some parts of their franchise, we've kind of expanded the range of products
and expanded the parts of the franchise we're operating through. One of the key drivers
in that was actually the MyAviva digital capabilities. So effectively, we'll plug-in a skinned
version of that into the HSBC systems and so that digital investment is having a big impact
for us in other parts of the business as well. But beyond that, I'm afraid I can't say more,
because the kind of contract we've done is we're clear on what we can and cannot say.
But you'll enjoy the numbers as they come through.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Can you tell us, at least, what do you mean by expansion as well as that extension?

A - Andrew David Briggs

{BIO 16330585 <GO>}

A broader range of products and broader parts. If you think across HSBC, there's a
number of sub-brands within there, other brands within there. But I'm afraid I'm not able
to be more specific there, apologies.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It's significant. We got to be careful. Now on your -- I think your second question was
payout ratio. We said 50%. To my knowledge, we haven't missed a target for quite some
time, I'll say that. And I'd expect that we wouldn't miss that one either.

A - Christopher Esson

{BIO 16208369 <GO>}

We'll finish up with Ravi and then take other questions outside.

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

It's Ravi Tanna from Goldman Sachs. I have 3 questions, please. So the first one was on
liquidity. And the holdco liquidity has moved to GBP 1.7 billion. But I note that there's -you've referenced the fact that the buyback will be funded separately with a further GBP
300 million earmarked. So can you just walk us through the moving parts in terms of
what's moved in terms of liquidity in the first half of the year, since the 1.8 at full year? The
second question was on the buyback again. Clearly, on the dividend policy, there's a very
prescriptive way in which that's reached, with operating EPS being the basis. Is the sole
determinant when you come to considering the buyback, your Solvency ratio, or do other
factors come into play? And the third question was actually on the France DVA. And it was
just kind of a fact check, really. In your planning assumptions for reaching your GBP 7 billion
cash remittances, is there an assumption of attaining that France dynamic volatility
adjustment benefit at any point?

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

So there's a few there. We'll probably both have a go. So liquidity, (I think my take) -- so
that's 1.7. And there's another 200 on top of that aside for the buyback. We sort of
stripped that out because it's...

Page 24 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Yes. We've already spent some.

FINAL

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

We've already spent some of it. So that's why it's 200 less. So we've just taken that out.
Arguably, you could have said it was 1.9, I guess. So that's first. Tom might have more
comment on the moving parts. On the buyback, the things we consider. So it all depends.
So first of all, you look at how much is our excess. We all know it's a fairly large number. So
that's why I don't actually see it at this stage as an either-or scenario. I think we may be
able to do a bit of each. Secondly, you look at economically, what makes sense. And I think
it was someone else said that at the moment, the buyback looks attractive. Well at these
sorts of yields, of course, it does. And where the stock price is at the moment, well, the
buyback -- you've got to believe in your own stock. It looks an attractive proposition,
doesn't it? So that's there. Then when you look at an acquisition, again, I don't think it's
mutually exclusive. But if we saw another RBC. And that sort of size and that sort of return
and that sort of ROCE. And that sort of accretion, very, very quickly, I'd do that in a
heartbeat. And that sort of makes sense. And I think investors and you guys would expect
us to as well. But the reason -- we're not trying to be evasive, the fact is, we don't know
until we see it. And we look at the economics and we look at the stock price and we look
at the debt that's coming up in the debt stack. And yes, we have hypothesis, of course we
have. But it would be a bit imprudent for us to share that today. We're just going to -- give
us a bit of time as you think we would.

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

And I think as a topic for the Capital Markets Day in November, I may do a little bit more
for you on liquidity in terms of how we think about that. As you might suspect, internally,
we've got a lot more metrics. We sort of look at monthly cash flow forecasts over a
multiyear time frame. We have a liquidity coverage ratio. We're looking at the ins and the
outs and trying to make sure that we stay within a healthy liquidity range. So we always
have ins and outs in terms of dividends coming up from the subs, et cetera. And interest
payments out and other expense. So we keep a good look on that. And it would be fair to
say that with the special dividends and divestitures of Spain and FPI, et cetera, we've got
a healthy flow of cash coming into the center and so we do need to be active around
redeploying that. Around buybacks and the 50% payout ratio, I'd caution people not to
use the 50% payout ratio as just a tight mathematical formula. That's intended to be a
guide showing balance as we grow the business. We want to be growing the business for
the long term and effectively reinvesting half of our excess capital generation into future
growth and distributing the other half in terms of the regular dividend rate, with excess
capital being managed through the different requirements that we've talked about. So
when we look at the buyback, we're looking at again, multiple things, we are looking at
capital generation, we are looking at overall capital position, we're looking at liquidity.
We're looking at all the alternatives and thinking about what we should do there. But
again, given the capital liquidity we're generating, we going to have enough to be able to
fund bolt-ons, buybacks, debt repayment, organic growth. It's just a question of how much
in each and when. Then finally on DVA and the GBP 7 billion cash remittances, we have
some room to hit that GBP 7 billion target. So we've got some of the divestiture proceeds
coming up, we've got special dividends coming up, in particular, from the U.K. life
business. We're not expecting a special dividend from France. We're not trying to
Page 25 of 26



Company N ame: Aviva PL C
Company Ticker: AV/ L N Equity
Date: 2017-08-03

squeeze France particularly hard on cash at the moment. We've got a new CEO who's
been in there since last November and we're trying to be patient around the
development of that business over time. But I think we're in good shape for the GBP 7
billion remittance target.

FINAL

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Not too patient.

A - Thomas D. Stoddard

{BIO 15071280 <GO>}

Yes, I know you're not patient. I have to kind of hold you back once in a while. So.

A - Christopher Esson

{BIO 16208369 <GO>}

Thanks, very much. I'll hand it back to you, Mark.

A - Mark Andrew Wilson

{BIO 7102576 <GO>}

Okay. So that's it. Thank you for joining us. I know the IR team is around. We'll be around
for a bit as well. As always, we look forward to reading the insights and to engage in the
next few days. Thank you.

A - Christopher Esson

{BIO 16208369 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 26 of 26

