Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

Q4 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Amanda Blanc, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director
Andrew Wallace-Barnett, Senior Vice President & Head-Investor Relations
Gaëlle Olivier, Chief Executive Officer of AXA Global P&C
Gérald Harlin, Group Chief Financial Officer
Paul Evans , Group Chief Executive Officer for AXA Global Life & Savings and AXA
Global Health and Chief Executive Officer of AXA Global Asset Management
Thomas Buberl, Group Chief Executive Officer

Other Participants
Andrew J. Crean, Analyst
Andy Hughes , Analyst
Blair Stewart, Analyst
Farooq Hanif , Analyst
Jon M. Hocking, Analyst
Mark David Cathcart, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Niccolo C. Dalla Palma, Analyst
Nick Holmes , Analyst
Peter D. Eliot, Analyst
Ralph Hebgen, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

Good afternoon, everyone. I hope you can hear me. Welcome to AXA's 2016 Full Year
Results. Welcome to those on the phone. Welcome to those on the webcast and of
course, welcome to those here in London. For the Q&A, we'll be happy to take questions
from those on the line or on the phone. On the webcast, just please follow the
instructions that you've been given. I would be happy to have your questions, but we will
give preference to questions from people who are in the room.
The presentation this afternoon will be made by our Group CEO, Thomas Buberl; and our
Group CFO, Gérald Harlin. We're also joined and present and delighted to take part in the
Q&A today is Gaëlle Olivier, our Group CEO for our P&C Operations; and Paul Evans, who
is our Group CEO of Life, Savings, Health and Assets Management. So they'll be happy to
take your questions as well this afternoon.

Page 1 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

And it is my pleasure to hand over to Thomas.

FINAL

Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you Andrew. Good afternoon to everybody. We're very happy to be here with you
in London even though it was not easy to get here due to the stormy weather. The
results, or our results on the contrary are not so stormy. When we look at the key
takeaways, the results have been very solid in a very challenging environment. We have
managed to grow in all lines of business. We have delivered an earnings growth that was
particularly well in the second half of this year, which has also led to the fact that the board
of directors yesterday will go with a proposal to the AGM to increase the dividend, which
is clearly supported by the earnings growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have also continued to push ourselves in more innovation. As you remember, we have
presented the plan last year to you based on two pillars, focus and transform, and in the
transform piece of the plan, we have a very clear ambition to become global innovation
leader in insurance. When you look at these earnings growth, I said the second half of the
year has certainly helped us a lot to achieve an attractive earnings growth of 3%
underlying earnings growth and 3% adjusted earnings growth. This is certainly much
higher than we have reported at half year, where these numbers were 0% and minus 2%.
When we look at the underlying earnings per share, we can also see that they have
increased by 4% and the adjusted earnings per share by 3%.
This has enabled us to propose to the board and the board have agreed to it, to propose
to the Annual General Meeting, an increase of the dividend from €1.10 to €1.16, which
represents 5% increase of the dividend per share. All of this is a payout at 48%, which is
well in the range that we have indicated between 45% and 55% of adjusted earnings. If I
go now into the different businesses, I would like to start with the Life & Savings business,
certainly a business that is highly marked by the low interest rate environments, despite
the fact that we were reporting minus 2% APE at half year, the second half has been very
strong and we have achieved an overall APE growth of 2% across the year.
At the same time, we have managed to increase the NBV by 5% at a very high margin of
40%. Why is that the case? First of all, we have experienced a strong growth in Asia,
plus16% of APE. Secondly, we have continued to work on the optimization of our business
mix, more focus on protection, more focus on health and more focus on capital light
business. The third piece is, we have continued our in-force management and I would like
to highlight one particular action in Belgium, where we have launched a buyout of €1.5
billion, with a record high take-up rate of 70%, where we are continuously working on
reducing our exposure to the traditional general account.
A second important market for us is the P&C market. Also in this market, we have
experienced a growth of 3.4%, both in the retail business and in the commercial business
and you can also see that the difference between mature and emerging markets has
materialized again, and that particular in the emerging markets we benefited from a
growth of 7%. At the same time, the loss ratio has been reduced even though the overall
combined ratio has slightly increased. That has got two reasons. The one is, we have
reduced the prior year relative to last year. And secondly, we have clearly set a target of
Page 2 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

FINAL

growing more in commercial lines. If you want to grow, you need to invest and the
increase in the cost ratio is reflected in the investment in growth.
We clearly, however, confirm our combined ratio target for all year between 94% and 95%
through to 2020. The third business that is very important for us and that is often hidden
behind the Life and the P&C business is the Health business. We are today one of the
largest player in the health business, very strong in six markets, one of them being the UK.
We have experienced an attractive growth of 4.3% in these markets and have reached a
revenue figure of €12 billion. All of this at a very attractive combined ratio of 94.9%, clearly
a market where we want to continue our growth path. If you look at the cost savings, we
have started Ambition 2020 that we have presented to you in June last year. In the last
year, we have clearly phrased a target of €2.1 billion by 2020 and obviously, we have
started our efforts already in 2016.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have reached €300 million of savings and confirm our ambition of €2.1 billion by 2020
focusing on all key levers from administrative expenses through to claims handling
expenses and acquisition expenses because the cost savings has a high contribution to
the underlying earnings growth per share. When we look at the achievements relative to
the Ambition 2020, we can clearly state that we have completed a good first step in this
and towards this ambition. Why is that the case? With 4% underlying earnings per share
growth, we are well in the range of 3% to 7% and though 3% to 7% were very much linked
to how are the capital markets performing, how the environment in terms of volatility. If
you think about last year, Brexit, Trump election, those were all elements that have
contributed to a significant volatility.
The second area is cash flows. We have reached €6.2 billion free cash flow. Again, if you
project this onto a journey between 2016 and 2020, we are well in the range of €28 billion
to €32 billion. On the adjusted return on equity, same story, 13.5%, well in the range
between 12% and 14%. And on the Solvency position, 197%, again, well in the middle
between our target range of 170% to 230%. So overall, very solid results based on a very
solid balance sheet and the first step in Ambition 2020 is well concluded. When we now
look how do we invest in the future and how do we transform our business. We have
clearly said that we want to lead this way and really think how can we transform. In order
to do this, we need to create an ecosystem for this transformation.
We have started and acted very much with the financial and business means on it. We
have built AXA Strategic Ventures. We have already invested in quite a few ventures and
have launched an additional fund this year of €150 million. The idea is to spot new startups, new ideas and have a merger between AXA and the start-up working together and
benefiting from each other in a way that start-ups has many ideas, we have large-scale,
and the two together make a good combination. This has been very successful. On AXA
NEXT that we have created last year, we are moving into new business models. If you
take my word on the Health business, we see that there is certainly a lot dynamic in this
market.
Population Health Management, which is around the question, how can you manage the
cost increase in chronic diseases better, is something that we really want to be in. We're
developing new business models in this area. In Kamet, this is an incubator for disrupting
Page 3 of 31



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

ourselves. There we have also launched three concrete ideas in order to really create new
business models. On the other hand, we are also in the middle of society, acting as a
social contribution to society and there it's very clear. We have got a very strong hand on
where do we invest and where do we not invest. We have taken the decision last year to
withdraw from investments in the tobacco industry, which was quite a bold statement. And
we have also engaged ourselves in emerging markets and providing solutions for the
emerging middle-class through our investment in MicroEnsure, one of the two leading
micro-insurance companies in this world.
A third focus for us is clearly to push more gender diversity. We have been very active on
it and have also received certification for it. And just to give you an example how strong
our commitment is, on the group senior executives, which is about 150 to 170 people, we
are almost at 30% women in the new round of nomination. I wanted to show you a few
concrete examples of what has happened in the last couple of months in terms of really
transforming the business. One of them is in Asia around Prevention. This is a lot of the
questions, how can we really get closer to the customer, get more customer contact?
Here we have clearly launched a chat-bot, where we have a mix of human and roboadvice and where we have many, many more contact for the customers than we usually
have in our business.
I would dream of proper insurance contract to have seven contacts per week. This is
impossible, and therefore we clearly want to increase the contact frequency and give
value-added services for the customers where you see also in the second example, which
comes from Egypt, where we have launched a telemedicine service where our Egyptian
customers really use it, because at the moment, there is hardly any private medical
infrastructure and we can help. Or if you take another example on the other extreme, in
Adjacent Services from Germany, where we have launched an application called
WayGuard where you are being accompanied by AXA.
So imagine your daughter goes to a party on a Friday evening and you want to make sure
that when he/she parks her car away from her apartment that she gets home safely. She
can connect herself to AXA and walk with AXA back to her apartment. This has been very,
very popular in Germany, about 30,000 users, and every 13 days a contact. This is clearly
focused in the direction how do we transform, how do we create a different customer
experience. How are we must closer in contact with our customers. Thank you very much.
I would now like to hand over to Gérald to go into the details of our numbers.

Gérald Harlin
Thank you. Hello, good afternoon. So going to the earnings, so underlying earnings are
plus 3% at €5.7 billion. I won't comment Life & Savings, P&C and Asset Management
because as you know, and as usual, we have dedicated part for each of these business
lines. As far as Banking is concerned, minus 19% is due to decreasing interest rates. And
for Holdings, as you will see in the appendices we benefited from lower rates, and also
from some savings – expense savings. Adjusted earnings, mostly at plus 3%, mostly
explained by underlying earnings. Net realized gains, €415 million, mostly on equities and
real estate. And net impairment €395 million, mostly on equities as well, so plus 3%.
Page 4 of 31



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

Net income, so as usual, we have some elements which don't benefit like derivatives, we
don't benefit from the hedge accounting. That's the reason why we have a negative
adjustment of minus €158 million. Then we have the fair value (15:42) which are mark-tomarket plus €40 million. Then we have the discontinued operation, and I would like to
mention three operations. First, like in the first and we discussed it and we shared it with
you in the first half, is the disposal of two buildings in the U.S. for close to €1 billon, in fact
€973 million. And (16:09), the disposal of the UK Wealth Management business and the
disposal of Bluefin, which is a broker in the UK.
So now we, as you know, we have our business in UK, which is concentrated in P&C and
Health. So as a whole, minus €454 million on this, plus €387 million on this exceptional and
discontinued operation. Integration & Restructuring cost is linked to our workforce
planning investment and the €454 million concern Belgium for roughly 50% of it, and the
rest is Germany and France. So as a whole, net income plus 2% at €5.8 billion. Going to a
bit more detail and moving to Life & Savings. So on the top line we have a growth of APE
of plus 2%. Mature markets, minus 1%, plus 14%. You can notice that the plus 2% is a
significant increase. At the end of June we were at minus 2%, we were at 0% at the end
of September. So nice improvement. We are at plus 2% now. New business value, plus 5%
and plus 7% in mature markets, minus 1% in emerging markets, coming mostly from China.
And as you can read in the middle, China NBV is – margin is at 17%. There again, you
remember that there was a bit of emotion at the beginning of the year, because we had
a negative NBV margin on China, so we end up at 17%, which is much better. So we
walked the talk, I told you at that time that after the New Year, we will write much more
protection business in China, that's the case. So, as a whole new business margin moved
up from 38% to 40%. Then, let's concentrate on this slide on the net flows. So we have
plus €4.4 billion of net flows of which Protection & Health, plus €5.1 billion. G/A Savings, is
minus €3 billion. But indeed its plus €3.6 billion in capital light and minus €6.6 billion in
capital-heavy. And Unit-Linked is plus €1.3 billion, but we have been – we had the effect the
GMxB buyouts, so excluding these effects, we would have been a plus 2%. So nice level of
net inflows in Life.
Let's go to the underlying earnings, so on the post-tax basis, as I mentioned to you, we
are at plus 2%. Let's go through the pre-tax basis, minus 5% in Protection & Health,
explained by higher net technical margin. But you remember maybe that in 2015 we had
negative one-off and we had some – we had in 2016 the non-repeat of the assumption
change in France. It's corresponding to a positive €300 million at the end of 2015. So, that
means that on Protection & Health, we have a nice improvement of the technical margin,
excluding this 2015 one-off. In G/A Savings, we are at plus 2%, explained by lower
expense, higher technical margin, but lower investment margin. I'll go back on this later
on.
Unit-Linked, minus 2%. We have a higher result from the U.S. in VA GMxB, but we have
lower fees and revenues in Italy due to specific situations in Italy. And as you know, with
MPS we had mainly – we have a significant part, which was in Unit-Linked business and we
have a higher DAC amortization. So to make a long story short, it's a good quality
earnings on the Life side because it's more technical margin and more DAC amortization.
Another way to look at it, it's the – in this chart, we start from 2015 restated. It's starting
Page 5 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

from €3.4 billion and we had the Protection & Health, plus €124 million. G/A Savings, plus
€15 million. U.S. VA GMxB plus €107 million. Then we have other Unit-Linked, minus €131
million, mostly coming from two countries which are – which are the impact of Italy and
Belgium as well. ForEx and Other plus €110 million, and we have these exceptional one-off
in France in 2015, which makes that in 2016, it's a decline of – corresponding decline of
€259 million.
Then we have tax €131 million and higher positive tax one-offs, €35 million. And you will
find all of these in the MD&A. So we end up at €3.5 billion. Let's move to Property &
Casualty, so plus 3% revenues. Personal Lines, plus 4%. Commercial Lines, plus 2%. Here
you have the – our traditional slide on the price effect and you can see that we benefited
from the price effect of 3.8% in Personal Lines, and it translated into 3.6% in revenue
growth. Price effect had been positive almost everywhere except in Italy where the
markets suffered from decline in prices. And I remind you that the market was at very high
prices in Italy.
Commercial Lines, plus 1.5%, and in the end, revenue growth of plus 2.3%. You can see on
the market pricing trend, more or less we're still expecting positive price effects in the UK
and Ireland, in Spain, and more or less flat in France and Germany, and negative trends in
other countries. Mature markets. Let's go to the margins and revenues. So revenues I
mentioned to you, plus 3%. Its plus 2% in mature markets. Plus 7% in emerging markets,
and here we – in fact, its 9% on an economic basis. Why? Because we have in Asia,
notably, we have some entities which are consolidated under the equity method. That
means that the top line growth doesn't flow through the 7%. If we restate, we would have
been at plus 9%. And Direct is at plus 7% top-line. Current year combined ratio flat in
mature markets. In emerging markets, slightly up mostly due to the acquisition expenses.
Direct, a decline from 99.3% to 98.7%, and as a whole, we have a current year combined
ratio which is up 0.2 points.
Another way to look at it, and that's (23:29) starting with the current year combined ratio,
which is what I just explained. But you have another element, which is natural
catastrophes, and we were at 0.5% this year versus 0.7% the year before in 2015. Prior
year developments dropped from 1.4% to 1.2%. As a whole, our all-year combined ratio
moved up from 96.2% to 96.5%. Investment income was more or less stable, which is due
to two elements, higher average invested assets, but as planned and as we discussed in
a previous meeting and when we presented the plan, the investment yield is dropping
from 3.6% to 3.4%, within the range that we shared with you.
Asset management now, net flows as a whole are quite significant, €45 billion. Plus €56
billion at AXA IM. A significant part of it is – $34 billion is with Asian JV. Average AUM is
down 3%, mostly explained by the – partly explained by the Friends Life. The merger
between Friends Life and Aviva meant that, in the end, we lost the asset management
contract. Excluding it, as you can see on the right-hand side on the top, revenues would
have been at plus 1% excluding the Friends Life contract versus minus 3% published.
Average AUM, AB, it's minus €12 billion, and minus €12 billion didn't change since the third
quarter. The negative – the drag on the negative net flows (25:23) the loss of two large
contracts. Average AUM plus 1% and revenues minus 3%. Let's move to underlying
Page 6 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

FINAL

earnings. So, underlying earnings are down 8%, minus 1% explained again by the Friends
Life contract. If not, we would have been positive. On AB, we have a strong negative tax
one-off of €50 million. And excluding this one-off, we would have been at plus 6%.
Balance sheet now, it's with the invested assets. So, our invested assets amount to €583
billion. No big change in our asset allocation. No big change in the asset duration, above 8
years for Life & Savings, 5.6 years for P&C. And as you can see and as I already
commented for the P&C business, our yield decreased from 3.6% to 3.3% for Life, and
from 3.6% to 3.4% for P&C business.
No big change, govvies and relative (26:37) bonds still benefit from a rating which is in AA
range. As far as the corporate bonds are concerned still in the single A range. This relates
to the investments that we made during 2016. We invested €82 billion in fixed income at
an average rate of 1.8%. You have the allocation on the left-hand side. So, we invested
more in corporate bonds than before. You can notice below investment grade credit,
which is at 12%, it correspond to short-term high yield.

Bloomberg Transcript

We won't – to remark (27:17), we don't intend to invest anymore in short duration high
yields. They will lapse naturally because they have a very short duration, because the
return is too low. Presently, we have a spread on this type of business of below 1.5%,
which is not enough. So, we'll invest in other categories of assets. We intend to invest this
year under present condition – whereas last year, we were investing at 1.8%. We should
invest slightly above 2% in 2017.
Asset and liability management, so we benefit – we still benefit from margin, significant
margin of 140 basis points between the invested assets and the guaranteed assets on
the Inforce business on the left, as well as on the new business on the right. And our
investment margin has been resilient at 73 basis points, well in the high-end of the
guidance, which was 65 basis points to 75 basis points for 2017 and 2016 – for 2016 and
2017.
Next is shareholders' equity. Shareholders' equity went up by €2.1 billion from €68.5 billion
to €70.6 billion, mostly explained by the net income. We had an increase in net unrealized
gains, because we had a drop in the interest rates on the euro. We had the dividend and
we had the reimbursement of sub debt. And we had also the change in pension benefit.
Why? Because due to this drop in the interest rates, we had a lower discount rate. (29:02)
discount rate was lower by 60 bps, which means that we had an increase – a correlative
increase in the pension debt (29:09). So, that's mostly it.
Look at the adjusted ROE, which is at 13.5%, as mentioned before by Thomas, well within
the 12% to 14% range. Financial debt, as a whole, as last year, you can notice that we still
have mostly sub debts, €9.1 billion in sub debt and €8.1 billion in undated subordinated
debt. You can see that the interest cover is quite good. Debt gearing is at 26%, and we
have been upgraded by S&P to AA- in October 2016. More or less, across the board, we
are AA- in all the three agencies.

Page 7 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

FINAL

Solvency II ratio, we are at 197%. So, you have the roll-forward. So, operating return
explains plus 19 points. We started at 205%. I remind you that we were at 191% at the end
of September. Dividend – so, plus 19 points – compared with the full-year 2015, plus 19
points in operating return. Minus 10 points on dividend, as that's the dividend that has
been paid in May last year. Market impact minus 14 points, and the other elements minus
5 points (sic) [4 points] (30:31). So, we end up at 197%, which is six points above the level
of November – of last September.
Last slide is on the cash flow. So, we have a strong cash flow generation and a strong
remittance. We have – operational free cash flows are at €6.2 billion, so in line with last
year. But the cash remitted to the Group, to the Holding (30:59) are at €5.4 billion. So,
higher than last year, because we moved from a remittance ratio at – from 81% to 88%.
And now, I hand over to Thomas for the conclusion.

Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much, Gérald. If you look at the results that we have presented, there's
two major conclusions. One is, they are in line with a long series of consistent delivery. If
you look at the previous ambition and this ambition, we have always managed to deliver
what we have promised. And the new ambition has had a first year of a very good start.
What are the key characteristics? We have managed to grow the top-line by 3%. We have
managed to grow the earnings by 4%. This has led to a decision to increase the dividend
per share by 5%. All of this based on a very solid business model, very solid balance sheet
with a return on equity of 13.5% and a Solvency II ratio of 197%.
Thank you very much for your attention, and we are now coming to all your various
questions that you will certainly have. Jon, why don't you start?

Q&A
Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

It's Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. I've got three questions, please. Firstly, on M&A, I
think you've been very clear that you are more interested in large-scale M&A. I just
wondered if you could just reiterate for us what your M&A criteria are, the sort of size and
the sort of metrics you would look at if you were doing a transaction. That's the first
question. Second question, just to pick up on what Gérald said about the investment
allocations. You're putting less into short duration high yield. Where are you reallocating to
in terms of the reinvestment mix? And then just finally, on the interest cover, the interest
cover has jumped up dramatically, and the leverage is still fairly similar and the earnings
haven't moved a lot. I just wondered what's driving the jump in interest cover. Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thanks Jon. So, I'll take the first question and Gérald would do number two and three.
There is certainly many questions at the moment on M&A. When we look at AXA's history,
Page 8 of 31



FINAL

Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

AXA has grown by bolt-on M&A. The aim was to get to global scale. Today, we are at
global scale. So, when we look forward in terms of M&A, it is not about acquiring small
pieces and it's not about large M&A. It is about where can we reinforce ourselves in the
areas where we want to grow. What are these areas? Health, commercial and P&C, and
the preferred geography is Asia. We are actively looking out for targets. As you know, this
market is very hot at the moment, and it's never easy to get quickly to the right target. But
we are very actively looking, and when the time is right, we will take the right decision to
enlarge our footprint in these areas. Gérald, for two and three.

A - Gérald Harlin
Yes. As far as the – Jon, as far as your second question is concerned, yes, we – I
mentioned that we didn't intend under present conditions and below a spread of 1.5% to
invest in short duration high yield. We are – as far as below investment grade is
concerned, we prefer these days much more loans – leverage loans, because we benefit
from covenants and which give much more protection. At the same time, we have higher
spreads.

Bloomberg Transcript

The way we manage our assets is really comparing the return on (34:59) comparing the
return on economic capital. And that's why, from time to time, when you have a decline in
the spread, then no more interest to waste capital, because (35:13) to waste capital to
invest in such type of assets. That's more or less the way we'll do it.
On the interest cover, you remember that I said that it was the same during the first half.
We said that in the Holdings side, we had an improvement in underlying earnings
contribution coming from lower interest rates. Progressively, with the decline of interest
rate, we benefit from these lower interest rates, and that's the case.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you. Let's move just the row forward, and then we'll go to the other side.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Thank you very much. It's Farooq Hanif from Credit Suisse. Can you just comment please,
Gérald, on the sharp increase in U.S. yields that we saw in Q4? How does that factor
through into your earnings in the context of the plan that you gave, Ambition 2020? That's
my first question. Second question is, general question, there's been a sharp increase in
your market share in Variable annuities in the U.S. So, I believe you're going up the tables
in a market that's sharply down. What's going on there? What's the outlook for that
business and the margins? Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

(36:30) Gérald, with the first question, and then Paul Evans will take the second one,
because...

A - Gérald Harlin

Page 9 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

FINAL

Okay. The higher rates in the U.S., it's a good news for us. It doesn't translate into the – so
much into the (36:47). We are roughly at €600 million (36:48). Why? Because it's inverted,
it doesn't play – it doesn't improve the Solvency position like in Solvency II. But in reality,
the economic situation is improving, while interest rates are going up. And you can see – I
could go through the (37:08) appendices. And in the appendix, you have the contribution
to earnings of the U.S., and it's on page – yes, on page B31.
And on page B31, you can see that indeed, in the end, we have a contribution which is the
interest rates, credit and spread, you can see it's the fifth line, and you can notice that we
are positive. We are at €34 million. And again, that's the situation here. It's net of DAC. But
that's the situation which in itself is quite positive, because the higher the rates, the more
we can amortize DAC. And you will notice that as far as the – I can tell you that as far as
the whole book of business is concerned, we decreased quite substantially our DAC
roughly by €600 million. So, that's mostly it. So, it's good news. And at the same time, the
present situation where relatively high stock market plus higher rate is a good news for us.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Thanks. (38:15) in the guidance that you gave in Ambition 2020 that the U.S. yields are
more important than anything else?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gérald Harlin
No, I believe that it's very – no, the U.S. yields are important, but what is as much
important is also the yield curve in Europe. And the yield curve in Europe is very important.
But at the same time, it increased, but not so much. We are coming – remember, just after
the presentation on the 21 of June, we had rates in Germany going down to minus 30
bps. Now, we are at plus 30 bps, so it's far better. We benefit from this situation. It's at
the end of the game. Remember that the base case – the base case that we showed in
last June was a slight increase from roughly zero, where we were before, to 100 basis
points, if I'm right, by the end of 2019. So, we are on this path. So, what is important is,
from a macroeconomic perspective, I would say, from an interest rate perspective, we are
back in the base case, which is great news.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Second question, Paul?

A - Paul Evans

{BIO 20793138 <GO>}

So, Farooq, on the Variable Annuity market, so yeah, you saw last year that the U.S. market
was down, as distributors and providers prepared for development of labor reductions
around fiduciary duties. And indeed, AXA US' sales were down in the first half of the year.
Around 40% of the U.S. volumes are Variable Annuity. And the U.S. have launched a
product, which is called the Structured Capital Strategies, which is an investment (40:01)
index, where you offer to guarantee a reduction of 5%, 10%, 15%, 20% in the value of your
investments over time in exchange for a give on the upside. And we saw a very strong
sales of that proposition throughout 2016, and in particular, it's part of our Q4 growth
story. But of course, the market additionally then took into account the views of the
incoming administration. The margin on that product is lower than Retirement
Page 10 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

Cornerstone's. Retirement Cornerstone is the traditional VA replacement product that we
introduced after the financial crisis. It's about half the margin that we get from Retirement
Cornerstone.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

FINAL

So, VA doesn't equal VA. We'll move over to that side.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Nick Holmes with SocGen. A couple of questions. The first on expenses, your cost
reduction program, although the growth numbers are pretty good, doesn't seem to be
hitting the bottom line perhaps in 2016 quite as much as in previous years. I cite for
example P&C expense ratio rose to 27% from 26%. I wonder how confident are you that
the €2 billion (41:14) is actually going to hit the bottom line? And second question is with
growth. Asia, going very, very well. But I wondered what your thoughts are about the
areas that you've highlighted in the past as growth areas, in particular Healthcare and of
course Unit-Linked, neither of which is quite delivering perhaps as you had hoped or
certainly Unit-Linked is not. Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you for the two questions. I suggest that Gérald is taking the first one on costs and
Paul will take the second one on Health and Unit-Linked.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gérald Harlin
Yes. So, as you said, our expense don't hit the bottom line, especially in P&C. You are
right, but it's due to the acquisition costs. It means that as far as the admin cost, we are
perfectly on track, and it's due to acquisition costs, especially on the commercial lines, and
maybe there will be question on this and Gaëlle could develop. What I can tell you is that
we are on track. We confirm the €2.1 billion. So, there's no fear on that side. We will do our
plan.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Maybe, Gaëlle, before Paul answers, go into that topic on acquisition costs on commercial
line to clarify the question fully.

A - Gaëlle Olivier
(42:34) it's important to see that on the retail side, expenses are flat. So, that goes in the
right direction. On the commercial lines, expenses are increasing slightly. Admin expenses
are flat. Acquisition expenses are increasing slightly. It's a combination mostly of two
factors. One is one-off change of methodology in some of our International segments,
which has been brought back into the overall Commercial Line segment. And the other
dimension is specific investment that we are making to develop partnership. And as you
know, partnerships develop over a few years, so we are incurring the costs to start with
and we expect over the next year that we see the benefit falling into the earnings.

Page 11 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

FINAL

A - Paul Evans

{BIO 20793138 <GO>}

So, on Healthcare and Unit-Linked, so if you got back to A22, which shows the mix of APE.
So first on Health, so we've shown 4% growth in revenues in Healthcare. I can't see you,
Nick. Wherever you are. Hi, Nick. The 4% growth to €12 billion in Healthcare, which actually
was very solid performance across-the-board and was it despite some turn back in the
Gulf in particular. In Unit-Linked, you've got a combination of stories in Unit-Linked. So we
had a situation in Italy that Gérald touched on where it became, obviously, very difficult just
to what was a predominantly Unit-Linked product through the branch. We had the closure
of the Individual Savings business in Belgium, which further reduced UL. We had the
experience in the first half of 2016 when stock market volatility had a particular impact in
France, but also as I touched on earlier, the VA impact in the US.
Nevertheless, I increasingly look at UL and capital light G/A together, because we are
increasingly re-engineering our G/A products to be capital light, i.e., their NBV margin is
such that the AFR is matching the step requirement after (44:42) or above. So, in
particular, there we saw strong growth in Hong Kong. In particular, in Italy, we were able to
sell capital light in the bank rather than UL. So, you need to look increasing those two lines
together. So I'm less concerned now that UL should grow year after year after year, I'm
looking at the two together, and of course, capital light grew last year by 23%.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Nick, maybe just to add on the cost side, because numbers are one thing, the other thing
is what are the lead indicators for cost. And if you look at where are the core restructuring
problems happening, and Gérald was mentioning the restructuring cost numbers. You
have a very big restructuring program in Belgium. You have a significant one in France. You
have a big one in Germany, and another big one in the U.S. and also, particularly in UK. So,
everywhere we are in the preparation and negotiation and implementation of
restructuring programs. Our core businesses is in Europe. One key value of AXA which
we'd really like to keep is the social partnership with the social partners, which means you
have to invest time in negotiations. But that pays off because if you take the three
countries that I have mentioned where you have very high social partnerships, France,
Belgium, Germany, we have concluded very positively to go into the implementation. So if
you look at elite (46:11) figures of what will happen in terms of cost savings that is very
clear, green light for the future.

Q - Ralph Hebgen

{BIO 6297020 <GO>}

Ralph Hebgen from KBW. I've got two things. One is on the cash. You showed a net
remitted number of €5.4 billion, I think. I'd like to discuss whether that number still includes
any repayment of internal debt? And if it does, it would be great if you could tell us how
much and indeed whether your strategy is ongoing to pay down internal debt domiciled in
the AXA Financial Holding in the U.S.? And the second question relates to P&C. We all
noticed that you have combined the old P&C function into International Insurance. You
have repeated your target, but indeed extended it to now include the international or the
core business unit in the old International Insurance segment. So my question is basically,
what drives that optimism? Are you hoping to generate diversification pricing benefits
from the combination of the two segments or anything else? Thank you.

Page 12 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Question one for Gérald, question two for Gaëlle.

FINAL

A - Gérald Harlin
Okay. Ralph, so your question about the €5.4 billion. Did we reimburse debt coming from
the U.S.? Yes. We – roughly €1.2 billion, and it was higher than the previous year. You
remember that I mentioned in the guidance that was €1.6 billion. Why, because we had
the disposal of the two buildings and the cash of the two buildings has been upstreamed.
And your second part of your question is about what's next and what will you do in the
future? Yes, we will go on. And the objective is to have a regular (48:19) pace, of course,
but the basic principle, it's also to reimburse. Another point also, you remember that in
June, I said that I was comfortable with the 75% to 85% remittance ratio guidance
because we had some potential also to reduce capital. I'm sure you remember this – to
reduce capital and to optimize capital in Europe. So, globally speaking, that means that's
why we are comfortable and we remain comfortable within this range because there will
be plus and minus depending on the years. But we still have this capacity to optimize our
financial situations.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Gaëlle?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gaëlle Olivier
So on the commercial line side, maybe just to reemphasize what we have done in 2016.
You see the growth of 2.3% more or less on the commercial lines side, and that includes
the International segment. You see loss ration which is improving by 0.8% and you see an
expense ratio which is increasing not on the admin but on the acquisitions side. So that
give us comfort, going forward, that we can achieve overall, all-year combined ratio target
for the Commercial Line segment by 2020 to reach 94% to 95% range because despite
being a soft market, we eyeball not only to grow our business through a mix of price but
also volume effect, while improving on the line profitability.
Now, if you remember what we had disclosed back in 2016 June in our targeted segment
strategy for commercial lines, we see good progress there as well. If I just illustrate
(50:04) initiative that Amanda here is a sponsor of, which is the SME initiative. We are
growing that segment at 3.6%, which is well in the range that we have also shared with
you back in June last year. And the other element is, in the International segment, you
have two main pillars. One is the Assistance Partners part, and the other one is a
Corporate Solutions part. On the Partners part, is exactly what I mentioned earlier. We are
today incurring some investments to develop new partnerships, and we expect those
partnerships to really develop in the coming years and to translate into earnings in a
profitable manner by 2020, which is why we are reiterating our target of 94% to 95%
combined ratio all-year by 2020 including as well, the International segment.

Q - Mark David Cathcart

{BIO 19783252 <GO>}

It's Mark Cathcart from Jefferies. You mentioned a bit earlier about M&A. But if you got
into a situation monstrum horrendum where (51:15) Générale, Allianz, Zurich, things
Page 13 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

FINAL

happen in Europe. You mentioned you've got global critical mass, but your market shares
could erode relative to large players quite significantly within Europe. We saw Allianz
tweak their capital management strategy just one year into their business plan. My
question is phrased as this. Does AXA have the essence of flexibility in their thinking to
consider adapting their business plan, if you start to get sizeable moves going on within
Europe?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

The question is always, which sizeable moves? I have said earlier that we have two areas
where we do contemplate M&A in the main geographies that we have. I prefer Asia, but
again, if there is M&A opportunities in Europe on commercial lines P&C or on Health, I'm
always ready to look. But when you look at it at the moment, many of the opportunities
that are presented are in traditional G/A Life and that's certainly not something I am
interested in. We go this way and then to Andrew.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks. Peter Eliot from Kepler Cheuvreux. I had a couple on Solvency, please. First of all, I
noticed your sensitivity to interest rates seem to have increased quite a lot. I was
wondering if you could just say what's happened there or the reason for that? And
secondly, in the second half of the year we're looking at 11 points of operating for
Solvency II basis. I'm wondering if you can just sort of say how much of that you might
consider one-off, because obviously its – I guess, its above your sort of guidance for
ongoing Solvency capital generation?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Gérald?

A - Gérald Harlin
As far as the sensitivity, I could say that, you have to take into consideration the fact that
we are benefiting from the equivalence. The equivalence makes that when interest go up,
we – in all non-U.S. companies we benefit from this situation, that means that so long as
we have an open duration gap, which is relatively limited but say, one year, we benefit, we
benefit from higher interest rates. But in the U.S., it's the reverse. It's a reverse because
we are using (53:51). So that's why you could be surprised on page 40 that we are at zero.
That means that we have an interest rate sensitivity, which is relatively limited plus three
points. From an economic point of view, it would be higher. That's the message.
Next, about the operating return. It's difficult to draw – yes, we said that it would be
between 15 bps and 20 bps, and you're referring to this between 15 bps and 20 bps of
operating return per year. We are in the high end of this range. We could say it could vary
from one, two points but it's not substantial. What is important is to say that at 197%, we
are well within our range and that's it. There are always some fluctuation. But I believe
that, until mid-year and you will have the (54:47) report and we will have opportunity to
discuss with you on more sensitivities and so on. But no specific sign about changing the
guidance we said 15 bps to 20 bps. We remain within this guidance.

Page 14 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

FINAL

Hi. Andy Hughes from Macquarie. A couple of questions, if I could. First one, the
reinvestment rate. Obviously, it's gone down in the second half versus the – sorry – versus
the first half. Just quite curious about the leverage loan investment strategy that you are
planning. How much yield are you getting on the leverage loans? And what's the risks in
the leverage loan portfolio? Can that be a large part of the assets of AXA Group or is it
always going to be a very small part of the business?
And the second question was about the commercial lines expansion. So I guess, I heard
from Zurich and maybe also AIG that they were pulling away from (55:48) lines in
commercial because of the inflation risk. And I'm just wondering how you feel about that
at the moment? I can see it's probably a bit hard to beat you up over the reinvestment
rate and the inflation rate at the same time but seems they're doing it. So on the P&C
side, if inflation picks up, I mean, obviously, you've got quite a long duration of the P&C
assets, how well provisioned are you against that? Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Gérald, do you want to take the two questions on investment and then Gaëlle maybe you
comment on the commercial lines business and the long-term nature of it?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gérald Harlin
So about the average loan, it was an example. So last year, as I said, we invested 12%
roughly in below investment grade. But we are speaking from and last year we had €82
billion to invest, which was quite large. This year, I'm expecting to invest – to have
between €40 billion, €50 billion, €45 billion to €50 billion to invest. So I'm speaking for a
few billions. I'm not speaking from huge amounts. About the spreads, your question was
what do you expect it in terms of spreads? It's something like a spread of 250 bps,
something like this. Because again, the point is that, the (57:06) for us is really how much
capital? That's the answer I get before that the amount of capital that we want to
dedicate to it. So, I'm not at all ready. You can see that all the line of business, all the line
of business has a quite high return because that means that in term of return on
investment, return on equity, we have high levels.
I don't want to invest and to dedicate capital in order to have say, less than 10% returns.
So that's why we are quite keen and mobile, flexible in term of investment. Last point, and
to answer fully your questions, at no time we would like to change and to – on average,
our portfolio should be single A plus. I don't want at all to change the average rating of
our portfolio, because indeed, in the end, it would more capital for marginal return. We
are today in a situation where spreads are quite low, and look, there is such a demand for
U.S., because most of the short-term high yield is U.S. short-term high yield as you know.
And there is such a demand for high yield product that spreads are at a level, which are
no more reasonable. That's the message I wanted to convey, nothing more. And it won't
change fundamentally the way we invest. But the majority of our investment will still be in
investment grade, say 90%.
(58:38)?

Page 15 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

FINAL

Yeah, lot of yield would come from small part of the assets, but to develop more. For
example, a significant part of our (58:53) is invested in corporate real estate loans, for
example, and corporate loans are investment grade loans. But they are illiquid, which
gives a bit more return. So there is no magic in it, but I can tell you that my team – my
investment teams are working hard in order to find buckets of assets with good return,
which are mostly investment grade, but with high return on capital, even if we accept to
be less liquid.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Commercial line.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gaëlle Olivier
On the commercial lines I would say, on the perspective I would say probably three things.
The first one is, compared to the competitors that you have mentioned, we have been
historically less exposed to commercial lines. So commercial lines today is roughly 40% of
our revenues and we believe that there is room to grow for us, to grow our business in
commercial lines, again in a profitable manner. The second thing is the way we are
intending to do it, is in a very segmented manner and we believe that today we have still
opportunities to grow in segments in commercial lines. SME was an example, mid-market
is another one, international offers where today we have a global presence is another
example of areas where we believe we can grow business profitably in commercial lines.
And the third aspect is if you project yourself five, 10 years from now, we see some new
risk emerging. Cyber is one, but also probably the motor insurance where we will see
more and more exposure of the commercial lines compared to what we see today being
a retailer, individual insurance and we want to be in that market, because we believe that
this market is going to grow and we believe that we have the expertise to grow that
business profitably. So that's why, in our strategy long-term, commercial lines is an
important dimension where we want to continue to grow market share, reach to the
normal market share that we should have or even beyond and take the new risk
opportunity that we see as opportunities for business.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

We go to the very back and then move over to Andrew.

Q - Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

Thank you so much. One question is for you Mr. Buberl, is the – so 3% to 7% was EPS
growth target of the period, 4% I guess is the number today. Does the 4% correspond to
your judgment what you can maintain at the current level of interest rates? Or is there still
an element of backend loading with the cost to come? So that would be my first question.
Then Mr. Harlin, on the cash flow from the U.S., €1.2 billion is a lovely number, but if I just
deduct the gain from the buildings, it's only €0.2 billion or €0.3 billion, however you round
it? Is there a stress there linked to the proposal to increase the reserve capital for the
U.S.? How does that look? And that's my only questions. Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Page 16 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

FINAL

Thank you very much. So I'll do question one and Gérald will do question two. You are
absolutely right. We have stated very clear differentiation during our June 21 meeting
between what is in our hands and what is not in our hands. What is in our hands are clearly
the 8% underlying earnings per share growth from gross, from margin improvement, from
cost reduction, from better capital management.
This we have to mirror against the Capital Markets, which is not in our hands. We have
planned at the time for a very negative scenario where the one thing we hope would not
happen a couple of days after our Investor Day presentation. Brexit was even considered.
So the – yes, first of all, the 4% or whatever it will be is first of all dependent on how are
the markets performing? We, as said earlier, have seen good equity markets. We have
seen a rise in interest rate in Europe – sorry, in the U.S. We have not seen yet a rising
interest rate in Europe. We believe this will come overtime, but it's a more longer term
issue.
And secondly, you are absolutely right, when you look the development between 2016
and 2020, I would not assume a linear movement because there are things that you have
to invest in, have to get going before they materialize. I mentioned earlier the cost, if you
want to reduce your staff in European entities, you have to first understand where you can
do it, how you can do it. You have to agree with the social partners. That takes time, but
I've indicated earlier that certainly in three countries, we have reached a major agreement
to go forward and materialize this. So, yes, this should not be a straight line. Second
question to Gérald.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gérald Harlin
Yes, your question about the U.S. cash flows, indeed for technical reasons, you know that,
first, even if it's a repayment of debt, it translate into a repayment of debt through the
holding company and then you have the operating company and the operating company
pays dividend to the local holding company. And for technical reasons, you should get an
agreement from local supervisor and we got an agreement extremely late, which makes
that for technical reason, we kept some cash and it will flow in 2017. So don't have any
fear. We have except the two buildings, there is real cash flow.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Andrew, your hand must be falling off now. I'm sorry you had to wait so long.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

It's Andrew Crean for Autonomous. I want to take you up on that restructuring issue
because your restructuring provisions have gone up by nearly three times to €450 million.
They represent 8% of your underlying earnings. You are restructuring the organic business
here. It's not that you're acquiring the operations. Should those restructuring provisions
not be taken within the underlying earnings, in which case, I think your underlying earnings
would have been down 2%, no doubt 3%, because they are costs, which you are incurring
to improve your business to grow the underlying earnings. And that basically – that's a
presentational question. Behind that lies, what does outlook for the €454 million of
restructuring provisions?

Page 17 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you, Andrew. Gérald.

FINAL

A - Gérald Harlin
Yeah. That's, no, we cannot analyze it this way. Let's take the underlying earnings from the
restructuring cost coming from the – coming from Belgium. It's more than €160 million.
What does it correspond to? It correspond to disposal of the business. We stopped the
business, indeed. So, it's not at all underlying cost because it's a line of business that is
being stopped. We decided clearly to discontinue our individual savings business. So
these are costs associated to it. So it's just like – imagine that you would dispose a
business, there is no case for putting this cost or this loss in underlying earnings. For the
two other countries, which are concerned, Germany plus France, it's really restructuring.
It's restructuring because we have pre-retirements in these countries and these preretirements correspond also to initiatives that are taken in order to change a business, to
be more effective, to be more profitability. That's more or less the case. So really – and
it's not something that you could expect to have on a recurrent basis. So don't expect to
have restructuring costs at such level in the future years. So you always have some
restructuring costs, but this year, it was at an exceptional high level, but for justified
reasons.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Blair.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Thanks. Thanks very much. It's Blair Stewart from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Three
questions, please. We've talked about the plan a lot and the interest rate movements, I
think within your plan there is a 0% equity assumption. We've had better than that and we
may well get better that in the coming year. Can you give us some form of sensitivity to
what happens if you get some positive growth in equity markets, say 5% or 10%? What
does that do to the earnings of the company? Secondly on Asia, you've struck a fairly
optimistic tone about Asia, but the – I notice that payback period is going from three to
eight years. Is that a function of macro conditions or is it something else? Because eight
years is quite high by Asian standards.
And thirdly, I just wonder if you can give some commentary on the U.S.? You've given
good guidance in the past about what may happen to DOL or what might happen to VA
volumes around the DOL, which is fairly accurate. Given the DOL is likely to get watered
down (1:08:22) given the possibility or prospect of lower tax rates, et cetera, in the U.S., I
wonder if you can just refresh some of that guidance that what might happen in the U.S.?
Thank you very much.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Blair. So let's take first question Gérald, and question two and three for
Paul.

Page 18 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

FINAL

A - Gérald Harlin
Okay. Let's just for sake of clarity, I propose you to go to page B21 because I believe it will
answer your question. Here, that's the usual analysis, what we call the margin analysis of
our Unit-Linked business and here you have €163 billion of Unit-Linked average reserve.
It's not exclusively equity. Let's say that (1:09:10) in equity. So it gives you a good view. You
have €2.6 billion coming from equity. So let's say that a rise of 10% of the equity market,
more or less represents something like €200 million pre-tax and pre-tax that gives you a
good idea. I believe based on this page, you have a good view and a good sensitivity of
what it could mean. Yes, for sure, it would be a good news for us, that's what I said. Both
in Europe, both in the U.S., we have two large countries where we have Unit-Linked
business, as you know. It's the U.S., it's France, and also other countries but not to the
same extent. It would be an extremely good news.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Asset management (1:09:58)?

A - Gérald Harlin
Yes. Asset management as well, you are absolutely right. And you can make all (1:10:03)
on asset management as well. You have all the appendices here. You're right.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Paul, on payback in Asia and U.S. regulation.

A - Paul Evans

{BIO 20793138 <GO>}

Back in Asia, I'll speak under Gérald's control. I believe what you're seeing there is the mix
of country toward China. Gérald, are you going to say yes to that?

A - Gérald Harlin
Yes. It's on which – page 70?

A - Paul Evans

{BIO 20793138 <GO>}

72

A - Gérald Harlin
72, yes. So what you're referring to is the fact that we are moving (1:10:38). And you are
absolutely right. It's coming from the fact that in China we have less – we had a very high
profitability in countries like Indonesia, Thailand and the fact that we are going strongly in
a country like China, which a marginal NBV but it's linked, makes that we are increasing the
paybacks. That's exactly the reason.

A - Paul Evans

{BIO 20793138 <GO>}

I mean, clearly, the Thailand mix, we saw two factors in Thailand mix. We saw our banking
partner have issues with performing loans and we also – of course, saw the death of the
Page 19 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

FINAL

king. So we saw downturn in profits in volumes in a high margin country and switched into
China, which saw a great growth. The U.S. – it's difficult to give a projection in the U.S.
because there are now quite a number of moving parts. So, yes, the new administration
issued an instruction that the DOL should reconsider their plans. But it's reconsider their
plans, we don't yet know whether that will mean they reconsider them and to continue as
planned.
I mean, many distributors in the U.S. are progressing, as if the April implementation date
will continue. We expect it to change but we don't expect it to be zero. We don't expect
no reform of fiduciary duty, but we do expect it to be more favorable. Then you have the
administration's plans for taxes, which are of course unclear but an expectation of lower
corporation tax rate, which is positive for us, expectation on dividend tax, which is
negative, and the key question is where will the administration go on state taxes. So
actually, I don't – I struggle to give you as accurate range we had for DOL. But I would say
that the U.S. market will nevertheless remain challenging for us during 2017.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

(1:12:36)?

A - Paul Evans

{BIO 20793138 <GO>}

Gérald? Corporate tax rate in the U.S.?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gérald Harlin
Corporate tax rate, it's 40% today. Altogether, we are at 40%. Yeah. But pay attention,
because – and it's difficult to make some speculation about this. For sure, it would be a
great news. But take in mind that we benefit also from the DRD reduction. So on the face
value, you could – we could imagine an announcement of significant decrease of the tax
rate to 15% or 20%. But if the dividend – the DRD go down, it will offset. I believe that the
net should be positive. I fully agree with what – I confirm what Paul said. Pay also attention
that on the first year we could have a slight depreciation on the DTA, on deferred tax
asset. Okay, but it would be a one-off anyway. But on a recurrent basis should be positive.
How far? Difficult to say because we should know exactly what – the devil is in the details.
The phase amount will decrease, but there could be some offsetting amounts, which
would be negative. So net should be positive.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Going to the back again.

Q - Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

So considering France to be also the next political place. Could you give a feel for how the
various scenarios could play out for the group? Certainly here in London there is always a
discussion – a fear that France could exit the Euro – I mean, maybe there is a hope, I don't
know?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}
Page 20 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

So this is certainly a topic and when you take the – if you take the bond markets as a
temperature feeling for how certain or uncertain something like this is. You have seen in
the past couple of days that spreads between the OAT and the German bonds have
been widening. This could be a sign of concern. If you go back further in the history, you
see that those 80-plus-minus-basis-points are actually not that high, because we have
seen times during the European financial crises where the spreads have been much
higher.
It is true today that you can have very different scenarios on the political front in France.
You know them as well as I do. The question arises what is the chance of a Frexit. The
general sentiment in France and my personal opinion is that this chance today is fairly low,
because after Brexit, it was a clear wakeup call for continental Europe. And what you see
today is a much heavier corporation and effort between the German and Franco couple.
Because at the end of the day, if you want to give a new narrative to Europe, it is those
two countries who need to carry the narrative. Both countries will have election this year
and there is a strong hope and desire that two candidates and two voted people emerge
that will carry this couple forward. So my personal opinion, yes, there is a chance. The
chance is to my mind very, low.
And if you look at the markets and the spreads that will show you that relative to the past.
However, we need to prepare ourselves for it. But we mustn't only focus ourselves on
Europe, because apart from Frexit and Brexit, there is many, many uncertainties in the U.S.
There is China, there is Thailand, there is Malaysia. We are living in a world of uncertainty
and risk and fortunately our business is to manage uncertainty and risk. And if you look
over the last 30 years, we have always coped with this in a very proactive approach,
identifying it early and acting on it and I'm very sure that in a case of Frexit, which I really
hope will not happen, we will be doing the same. John (1:17:07)?

Q - Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

Could I ask you, you're clearly all very confident in the balance sheet and the earnings are
pretty stable, the cash flow is looking good. What does it take for the dividend to move
up through the payout ratio range?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

So, I mean, we have clearly stated today that the dividend will increase because
underlying earnings have increased. And for me, this is an absolute key paradigm. We
want to keep the stability of the balance sheet. That is our asset, our backbone and we
don't want to jeopardize this balance sheet by applying a dividend policy that does not
follow the earnings. Ralph (1:17:50) Sorry, you need a microphone. So I didn't want to – you
can finish your writing. I'm sorry I didn't...

Q - Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

No, no. It's all clear. Actually this was exactly the same question. I was just looking...

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

So I've already answered it.
Page 21 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

FINAL

Q - Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

Yeah. Already written the answer down here. No, basically perhaps just a slightly different
framework. If you just look at the U.S., well, U.S. is really in bullet points. You have a 6%, 7%
RBC ratio. The operations there are clearly self-funded. Sometimes you sell a building.
There is internal debts, still at AXA Financial which you can upstream. The dividend which
you paid is 1.5 times covered. This compares to an annual run rate in the past of 1.3 times.
So, slightly differently, what are you doing with all this cash. I understand, of course, the
requirement and necessity to keep the balance sheet strong. But this is exactly also my
sentiment, would you not be able to even now allow the payout ratio to increase to
perhaps the upper end or the upper half of the payout ratio range? So, perhaps if you
share some additional thoughts reflecting the enhanced cash generation capacity, which
AXA has achieved over the last two years?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Look, first of all, we don't have so many buildings any more that are left in the U.S.
Secondly, you are absolutely right, we have been successful in our cash generation and
we want to continue to be successful. I've also given you a very clear hint when questions
came on the M&A strategy that we are dedicated to reinvest that cash in the activities
that we like to increase and when I'm talking about Health and Commercial Lines, I'm not
only talking about co-insurance Health and Commercial Lines. I mentioned earlier AXA
NEXT. There are businesses developing beyond insurance that are related to insurance.
I mentioned Population Health Management, you could go as well in the commercial line
area and see that the risk consulting and risk identification piece, certainly if you take one
booming area cyber risk is a business that we should be looking at. So, we are all
personally very committed and dedicated to invest this cash where it's required, where
it's building our business, and where it's generating further earnings capacity that we can
then distribute, but again we need to take one step after the other.

Q - Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

Hi there. I want to follow-up on commercial lines, because history is littered with
companies have gone into new areas, and have found profitability especially in
commercial lines is challenged and we're facing a situation, now everybody is telling us
whether it's international programs or long-tail even sort of mid-tail business and the
pricing is down. So, how can we be confident, how can you be confident that you're just
not going to fall into that trap?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Certainly, I just wanted to say, just a remark that came spontaneous being new in the
business and having half of your P&C business in commercial, I wouldn't consider new. But
Gaëlle, you go ahead.

A - Gaëlle Olivier
I understand your question and I think it's important that I clarify. Commercial lines is not
only the large risk and very often what you have in mind when you see commercial line are
really the large risk. So that's why I insisted so much in my two answers before on the SME
Page 22 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

FINAL

segment. It's an illustration of small companies and we think SMEs let's say less than 50
people employed.
And in that segment those companies when they are growing the economy, 80% of the
growth of an economy, let's say is coming from that segment. Two, they need a proper
protection. Three, they are not properly addressed today. And when I look precisely at
what we are doing and the growth we are able to generate. Again, the growth in our
Commercial Lines segment is 2.3% in average in 2016. On the SME segment it's 3.6%. So
we have a segment there which is growing much faster.
Now to illustrate that we have a perfect example here with U.K. and what Amanda is doing
in the U.K. U.K. mature country. You could say low inflation, low economic development,
are you (1:22:34) able to grow in that market in a profitable manner. And what we are able
to demonstrate in the U.K. on the P&C side in commercial lines is that we are able to grow
at 9% on the P&C side in the U.K. in a profitable manner.
And we have other examples like that in other countries. We have also other countries
where we have already a very sizable commercial lines book, take France for instance or
Switzerland. So obviously when we already have a sizable book here, the strategy to who
(1:23:03) will be different.

Bloomberg Transcript

But when we have opportunities that we see in some markets and we attract them in a
very segmented manner and we see the first success building up, then yes we want to be
confident that we can continue on that successful way and continue to deliver our host
(1:23:17) again in a profitable manner and those are not large risks.
So it's not a long term liability that you can associate with nuclear plant or very large risk,
those are the business that we encounter everyday when we look in the street, when we
do our own individual needs, you go to the barber, you go to the coffee shop, those
people they need insurance as well. And that's what we are targeting. I think the big
opportunity that we have in our hands being both retail player and a commercial lines
player is that we are able to leverage the new technology today, the new tools to address
that segment in a much more convenient and user friendly way and that's what we are
doing in the U.K. Amanda you want to add?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Yes.

A - Gaëlle Olivier
If you think.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

The power of a living example can ever be beaten. So Amanda, why don't you join me
and tell exactly what you've done.

Page 23 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

FINAL

A - Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

So yes, I think the opportunities are not just in the traditional sense. So what we've done
here is look at the various different segments as Gaëlle outlined in the micro SME. We've
looked at a different route to market. So we've looked at a more direct route to market,
so taking what we know about the direct business, a digital approach, much more efficient
without any acquisition costs, or with lower acquisition costs and we've grown that
business, we've started that from scratch as a pure digital play. It also allows us to do
more value prevention and more rounded service.
So I will completely echo what Gaëlle has said. And what I see from my sponsorship of
SME worldwide is the opportunity for us to grow in SME is there and virtually (1:24:56)
every entity. And you do not get then the huge exposure to big – the big scary step, which
I think you do all associates commercially (1:25:05) it's really more retail like than it is
commercial lines.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Perfect, Amanda. And just to add to this, because we looked at the UK now. If you look
into Europe, where's our strength? Our strength is not in underwriting the scary step, if I
may quote, Amanda. Our strength is in presence of agency sales force, if you look what is
the challenge of these agency sales force.
They are today very much exposed to the motor business. We all know that you cannot
make a living anymore in 10 or 20 years only for motor business. We are actively
transforming these agency sales forces towards more advice heavy business, commercial
business, the butcher, the barber, those are the ones that are close to the agents.
And if I give you one example of AXA France, where Gaëlle used to work. Today, we have
significantly reduced the business mix of the agency sales force to 30% in motor only and
the commercial line space has taken this vacancy, so that is where our strength is. We
don't want to go in broad international large risk. Our home turf is retail like SME.

Q - Niccolo C. Dalla Palma

{BIO 16052945 <GO>}

Niccolo Dalla Palma from Exane BNP Paribas. So my question is on innovation and there
were some examples on slide 14 which I thought were interesting. And the – so each of
these examples clearly makes sense, is probably profitable on its own but it's small in the
group context.
So my question is, how do you manage the competitive innovation, because it's a bit like
a good restaurant moving from a menu with a few plates which are really good, to a very
40 page menu where you struggle to choose.
My question, are you looking at each of these initiatives as a call option on one or two or
three or five of them will be great, or are we just going to have to be used to a much
more complex environment where you will be running thousands of initiatives that
altogether are profitable?

Page 24 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

FINAL

So you're absolutely right. We don't want to create the menu with 40 pages. However, to
get to a decent menu, you probably need to launch 40 things to see what are three or
four that are very interesting and carry future value. On the slide here I've only given you
the latest ones. I have not mentioned the ones that are already in production where we
are in the market. It is very clear for us that we don't want to have 40,000 innovative
ideas and innovative approaches.
We want, however, to enable our people to innovate. And one thing that has struck me
when I was traveling to all of the different AXA countries in the first place and doing it
again now, is the innovative and entrepreneurial activity and energy that AXA has and that
is in every country, be it in U.K., be it in Egypt, be it in Asia.
What we are going to do is to have a look which of these have the highest potential and if
you look for example at the telemedicine idea that has clearly been copied. We have
started telemedicine approaches in the UK, in France and have used to same logic and
the same approach for the Egyptian market obviously you have to adopt, if you have no
doctor and no hospitals, it is a very different situation where you have an over population
of doctors and the social security system on the site.

Bloomberg Transcript

So you take the same ideas and adopt it country-by-country and that's how we are going
to do it. First create a lot and you also have seen in the slide beforehand that we have a
very different approaches. We have one approach where we invest into innovations, we
have another one where we destroy ourselves with commit, disruptive approaches and
we have a third pillar which is building innovations out of ourselves.
All those treats (1:29:18) important to generate the menu, but at some point the boss has
to decide what other dishes that are coming on the menu and we are constantly in that
phase whenever a new idea for our dish is coming, we are looking, is it better than the
dish that is on the menu or should we keep the old menu.
So it is clear not a huge complexity, slim menu, but also leveraging the size and the logic
of AXA which is we can copy and paste from one country to another. And you have
certainly countries that are well ahead of the curve. If you take the U.K. market, very
competitive, very innovative, much more advanced than many other countries. I think that
was first in the way back and then.

Q - Niccolo C. Dalla Palma

{BIO 16052945 <GO>}

You reiterated the 94%, 95% combined ratio guidance, but now it includes the
international business which is always been higher. So about 98%, so where does the
extra positive come from to offset the – I don't make a lot of sense, but anyway, it sounds
if you improve your target this is what I am trying to say and I'm just wondering where it
comes from?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Gaëlle?
Page 25 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

FINAL

A - Gaëlle Olivier
Probably you repeat what I said earlier. Yes, it is actually an improvement of the target.
What gives us comfort there is two things. One, how we start to see the development of
our plan going with the growth, which is building up both (1:30:45) from volume aspect,
price effect, despite a soft cycle and with a loss ratio, which is improving. So we see that
as a good sign that we are able to roll (1:30:57) despite the soft cycle and in a profitable
manner. And the second aspect is what we call International segment is basically two
pillars, the AXA's (1:31:11) part and the AXA corporate solutions part.
And if you look at the partner's part, that's precisely where we have started to invest
building new partnership, that's why our acquisition expenses are increasing and we
expect those investments and partnerships to translate into earnings over the plan, which
is why we are (1:31:28) target but widening the scope in a wider book of business including
international insurance.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi. Andy Hughes, Macquarie. Just a kind of strategic question, I guess. I think you sort of
(1:31:48) with the comment about merger (1:31:50) insurance and agents in 10, 20 years
time. I mean I could say the same thing about general account business with a
reinvestment rate at 1.8%. (1:32:00) agent selling general account business if we are
earning 1% or 2% on our assets. So I'm wondering what do you AXA in 10 years time in the
continuation of current trends. I mean clearly they can expand into direct markets as you
described providing that's not whatever else does. And I guess the future is unit linked,
but you've pointed there might be volatility this year from the various elections coming
through. Where do you see AXA in 10 years time? Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

So, Gaëlle and Paul have spent a lot of time and energy to answer exactly those two
questions and I would like to give them the floor to answer. Gaëlle, why don't you start
and then Paul?

A - Gaëlle Olivier
So where do we see the market in P&C 10 years from now? First, we see retail continuing
to develop, but nothing in same manner (1:32:47) to what is implemented today. We see
an opportunity to develop multiple interactions for the customers and we see the
underlying assets, let's say, the motor, for instance, the car, developing strongly in terms
of autonomous vehicles (1:33:01) or the cash sharing and that should drive us to do our
business in a different manner. We have started to do that.
In the next 5, 10 years, we may not see a massive change on the financials. We will
continue to see a claims development. We will continue to see price increase, but 5, 10
years from now depending on the geographies, we expect to see disruption in the
market with potentially a strong decrease of severity and claims and that's where we
need to adopt now our business or to take the necessary measures today to adopt our
business and be able to transform it, so that we are ready for the instruction to come in
the 10 years from now.
Page 26 of 31



FINAL

Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

On the commercial line side, we see golden (1:33:43) opportunity for us to capture
(1:33:46) market share that we are. We do not have today compared to our existing side.
We see an opportunity to grow. As I have mentioned earlier on specific segments which
are under served today and SME is a very good example of this. And we see
opportunities in new risk. Thomas mentioned cyber, that's one example. We see
opportunities in autonomous vehicles (1:34:09) There will be more risk coming inside
these (1:34:12) at large and commercial insurance, we'll be able to address those risks and
that's why we believe commercial business, commercial P&C business is an area where
we want to invest, develop expertise and grow.
I hope (1:34:26) mentioned, further there is consulting angle which is I would say maybe a
player for the next 10, 20 years where that's something we probably will come back to
you in due time to clarify what we mean by that and what we can expect out of it.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thanks, Gaëlle. Paul?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Evans

{BIO 20793138 <GO>}

So on the life and savings side, we're clearly – yes, you are right, an agent can't carry on
doing what they are doing today as much (1:34:51) anything else because the channel is
becoming expensive relative to the yield of the products that they are able to provide
customers. I don't think we should focus on the G/A approaching rate because G/A tends
to protect the downside. It gives a guaranteed return, but there are opportunities on the
other side too. And what we know well is that somebody who is planning today for
retirement has to save more than double, someone who retired just 15 years ago.
So we know there is a massive need for society to save more. We know society needs to
protect itself more particularly as the state withdraws more social benefits and needs to
invest more in long-term health prevention. So we're going to have to look at how we
help our agents become more productive focusing on long-term investment, protection
and health and how we can enable our customers to deal not only face to face with
someone who can advice them, hold their hand through that experience, but also remote
channels and ultimately of course their direct digital channels too.
So I think the role of the agent going forward is quite an optimistic. I think we have to help
them become more productive and we do them because actually we see an increasing
need in society for the products and the services that we can offer. Yeah.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Andrew?

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

I just want to come back on this U.S. tax rate question because – if I look at your U.S. Life
results, tax rate was €40 million or €945 million (1:36:21) of profit, I mean so 4% tax rate is
the major reason why AXA's tax rate is so low this year. How do we square that with being
Page 27 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

enthusiastic – or 40% tax rate and being enthusiastic about U.S. tax rate coming down and
benefiting you? And I suppose, more broadly, what would you guide as to the underlying
tax rate for the group going forward?

FINAL

A - Gérald Harlin
The question is much more about the tax one-offs that we have in the U.S. and then the
periodic basis, you can see that over the last years, we had roughly €150 million of tax
one-offs which are linked to the DRD, which means that there are some tax audits. And it's
only after these tax audits that we release the reserves corresponding to this DRD. That's
it.
And in the next years, we still have tax one-off in the U.S. but I was not referring to it. I was
referring to the tax rate, the usual tax in the U.S. and I mentioned also the DRD because
and that's the reason why I said we should take care of what will this impact be. So I
believe that the net will be positive.
We still have – we can still expect that we will have some release of reserves in the future
corresponding to the DRD, point number one. And point number two, we believe that on
an ongoing basis, the net should be positive if there is a change in the U.S.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So the impression of that is in future years you'll pay less than €40 million on tax in the
States?

A - Gérald Harlin
No. But we could pay less than €40 million of tax. If you have a tax one-off on the past
years which is at €150 million and if your equivalent tax rate which is instead of 35%, 40%
which could drop to the equivalent of 20%, then we might have a few years with a
negative coming from the U.S. Yes, it could be – we could imagine this possibility.
But, again, please, let's wait for this reform to see exactly what will be the impact and I
mentioned the DRD because we should not consider that it will be straight decrease of
the tax rate but there could be some collateral effects. But I maintain that the net should
be a positive for us.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Nick?

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Nick Holmes of SocGen. Just a very quick one. The EUPA (1:39:28) requirement to disclose
the impact of the long-term guarantee package. Just wondered if you could share with us
your preliminary thoughts. I mean, is this going to be helpful. Is this going to be
meaningful? Thank you.

Page 28 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Gérald?

FINAL

A - Gérald Harlin
No, taking your questions, no. But I don't believe so, because the long-term guarantee
package is the – and we have a few information on the volatility and just so on. But I don't
believe. But, keep in mind that over the next years there will be some sort of thinking
about some evolution that will take place.
You'll remember that there will be some slight change expected in 2018. But mostly it will
concern the standard formula, so we shouldn't be concerned. But next it will be 2020 and
in 2020, we could imagine some further adjustment, roughly speaking. What is really at
stake is equivalent of the volatility adjuster, because the volatility adjuster should
correspond to a reality and that's mostly to know. I don't believe that we should give too
much emphasis to this. There will be some thinking. We cannot expect in a foreseeable
future any significant change.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I think just adding to this. I would look broader at what are the different geographies
doing, because what you saw a couple of years ago was clearly a tendency to harmonize
the standards across the globe, certainly for the systemically relevant insurers. What you
see now is a certain deviation by geography from it. And the question, what does it mean
for the competitiveness of players being situated in a geography that is better or worse
positioned versus the other.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

If I look at the your AFR and the Life section, the actual existing business contribution from
that was around 7% last year. Is that a ongoing number to use. And secondly, your
numbers on your new business done a basis of EEV or Solvency II, the AFR?

A - Gérald Harlin
It's clearly on NBV, it's done on the base of EEV.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

That would be materially higher than on that...

A - Gérald Harlin
That's the way we communicate because we believe that it better correspond to an
economy reality. And that's maybe a point on which I want to insist. It's not – you noticed
that in this report we tried to keep both – we tried to EEV, because I know for us it's
important because that's also the way we analyze our own business. And take the
example of the U.S. for example, it's on the EEV, it's real economic basis, whether on the
AFR is the equivalent.

Page 29 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

FINAL

So we wanted to keep those. So you will tell us exactly how you find this first attempt to
combined those and to present those, but it's important to see the differences and going
back to your question about the about the way we calculate the NBV. We believe that the
NBV should be more calculated on an EEV type of approach on AFR, but we have to leave
with AFR. AFR is where we measure our Solvency and it will still exist.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

But that's 7% or 6.5%, the contribution of the AFR which last year was approximately 7%, is
that an ongoing figure, I mean, I just took that 2 point...

A - Gérald Harlin
I should – no but, I should check, I will come back to you on this point because if your
question – your reference is a 7% is the contribution to AFR of the new business.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

No, no, the actual contribution unwind, so you actually...

A - Gérald Harlin
So the unwind.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Life & Savings side you said Gaëlle your existing contribution of around...

A - Gérald Harlin
It's a €2.9 billion. Yeah. Look there is a direct link not on immediate, but there is a link
between this €2.9 billion and the cash flows and of course I don't expect it to be
fundamentally different. So there could be some fluctuation around it. But I believe that it
should be normally a good guess.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

The reason I asked is, we are getting such a materially different numbers, I can't do
anything with them. So one of your peers yesterday disclosed 10.5 of it and...

A - Gérald Harlin
I don't have that papers. I don't have the figures.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

...business value is based on Solvency II from that so we're getting no comparability at all.

A - Gérald Harlin
No, but again and I go back to the previous question about SFCR. The SFCR will be an
opportunity for you guys to have more consistency or at least to understand how it's
Page 30 of 31



Company N ame: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2017-02-23

done. And I believe that such it's a good point for us as well. We have – we don't always
understand what the others are doing and it would be interesting to have something
which is much more measurable and more comparison between the different entities. I
agree with you.

FINAL

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Any further questions? Do we have any questions from the webcast? No. Very good then
we close the session here. Thank you very much for coming and certainly thank you very
much for asking very interesting questions. We wish you a great rest of the afternoon.
Thank you very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 31 of 31

