Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

FY 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Kiyoshi Wada, IR Group
Unidentified Speaker, Analyst

Other Participants
Futoshi Sasaki, Research Analyst
Kazuki Watanabe , Research Analyst
Koichi Niwa, Director & Analyst, Research Division
Masao Muraki, Director & Senior Analyst, Research Division
Natsumu Tsujino, Research Analyst
Tatsuo Majima, Senior Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for participating in Tokio Marine Holdings FY
'16 Full Year Financial Results Conference Call. (Operator Instructions) And this conference
call is being recorded.
Before we begin, let me remind you that the presentation may contain forward-looking
statements based on the current projections. And they entail risks as well as uncertainties.
Actual results, therefore, may differ from current projections.
With that, let us start the conference call. Mr. Wada, please.

Kiyoshi Wada

{BIO 19963983 <GO>}

My name is Wada from IR group of Tokio Marine Holdings. Let me explain the overview of
fiscal 2016 results and 2017 projections of Tokio Marine Holdings, which was announced
today. In this conference call, I would like to use the PowerPoint material available on our
website under News Release & Topics to give you a presentation for the first 25 minutes
or so. Then, we will be taking questions afterwards.
Now I will start with the overview of fiscal 2016 consolidated results. Please turn to Page
three of the PowerPoint material. First is the consolidated results overview. Net premiums
written and life premiums are shown on the slide. Consolidated ordinary profit increased
year-on-year by 0.5% or by JPY 1.8 billion to JPY 387.6 billion. Net income attributable to
owners of the parent increased by 7.6% or by JPY 19.3 billion to JPY 273.8 billion. Adjusted
Page 1 of 13



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

FINAL

net income, which is a group profit KPI, was JPY 406.7 billion, which is a major increase
year-on-year.
Next, I will explain the factors related to consolidated ordinary profit. Please turn to Page
4. In the domestic non-life business, underwriting profit increased at Tokyo Marine &
Nichido Fire. Net investment income decreased due to reaction from last year's increase
in dividend income from overseas subsidiaries related to acquisition of HCC. As a result,
ordinary profit declined by JPY 65.5 billion year-on-year.
Domestic life business saw decline in ordinary profit due to increase in their business
expenses and rebound from reversal of contingency reserve for variable annuities last
year. Overseas subsidiaries saw increase in profit due to profit contribution from newly
consolidated TMHCC. For consolidation adjustments, negative adjustment decreased due
to decrease in dividend payment from consolidated subsidiaries at TMNF, which led to
decrease in consolidation adjustment by JPY 54.1 billion year-on-year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now let me explain about adjusted net income. Please turn to Page 5. Adjusted net
income is a group profit KPI based on consolidated net income then excluding factors
unique to non-life business such as impact of reserve provisioning as well as gains and
losses on sales and valuation of fixed assets in order to understand the underlying profit
of the term coming from business activities. Adjusted net income increased by JPY 54.8
billion to JPY 406.7 billion. And adjusted ROE rose by 1.8 points to 11%. Year-on-year
changes along the profits of reconciliation from statutory accounting net income to
adjusted net income are explained on the slide.
Now I will turn to domestic non-life business. Please turn to Page 6. For net premiums
written for private lines of insurance, auto insurance increased their top line. But there was
an impact coming from fire line of insurance due to shortening of insurance periods, which
led to net premiums written of minus 0.7% year-on-year or declined by JPY 12.1 billion.
Line-by-line situation is explained on Page 8.
Net incurred losses of private insurance decreased by JPY 21 billion due to factors such as
decrease in net incurred losses relating to natural catastrophes occurring during the term
and reaction from large losses which happened in previous year. Business expenses for
private lines of insurance decreased by JPY 1.3 billion year-on-year due to decrease in
agency commissions payment coming from net premiums written decline. As for
catastrophe loss reserves, mainly due to lowering of the provision rate of auto group,
there was decrease in net provision by JPY 50.6 billion year-on-year. As a result,
underwriting profit increased by JPY 102.2 billion to be JPY 116.1 billion.
Next, I'd like to explain about the investment income. Details on this will be on Page 9. Net
investment income decreased by JPY 164.4 billion (sic) JPY 164.6 billion [ph] to be JPY
197.4 billion due to decrease in dividend income from subsidiaries, decrease in gains and
losses of derivatives and gains and losses on sales of securities. Dividend payment from
subsidiaries will be almost eliminated by consolidation adjustments. Therefore, there isn't
any impact of this to group's consolidated earnings. Business-related equity sold in fiscal
2016 was approximately JPY 117 billion. And gain from the sales was JPY 85 billion. Due to

Page 2 of 13



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

FINAL

those above-mentioned reasons, net income decreased by JPY 52.9 billion to be JPY
248.6 billion.
Next, I will explain about the combined ratio. Please turn to Page 7. In this term, the private
insurance lines' E/I loss ratio decreased to 57.7%, decreased by 2.4 points year-on-year,
due to decrease in natural catastrophe-related net incurred losses. As for expense ratio,
business expenses decreased. However, due to declines in net premiums written,
expense ratio went up by 0.1 point to 32.7%. As a result, E/I-based combined ratio
lowered by 2.2 points year-on-year to be 90.4%.
Now I will explain about Nisshin Fire insurance company. Please turn to Page 10. As for the
underwriting profits of Nisshin Fire, although there is an impact as a reaction to
catastrophe loss reserves which was reversed last year, net premiums written increased
and net incurred losses related to natural catastrophes decreased. As a result,
underwriting profit increased by JPY 0.2 billion year-on-year to JPY 8.1 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

As for net investment income and other, mainly due to decline in interest and dividend
income, it declined by JPY 0.7 billion year-on-year to be JPY 1.2 billion. As for net income
after reflecting corporate tax payment, net income increased by JPY 0.4 billion year-onyear to be JPY 6.5 billion.
Next, I would like to talk about Tokio Marine & Nichido Life Insurance, Co. Please turn to
Page 11. New policies ANP was flat year-on-year while, excluding long-term savings
products, we saw favorable sales with household income term product and increase in
policies due to last-minute demand before the revision of the standard interest rate. New
policies ANP increased by 13%. For in-force policies ANP, due to steady increase in new
policy sales, it grew by 4.4% year-on-year.
Now I'll explain about financial accounting. Net income decreased by JPY 5.9 billion yearon-year to JPY 8.7 billion. This is due to increase in business expenses for systems
investment expense and reaction to reversal of contingency reserve associated with
surrender in variable annuities last year in addition to decreasing gains on sales of
securities. As for core operating profit, which excludes reaction from reversal of
contingency reserve and decreasing gains on sales of securities, it decreased by JPY 2.7
billion year-on-year to JPY 22.3 billion.
Now I'd like to explain about International insurance business. Please turn to Page 12. In the
International insurance business, net premiums written increased by 27% year-on-year due
to the contribution of TMHCC and steady progress of various growth initiatives. On local
currency terms, excluding the impact of the appreciation of Japanese yen, the business
grew by 32% year-on-year.
To break this down by region: North America achieved positive growth, thanks to the
contribution of TMHCC. Philadelphia and Delphi also grew their top lines due to rate
increases in renewal book as well as growth of new business. Europe also grew on a localcurrency basis due to the expansion of business in Tokio Marine Kiln. However, due to the
appreciation of Japanese yen, net premiums written decreased in yen terms. South and
Page 3 of 13



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

FINAL

Central America as well as Asia grew, driven by the growth of auto business. Reinsurance
declined primarily because of the rebound effect of increased sales of multiyear policies
booked in FY '15. Life insurance business grew thanks to sales growth, particularly in
Singapore and Thailand.
Next, let me discuss business unit profit of International insurance business. Please turn to
Page 13. Business unit profit grew by 29% or JPY 37.6 billion over the year, also due to the
contribution of TMHCC and steady progress of growth initiatives. On the local-currency
basis, excluding the impact of the appreciation of Japanese yen, profit grew by 34% yearon-year.
By region, the business profit of North America increased thanks to the contribution of
TMHCC. Europe and reinsurance also grew positively, mainly due to the absence of
impact of large losses and foreign exchange gains recorded in FY '15. Meanwhile, in South
and Central America and in Asia, the business unit profit declined due to large losses. For
more details about 3 group companies in North America, please refer to Page 14 at your
convenience.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next, I will explain business unit profit for the entire group on Page 15. Business unit profit
is a KPI that we use in order to understand corporate value of the respective businesses.
Different from adjusted net income, business unit profit does not include dividend from
group companies and sales gains of business-related equities. Also, to reflect the
contribution of life insurance business, we take into account the growth of EV [ph] in the
calculation.
Business unit profit of domestic non-life business increased by JPY 41.6 billion year-onyear to JPY 167.6 billion due to the factors listed on the slide. Domestic life grew by JPY
561.6 billion from a year ago to JPY 373.5 billion, primarily due to the changes of
definitions in the measurement method of MCEV in addition to the impact of rise in
interest rates. And International insurance business grew by JPY 37.6 billion to JPY 169.5
billion, as I just discussed. This concludes the overview of FY '16 financial results.
Let me now discuss projections for FY '17. Please turn to Page 18. This is the overview of
our consolidated projections for FY '17. Based on the net premiums written and life
insurance premiums described on the slide, we project our consolidated ordinary profit to
increase by JPY 17.3 billion over the year to JPY 405 billion. And net income attributable to
owners of the parent is expected to grow by JPY 6.1 billion year-on-year to JPY 280 billion.
Adjusted net income is projected to decline by JPY 24.7 billion to JPY 382 billion due to
the expected decrease in sales gains of business-related equities and dividend income in
the domestic non-life business as well as currency impact in the International insurance
business.
Next, to review how the consolidated ordinary profit is expected to move, please refer to
Page 19. Profit in the domestic non-life business is expected to grow by JPY 24 billion over
the year to JPY 345.5 billion due to the expected increase in underwriting profit and net
investment income and other at TMNF.

Page 4 of 13



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

FINAL

Domestic life business is projected to grow its profit by JPY 21.2 billion over the year to
JPY 34.5 billion. And International insurance business is also expected to grow by JPY 4.1
billion to 100 -- or expected to decline by JPY 4.1 billion to JPY 170 billion. In the
consolidated adjustments, negative adjustment is expected to increase by JPY 23.2 billion
due to the projected increase in TMNF dividend income received from consolidated
subsidiaries, while goodwill amortization is expected to decline due to appreciation of
Japanese yen.
Next, to review our guidance on adjusted net profit, please turn to Page 20. Adjusted net
income is projected to decline by JPY 24.7 billion from a year ago to JPY 382 billion, with
the adjusted ROE of 9.8% down by 1.2 points year-on-year. For more details about
reconciliation from net income under JGAAP to adjusted net income and major
differences from the previous year, please refer to the table on the slide.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next, to review domestic non-life business, please refer to Page 21. Net premiums written
of private lines of business are projected to increase, mainly driven by auto insurance
business. Net incurred losses are expected to go up by JPY 14.1 billion due to the
expected increase in top line as well as the rebound effect of few large losses recorded
in FY '16. Provision for cat loss reserves is expected to decrease by JPY 9.3 billion year-onyear, mainly due to the expected increase in takedown from the reserve in the auto
business associated with the rise of loss ratio on written paid basis.
All in all, underwriting profit is expected to increase by JPY 13.8 billion year-on-year to JPY
130 billion. Net investment income and other is projected to increase by JPY 10.7 billion to
JPY 208.2 billion due to the expected increase in dividend income from subsidiaries.
Based on these factors as well as expected decrease in extraordinary gains and losses,
net income is projected to grow by JPY 21.3 billion to JPY 270 billion.
Next, for Nisshin Fire, please refer to Page 24. At Nisshin Fire, net income is projected to
decline by JPY 2 billion to JPY 4.5 billion due to the expected increase in net incurred
losses associated with the rise of unit repair cost in the auto business as well as an
average level of nat cat losses that we're assuming for a normal year.
Next, for TMNL, please go to Page 25. ANP of new policies is projected to decline by
24.2% year-on-year due to the suspended sales of long-term saving-type products as well
as product revisions in conjunction with the revision of the standard interest rate despite
our efforts to promote the sales of living benefit products. In the meantime, on the
JGAAP basis, net income is expected to increase by JPY 15.1 billion year-on-year to JPY
23.9 billion. And core operating profit is projected to grow by JPY 12.1 billion to JPY 34.5
billion due to the product revisions associated with the revised standard discount rate as
well as expected decrease in provision for policy reserves based on suspended sales of
long-term saving-type products.
Next, to review International insurance business, please turn to Page 26. In the
International insurance business, net premiums written is projected to decline by JPY 12.4
billion to JPY 1,642,000,000,000 because of the expected impact of stronger Japanese

Page 5 of 13



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

FINAL

yen, while we are expecting growth on a local-currency basis based on the advancement
of various growth initiatives that we are promoting.
Next, for business unit profit of International insurance business, please go to Page 27.
Business unit profit is expected to decline by JPY 16.5 billion year-on-year because of
stronger Japanese yen, average level of nat cats in a normal year that we are assuming
as well as the rebound effect of foreign currency gains recorded in FY '16. However, after
normalizing these factors, the profit is expected to grow by 4% positively against the
actual FY '16 as the underlying profit trend is favorable, primarily in Asia, Europe and
reinsurance. Detailed projections for 3 group companies in North America and business
unit profits for the entire group are described on Page 28 and 29, respectively, for your
reference.

Bloomberg Transcript

Last but not least, let us share with you our ESR. Please go to Page 31. In calculating ESR,
Tokio Marine measures risk based on 99.95% VaR for AA calibration and exclude
restricted capital while we refer to the method of Solvency II in Europe.
To review where our ESR stands at the moment, please refer to Page 32. This slide shows
how our ESR changed from the end of September 2016 to the end of March 2017. As of
the end of March 2017, our ESR increased by -- increased to 139% due to the increase in
net asset value and decrease in risk capital. Net asset value became JPY 3.5 trillion due to
the increase in unrealized gains of business-related equities in addition to the contribution
of adjusted net income in the second half. Meanwhile, risk capital decreased to JPY 2.5
trillion, mainly due to the decrease in interest rate risk associated with the rise in interest
rates as well as sales of business-related equities. Please also note that we are newly
disclosing the impact of market changes on our ESR at this particular timing of the year.
This concludes my presentation. And we would now like to open the floor to entertain
your questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) The first question is from Mr. Muraki of Deutsche Securities.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

My first question has to do with the International business, U.S. business. On Page 14, you
are showing us for the 3 companies' performance excluding the FX impact. The
Philadelphia is 7%. Delphi is 6%. For HCC, well, last fiscal year, it was not consolidated. But I
wanted to know how much of a benefit they got from the foreign exchange factor. And
also, if you go to Page 28 for this fiscal year, excluding FX, the increase in top line is found
to be 3%. And why are you expecting some slowdown in these U.S. businesses? And my
second question is on 25, about the life insurance business. Their net income was JPY 8.7
billion. In the first half, the profit was JPY 10.6 billion. And when you did the first half
earnings announcement, you made an upward revision, up to 16.9%. But why are you
undershooting now? And I believe you had new policies in the second half. And I wonder if
Page 6 of 13



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

there was last-minute rush in demand in the second year. Why is this undershooting your
plan? And is that expected to recover in the new fiscal year?

FINAL

A - Unidentified Speaker
My name is Hattori [ph] from the International business department. On your question
about the top line growth for the U.S. business (inaudible) and Delphi, as written, the rate
increased. And also, there will be more renewed policies. And we expect the top line
growth. And for the TMHCC factor, last year's numbers were not disclosed. But compared
to last year, we expect steady expansion of their top line throughout the year this year.
And specifically, we cannot disclose their numbers for the previous fiscal year.
From the corporate planning of Tokio Marine & Nichido Life Insurance Co, my name is
Kono [ph]. Your question about for 2016 versus -- the performance for the first half versus
the decline in profit for the full year. For the term insurance, in the Fourth Quarter, before
the rate revision, there was increase in new policy pickup. And that is why in the second
half, the result was undershooting the plan. And any increase in the profit increase for this
fiscal year, due to the revision of the standard interest rates, products are being revised.
And due to that, due to those product revisions, there will be less burden for policy
reserving. And that will be the main factor with which we plan to see increase in profit.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

And on the first part, on Page 28, for the new fiscal year increase in top line, it is going to
be 3% -- or it's only going to be 3%. Why is it only 3% for the U.S. subsidiaries?

A - Unidentified Speaker
My name is Hattori [ph] from the International business division. The 3% increase in net
premiums written for the U.S. subsidiaries, due to the tougher market environment, we
have factored that into the forecast. And we have seen some slowdown in business.
However, we are making steady progress and good growth of the business versus the
market average.

Operator
The next question is from Ms. Tsujino of JPMorgan.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

On Page 21, at TMNF, looking at the projections for the year. Cat loss reserve, on a written
paid basis, because our loss ratio is increasing, you're expecting more takedown, which is
a somewhat surprising assumption. And certainly, looking at the actual, I think net-net, I
think the provision for auto was JPY 10.5 billion compared to what you expected at the
initial stage. I agree that the amount is now declining. However, in actuality, how much
takedown are you expecting to increase? How much incremental takedown are you
expecting for this new year? And how much deterioration are you expecting in actuality?
And if you can share with me, furthermore, from the underwriting profit, excluding the net
provision for cat loss reserves. So taking out the noises, if you will, on year-on-year basis,
how much change are you expecting this new fiscal year? That is my first question. And
Page 7 of 13



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

my second question is on Page 16 related to TMNL MCEV. You talked about changes to
definitions of MCEV. What do you specifically mean by that?

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Unidentified Speaker
My name is Watanabe [ph]. On your first question on the expected cat loss reserve, as
you heard previously [ph], this is related [ph] to auto business. More specifically in
speaking, in FY '16, the loss ratio on a written paid basis was low. And therefore, we are
expecting further reversal. And that is expected increase in the provision. And as you have
correctly pointed out, we have assumed that there would not be further takedown in new
fiscal year. And let me also share with you how we look at the underlying underwriting
profit. In terms of the underlying balance, we think that it is going to increase. On earned
incurred basis, looking at the earned premium and incurred losses and the actual business
expenses, if I look at the trends across these factors, first of all, there are 2 points to be
mentioned, as written on the PowerPoint slide as well, in terms of net incurred losses.
First, I'll review. So nat cat losses for FY '16 for TMNF, 30 -- JPY 53.5 billion was actual
against a budget of JPY 42 billion. So that is the reversal effect from FY '16. And looking at
large losses and also other factors that we assumed, in FY '16, we actually had a big
number that we recognized for other losses. So including large losses for marine and also
fire lines of business, we expect losses for the new fiscal year to be rather normalized.
And these 2 factors will essentially cancel off each other. And therefore, net-net, we think
that the underwriting balance is going to be pretty much flat or is going to increase just
marginally. And if we are to take out that cat loss reserve from the underwriting loss, if you
look at the currency losses, it was about negative JPY 3 billion in FY '16. However, in FY '17,
we're expecting the currency assumptions to essentially stay flat. And therefore, this
portion is going to be canceled out and, therefore, pushing up projected profit in FY '17.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

So that means that for the automotive line of business, essentially, you are expecting no
major impact, even excluding the cat loss reserve provision. So in your explanation, on
earned/incurred basis, underlying -- underwriting balance would be pretty much flat and
loss ratio for the auto is expected to increase. However, it is not expected to cause a
material impact. Is that correct?

A - Unidentified Speaker
For the automotive line of business, we don't think that the loss ratio is going to
aggravate enough to impact the underwriting balance. And overall, comparing FY '16 to
FY '17, we expect the business to essentially trend flat. So meaning that some of the
payment of claims are somewhat delayed for the automotive line of business. Looking at
the numbers on a written paid basis, no, I think it's the other way around. I think the claims
is expected to increase.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

No. I think it's strange. On a written paid basis, the takedown is going to increase. And
therefore, the payment is going to increase. However, on earned/incurred basis, auto is
pretty much flat, meaning that timing of the claim payment is somewhat delayed. Is that

Page 8 of 13



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

the right way to put it in terms of difference between written paid basis and
earned/incurred basis?

FINAL

A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes. There is some time lag in terms of the claim payment timing. And in FY '16, the
written paid basis number is low because we had relatively small outstanding claim
balance at the end of the year. However, the loss ratio on earned/incurred basis is more
reflective of what's really happening in the actual market.
My name is Nihoda [ph] from Anshin Life corporate accounting and financial planning
department. To answer your second question on the measurement of the MCEV, as we
explained back in November last year through our IR material as well, we revised the
surrender risk as well as canceled payment risks in our definitions used in the calculation
of MCEV. As a result of that, there was a positive [ph] by JPY 223 billion to our MCEV. So
there's essentially no further change from what we explained in November last year.

Operator
The next question is from Mr. Watanabe of Daiwa Securities.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

My name is Watanabe. I have 2 questions. So the first has to do with the natural
catastrophes overseas, the actual last year versus the assumption this year. And the
second is the adjusted net income for your forecast for this fiscal year, which is JPY 382
billion. And your target for the midterm plan is JPY 400 billion, which is below the midterm
plan. And looking at your FX impact end of '15 -- end of '16, it's JPY 112 billion. So FX hasn't
changed so much. So what are the reasons why you are undershooting the target for the
adjusted net income for the midterm plan?

A - Unidentified Speaker
My name is Hattori [ph] from the corporate planning. For the natural catastrophes for the
International business for fiscal 2016, for the actual nat cat loss, pretax basis, it was JPY
35.4 billion. This was below the assumption. And for fiscal 2017, according to our plan for
the International business overall, we are expecting JPY 47 billion of natural catastrophe
budget.

A - Kiyoshi Wada

{BIO 19963983 <GO>}

From the Holdings IR group, my name is Wada. The JPY 382 billion versus JPY 400 billion
and why is this short of JPY 400 billion for this year, the major factors -- I believe there are
2 factors. That first is that the exchange rate hasn't changed much. However, there is a
difference by about JPY 4. And last year, $1 versus British pound, the FX rate played as
one factor. And for the business-related equities, the actual sell-down of the businessrelated equities for this term was JPY 120 billion. But for the new fiscal year, we are still
targeting JPY 100 billion. So these are the differences that played as factors to the
difference in the 2 numbers.

Page 9 of 13



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

Operator
The next question is from Mr. Sasaki of Merrill Lynch Japan.

FINAL

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}

I'm Sasaki from Merrill Lynch Japan. I have one question pertaining to U.S. business. On
Page 14 of the PowerPoint slide, excluding the currency impact, the year-on-year growth in
terms of -- compared to top line, the profit is trending essentially flat or declining. I
believe that is because the investment income actually weren't that well. However, on the
underwriting side, is there anything that was deteriorating in terms of nat cat? I believe
that actual was actually lower -- smaller than what you initially budgeted. However, in
Philadelphia and also in Delphi in North America, what was actually deteriorating in their
underwriting business? And also, what's the background behind it?

A - Unidentified Speaker
My name is Hattori [ph] from International business development department of the
holdings. First, on Philadelphia, the business unit profit of Philadelphia was somewhat
lower compared to top line growth. And the reason behind this is that compared to FY '15
and FY '16, the nat cat losses incurred -- sorry, please hold on for a second. Sorry about
that. So compared to FY '15 and FY '16, nat cat losses increased. So that's the major
reason behind it.

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

What about Delphi though?

A - Unidentified Speaker
For Delphi, investment income and realized losses of the investment was recorded in the
First Quarter. And so there was a negative factor related to their investment. And on top
of that, loss ratio did increase. Because of these factors, on a year-on-year basis, the
profit did decline.

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}

On Page 13, it says that due to increased investment income, the profit increased. So
maybe you enjoyed some incurring [ph] gains. However, was there some capital losses
(inaudible)? And to begin with, why is the loss ratio increasing now?

A - Unidentified Speaker
With regards to realized losses of investment, in order to reduce risk in the First Quarter,
Delphi sold some risk assets. And with regards to rise in net loss ratio, for the life
insurance business, for medical stop loss and also disability insurance, due to the
intensified market -- intensifying competitive situation in the market, the performance did
deteriorate. And currently, the company is working to improve the profitability by
improving the underwriting discipline.

Page 10 of 13



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

Operator
Next question is from Tokai Tokyo Research Center, Mr. Majima.

FINAL

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

My name is Majima. So first question is on Page 19, about this year's forecast, as it was
asked. So the non-life insurance business is expected to increase by JPY 21.2 billion. And
this is going to be the growth driver. And all the factors involved are due to the increase in
the interest rate and also additional provisioning that was done last year. So increase due
to the product revision and also the increase in provision for underwriting reserve. So how
much of these out of JPY 21.2 billion? And also, lowering of the rate decline for auto
insurance, is that a factor that was calculated into this year's projections?

A - Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

From corporate planning of Tokio Marine & Nichido Life. I'd like to answer your first
question. And so for 2017, the expected increase in the net income for 2017 and different
factors playing into it, top line for 2017, we are expecting decline by 20% to the top line.
And this is due to the revision of the standard interest rate and due to the revision of the
products accordingly. Due to those factors, the top line is going to decline. However, that
plays as an increase to profit on statutory accounting basis. And I cannot tell you exactly by
how much. But I would say 20% to 30% of that impact is playing here. And also, as we
accumulate more in-force policies, after one year, those in-force policies contribute to the
profit. And so that's another positive factor. And also, for the protection-oriented
products, we want to increase sales of the protection products, which we have as a
business plan. And that is also part of the forecast.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

And so the negative factors last year, how much of -- the negative factor last year, how
much was that? And that is playing as a positive factor this year. And so there is additional
provision that was done due to the last-minute rush in demand for the life policies, right?

A - Unidentified Speaker
I'd like to answer your question. So last year, in the Fourth Quarter, the term insurance
sales increased. And impact of this, plus, in 2017, the expected top line forecast, those
were the 2 factors that play into the overall projections for 2017.
My name is Tanaka [ph] from the personal insurance department. About the 2017
profitability of auto insurance, right now, in January of 2018, we are expecting ASV
discount to be introduced. And those are the factors that is on the assumptions for this
forecast. However, for the executions of those business lines, nothing has been decided
finally. So I'd like to not disclose any details beyond this.

Operator
Next question is from Citigroup, Mr. Niwa.

Page 11 of 13



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

Q - Koichi Niwa

{BIO 5032649 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. I have a question related to shareholder return as well as your capital position. More
specifically speaking, where does this JPY 25 billion capital coming from? And also, you
are at 139% in terms of ESR, which is above your target level. So how shall I make sense of
where your target currently stands vis-Ã -vis the target range?

A - Unidentified Speaker
My name is Hojo [ph] from corporate planning department of the holdings. With regards
to the decision of the size of the share repurchase, we decided to repurchase our shares
up to JPY 25 billion this time around. And on this particular program, as we have
communicated before as well, we look at the market environment, capital position as well
as availability of business investment opportunities comprehensively and then decide on
the share repurchase on a flexible manner. And so 139% is the ESR that we currently are
at, which is above the 130% ceiling level that we have set as a target level. So based on
this ESR position as well as our considerations of market environment as well as business
investment opportunities, we decided on JPY 25 billion as the size of the share
repurchase this time around. So 130 -- 100% to 130% is the reference target range that
we have set. And yes, our ESR exceeds 130%. Even if the ESR does exceed 130%, we do
not automatically use the surplus capital to repurchase our own shares. We would like to
optimize our share repurchase program in terms of size as well as the timing. So given our
comprehensive considerations, we decided on JPY 25 billion this time around.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Kiyoshi Wada

{BIO 19963983 <GO>}

I am Wada from the IR group of the holdings. With regards to an earlier question raised by
Mr. Sasaki, let us provide some additional comments.

A - Unidentified Speaker
My name is Hattori [ph] from International business development department of holdings.
There was a question with regards to the Delphi's profit decline vis-Ã -vis the top line
growth. Due to the income gains which is increasing, investment income is actually
increasing, even including capital gains and losses. And so the underwriting performance
is the main contributor to the fact that the profit did decline.
Any more questions from the floor?

Operator
(Operator Instructions) There's no more questions from the audience. So Mr. Wada, I will
return the microphone to you.

A - Kiyoshi Wada

{BIO 19963983 <GO>}

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for attending the telephone conference for
the overview of the 2016 results and 2017 projections. If you have any further questions or
need more clarification on any of the points, please do not hesitate to contact us. And
once again, thank you for your participation. This is the end of the conference call.
Page 12 of 13



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2017-05-19

Operator

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

This concludes the conference call for the earnings of 2016 and as well as projections for
2017. And thank you for your patience. And please terminate each of your telephone lines.

Page 13 of 13

