Acquisition of Generali Nederland by ASR Nederland NV Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Chris Figee , Chief Financial Officer
Jos P. M. Baeten, Chief Executive Officer

Other Participants
Albert Ploegh, Analyst
Bart Horsten, Analyst
Benoît Pétrarque, Analyst
Cor Kluis , Analyst
Matthias de Wit, Analyst
Robin van den Broek, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Good day, and welcome to the a.s.r. Conference Call on the acquisition of Generali Nederland.
Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jos Baeten, CEO of a.s.r. Please go ahead, sir.

Jos P. M. Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Morning, everybody. Thank you for joining us at this early moment, especially the people calling in
from the UK and possibly USA. As you may have read this morning, we've announced the
acquisition of Generali Nederland. We, of course, are very pleased with this transaction as it's, to
our opinion, demonstrates our ability to act decisively on attractive opportunities as we see them
in our marketplace. It also shows that there are indeed possibilities in the Dutch markets to
supplement organic growth with profitable and value-creating acquisitions.
Before Chris and I will discuss directional and the financial transaction highlights, I would like to
thank the team of Generali in Italy and in the Netherlands for negotiating with us on an exclusive
basis already since May. Over the course of the past month, we have been able to thoroughly
review the business to assess the synergies and the potential value of this transaction. We have
confidence this will result in a transaction that is beneficial to both parties.
So, let us now turn to the rationale of this transaction. The acquisition of Generali Nederland is in
the heart of our M&A strategy of acquiring mid-sized and smaller companies. As you may know,
Generali Nederland has been active in the Netherlands for more than 145 year. With a staff of
about 350 employees, it provides a broad range of Life and Non-Life insurance products in our
markets.
In 2016, Generali Nederland generated a premium income of roughly €380 million, of which €270
million (sic) [€275 million] was in Non-Life and roughly €100 million in Life. So, this transaction will
especially boost our position in the Non-Life markets. With a combined ratio year-to-date below
100% already from the beginning, this will positively affect our earnings in the Non-Life business.
Generali Nederland strengthens our overall position as being the number three in the Dutch
insurance market, will add roughly 2.1% of market share in Non-Life. This will bring us to a market



share of 16.5% in the Non-Life area and will add almost 1% in our market share in Life and our
market share in Life will be around 15.4% after closing of the transactions.

FINAL

The transaction rationale, in our opinion, is quite compelling. The activities of both companies show
an overlap which offers attractive business synergies and diversification benefits. In addition, the
combination of the two organization also eliminates capital tiering restrictions as they are today
within Generali Nederland.
Overall, there is a significant synergy potential. In total, we expect to realize approximately €140
million in cost and capital synergies by the end of 2021. With this transaction, we take advantage of
a.s.r.'s strong solvency position and financial flexibility. The cash consideration, as you may have
read in our press release, which we, by the way, will pay out of existing funds on closing will
amount to €143 million.
After closing, we will also recapitalize the acquired entities to at least 130% and after capitalized –
capitalization of Group Solvency II ratio on a pro forma basis remains strong at 185%. So, an effect
of roughly 9 points compared to our reported solvency end of half year.

Bloomberg Transcript

When we take into account the additional capital that we will inject in the acquired business and
benefit of the expected synergies, we estimate a total investment, and Chris will come back to
that in a moment, of fungible capital of roughly €200 million. As you know, we attach great value to
our financial discipline and have maintained this when assessing this transaction.
Therefore, we expect an attractive return on investment exceeding 12%, and we wouldn't be
surprised if the final return on equity will be in the 15% area. The all-cash deal, by the way, received
already approval by Generali Group, as you may have seen in their press release of this morning,
and had the full support of the Generali Nederland's board and supervisory board as, of course,
our two boards.
Also, we had a constructive dialogue with both workers councils, ours and of Generali Nederland's,
and both workers councils have approved with a positive advice this acquisition. Of course, as is
customary, this transaction is subject to approval of the Dutch Central Bank and the Dutch
competition authority, ACM. We expect to close somewhere in the first quarter of 2018.
We have confidence in execution of this transaction given our very strong track record in
integrating businesses and ongoing cost management. During the recent years, we have already
acquired eight companies and successfully completed migration onto – into a.s.r. For example, the
last one we integrated was NIVO and this will be completed for the end of this year. So, we are
ready for the next one.
Our integration plan, by the way, which we will develop further together with the people of
Generali Nederland includes the relocation of all Generali Nederland's management and
employees to a.s.r.'s main office in Utrecht in the course of 2018, and of course, the merger of all
the legal entities. We plan to merge the – to do the merger of the legal entities in Life somewhere
in 2018, and Non-Life will be done at the latest in the first half of 2019.
We expect the integration to offer a cost synergy potential, representing at least 50% of the
Generali Nederland cost base, which is just below €50 million. So, roughly €23 million per annum
and that's before tax. The main driver of those cost synergies will be the relocation of employees
and the closing of the current building of Generali Nederland, the IT migration and, of course, scale
advantages in Non-Life, Life and the several group functions.
Before handing over to Chris, one final remark I would like to point out that this transaction will
have no impact on our earlier stated commitments to participate in a final sell down for an amount
of circa €100 million, if and when the Dutch states should decide to sell down the remainder of



their position further in this year. And as said, this will, of course, depend on the market conditions
and the solvency at the moment of the Dutch states' decision.
Having said that, Chris, the floor is yours and Chris will start at slide number...

FINAL

Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Four. Okay. Jos, thank you very much. Back to slide number 4 to walk you through the financial
elements of this transaction. As you would expect from us, we are applying very strict financial
criteria to evaluate this investment.
Next, we're strengthening the a.s.r. business franchise. We believe that this business, this
transaction will also raise our financial profile and create real and tangible value. We have evaluated
this transaction along two yardsticks. One is, does it meet our base ROI hurdle of 12%? So is the
earnings contribution devalued by the capital commitment? Does it exceed the 12% hurdle? And
secondly, is it robust? Does it stack up to alternative way to deploying this capital, for example,
buying back our own shares?

Bloomberg Transcript

And we're very pleased to say that we are firmly convinced that this transaction meets both
criteria. Please note that this deal has very specific transaction parameters, very specific transaction
scope. The entity that we are acquiring is today still has an intragroup reinsurance arrangement
with the parent company in Italy that will be eliminated upon closing, as was also indicated in the
press release by the signing entity, by Generali. So, we're buying the business excluding this quota
share arrangement, after which we will inject capital in the various entities to compensate for the
solvency level.
We expect the ROI to exceed 12% based on operational and capital synergies. Synergy potential to
be around €17 million. Contribution to operating result, which is the base earnings plus synergies,
around €30 million with a reasonable conservative calculations. We didn't go overboard in
assessing the synergy potential of the group. There's always a potential haircut when you make
those deals work. Out of this, we estimate that the additional generation of organic capital,
additional OCC, for those who like to use that phrase, is around €25 million per annum upon
realization of the synergies.
Total expected capital deployment, there are €200 million. 6 points of SCR, at least 6 points of the
SCR of a.s.r. to date i.e., divide €200 million by €3.5 billion SCR, you get to 6 points. In the next
page, I will walk you through that buildup. Out of €200 million, €143 million is a net cash payment.
The remainder represents capital injections and cost and capital synergies. So, again, we believe
this makes a very attractive deal at 12% hurdle and Jos alluded to potentially even 15%, if we divide
€30 million additional earnings by €200 million of capital commitments, you get to something
that's very close to 15% upon delivery.
So, let me walk you through our capital commitment on page number 5. We have outlined here the
various steps how we get to the €200 million of fungible capital commitments. Block one, our net
cash price is the amount of cash we will transfer as considerations to Generali, €143 million. We will
inject around €200 million of capital into the Life and Non-Life subsidiaries, mostly in the Life
business, a bit in Non-Life to compensate for the termination of the quarter share contract and
there will be cost and capital synergies of €140 million that are beneficial to us. And net-net, that
gives a fungible capital deployment of €200 million.
To zoom in on those cost and capital synergies, I tend to divide them into three blocks, some will
realize upon closing of the deal immediately. Some will realize upon the legal merger between the
entities and some will realize upon the finalization of the synergies.



FINAL

In terms of this block one, realization upon closing which is a tiering benefit. As you have – we may
recall, we've outlined in our various analyst presentations that we have tiering headroom in eligible
or room to top (00:12:54) eligible capital. One could argue tiering headroom in itself doesn't feed
any children unless you deploy it, enter it into earnings. We believe these transactions allow us to
turn tiering headroom into actually as tangible earnings, so tiering benefits will recognize and exist
upon closing of the transaction. Upon legal merger, there will be various capital synergies, mostly
diversification benefits, possibly a LAC DT benefits that will realize upon legal merger of the
entities.
And if and when we realize the planned synergies, that will ultimately be reflected in the best
estimate liabilities and lead to reduction of capital. One could argue that it's possible to bring
forward those capital synergies, but historically, we've never done that. We've only recognized
capital synergies if and when they are there, not just when they exist on paper. And we try to stick
to that more responsive (13:52) approach to capital management.
Adding it all up, by the way, also – we also have some alignment of actuarial assumptions, which will
be a small negative upon closing. So, block four has closing synergies, legal merger synergies, cost
benefits and alignment of actuarial services. Net-net, the commitment of fungible capital of a.s.r. is
€200 million and we compared the ROI on a €200 million of alternative ways -- deploy this €200
million, and we think this deal will stack up against it.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, we believe that we are – we will be effective owners of the Generali balance sheets and that
effective ownership will help us make a very attractive ROE on this transaction.
That is -- concludes my portion of the financial analysis and elaboration on the capital commitment.
Back to Jos.

Jos P. M. Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Thanks, Chris. Well, to summarize, as said, we are very happy with this transaction. It will strengthen
our market position in the Netherlands, especially in Non-Life. And as you may know, we are
focused on creating a stronger Non-Life business. And it shows also that we are able to deploy our
capital in a value creative way for our customers and our shareholders. So, we're happy and we will
start to integrate this business as soon as we have closed the transaction and that will happen as
said in the beginning of 2018.
So, as from now, the floor is open for questions.

Q&A
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, we will start the question-and-answer session now. First question, Mr. Cor
Kluis, ABN AMRO. Go ahead, please.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Good morning. Cor Kluis, ABN. A couple of questions. First of all about the solvency ratio. You
mentioned in the press release is minus 6% on the solvency ratio. Could you give the split out
effect of – on the Own Funds and the – on the SCR? So, the SCR rises by how much than the
owned funds? How does that change?
And also related to debt, you said minus 6% and then at the end of Q2, the solvency was 194%, so
then I don't comment the 185% solvency ratio, so what do we miss there?



FINAL

Another question is about the capital generation is €225 million, this is the UFR of 4.2%, so
obviously, on a UFR, where you were always very transparent about -- of 2.7%, the capital
generation would be higher than the €25 million. How much higher would that be?
And my last question is about the hybrids of Generali. You mentioned that some of that hybrids is
being now accounted in the capital in Tier 1, Tier 2. How much hybrids that Generali have and in
absolute terms, how much extra benefit do you have in your Own Funds due to debt? That were
my questions, and by the way, great acquisitions.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Okay. Cor, it's Chris. Thanks. Let me take that question. First one on the solvency ratio. The
numbers would be pre and post transaction. If you look at our half year results and I guess you
have pen and paper with you, and Own Funds were €6.8 billion, SCR requirement, €3.5 billion. You
divide one by the other, you get 194%. Post-transaction, the Own Funds will go up and the SCR will
go up. Own Funds estimate €6.950 billion (17:42), SCR up €3.8 billion. Divide one by the other you
get 185%.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, we believe that the move is kind of the dilution effect that you're adding a business that has a
little bit lower solvency ratio than we have, so you dilute in terms of ratio. Impact is (18:01) that the
required capital goes up. If you think about the cap – the fungible capital commitments for us, we
define this fungible capital with a solvency ratio up 140%, which is our dividend payment trigger. So,
if you multiply the required capital by 1.4 and now you calculate the gap between the Own Funds
and the solvency floor, so basically, 1.4 times the required capital, and you then take pre and post,
you get to a delta of €200 million. And that's a €200 million difference. And we relay that €200
million to the current required capital that we have, so that's actually 6 points.
So, in summary, we gave you the pre and post Own Funds and required capitals, you divide one by
the other, you go from 194% to 185%, which is simply is the dilutive effect you're adding businesses
that have a lower solvency ratio as such. And because the required capital goes up, you think what
it does to our fungible capital in euro terms, the only difference in euro terms really is the fungible
capital commitment and there, we always multiply the required capital by 1.4, which gives us a
solvency floor in this model, so 140% is our official formal dividend trigger.
If you then look at the delta between Own Funds and floor measured in euros, you get actually to
a €200 million difference and that €200 million is indeed the actual additional capital commitment
that we have. And (19:35) to us, we relate €200 million to €3.5 billion required capital we have
today, which is 6% application of our solvency, so that is the difference between the dilution effect
because you're acquiring a business with lower required capital -- a lower solvency ratios and the
actual capital that we commit to this – to the deal.
To your second question on the UFR effect of 2.7%, the honest answer is, Cor, I have literally no
idea, but my best guess is the Generali business is more tilted towards Non-Life than Life. If you
look at their premium level, it's about two-thirds is in – but yeah, three quarters is within Non-Life,
one quarter is in Life. The Life business has a substantial turn life component to it, so this business
has less dependence on UFR, both in stock and flow.
So, a low UFR will push up the organic capital generation a bit, but not something that would make
us really rich is not that hard of the deal. So, at a few meetings too, it is my best guess but not
material to our increase.
Fine in terms of hybrids, there were no so much – not so much hybrids in the Generali NL capital
structure, but an amount of DTA that was not recognized. So, the business brings in a DTA that is
ineligible, because it exceeds norms for Tier 3 capital. And because we have Tier 3 headroom that
we are able to absorb that DTA in our balance sheet. And as we said, we're very pleased because
this allows us to have -- convert tiering headroom into actually earnings because this is solvency



that is not -- it is there. It is not recognized in the Generali balance sheet, but will be recognized, it
will exist on our balance sheet without us doing real hard work for it.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

FINAL

Very clear. Thank you very much.

Operator
Next question is Benoît Pétrarque, Kepler Cheuvreux. Go ahead please.

Q - Benoît Pétrarque
Yes. Good morning. Couple of questions on my side. The first one will be on the capital generation.
So, the timing we – I think you said that it's going to be €25 million by 2021. It seems that most of
the capital generation in effect comes from cost synergies. Could you confirm that and also could
you talk about the timing of the synergies. Are we going to start to see some positive effect
already in 2018 and 2019 or will that be more back-end loaded? And could you also talk about
whether you anticipate also in your new capital generation figure a turnaround of the combined
ratio which I think was pretty high at Generali? That was the first question.

Bloomberg Transcript

Second was on the kind of capital injection you do there. I thought that Generali recapitalized the
business in Q1 2017. I think I saw reports showing that the Solvency II ratio in excess of 130%. So,
which level of Solvency II ratio do you buy the business before recap? That will be the question.
Then the last one was on the – to come back on the Solvency II impact. So, you said 9 percentage
point negative on day one, what will be kind of the positive in the coming years on Solvency II ratio?
So, now it's minus 9 percentage point. Can we expect capital synergies and cost synergies to have
a positive effect and how much will that be? Thank you very much.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Benoît, on your first question on the OCC, I think it's a gradual improvement. I agree that what the
current – we will need to enhance the earnings of the Generali Group, enhancing the cap
generation or these realizations will be important (23:30) gradually – I think gradual movement
towards the 21 number. There will be bit of a re-risking opportunity which will be front-loaded.
For example, there is an amount of cash on Generali in our balance sheet, which is waiting to be
reinvested. There are also some tax rulings around of it, forced to reinvest it relatively quickly. So,
you see the first year benefits from re-risking and investing some of the cash. And then, I think the
cost synergies will gradually fade in over the year and gradually move towards the target level. So,
re-risking benefits in the beginning, putting the cash to work and then gradually over time towards
our target.

A - Jos P. M. Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Second part of the first question was about the combined ratio of Generali. Well, you already said,
Benoît, that it was above 100% last year, that's true. As far as we have seen the numbers, the first
half year, it developed in a positive way and it is currently below 100%. We will start integration in
Non-Life as from the next year, 2018, after closing. And we don't know yet whether we will be able
to merge the two entities already in 2018 or at the beginning of 2019. If and when we have
combined the two, the cost level of Generali will be more matched with ours. So, we are convinced
that we will be able to bring the combined ratio as far as it is not already below 100%, more
towards our own levels in the due course of 2019.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}



FINAL

Benoît, to your third question on the incoming solvency levels of the entities, indeed, Generali
injected capital into its Life subsidiary in Q1. But remember, it also had a quota share arrangement
between subsidiary and parent company. The quota share arrangement was eliminated, the
intragroup reinsurance arrangement. So, the incoming solvency of the entity is just below 100%
because of the elimination of the quota share. So, we're looking at recapitalizing Life entity.
To some extent, the Non-Life entity had a solvency above 100%. So, I think in our planning, I think
we capitalized at 130% on closing, achieve or aim to have the Life business move to 140% in the
course of the year. That's at least is assumed in our capital synergies that we will just retain some
of the synergies and move the Life business to 140%. With that, they should be able to run
standalone and speedily, as quickly as possible integrate into our own a.s.r. legal entities.
And your final question was on when do we see some capital synergies fit in? I think if you look at
the last page, page 5, the €140 million, think about €50 million in tiering benefits, think about €70
million, €80 million in like the TSCR (26:53) benefits, but think about €50 million to €70 million of
actuarial assumption alignment that will take place as that will be realized at the time of the legal
mergers.
Then there is cost benefit which is the remainder, is around €80 million which is near the cost
synergies which will gradually fit in over time. So, I think especially the cost benefits in our solvency
level will fade in over time upon delivery and we will choose to realize and when delivered, not
upon when you put them on paper.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Benoît Pétrarque
Great. Thank you very much for that.

Operator
Next question, Albert Ploegh, ING. Go ahead, please.

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. Yeah, a few questions left from my side. Maybe first on the Non-Life, which is
still two-thirds of the need of the premiums. Can you give a little bit more detail on the
composition of the book and potentially also, let's say, the different combined ratios for PNC, for
example?
And I also have a question on maybe to get a little bit understanding on your thinking of weighing
an acquisition against the alternative of a buyback. I think you made some comment on slide 4
where you refer to the accretion exceeds the impact of a €200 million buyback. Can you give a bit
more color around that statement to also going forward to understand better how you weigh
these alternatives?
And the third question is and I would just sense this is the first big bolt-on acquisition. I know you
have alluded to some potential pipeline on funeral, so can we expect maybe by year-end some
more capital allocation to other bolt-on acquisitions?

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Albert, let me get to your question on capital deployment first. We did check in our assessments to
what extent deploying €200 million of share buybacks (28:57) earnings per share, dividend per
share and cap generation per share. And of course, buying back shares does accretes EPS, DPS
and CPS, if you wish. We felt that if you look at these numbers deploying it to M&A naturally
outperform that -- those metrics.



However, I could simply say very crudely and I'm not giving any opinion about the value per share
price here, mind you, guys. But if you take the operating profit that we're making this year or that
we've made so far this year, if you think about the underlying operating profit that we alluded to in
Q2 around

FINAL

€175 million per quarter. Simply divide that by the market cap of a.s.r., you get to something which is
around 11% to 12%. So, we think effectively, when you have a deal that exceeds that...

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

...you get more bang for your buck. But we deliberately and explicitly asked ourself the question,
earnings per share, dividend per share and cap gen per share, what would happen if you buy back
shares for €200 million? What would happen if you buy Generali and we felt that this actually does
outperform that metric?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jos P. M. Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

And on your first question, some – a bit more insight in the Non-Life business. Out of the €280
million of gross written premium, 16% of that is in disability. The remainder is in rest of Non-Life, so
in PNC, of that 84% roughly half is car, is car insurance, 17% is in commercial lines and 15% is in
personal lines. The average – I don't know all the combined ratios by heart, but the average
combined ratio of the total Non-Life business is in the -- just above – just below 100 areas and is
already set. As soon as we have converted the business to our platforms and to our business lines,
we are pretty sure by adding our cost levels that we will be able to move them towards our own
combined ratio levels.

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Jos P. M. Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

And on your third question to elaborate on a potential pipeline, I think we already, in earlier calls,
explained that we only start talking about them as soon as we are sure that we can present a
transaction. We are convinced there are more opportunities in the Dutch market, but never
elaborate on names and timelines whether they will be done by us.

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Jos P. M. Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

But we see still opportunities.

Operator
Next question, Matthias de Wit, KBC Securities. Go ahead please.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Yeah. Good morning and thanks for taking my questions. I first wondered if it would make sense to
develop an internal model considering that the business will become bigger and bigger following
all the acquisitions you did and so it might make sense to develop one given the current size of the
company.



FINAL

A second question is on the capital generation of €25 million. I'm not sure if I understood it
correctly, but does that include any SCR releases or is that purely Own Funds generation? And can
you also elaborate a bit on what you have assumed in terms of pre-risking because the Generali
portfolio is still significantly overweight in sovereign, so I would have expected, yeah, even a higher
capital generation assuming that you could shift part of these assets to liquids or mortgages.
And maybe a last one. Can you, yeah, elaborate a bit on what you have exactly assumed in terms
of LAC DT for? Because I think there is currently none in the Life business and a bit in Non-Life. But
if you could be a bit more specific of what you expect to get over time it would be helpful. Thank
you.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Hey, Matthias. Good morning. On your question on the partial internal model. I think I foresee our
standpoint data has not changed because of Generali transaction. So, we believe, it's something
we watch with interest, but there is really no plan to date to move to an internal model. And that
may change in the future, but at this point in time, where there is no real plan or intention to move
there. At this point, I mean, this transaction doesn't change yet.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of the post of the capital generation of €25 million, it is mainly Own Funds, (33:58) Own
Funds. There are some SCR (34:01), but the bulk of it is Own Funds because Generali is
predominately a Non-Life business. So, it's all technical result, underwriting results and your longterm investment margins as well (34:11) could generate on this business. So, a limited contribution
from SCR really is the majority of it is really addition of operational, operation of Own Funds above
the line. It's numerator stuff, if you wish.
In terms of the reinvestment side and risk, re-risking, it's actually limited fair point. There's €150
million of cash in the Generali balance sheet at this point in time, which is there from a transaction
previously one day aborted or sold some of the real estate. That needs to be in reinvested in
order to get the tax credit that's part of this. We've assumed that reinvestment takes place and for
the rest, a very limited re-risking. At this point, we think that is still possible. So, there is some
upside in our numbers as part of this. But the cap gen that we have here is really the business as it
is, reducing the cost, further improving underwriting result, and re-risking the cash. It does not yet
assume a massive turnaround of their sovereign, sovereign portfolio.
We will assess that annually when we do our annual SAA, Strategic Asset Allocation study in
October and November. And by that time, we'll have both balance sheets or at least we have an
assumption of both balance sheets. And then we will run the group-wide risk allocation program,
so. we felt it was right not to run ahead of debt assessments, but assessed those numbers when
we do the group-wide annual Asset Allocation study.
But the €150 million real estate is actually there and rest assured, a.s.r. is already working to fill it.
We have a pipeline of potential real estate transactions that will enable us to very swiftly move
ahead and fill the -- we just take the entity in Generali and replace the cash with actually earnings.
LAC DT, your final question will assume that all those LAC DT levels at the Generali will move to
the 60% level that we have as a.s.r. and substantiate that with an increased earnings base, lower
cost level, better underwriting profits and some re-risking results. And we've believed that given
the plans that we have, moving towards a 60% LAC DT as we deploy across our business is
definitely and definitely feasible.

Q - Matthias de Wit
Okay. Thanks a lot.

Operator

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}



Next question, Bart Horsten, Kempen & Co. Go ahead, please.

FINAL

Q - Bart Horsten

{BIO 2390919 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. Most of my question have been answered. I have two left. First, on the ROI of
the investments. If I'm correct, the initial ROI is around 4% excluding the synergies,obviously. When
do you expect until 202 you will exceed the 12% hurdle rate? So, that's more in terms of timing of
both the cost synergies and the capital synergies.
And my second question relates to the Solvency II position of Generali after your capital injection. I
think you just mentioned it will be around 130%. Do you think that's sufficient from there or will
further strengthening be necessary and will it be mainly through our organic capital generation or
does it require more capital,maybe in the mid-term? Thank you.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Bart, on the ROI, good question. I think, I don't care -- I mean, what we'd look for is to quickly move
the ROI to deal above 10% because we believe 10% is our best estimate of the hurdle rate or the
cost of capital. We believe that taking out some costs, improving pricing and the re-risking I just
discussed, we believe that the ROI moves to something in the north of 10%, probably early 2019
would be my best estimate, if you exclude any restructuring charges, of course. But the OpEx
restructuring charge is somewhere in 2019. We should move this thing towards the 10% hurdle and
(38:11) at the value creation level and then quickly pull through towards 12% and 15%. So, that's my
assessment there.
In terms of solvency of the operating entities, I said we inject capital immediately to get the two
entities upon closing or just the minute after closing to 130%. We'll assume that the Life business
will then be further strengthened to 140% and that's enough because by then, we will integrate
into a.s.r. and the legal merged entities will cease to exist.
So, 130% in Non-Life, ultimately pulled to 140% in Life and then it becomes no longer meaningful
because they will be integrated and be part and parcel of the a.s.r. legal entities.

A - Jos P. M. Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

And as said, Bart, the legal merger in the Life entity is foreseen already in 2018.

Q - Bart Horsten

{BIO 2390919 <GO>}

Okay. Okay. Thank you.

Operator
Next question comes from Robin van den Broek, Mediobanca. Go ahead, please.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning, everybody. Sorry, did I sound like I'm about to die, but I hope that's not the
case. Most of my questions have been answered as well. Two remaining. Just very clear, the 185%
pro forma you mentioned, so I understand correctly that it only includes basically the net cash price
of €143 million or does it also include the actuarial alignment and the tiering benefits you
mentioned before? And secondly, I was just wondering your holdco cash target of €350 million,
how does this transaction and potential participation in the state sell down affect that level for this
year and or do you expect to upstream some more capital from your subsidiaries to get to that
target?

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}



Well, Robin, thanks for your question. And first, where is your health insurance or where is your
funeral insurance? (40:07) take an additional hit this year. No, I hope you get back soon.

FINAL

In terms of the capital flow, it's page 5 and €200 million actually is a net cash out plus and minus all
the movements in capital. So, as you see, the €200 million is a cash prize of €143 million plus the
capital injections plus aligned with an actuarial synergies minus the various capital synergy that we
have. So, it's a net figure after all that's been said and done. So, I think that – to your first question.
What does it do to our holdco cash targets? We believe at this point that the holdco cash target is
still feasible, although we're not married to the holdco cash target in the sense that as long as our
business continue to operate very effectively, we believe it's also probably when (40:57)
explainable that there's cash in the operating entities. In a sense that in our point of view,
managing very tight for holding cash makes sense if you've got an international group with various
subsidiaries under various regulators who have different management teams where they might be
a discipline question. In our situation, we're still in one country, one jurisdiction, one regulator, and
the management team of a.s.r. Group is the same as the management team of different legal
entities, so there's little to be disciplined there.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, as a principle, we're not as tied to holdco cash as some of the others are, but we do believe
that holding cash is not something that is going to be changed a lot because of this. Although, we
will be exploring, I think that's in our pack. We'll always explore whether the funding for this deal
should be done by OpCo upstreams or could it also be done by raising cash in the capital markets.
We haven't made a decision there yet, but if you look at the actual return on capital in our
business, and if you look at the estimated cost of capital in the hybrid capital markets, the latter
could be an option to smoothen the funding of this transaction. Again, we haven't made our
decision on that yet but it's something we explore to see if we have – what is the most value
creating way to fund this cash out.
So, Tier 2 security, even Tier 1 options are, of course, in play because, I mean, we've shown to you
the benefit of having Tier 3 headroom and one can convert tier headroom into value creation and
tangible earnings. So, to make a long story short, holding target is unchanged, although I'm less
married to that holding target than some of my peers would be and exploring whether
upstreaming cash or effectively raising capital in the capital market is the most value creating way
to support this business and that is something we'll explore further.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

I'm sorry just to come back on the Solvency II ratio. I thought you mentioned before that you don't
recognize cost synergies, for example, before they are actually realized. So, I think you said that
the €185 million is net including all the synergies, but that doesn't seem to coincide with your
previous statement or am I getting something wrongly here?

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

€185 million is at closing, Robin.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Yeah. Okay. So that doesn't include any of the synergies that you mentioned before?

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Robin van den Broek
Okay.

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}



A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

FINAL

Well, it does – not the cost synergies. The others are there. The cost synergies will only be realized
upon delivery. The tiering synergies, the legal merger synergies, the SCR benefits will be there
(43:39) cost synergies that will show in your best estimates, we will only recognize those when we
actually deliver them.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. That clarification is very welcome. Thank you.

Operator
Last question comes from (43:53) of JPMorgan. Go ahead, please.
Hi. Good morning. Thank you for taking my questions. I have a question on the earnings. I mean,
currently, the Generali Dutch business is getting around €9 million and then you're saying that it will
reach to around €30 million post-tax – post the synergies. I mean, it seems like a big difference.
Can you just help me bridge this? How is it coming and where is it coming from? That's my
question one.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the second question I have is, if I look at slide number 5, the capital investment to
transactions. I mean, the net cash you pay of €143 million is today and the gross capital injection is
also today of €200 million. So, is it fair to say that you've actually injected €340 million on this?
Obviously, there is capital and cost synergies, but the cash, which goes aside from your current
business is around this much. Thank you.

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Okay. On the operating result bridge, indeed today, if you look at the IFRS profit, its 4 in Non-Life
and 13 negative in Life. But, in IFRS profits, it also includes some reserve strengthening LAT issues
at Generali.
We reported the operating result, so the bridge from IFRS earnings today to operating result in the
future is one IFRS to operating and operating from year one to year three. We think there is
definitely opportunities to gradually, as Jos said, the combined ratio in the Generali business today
is at or below a 100s. Last year, we're still above 100% .Today is on the run rate improvement,
there was not yet in the 2016 figures. But I guess it will show up in 2017 figures simply because the
hardening of the Non-Life markets.
As we strengthening – as we strengthen provisions, the gross capital injections and the alignment
of the actuarial assumptions, that will just lead to much less pressure from LAT shortfalls and
actually support the earnings of the group and finally, there's the investment from the
reinvestment of the €150 million cash.
So, to me, the bridge from the IFRS loss in 2016 to operating results in 2016 to an operating profit
in 2020 is partially already ongoing improvements in Non-Life earnings. The strengthening of the
reserves that will take place and the alignment of the actuarial assumptions that will just eliminate
continuous negatives from LAT shortfalls. And finally, there is the returns from the reinvestment of
cash, so that means that the standalone Generali business, excluding synergies already move into
positive operating earnings territory and from there, we can pull them to actuarial full synergy
potentials, full operating earnings including synergies. So, that's the bridge.
In terms of your point of what is a cash investment, well, actually, the cash out, the cash that leads
the group has €143 million. When you buy a business and then we move cash around from a.s.r. Life
into Generali Life and from a.s.r. Non-life into Generali Non-life, but both are 100% subsidiary. So,
there's no cash out. The cash out of the group is €143 million. Then indeed we strengthen the



FINAL

capital base of the acquired entities by €200 million, but again, we earn it back, back to real
intangible synergies and the DTA will be recognized on day one.
The LAC DT and SCR mergers, the benefit, will be realized upon legal mergers. I mean, I leave to
anyone who wants to see the glass half full or glass half empty. The facts are that the cash out is
€143 million. Fact is €200 million of capital injection, but fact is there is a LAC DT benefit, the
diversification benefit and a DTA benefit that actually tangibles here and there. So, I believe that is
the capital commitment.
The remainder then is, I think, your actuarial assumption alignment which we'll take into account, so
the one thing you could discuss is the recognition of the cost synergies. €80 million and indeed
that will happen only upon [Technical Difficulty] (48:20).
Interestingly, if you think about the delivery of those delivery synergies, if we were not to realize
them, we'd still would be able to make the hurdle rate on this transaction and so we would realize
them because we believe strongly in the synergy potential in this case. So, fact is, there are real
tangible capital synergies that will limit the actual capital commitment of our group.

Q - Operator
Okay. Yeah. That is clear. Just following up on cost synergies. I think if I'm not mistaken throughout
the presentation you said that the cost synergies are around €80 million in the future, so I was just
wondering then in that case, am I – did I listen to that correctly or is it something else?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Chris Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Yeah. The cost synergies are €80 million, but that's after inclusion, by the way, of the restructuring
cost. So, think about a cost synergies minus restructuring costs and some tax impact and then you
get €80 million of cost synergies, net of restructuring cost.

Q - Operator
Okay. All right. Thank you.

A - Jos P. M. Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Well. Thanks. Thanks, everybody for joining our early morning call. This last question concludes our
call. And again, thank you for listening and we look forwards to all your reports and if you have any
further questions, please don't hesitate to contact one of our IR colleagues. Good morning,
everybody.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the a.s.r. conference call. You may now disconnect your line.
Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.



Bloomberg Transcript
FINAL

