Q2 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Delfin Rueda Arroyo, Chief Financial Officer & Member-Management Board
Eilard Friese, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman
Jan-Hendrik Erasmus , Chief Risk Officer & Member-Management Board

Other Participants
Arjan van Veen, Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Bart Horsten, Analyst
Benoît Pétrarque, Analyst
Cor Kluis , Analyst
Darshan Mistry, Analyst
Farooq Hanif , Analyst
Farquhar C. Murray, Analyst
Matthias de Wit, Analyst
Nadine van der Meulen, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Robin van den Broek, Analyst
Steven Haywood, Analyst
William Hawkins , Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is the operator speaking. Welcome to NN Group's
Analyst Conference Call on its Second Quarter 2017 Results. The telephone lines will be in listenonly mode during the company's presentation. The lines will then be opened for a question-andanswer session.
Before handing this conference call over to Mr. Lard Friese, Chief Executive Officer of NN Group,
let me first give the following statement on behalf of the company.
Today's comments may include forward-looking statements such as statements regarding future
developments in NN Group's business, expectations for its future financial performance and any
statement not involving a historical fact. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in
any forward-looking statement. Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are
made and NN Group assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information or for any other reason. Furthermore, nothing
in today's comments constitutes an offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy any securities.
Good morning, Mr. Friese. Over to you.

Eilard Friese
Yes. Good morning. And good morning, everyone, and welcome to our conference call to discuss
NN Group's results for the second quarter of 2017. I will kick off today's presentation by looking at



FINAL

the highlights of the second quarter results, as well as the commercial developments in the past
quarter. I will also update you on the progress we're making to integrate Delta Lloyd into NN
Group.
Delfin Rueda, our Chief Financial Officer, will then talk you through the details of the financial
results at group level and for the individual operating segments. He will also talk about the capital
position and free cash flow. I will conclude the presentation with a wrap-up, after which we will
open the call for Q&A. Jan-Hendrik Erasmus, our Chief Risk Office is also with us today to answer
your questions.
I suggest we start at slide number 3. Before we begin, let me say that this is special day for us as
we present for the first time a full set of quarterly results for NN Group and Delta Lloyd combined.
Some of the numbers we are presenting today are for the combined group, and where
appropriate, we will highlight the contribution of Delta Lloyd.

Bloomberg Transcript

The operating result of the ongoing business was substantially higher year-on-year, and included a
healthy contribution from Delta Lloyd of €49 million. The standalone and end results were also
generally higher with the exception of non-life where we took a €40 million strengthening of our
property and casualty insurance liabilities to address the adverse development of bodily injury
claims.
Commercial momentum was strong with total sales up 43%, and value of new business for the first
six months of 2017, up 68% driven by higher sales and better margins in Europe and Japan. Our
balance sheet also developed favorably. NN Group Solvency II ratio was 196% at the end of the
second quarter. While market movements were favorable, we were pleased that the Delta Lloyd
entity's contributed operating Own Funds generation of approximately €50 million.
In addition, as Delfin will discuss later, the Solvency II ratio includes the alignment of the Delta Lloyd
balance sheet assumptions. We flagged in the announcement of the transaction that we expected
to take adjustments in certain areas and we did. Of course, valuation adjustments in an acquisition
work both ways. But overall, the final outcome is in line with our expectations. Cash capital at the
holding company remains healthy, despite the provision for Australia. This means that we continue
to have significant financial flexibility. Finally, we have today announced an interim dividend for 2017
of €0.62 per share.
Let's turn to slide 4. Successfully integrating Delta Lloyd is obviously our number one priority, but
notwithstanding this, the organization continues to drive the innovation and change agenda that
we have put in place over the last few years. For example, in our international businesses, we
continue to push for additional distribution partners to leverage our market leading franchises, the
most recent examples being in Turkey and Poland, which follow on from the distribution
agreement that we have with Sumitomo Life in Japan, which came online in April and has made an
encouraging start.
We continue to innovate our product set. For example in Hungary with our accident insurance, and
in Greece with NN Orange Health, both of which are leading in the market. Our Sparklab in the
Netherlands is piloting the new concept of prepaid car insurance called Bundelz in collaboration
with Vodafone which we're optimistic about. To round off, I'm also pleased that our asset manager
has again attracted third-party assets with €3.1 billion of net inflow in the second quarter.
Let's move on to slide 5. The entire acquisition process of Delta Lloyd has been completed, in fact
within six months of announcing the recommended offer at the end of 2016. This was a lot of work
but it went very smoothly. During this time, we agreed to purchase the Delta Lloyd preference
shares held by Fonds NutsOhra and a subordinated loan NN provided to Delta Lloyd. This
transaction was an important step in reducing leverage and improving our carrying capacity.



FINAL

We also issued €900 million of senior notes at attractive rates. And we used the proceeds to
repay the bridge financing for the acquisition. Finally, we completed the legal merger, which
resulted in us issuing €165 million worth of shares. Our work has not stopped there. Immediately on
completion of the transaction in April, we began the integration process. I look forward to updating
you more at our Capital Markets Day on our plans.
In the meantime, I'd like to share a few key highlights. We have put in place management teams
for all the business units and support functions. This allows those teams to begin the integration
process of their relevant units and departments. We've also made sure that NN and Delta Lloyd
have come together as one company for our customers. The front offices of NN and Delta Lloyd
are working together to coordinate new product offers, and we have had intensive interaction with
our intermediaries to address their questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

While the integration will be a multi-year process, we have naturally looked for quick wins where
they can be achieved. In this context, we have critically reviewed the project portfolio and stopped
those projects that are no longer necessary under NN's ownership. Integrating two organization
and business cultures requires effort and focus. We have a lot of work to do but I want to take this
opportunity to express my delight at how our teams are working together, whether on the
integration or just business as usual in what is obviously a period of significant change and
challenge. It further strengthens my belief in the quality of the two companies, and my confidence
in the quality of the combined company that will ultimately be created.
So let's turn to slide number 6. As we showed in the previous slide, we're holding our Capital
Markets Day on November 30, at which we will give a strategic update of the combined group,
including the announcement of our new cost reduction target. In the meantime, we continue to
focus on improving efficiency across the businesses, and in particular at the operating units where
we expect the integration of Delta Lloyd to create cost synergies.
This includes our asset management and banking units where we expect meaningful synergies,
although we also expect this to be offset somewhat by expense increases to support growth.
Compared with the expenses base for the full year 2016, we have reduced cost by a total of €22
million in the first half of (08:01-09:01) cash flow generation allows us to do so.
And with that, I would like to hand over to Delfin Rueda, our Chief Financial Officer.

Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Thank you, Lard, and good morning, everyone. As this is the first quarter that we have
consolidated Delta Lloyd into the results, I would like to start by highlighting some of the
accounting implications of this. We first have to draw up our day 1 balance sheet, in which all of
Delta Lloyd's assets and the abilities were remeasured to fair value. We also recognize acquisitionrelated intangibles such as brand names, distribution agreements and client relationships for an
amount of €447 million, as well as goodwill of €1.1 billion.
Starting from the second quarter, NN Group accounting principles are applied for all Delta Lloyd
entities, and please bear in mind that this differs significantly from the principles previously used by
Delta Lloyd. In particular, the investment yield on fixed income assets will generally be recognized
using the market yield at the acquisition date, and insurance liabilities for the life businesses will
generally be recognized on a lock-in basis using acquisition date assumptions.
The Delta Lloyd entities have included in the relevant segments of NN Group. And we have set out
where this entity is included on a slide 24 in the appendix. We have also taken this opportunity to
align the calculation method for the combined ratio of our non-life business in order to bring it
more into line with market practice. Under the new methodology, we exclude the unwind of the
discount rate on the insurance liabilities related to the disability and accident business.



FINAL

Let's now look at the consolidated second quarter results on slide 10. NN Group reported an
operating result of the ongoing business of €404 million in the second quarter of 2017, up 26% on
the same quarter in 2016. This increase was driven by the €49 million contribution of the Delta
Lloyd businesses, as well as higher results at most segments, partly offset by the impact of a €40
million strengthening of P&C liabilities at Netherlands Non-life. The net result for the second
quarter was €240 million, this reflects higher non-operating items and an improved result Japan
Closed Block VA offset by the special items and a €188 million provision related to ING Australia
Holdings, which we had to recognize this quarter.
Moving onto slide 11, I would now like to take you through the second quarter performance of the
individual segments, starting as always with Netherlands Life. The operating result of Netherlands
Life increased to €290 million in the second quarter of 2017 of which Delta Lloyd contributed €57
million. The higher net result this quarter was supported by a €14 million dividend from an indirect
stake in ING Life Korea, as well as lower administrative expenses.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please note that the Delta Lloyd Life results were supported by €16 million of non-recurrent and
seasonal impacts. The investment spread calculated on a 12-month basis was 85 basis points
compared with 128 for the same quarter last year. The decrease reflects the inclusion of the Delta
Lloyd invested assets and insurance liabilities at market yields, which have been re-measured at
fair value as at the April 1, 2017.
I would now turn to slide 12 for the results of Netherlands Non-Life. I would like to spend some time
on the results of the Netherlands Non-Life segment, which reported a loss of €27 million in the
second quarter of 2017. The combined ratio was 107% based on the new calculation method. Let's
look at the two businesses lines together separately. The operating result in disability and accident
was €29 million for the second quarter of 2017, of which Delta Lloyd contributed €6 million. The
disability and accident result for the second quarter last year was supported by a very favorable
claims development in that quarter, plus an IBNR update. The D&A combined ratio for this quarter
of 92% is, therefore, at a good level. The operating result in Property & Casualty was a loss of €63
million, of which, an €18 million loss is related to Delta Lloyd. The current quarter includes large fire
claims of €16 million in the Delta Lloyd portfolio. You may remember that the second quarter last
year included the impact of severe storms of €28 million, affecting both the fire and motor
portfolios. The P&C combined ratio was 115% compared with 118% in the second quarter of 2016.
Within the P&C business, we have seen good progress in the NN Life portfolio, with a combined
ratio of 96% for this quarter and a full-year 2016 combined ratio of 95%, excluding the severe
summer storm. However, despite the measures taken so far, the motor book results are still not up
to our expectations. We have had the liability to extensively review and adjusted the best estimate
ultimate loss ratios, resulting in a strengthening of the technical provisions of the motor and
miscellaneous books for bodily injury claims by a total of €40 million. This is part of a series of
measures to strengthen the performance of the motor portfolio, including prospective price
increases.
Please turn now to slide 13 on the results of Insurance Europe. The segment Insurance Europe
reported an operating result of €73 million, of which, the Delta Lloyd business in Belgium
contributed €4 million. The higher operating result reflects higher fees and premium-based
revenues and lower DAC amortization and trail commissions. The results also benefited from
some non-recurring and seasonal items, totaling €9 million. Value of new business for the first six
months of 2017 increased to €72 million, of which, Delta Lloyd contributed €4 million, driven by
higher sales at better margins.
Moving now to Japan Life on slide 14. The operating result of Japan Life was 68% from the second
quarter of 2016, excluding currency effects. This was mainly driven by higher technical margin,
higher fees and premium-based revenues and an improvement in the investment margin, partially
offset by increased expenses. Value of new business was up strongly at €93 million in the first six
months of 2017, driven by higher sales at better margins.



FINAL

I will now turn to slide 15 on the Asset Management segment. Total assets under management
increased from €194 billion at the end of the first quarter of 2017 to €245 billion, of which, €51
billion relates to Delta Lloyd Asset Management. The increase, excluding Delta Lloyd, was driven
by net inflows of third party assets of €3.1 billion, mainly within the institutional segment, partly
offset by negative market performance of €2.6 billion, primarily due to higher interest rates. The
operating result increased to €37 million, driven by higher fees, partly offset by higher expenses.
The contribution of Delta Lloyd was zero as fees were offset by expenses in this quarter.
The segment Other is set on slide 16. The operating result of the segment Other decreased to a
loss of €7 million, of which, €5 million related to Delta Lloyd. The main components of this segment
are the holding result, the reinsurance business and banking business. The holding result
decreased to a loss of €50 million, of which, €14 million related to Delta Lloyd. The decrease
reflects a €10 million increase in holding expenses, largely due to a revised methodology for
charging head office expenses to the segment. The operating result of the banking business
increased to €34 million, of which, Delta Lloyd contributed €9 million. The higher operating result
reflects a higher interest margin and a lower addition to the loan loss provision.

Bloomberg Transcript

And that completes the results of our operating segments. Now, in slide 17, we show the
movement in the holding company cash capital, which decreased from €3 billion at the end of first
quarter 2017 to €1.7 billion at the end of the second quarter. A lot has happened this quarter, so let
me take you through the main movements.
The free cash flow during the second quarter was €34 million, reflecting €820 million of dividends
received from subsidiaries. This was partly offset by a €500 million capital injection into Delta Lloyd
Life, as well as €188 million deduction for the provision related to ING Australia Holdings, which is
included in the category other.
The cash capital also reflects the inclusion of Delta Lloyd cash position at the beginning of the
quarter. The cash payment for the acquisition of Delta Lloyd as well as capital flows to
shareholders representing the cash part of the 2016 final dividend and share repurchases in the
second quarter of 2017. The net increase of debt and loans reflects the issue in May of new senior
notes of €900 million. The €200 million repayment of operational leverage by NN Bank to the
holding company partly offset by the repayment, also in May, of the €476 million non-qualifying
subordinated notes.
Although not included on this slide, the financial leverage of the combined group was €6.7 billion at
the end of the second quarter, in line with the pro forma position that we gave at the first quarter
results. The financial leverage ratio is 30.8% at the end of the second quarter based on our
revised definition of this ratio, which is now more in line with market practice. More details are
included on slide 28 in the appendix.
On the following slides, I would like to take you through the developments in our capital position.
NN Group Solvency II ratio at the end of June 2017 was 196%, including the full impact of the Delta
Lloyd acquisition and the alignment of actuarial assumptions. Starting on the left-hand side of the
graph, you can see that the acquisition of Delta Lloyd initially brought additional own funds and
SCR of €4.4 billion and €2.7 billion, respectively. We have then deducted the cash paid to acquire
Delta Lloyd in the second quarter, as well as the deduction of the stake held at the end of the first
quarter, for a total amount of €2.3 billion. The combination of these two items can be seen, and
you will, as taking us to a starting position for the combined group for the quarter.
From here, we included a full quarter of operating return of the Delta Lloyd entities contributing
approximately €50 million to own funds and a small release of SCR. The market variances were
substantial this quarter, as we benefited from the tighter credit spreads on French government
bonds and also a strong equity market and real estate performance.



FINAL

In the other category, we have included the provision related to ING Australia Holdings, as well as
actuarial assumption adjustments that we made, and I will expand on this on the following slide. But
before doing that, please note that we have not included restructuring charges in this ratio as
those will be booked over time. Finally, the capital flows reflect the deduction of the 2017 interim
dividend which we have announced today.
Turning to slide 19, you can see there that as we already flagged in December last year, we
anticipated and have made significant adjustments to the valuation of assets and liabilities on the
Delta Lloyd balance sheet, above and beyond those taken by Delta Lloyd in the fourth quarter of
2016 and the first quarter of 2017. The first was an alignment on the longevity assumptions used by
Delta Lloyd to those used by NN Group. This occurred within Delta Lloyd Life.
The second was to adjust upwards the asset management fees paid by Delta Lloyd entities. Given
the larger asset base of our asset manager, we also took the opportunity to reduce the fees paid
by NN Life. These and other adjustments led to lower own funds in Delta Lloyd Life and higher own
funds in NN Life. These, together with positive market variance and operating return, allowed NN
Life to pay a significantly higher dividend of €450 million to the holding company this quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thirdly, we reduced the valuation basis of mortgages on the Delta Lloyd balance sheet by using
the same valuation curve that NN Group uses. Finally, we also adjusted several other items which
have an overall negative impact on own funds of Delta Lloyd entities, including, for example, the
allocation of head office expenses to some entities and some updating of the Non-life liabilities.
Because of the impact of the balance sheet adjustments we made on the capital position of Delta
Lloyd Life, we decided to inject €500 million, which took the Solvency II ratio to 139% on a standard
formula basis at the end of the second quarter. This allows Delta Lloyd Life to manage its balance
sheet and commercial needs within the context of NN Group and its capital framework.
And with that, I will pass you back to Lard for the wrap up.

Eilard Friese
Yeah. Thank you, Delfin. Today, we have presented our first set of results for NN and Delta Lloyd as
a combined group. The operating result was strong and there was a healthy contribution from
Delta Lloyd. Most segments posted improved results and we kept up our commercial momentum
with higher sales and value of new business at our insurance businesses and good third party
inflows at our asset manager.
The loss reported in our Non-life business reflects the action we took this quarter to strengthen
the Property & Casualty liabilities. We will continue to implement additional measures to improve
the profitability of our motor business, including premium increases on the renewal of contracts.
Our capital position is strong, with a Solvency II ratio of 196%.
Our priorities going forward remain the same. Firstly, to successfully integrate Delta Lloyd and
extract the synergies. We are already making good progress to bring together the best of our
businesses and cultures. We will give a full update on our plans and targets at our Capital Markets
Day on the 30th of November of this year.
Secondly, we will continue to actively manage the balance sheet and capital position in order to
keep them strong. And thirdly, we continue our drive for profitable growth, especially at Insurance
Europe, Japan and our Asset Management business. We have a lot of work to do to integrate NN
and Delta Lloyd in the Netherlands and Belgium, but throughout this process, our employees will
remain committed to delivering an excellent customer service and to further innovate our
businesses.



With that, I would like to open now the call for your questions.

Q&A

FINAL

Operator
Thank you, Mr. Friese. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now start the question-and-answer session.
The first question is from Mr. Farooq Hanif, Credit Suisse. Go ahead, please, sir.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Oh, hi there. Thank you very much and good morning. Firstly, about the operational capital
generation on the Solvency II. So, you've got roughly €300 million to €400 million of operating
capital generation in own funds and SCR. Could you give some indication of sustainability of that
underlying number? So for example, what comes from Japanese closed book that may disappear?
And also, the €50 million that approximately is coming from Delta Lloyd, will that also increase due
to the synergies? So for example, the guidance you give on free cash flow, can we apply that also
to operating capital generation?
And secondly, on the P&C side, you've made some reserve strengthening, I believe, in the
Netherlands – sorry, the old NN P&C portfolio. Do you anticipate having to look again at Delta
Lloyd's reserve as well? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Eilard Friese
Yes, Farooq, good morning. I will take the P&C questions and I will ask Delfin to comment on the
capital generation, but maybe it's good if we start with the P&C first.
Indeed, the €40 million of strengthening of the bodily injury liabilities is taken in the NN book, so
that's correct. When it comes to Delta Lloyd and the bodily injury, well, this quarter, we
consolidated Delta Lloyd's financials and the NN Group financials, and part of that process is remeasurements of assets and liabilities. So, the liabilities, including the ones for bodily injury claims,
are now at best estimate levels.
With that, I would like to hand over to Delfin for your first question about capital generation.

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you, Farooq. So, you have a couple of questions, so I'll try to answer all of them. But all
very much related to how sustainable the operating capital generation in the quarter, how
sustainable that can be. I have been always a bit reluctant to talk about sustainable levels or give a
firm guidance. And as you have seen, this has been – you have seen some volatility quarter for –
quarter-by-quarter.
Japan Closed Block VA do contribute to the operating capital generation through their operating
result that you see reflected in the segment Japan Closed Block VA, which is the difference
between the management fees and the expenses that flows through the own funds. And then,
Japan Closed Block VA has some impact or decrease in the level of SCR during the, well, every
quarter as a result of the run-off. That decrease will vary over the next quarter. In this quarter that
was approximately €25 million of decrease in the SCR.
The increase of the synergies that will impact the capital generation of Delta Lloyd, absolutely,
you're right that that will come through, not only through Delta Lloyd but also through the other
entities within the Netherlands and Belgium as these flow.



FINAL

Maybe just to make a distinction or a clarification, you talk about the guidance in terms of free cash
flow and the free cash flow is very much two components. It has the capital generation, how much
the own funds increases in each quarter, as well as the evolution of the Solvency Capital
Requirement. These two contributed to the operating capital generation. In addition to that, there
is, of course, the variance, what happens with the level of surplus capital within our entities.
The guidance that we have provided in terms of €100 million to €150 million in the short term due
to the acquisition of Delta Lloyd, relates to the free cash flow, basically, the expected net
remittances that we expected to be incremental from the position of not having to acquire Delta
Lloyd.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Thank you. If I may, just very quickly follow-up. I know I asked a lot of questions but the – so
quantum-wise, what you're saying is the improvement in free cash flow, which I know is a net
remittance number, that might be a little bit better than the improvement in operating capital
generation from Delta Lloyd?

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, because you have seen that is already in the quarter, we have seen a capital contribution of
approximately €50 million, and as a consequence, one could expect that in the short term, the
capital contribution might be higher. However, you also have to take into account the fact that, still,
the operating expenses would have to be – the restructuring expenses would also have an impact
in the capital contribution and this need to come over the next period of time, next quarters.
In addition to that, when you look at the capital generation, it's important that you don't forget that
within the segment Other, we have the interest on the hybrids that also impact the capital
generation but they are not reflected in the bucket operating return. And that, in the quarter for
Delta Lloyd, was approximately €15 million.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
The next question is from Mr. Robin van den Broek, Mediobanca. Go ahead, please.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning, gentlemen. First of all, on the €500 million capital injection, I guess that
number is a bit higher than at least we were expecting. Is there any chance you can get that capital
back after PIM or legal merger integration? And also, it's a 28 percentage point move, I think,
roughly, so that would put Delta Lloyd Life at 110%. Is that just reflecting the issues you've
encountered before or is there some surprises in there basically?
Second question is on leverage ratio. I think when you announced the deal, you said that you would
be around 30% leverage ratio and I think you were still deducting goodwill from the capital base to
get to that number. And you mentioned that it was at the high end of your appetite levels. So the
fact that we're now at 31% with a more favorable calculation of that 31%, does that mean that
deleveraging has focus for you in the mid-term? Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese
Yeah. Thanks, Robin. Delfin, I'm handing over to you for this.



A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. Thank you, Robin. The €500 million capital injection, one important consideration to say is that
has been, for its most part, financed within the segment Netherlands Life. So, we have seen a
strong capital generation in both Delta Lloyd on an organic basis, as well as NN and we have
managed to do this capital injection within the same segment, meaning that there was no
additional need to reduce the cash capital at holding in order to do this recapitalization.
This obviously follows a careful rigorous exercise to update the assumptions and align policies in a
prudent manner within Delta Lloyd. And we have basically done the capital injection to the level of
which Delta Lloyd is under a standard formula, very comfortable level, as part of the NN Group.
And that provides, certainly, a financial flexibility also for Delta Lloyd in order to make their hedging
and investment decisions without capital concerns. And absolutely, in terms of the capital
generation that the Delta Lloyd company – companies are generating, we will see some of the –
that capital being returned over time.
As a matter of fact, already within the – within this quarter, we already have some dividends
coming from some of the subsidiaries of Delta Lloyd and we would expect that with this strong
capital generation, plus the operational synergies that we have flagged, that will help Delta Lloyd
to pay dividends to the holding us any other subsidiary within the group.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of the leverage ratio, yes, we have done the adjustment in the way that we calculate the
leverage in order to make it comparable to what is market standard in the way that also the rating
agencies look at it, and it has, I think, it's around 2 percentage points effect or so on the leverage
ratio. So instead of the 30.8%, it will be around 2 percentages points higher.

A - Eilard Friese
Yes, and Robin, Jan-Hendrik will add something on the PIM comment that you made.

A - Jan-Hendrik Erasmus

{BIO 19801435 <GO>}

Thank you, Lard. Hello, Robin. Yes, you asked about PIM and whether that would help the Solvency
position. Of course, we expect that, to some extent, we have to balance that against the current
benefit for the longevity hedges within the Delta Lloyd entity that was disclosed in their SFCR
which was, I think, €360 million at December 31, 2016. So, some benefit but we have to temper it a
little bit.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Sorry. That's all very clear. Just on the leverage ratio, I think when you announced the deal last
December, you were talking about 30% being at the high end of your appetite range. You're
basically above that now. Deleveraging, is that something that you need to do or...

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes. Robin, sorry for not following this up. We didn't say that 30% was at the high level of our risk
appetite. What we said it was with – as a guidance, that we thought it was going to be within the
range of 30% which that has been the case. And indeed, we indicated at that time that because of
the strong capital generation of the group, that we will consider some deleveraging and, well,
there is an opportunity which is very short term in November, which is a €575 million senior debt at
Delta Lloyd. And then, with the level of solvency capital generation and financial flexibility that
we've got, we will consider then if we need to refinance that partially or not.
Also, keep in mind that since we did the announcement, we have also, through the FNO
transaction that we executed, that helped us reduce the leverage as well. So, we will continue
taking opportunities when they come.



Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator

FINAL

The next question is from Mr. Cor Kluis, ABN AMRO. Go ahead, please, sir.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Good morning. Cor Kluis, ABN. Couple of questions. First question is about the Solvency II ratio at
group which was, of course, quite good. What was the positive effect of the model changes for NN
Group standalone? That's my first question.
And my second question is about Delta Lloyd Leven, the 139% solvency ratio-wise, is it enough that
you've seen what Aegon recently did with its subsidiary to recapitalize, and we understand that in
the future, you will merge it with NN Life, but you still have to take restructuring cost over there.
How comfortable are you that that's enough?
And my last question is about Non-life. You saw that the premium quarter-on-quarter went up by
75%, of course, due to Delta Lloyd, but the investment income only went up by 16% quarter-onquarter. Why is that so low? Is there some special item in there or was investment income of Delta
Lloyd on the low side? That's all my questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Eilard Friese
Yes. Thank you, Cor. Delfin, can you start with the Solvency II ratios, et cetera.

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, Cor. Within the quarter for the NN Group standalone, there has been some, apart
from the positive evolution of market and a positive contribution on the operating return, there has
been some positive impacts on model changes. The most important element of it has been the
reduction on the investment expenses. So basically, that is reflected, as you know, within the
segment Other for model and assumption changes. But the majority, as you can imagine, of the
negative impacts appearing in the bucket Other for model and assumption changes related to the
acquisition of Delta Lloyd, as I referred before.
Delta Lloyd Life at 139%, is it a comfortable level. Yeah, I think it is. It is a very comfortable level, as I
said, first, because it comes from having look at, not only at the IFRS balance sheet but also at the
Solvency II balance sheet in a rigorous and prudent manner, and therefore, we are very satisfied
with the level of the starting position in terms of solvency of Delta Lloyd. And I mentioned before
that we do expect a significant free cash flow contribution from Delta Life, the contribution of the
acquisition, and on that sense, I feel quite comfortable, 139%, a standard formula within solid –
solidly capitalized group, provides certain financial flexibility that Delta Lloyd needs to operate
going forward.
In terms of the investment income, indeed, the investment income has decreased certainly for
Netherlands Life but also for Netherlands Non-life. Both are impacted by the fact that their fixed
income securities are valued to fair value to market value at the day of the acquisition, and as a
consequence, the investment margin spread or the investment margin yield for Delta Lloyd is even
for the same security is lower as for NN Group comes based on the historical yields at the time of
acquiring the investments. So indeed, that decrease is reflecting that.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Okay. Wonderful. Thank you very much.



Operator
The next question is from Mr. Ashik Musaddi, JPMorgan. Go ahead, please.

FINAL

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning, Lard. Good morning, Delfin. Just few questions again, sorry, on Delta Lloyd. It's
all on Delta Lloyd. So first of all, can you give us some color with respect to the capital position of
this, just deal-related thing. Are you more or less done with respect to all model changes, capital
injection or there is more to go? I mean, I understand that there's this partial internal model for
Delta Lloyd and this longevity SCR change is expected. But except that, is there anything more we
should be expecting on solvency capital from Delta Lloyd? That's number one.
Secondly is how should we think about the Non-life earnings? Because first of all, I mean, your Nonlife earnings is still struggling in terms of delivering the combined ratio target. You had 98% if I
remember correctly. And at the same time, if I look at Delta Lloyd Non-life, I mean, it delivered, say,
€6 million, minus €6 million in the quarter. Even if we add back the fire claims, it's like €10 million in
the quarter, and this compares with, say, €25 million in the quarter that Delta Lloyd used to report, I
mean, in past. So, what is the underlying Non-life earnings for Delta Lloyd and for your NN Non-life
as well going forward? I mean, should we be just expecting continuing, I mean, drag or is there any
visibility that it will get better?

Bloomberg Transcript

Just the last bit on your asset risk, can you give us a bit more color about asset re-risking strategy,
i.e. it looks like the NN Life earnings keep on moving up and up on a consistent basis driven by cost
saving, driven by asset re-risking. Would you expect the same thing to happen with Delta Lloyd
assets as well?

A - Eilard Friese
Okay. Ashik, this is Lard. Thank you very much for your questions. We're going to take them, all
three of us. So, Jan-Hendrik will take care of the asset re-risking question that you mentioned,
Delfin will take care of the capital position discussion, and I will talk about the Non-life piece. Maybe
it's good to start with the Non-life earnings.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Eilard Friese
So on the Non-life earnings, also if you look at the combination, yeah, let's ground ourselves a bit.
If you look at the combination, the disability and accident business on a full-year gross written
premium basis, is roughly 40% of the entire Non-life business. That piece runs well, has been
running well for a while and has continued to run well also in the second quarter.
Then, if you take the Property & Casualty side, that's basically the area where the profitability of
the total Non-life company is dragged down. When it comes to fire, the fire business, actually, you
see already for a while that the Dutch NN portfolios are fine and running at a roughly 95%
combined full-year 2016, 96% combined, for the second quarter of this year. Obviously, that needs
improvement in terms of expense reductions, et cetera, but that's also not a place which is a real
big concern.
Then, you have the Delta Lloyd piece of fire. Yes, you had a €16 million negative of large fire claims
this quarter. Those are not – there is no correlation or relation thing that around this that we can
comment on at this point in time. The real issue, I think, is in the motor book, as we mentioned
already for a while. The motor book, there's a couple of things there. First, the bodily injury side of
it. So, this is basically when you have accidents and it's part of your third party liability. And the
bodily injury experience, we've done the deep dive for this quarter with internal teams and



FINAL

external consulting teams as well to look into the need of taking an additional strengthening of
liabilities. We've done that in the NN book for €40 million. And as I said earlier on the first question
Farooq, that we also ensured that at the time we looked at the liabilities, take them on board for
Delta Lloyd on day one, we also make sure that included the best estimate for those.
Now, moving forward, we will, obviously, first of all, on the bodily injury side, we take that new
experience into account and we take the current claims in. So, that's one thing. Secondly, we will
start additional re-pricing of the bodily injury risks as of the fourth quarter of this year. That's when
we will start to re-pricing that book. That'll take some time before you see that back in the overall
margin improvement. If you look at the contract duration, the bulk of it will probably be done in a
year but it will – it's something that you need to see improve over time.
Then, when it comes about expense reductions, we will obviously continue to work on the expense
ratio. We have some pockets, by the way, on the Delta Lloyd business where actually, the
combined ratio for the motor book is in a good place, which is the ABN AMRO joint venture, which
is the OHRA business model. So, that is an inspiring thing for us to drive the expense ratio down
further, take the learnings also on the underwriting side, improve the underwriting results as a
result of that as well. So, you can hear that we are committed to driving an improvement on this
Property & Casualty business through in a very difficult market environment for motor which, as you
know, is highly competitive, but for which we now have, together with Delta Lloyd, a considerable
scale and that should help us as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now with that, I would like to hand over to Delfin.

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes, thank you. Thank you, Lard. Just maybe to add a bit to what Lard has said. When you look at
the results of the Non-life business of Delta Lloyd in the quarter, you've got that the very negative
result that we have already discussed due to the large fire claims in the Property & Casualty, there
is a profit of disability and actually is of €6 million, but there is also the additional €6 million coming
through the operating result of the health business and broker businesses. One point, of caution,
you'll see is if you were to compare with the results of Non-life before looking at investment
margin, keep in mind that investment margin will reduce because of what I have just explained.
You sounded, I think, a bit apologetic about asking again about Delta Lloyd but I'm very happy to
talk about the acquisition of Delta Lloyd because I think that it has met our expectations in terms of
the expectations of free cash flow generation, as you know, going forward. And as I said before,
we have done all the model and assumption changes that we thought they were appropriate, and
on that sense, there is nothing pending to do. Once said that, as for any other unit within the
group, we will be reassessing on a regular basis the necessary adjustments as required.

Q - Eilard Friese
And then, Jan-Hendrik, on the assets re-risking discussion.

A - Jan-Hendrik Erasmus

{BIO 19801435 <GO>}

Thank you, Lard. Hi, Good morning, Ashik.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Good morning.

A - Jan-Hendrik Erasmus

{BIO 19801435 <GO>}

Thank you for the question. Well, I think the short answer is yes. We are going to look at re-risking
also the Delta Lloyd balance sheet. Of course, when you look at our overall portfolio there, we
have fixed income portfolio of roughly €150 billion, and half of that is in govies.



FINAL

So as we have guided in the past, it's relatively defensive and some might say conservative
portfolio. It's certainly conservative relative to the VOLA reference portfolio. So in the re-risking,
we'll consider, of course, risk return and the impact on our sensitivities which you can see that we
manage very carefully and we hope to see an uplift in the coming quarters. I think we plan to
provide more guidance in the Capital Markets Day also on this topic.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay. That's very good. Thank you.

Operator
The next question is from Ms. Nadine van der Meulen, Morgan Stanley. Go ahead, please.

Q - Nadine van der Meulen

{BIO 15200446 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Good morning. Thank you for taking my questions. You talked about the strong capital
generation in – on the Life side for both NN and Delta Lloyd. I was – and also, on the operational
capital generation you saw on the slide, the 5 percentage points. I translate it into roughly €370
million for the second quarter. I suppose, the bulk of that is coming from NN Life and Delta Lloyd
Life. But then, if you look at slide 11, the value of new business is €6 million and that includes Delta
Lloyd, I suppose. Can you explain why this is so low in light of the very high operational capital
generation? And in other words, well, if you can comment on that and explain that, and also,
perhaps, what your outlook is for the value of new business in the Netherlands?
I suppose, second question is on the holdco cash position, the €1.7 billion, what will be a level or
range that you would be comfortable with on an ongoing basis, if you will?
And then, lastly, on the Delta Lloyd Life, this Delta Lloyd Leven, when can we expect a
consolidation into one legal entity with NN Life? Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese
Yeah. Thanks, Nadine. Delfin, I'm handing over to you.

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Nadine. Well, I've always been a bit reluctant to start talking about very precise
figures on each of the – in each of the brackets. There are some roundings here and when you talk
about the capital generation in the quarter, there are always movements up and down, but the
€0.3 million (sic) [€0.3 billion], if you like, is around the top of the capital generation, if you like, and
this is something that you need to take into account when looking forward. Then, also, within that
figure, as always, different elements. And in this quarter, for example, Japan Life has become
relatively low in terms of the contribution on the own funds.
In terms of how that's – I mean, value new business for the Netherlands Life has always been kind
of breakeven and we expect that to continue being around breakeven. The main drivers of the
capital generation coming from the existing business is coming from the investment spread, and
this is what we will continue to be seeing going forward, as well, of course, the combination of the
UFR drag and the risk margin release.
The experience variance in the quarter is always having an impact. So in this quarter, for example,
the experience variance has been negative and this is what is dragging this €0.3 billion is below the
€300 million. In the first quarter of last year it was a positive experience variance. So, you will
always going to see some deviation that on a quarterly basis have to be taken into account. So, I
would expect to continue seeing a very marginal, around zero value of new business within
Netherlands Life.



In terms of the cash capital position, we had given a guidance between €0.5 billion and €1.5 billion.
We are currently above that level, so we are certainly comfortable for that. And that always has to
be taken into account, looking at two other factors, what is the level of capitalization of the
subsidiaries and your situation in terms of leverage.

FINAL

A - Eilard Friese
Yeah. Nadine, there is one question left, I think, which is about the legal merger, et cetera. Yes, we
aim over time to merge the Life entities in the Netherlands. That's going to take a while because
that has to – that coincides with obviously putting the liabilities of the Life company on the internal
model of NN Group and that's the material change process going to Solvency II, which means that
it's a quite elaborate process to do that. But we aim to work towards that direction but it's not
going to be a short-term thing. It's going to be something that will take a bit of time.

Q - Nadine van der Meulen

{BIO 15200446 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
The next question is from Mr. Steven Haywood, HSBC. Go ahead, please, sir.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Couple of math questions, I hope not too difficult. You've got €447
million of intangibles. You're amortizing that through the P&L at €33 million per quarter. Am I right
that this is – this means that all these intangibles will be gone in less than four years? That's the first
question.
And then, in terms of the capital generation per quarter, you've got about €300 million to €400
million capital generation per quarter or even net operating result per quarter, whichever one you
want to focus on. Given your €1.2 billion to €1.6 billion per year and dividend is being paid out less
than 50%, say, €600 million, so what are you doing with the remaining €600 million to €1 billion of
capital going forward? Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese
So thank you, Steven. Delfin, please.

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes, good morning. Thank you, Steven. The €447 million of intangibles, they are, of course, a split
in different categories, the – like the Delta Lloyd brand, the client relationship, some of the
distribution arrangements, and each of these categories has a different amortization period. And
as you can imagine, the Delta Lloyd brand, as we have made the announcement, that it will be
discontinued in the short term if that is being amortized on a very rapid way within a period of two
years. That's why we are expecting approximately €33 million per quarter during the remaining
part of this year and next year.
And then, after that, it will decrease lower and probably will come back more to €20 million to €30
million per year. And I think your calculation is right, taking short of the average, but obviously, there
are some other intangibles like the client relationship or the distribution channels, the agreement
with distribution channels that goes beyond that time. Obviously, as I think you know, the
amortization of intangibles is an accounting negative impact on the IFRS profit but it has no cash
implication.

A - Eilard Friese



FINAL

And I think on the second question, Steven, so you make a number of calculations yourself. I mean,
I'll leave it up to you, but the key thing was what are you doing with capital and your approach to
capital management. We manage capital actively, as you know. Our priority is to maintain a strong
balance sheet and a strong capital position, obviously, if over time, and our priority by the way is to
focus on return on that capital. We just did a very large acquisition and our focus is really on
extracting the synergies and making sure that we create a lot of shareholder value in that
acquisition.
Obviously, we aim to continue in that sense with a sustainable and attractive ordinary dividend, and
if, at a certain point in time, the capital position is – and the companies beyond our ambition, et
cetera, then we look as we did in the past. We look at deployment opportunities in the company,
strengthen the company further or we look at repatriating that capital in any form to shareholders
over time. But in that sense, nothing has changed and our focus is really on the return on capital for
our large acquisition that we just completed.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks very much.

Operator
The next question is from Mr. Matthias de Wit, KBC. Go ahead, please.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Yeah, good morning. The first question on the capital synergies, presumably, you already
benefited from a diversification benefit. I wonder what's still ahead, for example, in terms of LACDT? I'm not sure where you are at the level of Delta Lloyd right now. And could you, in this respect,
also comment on the timing of the internal model project at the level of Delta Lloyd.
And then, the second question is on the holding company cash flow. I noticed that you remitted
€450 million to the holdco from the Dutch Life business, but you're still at 220%, so I guess there is
room to do more here. So could you please confirm what your – or provide some insights into your
plan in this respect? Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese
Yes. Matthias, good morning. Thank you for your questions. Delfin will take most of it, but maybe
it's good for Jan-Hendrik Erasmus, our Chief Risk Officer, comments on the internal model.

A - Jan-Hendrik Erasmus

{BIO 19801435 <GO>}

Thank you, Lard. Good morning, Matthias. Yes, you asked about the timing of the internal model
application. Of course, anything that we do to expand the scope of our internal model is, of
course, subject to DNB approval so we can never be fully sure of the final timing. It's not, in the
end, up to us, but we are working towards year end 2018 to have the expanded PIM approved.
Maybe to touch on the capital synergies that you have already seen. Of course, there is a small
synergy arising when you combine the standard formula of Delta Lloyd into the NN Group figures.
But for an in-market acquisition with the same risks in the same countries, you don't expect to see
a lot and we also didn't see a big diversification benefit there.

A - Eilard Friese
So Delfin?

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}



FINAL

Yes. So in terms of the LAC DT, really I don't have much to say about it. I mean, it's another quarter
that we calculate our Solvency capital requirement following our methodology, following the
guidelines of the Dutch regulator in what respect to the LAC DT so that we have not seen any
necessary adjustment on the approach that we have taken so far or that Delta Lloyd took in the
past. If anything, because of Delta Lloyd being within better capitalized group and the way of
treating, some of the external debt of Delta Lloyd, the LAC DT of Delta Lloyd has improved
somehow. But apart from that, nothing else to report or to expect in the future. Obviously, as any
other element of the LAC DT, it's always subjected to doing a reassessment of assumptions as we
do every quarter.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

So, so far you have not recognized any material additional LAC DTs at the level of Delta Lloyd if I
understand you correctly?

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

No, we basically have done the calculation as we always do in terms of assessing what is the total
recoverable deferred tax amount for each of the legal entity. And as I said before in the second
quarter, as Delta Lloyd is in a different situation, there has been a recapitalization of the company.
And it is also part of a better capitalized group, therefore there is some improvements or some
increase in the LAC DT deduction from the SCR in the second quarter.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Okay, thank you. And on holding cash?

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes, in terms of the – you made the reference to NN Life being very well capitalized, 220%, that I
certainly concur with you. And maybe is – if I look a bit back in history, NN Life was at the level of
216% Solvency II ratio at the moment of introducing Solvency II, so that was on January 1, 2016.
Since then, according to my calculations, has paid including the €450 million of this quarter just a bit
less than €2 billion of dividends to the holding company. And it is, as you know, at the end of June
at 220%. So yes, it is very well capitalized but indeed NN Life has been – will continue, we expect to
be a stable contributor to our remittance to the holding company.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
The next question is from Mr. Benoît Pétrarque, Kepler. Go ahead please.

Q - Benoît Pétrarque
Yes. Good morning. Benoît Pétrarque from Kepler Cheuvreux. A couple of questions on my side,
the first one will be on your dividend guidance, the double-digit growth for 2018, cash is probably
better, Solvency II also. So what is your view having worked on models and on the integration of
Delta Lloyd. How do you feel about your DPS guidance? Are you feeling slightly more comfortable
than say six months ago? I would like to have your view on that.
Second one will be on the Q2 contribution from Delta Lloyd, the €49 million. Trying to get a sense
of view on the kind of clean figure for the quarter. Do you see any impact of seasonality as I've
noted the €16 million from the large files that – what's kind of the level on a kind of clean business
in the second quarter? I've seen the technical margin contribution from the Delta Lloyd in the Life
result at €27 million. It's probably a bit high. On the other side, I see very limited contribution from
the asset management and I was wondering why it was kind of zero this quarter?



FINAL

And then maybe the last one on the 139% Solvency II for Delta Lloyd Life, what is the DNB view on
the kind of life ratios? You are planning to merge both entities, but do they have already a kind of
pro forma post merger attitude when they look at the capacity to pay, for example, a dividend
from Delta Lloyd Life or are they still very much looking at the bulk ratios on a segregated basis?
Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese
Yes, Benoît. Merci. I will hand over to Delfin for the answering of your questions.

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Benoît. So three questions, in terms of the dividend guidance, we aim to grow our
dividend per share in a sustainable manner over time, and that I think is the main guidance that I
can provide. We currently express that with reference to our payout ratio of 40% to 50% of the net
operating profit from the ongoing business. We have said as well that with the acquisition of Delta
Lloyd, as a result of the additional cash flow expected from this entity, that we anticipate one
double-digit step up in the dividend per share in 2018. And that is basically we have focused on
2018 because it is the year that we do expect to already reflect – that is the first full year that all
these benefits are coming through. So that guidance still stay in place.
In terms of your second question, in terms of the contribution from Delta Lloyd during the quarter. I
think that there are gives and takes here. In the one hand, we have highlighted that within Delta
Lloyd Life, there were some non-recurrent and seasonal items that impacted positively by around
€16 million, but you can also look at – we do not expect such large fire claims coming in P&C. That,
by coincidence, was of the same amount of €16 million. There is of course some seasonality in
terms of the – as for the rest of the NN Group in terms of the investment income, and there is
some a private equity dividends coming also in the quarter, as it happens with NN that you cannot –
I mean, it's part of the year process, but usually in the second quarter there is more coming in
terms of dividends.
So as you mentioned about the asset management, indeed it's breakeven. So we do expect some
improvement in the asset management because of what I explained before that the Delta Lloyd
entities will be paying more in terms of asset management fee to the asset management
company, that has a negative impact on the capitalization on the solvency of that entities,
particularly Delta Lloyd Life. However, that will improve somehow for a couple of million or so the
asset management business.
On the other hand, NN Life has reduced the asset management fees, net net is a marginal positive
for asset management going forward. And your third question was about how DNB or look at the
139% of Delta Lloyd Life and I think that I'm sure that the regulator looks at every separate entity in
isolation. And already, Lard has mentioned that a legal merger is not imminent so that's not
something that we're flagging for next year or so. So there will be time to go there. And I think as a
consequence, you need to look at both entities as separate entities, but as I said before due to
the expectations in terms of capital generation for the entity, I think that we do expect over time,
not immediately, but over time that Delta Lloyd Life will also start contributing to the dividend
capacity of the overall group.

Q - Benoît Pétrarque
But just to come back on that, so you do expect €100 million to €150 million dividend from Delta
Lloyd Leven as from 2018, is that correct?

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

We have – first there is no – a fixed set of dividends from each entity, it will depend on the
circumstances at that time. It's true that for NN Life we have had for a while a very stable dividend
of €150 million per quarter. Delta Lloyd Life in terms of the contribution is expected to be lower



than that of NN going forward and no indication on the amount of dividend that Delta Life in itself is
going to provide.

FINAL

However, maybe I can refer you back, but that's not specific for Delta Lloyd Life, but as a whole the
acquisition of Delta Lloyd we expect to have marginal contribution of this €100 million to €150
million free cash flow, meaning dividends to the parent company within the short term, and the
€250 million to €300 million as of 2020.

Q - Benoît Pétrarque
Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

Operator
The next question is from Mr. William Hawkins, KBW. Go ahead, please.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, guys. Thank you very much. The restructuring charges, I guess you're going to give us more in a
couple of months, but could you just maybe try and be slightly clear about the timing of these
things. Is it going to be one particular quarter when you make a big announcement on this number,
or is it going to be spread over the next 18 months to two years. And could you maybe sort of try
and give us an indication of the scaling of this? I mean, I'm still plugging in €200 million which I hope
is conservative in the context of your synergy expectations or cost benefit, but if you could tell me
whether I'm stupid or not, that'll be helpful.
And then secondly, thanks very much, the overall breakout of Delta Lloyd is extremely helpful.
Could you just on slide 11 offer a bit more clarity on how the 85 basis points investment spread
splits between NN and Delta Lloyd? It'd be helpful to get two separate numbers, and also just got
a slight of detail questions. Understand that this is a four quarter rolling average, have you
recalculated Delta Lloyd for the fourth quarter rolling average, or is it only one quarter and
therefore, some weighting effects that will build in the future that have basically – but can we split
the 85 between NN and Delta Lloyd, that'd be great. Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese
Yes. So thank you, Will. Delfin?

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Thank you and good morning, William. So the restructuring charges, yes of the two observations
that you have mentioned, it's the latter. So basically, we do not expect to have one lump sum
restructuring charge coming. We are still working through the integration plans but it is more that it
will come over the next two years or three years as you have mentioned. As we make the savings,
the restructuring precise and they are communicated to the different business units and what
relates to redundancies, but also for other investments and advisory expenses and the rest, these
will be as incurred. It will be accounted as incurred.
In terms of the size, I think it's better just to wait for a couple of months until the Capital Markets
Day, so that we can base that assumption, that guidance on the precise integration plans that the
teams are very much advance working on. On the spreads, we will provide you separately, let's say
the spreads, from one unit and the other. But I think it's relevant to explain what was going on
here, because indeed, the reduction on the investment and spread in this segment is quite a mark.
It dropped from 116 basis points the previous quarter to 85 basis points this quarter despite the
fact that in the second quarter is when we expect due to dividends a higher spread.



FINAL

This reflects the inclusion of Delta Lloyd at market base yields on the assets and liabilities, versus
the historic book yields for the NN portfolio. And that results in a lower overall spread for Delta
Lloyd, and that's something that you will see in the quarters to come. We do express these
investment spread in a four quarter rolling average, and as I have just said, it is influenced by lumpy
items like the private equity dividends. But you are right on your last part of your question, there is
no more to come, if you like, except the seasonality that I have mentioned because as we're
indicating, I think it's footnote 7 within the press release, we have actually – for the spread of the
Delta Lloyd, we have annualized that spread instead of taking the previous spread. So let's say that
the current spread is as good as an indication as any quarter, but taking into account the
seasonality that happens every quarter.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

That's very helpful, gentlemen. Thank you.

Operator
The next question is from Mr. Bart Horsten, Kempen & Co. Go ahead please.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Bart Horsten

{BIO 2390919 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. I also have a few questions. First, to understand the capital generation of Delta
Lloyd, you said it's €50 million on a quarterly base for this quarter so it's still in line with the midterm guidance of Delta Lloyd on a standalone basis, €200 million and €250 million. You also said
that it seems that Delta Lloyd Life is now well capitalized or capitalized enough, and still you gave a
short-term guidance for free cash flow of €100 million to €150 million, would it be fair to assume
that that would also be higher considering the capitalization and the possibility to upstream more
in terms of free cash flow?
And my second question relates to the cost savings targets. Earlier, you indicated that pre-tax
target of €150 million, we have a cost base pro forma or consolidated cost base of €2 billion, then
the €150 million seems a bit conservative for 2020 target. And you also indicate a new target on
the Capital Markets Day. So can I assume that you'll increase that savings target, and would that
also lead to an adjusted free cash flow target for 2020?
And if I may, one more question on interest rate sensitivity or spread sensitivity, and so in the
appendix that you changed the way you reported your credit spread sensitivity, and I was
wondering has there been an underlying change in how you are positioned in terms of your credit
spread sensitivity? Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese
Well, thanks Bart. Let me start and then I'll Jan-Hendrik to talk about the credit spread sensitivity
and then I'll ask Delfin to talk about the first question you had. On the cost savings, we are
pleased, number one, that both companies have continued their quest to reduce expenses like we
did and we reported today, and we will continue to do so. We indeed said that we have an
expense synergy expectation of €150 million pre-tax by 2020 in addition to the cost reduction
exercises that both companies have standalone.
Now what we've done today is we've presented you the numbers and the expense baseline if you
will on the way that NN Group has used to report this. So it's difficult to compare with earlier
disclosures of both companies where we are so we understand that. And also we have added
units to the expense reduction scope that were not in scope in the past, right? So the banking
business, for instance, the asset management business, they did not use to be in scope of
expense reductions, and to some extent we managed those businesses also for growth, so we
need to be mindful of that. But having said that, we do believe that there are synergies also there
to be extracted on the expense side with combining the asset managers and combining the banks



FINAL

so that's why it's not really comparable. So we do appreciate that you have bit – that you're a bit, at
this moment, in limbo as to what it exactly will be.
Now we continue to say €150 million pre-tax by 2020 in addition to whatever the company has
standalone, that's number one. Number two, the teams that have been appointed are finalizing
their plans and we will present them, and update you at the Capital Markets Day at November 30,
and then also express expense reduction target on the basis as we disclose the expense base
today. So bear with me for a little while and then you'll have more clarity around that. With that, on
the spread sensitivity, Jan-Hendrik.

A - Jan-Hendrik Erasmus

{BIO 19801435 <GO>}

Thank you, Lard. Hello, Bart. Yeah, you've spotted that we provided more detail on the spread
sensitivity to govies. I don't think there is any underlying change that we have to discuss. I mean, of
course the big change that you will be aware of is that we have added the Delta Lloyd portfolio
since Q1 to the mix here. So that is of course now the sensitivity, including all the Delta Lloyd govies
which were added to the portfolio.

Bloomberg Transcript

When we looked at it and we guided last quarter, I think that govie sensitivity had moved to around
25 percentage points. When we look at this, moving all the govies by 50 basis points at the same
time, it started making less and less sense to us, because we don't think all govies will move in
exactly a fully correlated way at the same time in a 50 basis point movement. So we thought, well,
given that's our view, let's at least allow others to form their own view by giving them a little bit
more granularity in our disclosure.

A - Eilard Friese
Yes. And before I hand over to Delfin, there was one thing I haven't answered, which is the point
do expense synergies create more capital generation, et cetera. Obviously, they do. They
contribute to that over time and that's one of the synergies that we aim to extract from the
acquisition. Delfin, over to you.

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Thank you, Bart. So when thinking about the dividend capacity coming from the Delta Lloyd units,
but also in general for any unit. You need to take into account the capital generation. This
operating capital generation that we have referred to of approximately €50 million in the quarter,
but obviously market movements might have and have every quarter a significant impact on the
overall solvency. Just to state the obvious, I mean, in this quarter we have as a group 9 percentage
points improvement in our overall solvency ratio. Last quarter, we have minus 9 percentage points
due also to market movements, so that impacts at any point of time the level of solvency of an
entity, which is the other element apart from the capital generation that needs to be taken into
account, what is the level of the solvency of the entities for that generation?
But indeed, ceteris paribus, without assuming any negative impact on market movements or
maintaining a stable level of surplus capital, this capital generation provide the capacity to
distribute dividends. One to add to this capital generation is it does not include so far any
restructuring expenses, and the restructuring expenses will be significant over the next period of
time. And as I said before, that reduced the dividend capacity of the entity. And in addition to that,
let me say it again, we have this €15 million in the case of Delta Lloyds on the interest of the
external hybrid capital that represent €60 million a year, that also reduces the capital generation.
So this is the things that you need to take into account into what it was and still is a very
approximate guidance in terms of the free cash flow for the transaction that we need to go into
the integration plans, the details and execute going forward. I hope that's helpful.

Q - Bart Horsten

{BIO 2390919 <GO>}

Yes, it is. Thank you very much.



Operator
The next question is from Mr. Arjan van Veen, UBS. Go ahead, please.

FINAL

Q - Arjan van Veen

{BIO 5197778 <GO>}

Thank you, gentlemen. Just two last questions from me. The first question just on the bank, that's
the only division we haven't really talked about. The profit generation from that was a bit above
€15 million per quarter and quite consistent from Delta Lloyd, you reported €9 million. So just
wonder whether there's any one-offs in there or does it change the methodology to bring that
down?
And secondly, just on the dividend guidance. So I think if I'm correct, when you said that you might
have assumed that there was two quarters of Delta Lloyd in 2017, now three quarters. So the fact
that you're confirming that, that you expect the dividend to go up 10% in 2018, can I just confirm
that base – so that's assuming no change in the payout ratio, giving you maybe for three quarters
to four quarters in terms of contribution with Delta Lloyd? Thank you.

A - Eilard Friese
Yes, Arjan. So thank you for your questions. Delfin?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

So yeah, the short answer to your first question is that they are not really various special items over
this quarter, even on the side of NN Bank or Delta Lloyd Bank.The increase in profitability versus the
previous quarters is just, as you know, the gradual increase in the size of the portfolio combined
with very – or a more favorable evolution of the housing market in the Netherlands that has
resulted into lower loan loss provisions.

Q - Arjan van Veen

{BIO 5197778 <GO>}

But Delfin, can I just ask, in reference specific to Delta Lloyd bank which the run rate before was
above 15 and then now it's 9 in this quarter, so just the change, and like you say, the market's been
growing and we would expect it to go the other way unless the change in methodology or oneoffs, and you're saying there's no one-offs?

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

No. The only thing that has changed there is, if you like, the revaluation to let's say fair market
value on the mortgages that at the starting position and that has some effect. But I think overall,
when I think about the banking segment as a whole, I don't see this quarter, especially higher or
lower that I need to flag anything special.

Q - Arjan van Veen

{BIO 5197778 <GO>}

Okay. Okay. Okay.

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

In terms of the guidance for the dividend, just to clarify, when we talk about this double digit
increase in 2018, we're referring for the full year 2018 which is payable in part of it, the interim
within the year but the final dividend paid in 2019. This was a guidance that we provided in order to
show how we expected to reflect the marginal free cash flow generation deriving from the
acquisition in the regular return to our shareholders, so that guidance, as Lard has mentioned still
stays. And we never say 10%, we say double digit, and obviously we have to see how this evolved
from this 2017 dividend first to 2018. The percentage from 2018 to 2017 will depend, but what you
can be assured is that this double digit increase per share is as we have expected. And so far,
what we have seen confirms that we can maintain that guidance.



Q - Arjan van Veen

{BIO 5197778 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator

FINAL

The next question is from Mr. Darshan Mistry, Citi. Go ahead please.

Q - Darshan Mistry

{BIO 19807857 <GO>}

Hi there. Thank you for taking my questions. My first question is on the movement in the SCR over
the quarter. So you point towards €100 million reduction roughly in the SCR, and I think €25 million
of that is coming from the run off the Japanese Closed Book VA business. How should I expect this
to evolve going forward? And in particular, given your comments on re-risking on the asset
portfolio on Delta Lloyd and continued re-risking with NN Group, is it fair to assume that the SCR
actually continues to grow like it has been in previous quarters, or should it run off as we've seen in
this quarter? That's my first question.
And secondly, you point in your slides towards a capital generation drag around €300 million
coming from the reduction in the UFR over the next three years, so and how do you see that
affecting your ability to upstream cash from your subsidiaries? Thanks.

A - Eilard Friese

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. So thank you very much, Darshan. So let's move on to – let's ask Jan-Hendrik to comment.

A - Jan-Hendrik Erasmus

{BIO 19801435 <GO>}

Hi, Darshan. Thank you for the questions. You're right in the movement we flag, there is €0.1 billion
reduction in SCR in the operating return column and we've guided on €25 million from Japan
Closed Book VA. The primary other contributions are from the run off of the NN Life and the Delta
Lloyd books which also some made a small contribution. This number will be volatile quarter-byquarter so we also need to bear in mind that the SCR could increase due to growth, for example,
in Europe and Japan life and new business sales going into that figure. Re-risking will not
necessarily come through there because portfolio changes are at the moment in a different bucket
sort of in other, so you will see it more in a different area. Of course you will only do that if it
continues to make sense to us from a risk return or return on capital perspective.
Moving on to your second question, the reduction in UFR, we have taken this – I mean, this
guidance came out and we are aware of this change now, this 15 basis points reduction. We have
said that it decreases on a group basis, our solvency ratio by 4 percentage points from 196
percentage points. This is of course also into our capital plans and we should consider the
reduction of the UFR also against the unwind of the risk margin when we think about these
elements and how it might affect the dividend capacity.

Q - Darshan Mistry

{BIO 19807857 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
The next question is from Mr. Farquhar Murray, Autonomous. Go ahead, please.

Q - Farquhar C. Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Good morning, gentlemen. Apologies but I'm going to have to come back to the Solvency II ratio
of 139% at Delta Lloyd Life. And I'm actually a little surprised you did not transfer more than €500
million of capital to Delta Lloyd given what we saw at Aegon Netherlands. And frankly, obviously
this discussion to a certain degree is quite factious because we're obviously talking about money in



FINAL

one hand or the other within a group that's obviously very well capitalized. That said, I would
appreciate understanding the rationale for running NN Life at 220% and Delta Lloyd Leven at 139%.
For instance, if Delta Lloyd is so comfortable at 139%, are you telling me you can fund the share
buyback from NN Life. And perhaps more seriously, is there any impediment to simply transferring
capital from one entity to the other? Thanks.

A - Eilard Friese
Yeah. Thanks, Farquhar for your questions. By the way, I will add one thing to Darshan's question
and to Jan-Hendrik's comment which is that obviously – before we hand over to Delfin for your
question Farquhar. Obviously, a lower UFR increases capital generation moving forward, and in the
operating return I think it's good to mention that as well. As Jan-Hendrik, by the way, mentioned in
the unwind of the risk margin which is indeed part of that. So with that, Delfin, over to you.

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Thank you, Farquhar. Well, I'm not surprised so 139%, as I mentioned, based on the capital
generation of the entity is a good level to be, particularly being part of an integrated group. The
reason why there is such a divergence between one entity and another is obviously for historical
reasons. Everyone is evolving and coming from a different starting position, and that obviously
drives how this tended to move going forward. And no doubt, an entity better capitalized has
more certainty about their dividends that you can upstream from that entity. One that is lower
don't have that same assurance and you need to observe how the level of capitalization evolves
from here.
The capital from the different entities in the group, they are within the limits of what not only the
regulatory regime in each of the country where we operate but what prudence determines is
relatively fungible. And I think that one characteristic that we have emphasized about NN Group in
the past is not only the diversification benefits of the different units that generate capital, but also
the fact that there is certain flexibility in terms of this repatriation of profits capital being generated
to a group.

Q - Farquhar C. Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Sorry. Just to follow up, would there be any impediment to transferring capital from NN Life to
Delta Lloyd Leven?

A - Delfin Rueda Arroyo

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

The way you express it, I don't like it. You don't transfer money from one company to another. Any
entity would certainly be able to pay dividends that they require, but even if we were to – we were
willing or it were appropriate to capitalize Delta Lloyd at a higher level, we could have used the
cash capital of holding. But let me remind you it's already above our range that we have indicated
there. So we don't even need to transfer from one entity as another as you said.

Q - Farquhar C. Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Okay. That's fair. Thanks.

A - Eilard Friese
With that, we are at the end of the analyst call and the investor call today. I want to thank you for all
your questions. But before we end the call, let me just conclude by saying that we have made a
good progress in our first quarter together with Delta Lloyd. An energetic start has been made to
integrate our businesses with the aim of taking the combined group into the next phase of our
journey as a leading player in the Netherlands and Belgium.
I would like to thank the Delta Lloyd and NN employees for all the hard work that they've done
over the past months. We look forward to going forward as one company with one ambition, and



that is to help our customers secure their financial futures. Thank you for all your questions and
your attendance this morning. I wish you all a very pleasant day.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the NN Group Analyst Call. Thank you for attending. You may
now disconnect your line. Have a nice day.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

