Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2017-12-12

Zurich Insurance Group AG to Aquire ANZ's Life Insurance
Businesses in Australia Conference Call

FINAL

Company Participants
George Quinn, Group CFO and Regional Chairman of Europe, Middle East & Africa
Mario Greco, Group CEO
Richard Burden, Head of IR

Other Participants
Andrew Hughes, Insurance Analyst
Arjan van Veen, Executive Director and Equity Research Analyst of Insurance
Dhruv Gahlaut, Analyst
Farooq Hanif, Head of Insurance Research in Europe
James Austin Shuck, Director
Johnny Vo, MD
Michael Igor Huttner, Senior Analyst
Niccolo Cornelis Modesto Dalla-Palma, Research Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Nick Holmes, Equity Analyst
Peter Eliot, Head of Insurance Sector Research
Thomas Seidl, Senior Analyst
Vinit Malhotra, Banca di credito ﬁnanziario S.p.A., Research Division

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, or good afternoon. Welcome to the Zurich enters
agreement to acquire ANZ's life insurance businesses in Australia conference call. I'm
Sarah, the Chorus Call operator. (Operator Instructions)
At this time, it's my pleasure to hand over to Mr. Richard Burden, Head of Investor
Relations and Rating Agency Management. Please go ahead, sir.

Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

Good afternoon. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for making
yourselves available at relatively short notice today for this Q&A session on the acquisition
of ANZ's life business that we announced last evening. We will have to run fairly promptly
today. And so I would ask you just to ask one question. And we'll probably have to take
any other questions oﬄine through the IR team later on today.
Page 1 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2017-12-12

On today's call, we have our Group CEO, Mario Greco; and our Group CFO, George
Quinn.

FINAL

Before moving on to your questions, though, I'll just hand over to Mario for some
introductory remarks on the transaction.

Mario Greco

{BIO 1754408 <GO>}

Thank you, Richard. Good afternoon, everyone. And thanks again for being on the call on
such a short notice.
The transaction is fairly simple. It ﬁts perfectly with our strategy and with our past
decisions. It's a bancassurance deal. And we've been fairly successful in the past years in
bancassurance deals. So we know what it takes. And we can give value to the banks
basing on what we learn from the past experiences. The portfolio that we acquire and the
portfolio that the bank use to distribute is a portfolio of products that we're extremely
familiar with and products that we like and where, again, we have lots of skills how to
manage them.

Bloomberg Transcript

The bank is an excellent partnership for us. It's a very strong Australian institution, high
reputation, well managed, extremely stable, not involving customers' issues. So that was
another very good point in this transaction. And on the ﬁnancials of the deal, it's a cashgenerative deal. And it's both accretive. The proﬁle of the returns is extremely interesting,
as George will later tell you. So we thought even the ﬁnancials were extremely interesting
and fair.
So all in all, it ﬁts with the strategy. It balances very well the portfolio of Zurich and adding
products that we know and we like and will make Australia one of our top countries,
which, again, I think, is a positive thing after the Macquarie acquisition and the CoverMore acquisition. This concludes our growth in Australia and bring us to the position that
we wanted to achieve there.
I would stop here. And we go directly to Q&A? Yes. So it's back to you guys.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) The ﬁrst question is Peter Eliot from Kepler Cheuvreux.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

I'm limited to one. I might just ask on the reinsurance ﬁnancials. You show on Slide three
of your presentation $70 million sort of expected impacts. I'm just wondering if you can
sort of explain a little bit about the ﬁnances and how you get to that. And I guess
speciﬁcally, ANZ seemed to be pointing to a lower foregoing of proﬁts. So I was just
wondering if you could reconcile the ﬁgures.
Page 2 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2017-12-12

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Peter, it's George. I'll take that question. So the reinsurance element of the transaction is
something that we've agreed to do together, one to allows us to get an exposure to the
earnings more rapidly and, of course, for ANZ to allow them to release capital more
quickly. From a reinsurance perspective, I mean, we targeted part of the portfolio that's
acquired so it becomes part of what we acquire when the transaction itself closes, it's
priced at a level that we think is close to market and it reﬂects, I mean, what we see
traditionally in the reinsurance market. I mean, given we expected this, I mean,
somewhere around $1 billion of capital in that part of the transaction, I mean, this, from an
after-tax or pretax perspective, given the period that's involved is roughly, I think, what we
expect to see. As far as, I mean, reconciling to the Australian view, I mean, it's tricky to do
it on this particular part of the deal. I mean, obviously, you'll see comparisons, I mean,
both from our view of, I mean, what we anticipate the operating proﬁt will be, say, in 2019
versus the level that we've seen from the business locally on an Australian basis. I think
the important things to have in mind are, of course, the number that we've given for '19, of
course, is pretax. I think everyone has probably noticed that. And the ﬁgure that you're
aware of from the OnePath business is post-tax. Second, a couple of issues. I mean, we
have been working on a DI issue, I mean, we've watched them reprice as we've worked
alongside them on the transaction. So of course, the beneﬁts of that are reﬂected in what
we anticipate for the 2019. And of course, I mean, given that the transaction process itself
has been running for some time, I mean, well, we think the organization is actually, I
mean, very well managed with some very strong talent, I mean, the process itself is bound
to have some impact on production over that period. And we've allowed for that in our
view of future expected operating proﬁt.

Operator
The next question is from Johnny Vo from Goldman Sachs.

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Just a quick question in terms of like your reconciling this transaction with the ongoing
balance sheet strength of the group, i.e., does this transaction limit your capital ﬂexibility
in terms of capital returns? Because when I look at this transaction on a pro forma basis,
your leverage ratio still remains under 30%. Given that you're buying this business for
about market consistent and better value, it won't change your Z-ECM much. You may
consume some central liquidity. But it looks like your ﬁnancial ﬂexibility is in place. So can
you give us some view of how this ﬁnancial ﬂexibility is impacted by this transaction and
what this means for capital distributions going forward?

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Thank you. So maybe I can answer actually 2 questions in the course of trying to answer
this one. So I mean, I think your summary is, I mean, almost spot on. I mean, from an
economic perspective, I don't expect it to have any signiﬁcant negative impact on the
economic capital ratios. It will consume some S&P capital. Most of the S&P model is
diﬀerent, in particular, the discount around VIF. And if you look at it from an S&P
perspective, I mean, we expect to consume somewhere around $800 million of S&P
capital as part of this transaction. I mean net-net, all of that means that, I mean, post the
Page 3 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2017-12-12

FINAL

transaction, the group continues to be very strongly capitalized. And this will only have a
modest impact. On the cash topic, I mean, we can, in fact, fully fund it from our existing
resources. I mean, to the extent that we do use senior, I mean, that will really be a, I mean,
a foreign currency hedging mechanism for us in the end rather than an unnecessary
funding mechanism. But from a capital perspective, obviously it has some impact on S&P
but very modest on all the key economic capital metrics.

Operator
The next question is from James Shuck from Citi.

Q - James Austin Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

My one question is just to try and get some insight into the track record on the earnings
proﬁle please, because you showed the $300 million BOP number by 2019. I'm just keen
to know the trajectory of earnings over, say, the last ﬁve years or so because I think you -for the industry as a whole, you show the inﬂows and the maturities and surrenders in the
appendix, which, absent the indexation, shows that the business is actually in decline. So
I'm just keen to get an understanding of how that earnings -- the earnings have actually
trended over time and what the kind of key performance metrics are that you look at.
Because it seems like you're making about $225 million on about $1.1 billion of premium,
which is a pretax margin of about 20%. So that suggests a combined ratio of maybe
around 85%. If you could just comment on that for the outlook there, that'd be helpful,
please.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

So James, it's George again. So from a -- so if we look at our recent experience. So again,
just a comment on the '17 experience. There is some correction around the DI book
reﬂected in the ﬁgures. I mean, there is some impact of what we believe -- at least it's our
opinion rather than fact there's some impact of the transaction on some of the new
business ﬂows. I think if you look at this business over long periods, it has been well
managed. I think, I mean, it hasn't entirely avoided the market issues which, I mean, even
our own business in Australia has suﬀered from. But in general, a bit like our own
business, it has managed and used the mechanism in the Australian market, which, I
mean, one of the reasons why we like it is its ability to reprice and respond to proﬁtability
trends that were diﬀerent from the ones were anticipated at pricing. I mean, it's one of the
things that does make Australia an attractive market for us. I mean, if we look at this over -I mean, either going backwards or going forward, I mean, we see a, I mean, a relatively
stable business. The DI business has had the challenges that, I mean, you've seen
elsewhere in the market. They've addressed them promptly. They haven't seen some of
the signiﬁcant volatility you've seen more on the group products because it's obviously a
much smaller player. I mean, we look at this actually as a high-quality life business with a
good track record and one that we would expect to continue into the future. Sorry, on the
combined ratio topic. So I mean look, I haven't looked at this from a combined ratio
metric. I mean, we've looked at the -- I mean, more the economic and ordinary accounting
proﬁt ﬁgures this thing throws oﬀ. Given it's a protection business, I mean, you could do
that combined ratio measure. But, I mean, I haven't tried to do that as part of our review of
the transaction. I mean, for us, I mean, the most important things here are the, I mean, the
forward trajectory around earnings, how we allocate the value and the transaction
Page 4 of 11



FINAL

Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2017-12-12

between the various products that we rate. And I mean, it won't be a huge surprise, I
mean, given the market proﬁtability characteristics, that the lump sum of the term
mortality product is by far the most important, that's where we attach, I mean, the vast
proportion of the proﬁtability. But I mean, from a traditional perspective, it's about
operating proﬁt trajectory and, in particular, their cash. So I mean, the thing -- given it has
a relatively signiﬁcant in-force component, it does chew oﬀ lots of cash. But the cash
characteristics and the operating proﬁt characteristics are 2 of the factors that we focus on
most.

Operator
The next question is from the Farooq Hanif from Credit Suisse.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Could you please talk about the drivers of the $40 million synergy that you've talked
about? And talk also about the kind of the strategic synergy, I guess, with Cover-More as
well as Macquarie.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Yes. So on the synergy topic. So I mean, in fact, we've literally just -- well, not literally just. I
mean, 2 weeks ago, we've switched over on the Macquarie acquisition from the
Macquarie systems to a single system. It would be our intention to take those same
things. So we've moved from the OnePath system environment to a single-target
environment. And that's probably, I mean, a large part of, I mean, what we expect to
achieve by way of cost reduction. I mean, there will be some overlap in terms of
resources. I mean, this is a well-run business and, I mean, there's some great talent inside
OnePath. We need to look carefully at both OnePath and the Zurich organization and
bring together the combination of both. But that system component is a signiﬁcant driver
of the cost beneﬁts. In terms of the broader beneﬁts of the combination of what we have
in Australia. So I mean, for us, it actually starts with neither Macquarie nor OnePath. I
mean, we felt that we had a good team in Australia prior to the Macquarie deal. We felt
they had managed the business they had well, they were positioned well. And Macquarie
was a chance for them to step up. I think they've demonstrated through the success
they've had with, I mean, both the business and the success of the integration that they
can do that eﬀectively. And in fact, given they just ﬁnished one process, I think they can
have some break for the Australian summer. But then they can come back. And they've
got good experience that they can deploy on this topic. On Cover-More, we certainly
discussed with ANZ ways in which we can bring some of those products to ANZ clients.
And that's certainly something we'll focus on more as the transaction goes on. But I mean,
obviously the market positioning that this gives us, as Mario said, powerful, well-run
distribution partner, I mean, these are the reasons why we do this. And the fact that we
have the scale and expertise on the ground in our own business gives us the conﬁdence
to allocate capital in this way.

Operator
Your next question is from Michael Huttner from JPMorgan.

Page 5 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2017-12-12

FINAL

Q - Michael Igor Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

It's assumed we can only do one question. But -- and I understand and it's very eﬃcient.
On the cash, I think 2 numbers. So one is the all-in Australian dollars of $ 300 million
which would be accretive, if I've got the right numbers, in your 2017 to '19 period. Then
there's a bigger number of $1.4 billion. Now the $1.4 billion is so much bigger than the
$300 million. I'm just wondering whether it's a decent portfolio. Maybe you're saying one
is VIF beneﬁt. And I just wondered if you could explain a little bit more or share a bit more
on the cash ﬂow proﬁle you're expecting.

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, okay. Thanks, Michael. So the reason for this, I mean, the seeming contradiction is
that the USD 225 million or the AUD 300 million is the, I mean, the actual cash remittance
for '17 through '19. So that's overlapping with the current target period we're in. But given
that we don't own the business until the end of '18, the only cash ﬂows that we really have
in there are one year of their ownership plus the impact of the reinsurance. I think if you
look at this from a, I mean, a pro forma and ongoing perspective, I mean, you see on the
next page of the presentation we're anticipating pretax operating proﬁt around the $300
million mark. I mean, cash generation is very high. So I mean, you could assume here that
the cash generation is, I mean, very much in line with the expected after-tax proﬁt. And
that's really what takes you back to that view over the ﬁrst ﬁve years. So I mean, we pay
$2.85 billion up front. And we anticipate that in the ﬁrst ﬁve years of the ownership of the
business, we'll get back about half of that. But the diﬀerence between the $300 million
and the $1.4 billion is at that timing issue. We don't own it until actually quite late in that
period.

Operator
Your next question is from Andy Hughes from Macquarie.

Q - Andrew Hughes

{BIO 1540569 <GO>}

Just trying to get my head around the 3 diﬀerent metrics of the cash at ECM and S&P
metrics. So George, when you said there was a $1 billion of capital going to be used for
the reinsurance, did you mean that? Because obviously, the Z-ECM impact is quite small
as the reinsurance sort of relatively capital eﬃcient. And I guess what I'm trying to do is
say, well, the Z-ECM impact of the deal isn't very big, then presumably there's ECM cash
generation -- or yes, the capital generation on an ECM basis isn't very big either. And so
maybe you can kind of break it down by the 3 metrics in terms of kind of what's going on.

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Yes. So on the ﬁrst one, you've got me. I confess I've used the cash and liquidity a bit
carelessly. So the $1 billion is cash. If you look at the total transaction, the expected
impacts from an S&P perspective, we estimate around $800 million. I mean, the reason
that ﬁgure is important is, of course, that's the number that you need to use for the
buyback comparison. As far as the cash and the Z-ECM side of it, maybe I didn't
understand the question correctly. But I mean, let me try and answer. If I get it wrong, you
can come back and ask me again. So I mean, cash itself is -- I mean, it's not so important

Page 6 of 11



FINAL

Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2017-12-12

from an economic perspective. So if the economic asset is there, I mean, it's eﬀective
available ﬁnancial resources as far as the capital calculation is concerned. I mean, cash is
obviously extremely important to us because we want to make sure that, I mean, as we
make this investment today, we don't need to wait for ﬁve years before we see real cash
returns. And again, one of the things that makes this thing so attractive is that the cash
ﬂow is, I mean, as I answered in the question that Michael asked. I mean, over the ﬁrst ﬁve
years, I mean, we'll see, I mean, almost half the purchase price back. So and it's also
important for that ECM and it's very important for the overall proposition behind the
transaction. And the cash ﬂows are extremely strong.

Q - Andrew Hughes

{BIO 1540569 <GO>}

Yes, I guess the question I was trying to ask was what was the -- what would the Z-ECM
capital generation be? Presumably, it's a lot smaller than the AUD 300 million a year. But I
was just wondering what the incremental beneﬁt the Z-ECM capital generation would be.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

So the -- I mean, given the nature of the business. So -- I mean, in spite of that
conversation we had, I think, again -- I think that's, again, a question that Michael asked
around Q2. So you need to look at the economic value of the business, the new business
that you write. And that's really the economic capital accretion. I mean, given the nature of
the product that we write, I mean, it's not quite a short duration at some of the businesses
given the protection bias that it has in it. But at the same time, I mean, this product has a
step-up feature. I mean. So the new business values, I mean, can be signiﬁcant. So I mean,
I would expect to see something close to, if not higher than the ﬁgures that you're seeing
here from an operating -- post-tax operating proﬁt perspective. So I think as we own it, I
mean, it will have a positive impact on available capital in Z-ECM.

Operator
Your next question is from Niccolo Dalla-Palma from Exane BNP.

Q - Niccolo Cornelis Modesto Dalla-Palma
I just want to check what the expected drag is from earnings from the runoﬀ portfolio from
2020 onwards. And if I should read my -- into your comment about stable proﬁtability
going forward, is that an eﬀect of the business underlying growing but the runoﬀ of the
legacy business oﬀsetting that growth and that leading to stable earnings outlook?

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Correct. I mean, that's the important thing here. You see that on Slide seven in the
investor presentation. So again, I mean, it's something that, I mean, we don't see so often
in others markets. I mean, this business has a step-up feature. So I mean, step-ups in
lapses. I mean, I think traditionally, if you look across the entire market, I mean, probably
there's some smaller runoﬀ of the book. But the characteristic of the bank book is very
diﬀerent from what we see in either Western Europe or North America. I mean, here, I
mean, you actually expect to ﬁnd some growth in the bank book. So you don't have that
same feature, Niccolo.
Page 7 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2017-12-12

Operator
Your next question is from Thomas Seidl from Bernstein.

FINAL

Q - Thomas Seidl

It's about the business mix on Slide 7. So the Australian protection market is actually quite
volatile, has been loss making in 2 quarters over the last 3, four years. And the main driver
has been, as we all know, disability and group risk, which make up more than 50% of the
book. So I wonder how you would think about the risk and return proﬁle of disability and
the group risk part of this transaction.

A - George Quinn

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Yes, I mean it's a good question. I think, I mean, you're absolutely right, Thomas. If you
look over the, I mean, the history of the markets, I mean, group DI, also individual DI, I
mean, have been challenging, I guess, would be the best way to put it. I think if you look
at the thing that we've acquired today, I mean, the vast bulk of what we're acquiring is
term life. That's certainly how we allocate the value of the purchase price that we pay in
the transaction. And if you look across the market in general, I mean, that's where the
proﬁtability is strongest. I think this book is no diﬀerent. I think, I mean, you point to a risk
factor that exists in the market more generally. I think our perspective on it is that, I mean,
again, I won't repeat the things I said earlier about the repricing capabilities that the
market oﬀers. I think we see in OnePath, I mean, again, a very eﬀective manager of the inforce. I mean, we've had the beneﬁt of watching what they've been doing around some of
the challenges they've seen on DI. I mean, DI, I don't think we'll see as something that
becomes the most proﬁtable part of the book given the nature of that part of the market.
Now, of course it's an important feature for the distribution channels. And it helps drive
sales of term life product. But I mean, the vast bulk of what you see in this transaction
today. And at least today the vast bulk of what we anticipate in the future, comes from the
term life. And that's characteristic of the market in general.

Q - Thomas Seidl

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

Okay. But you'll need to sell the disability in order to get the term life. Is that (inaudible).

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

So I mean, not entirely. But it's an important feature of the oﬀering for the distribution. So I
think you can only sell one and sell one none of the other. It would be a bit optimistic.

Q - Thomas Seidl

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

Yes, because disability is loss making 4 year in a row now, though there's no repricing
going on, obviously.

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Oh, no, there is. So I mean, I think it obviously depends on which part of the market you
look in. I mean, if I look at our own book, which, of course, we know extremely well, we
went through this exercise already in 2015. We saw the target do this the earlier part of
Page 8 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2017-12-12

this year. I mean. So -- I mean, it's not a theoretical possibility of the market, it's something
that is done regularly.

Operator

FINAL

The next question is from Nick Holmes from Societe Generale.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Just a question on business mix. The (inaudible) about 30% of group earnings are life
insurance. Is this acquisition a sign that you want to move this more to life 50-50 or
embrace the composite model more than you do?

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I mean, I don't think we think of it in terms of there's a target mix between life and P&C. I
think this is more that -- I mean, where do we have the capabilities, where do the markets
oﬀer the rate conditions for us to be successful and how do we want to allocate the
capital. I think you've seen from us over the course of the last 18 months that, I mean,
we've been pretty active. Again, at the Investor Day, we demonstrated that we've taken
now about $1.7 billion of capital. We've put back in, in a way that concentrates the focus of
the group in markets we believe we have strength about that $1.8 billion number. We've
gone now further. And last night, I mean this, as a process, both inbound and outbound,
is something you can expect to see continue. It's just part of good portfolio management.
But there's no target mix of what are you trying to achieve.

Operator
The next question is from Arjan van Veen from UBS.

Q - Arjan van Veen

{BIO 5197778 <GO>}

Just a quick question on term life. At least one of your peers there has an issue with an
older portfolio and hence having some lapse issues as the CPI or the automatic increases
come through. So just curious, well, what is the average age of the portfolio at ANZ and
whether they've had any lapse issues in recent years?

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Thanks. I don't have the average age at my ﬁngertips. But I mean, I do know the lapse
rates. The lapse rates have been very consistent, I mean, at or around the same number
for several years for OnePath now. So I mean, we haven't seen signiﬁcant volatility in their
persistency.

Operator
The next question is from Dhruv Gahlaut with HSBC.

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}
Page 9 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2017-12-12

Just one question on the legacy portfolio. Could you say what is the capital employed
within the legacy or the runoﬀ book? And what's the book size currently?

FINAL

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

So the -- I think the total funds under management in the legacy part of the book are
about $2.5 billion, $2.6 billion. From a capital perspective, I mean, given that the total
consumption overall is about $800 million, I mean, the proportion here will be quite
small. I mean there are some -- there's a small part of the portfolio with legacy guarantees.
But I mean, I suspect that we're talking about low triple digits, very triple digits, Dhruv.

Operator
The next question is from Vinit Malhotra from Mediobanca.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

So I was just curious, George, about the Slide three and the data on OnePath balance
sheet here. I mean, there are a few things. Kind of one is the life investment liability of $1.8
billion. Probably that is the legacy assets. But equally, there's a very large amount of cash
on this balance sheet, $2 billion for a $5.6 billion balance sheet. And even the ceded life
insurance liabilities of $700 million. I mean, is ceding portion also part of the synergies?
Apologies if it looks like 3 questions but basically just trying to understand the balance
sheet.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Yes, no problem, Vinit. So thank you for the question. The -- so I mean, you're right to
point out as a -- I mean, the -- you see this legacy investment component, both on the
liability side and of course, the combination of what's in cash and what's in other ﬁnancial
assets. And there's quite a bit in cash in this book. I mean, I think certainly, as we price, I
mean, we haven't made an assumption that we would extract some alpha return out of
this component. I think that's not something that we would see as, of course, the right
core competence. And in fact, I mean, here, I mean we expect as part of the transaction
that OnePath -- in fact, the one that ANZ has already announced was IOOF, that IOOF will
continue to manage this on behalf of policyholders. So don't anticipate seeing a
signiﬁcant synergy out of that component. On the reinsurance side, I mean, I think in
common with a number of Australian portfolios, I mean, there is -- I mean, re with
signiﬁcant regions already in place, I mean, we talked about DI here already. I mean, they
have, I mean, quite a bit of reinsurance around some of the older DI part of the portfolio,
say, 2015 and prior. Again here, I mean this is not an area where we've assumed that we
would drive signiﬁcant value through recapture or something that would fundamentally
change the risk proﬁle of the business. I mean, as we look at it, we think it has a good
track record. We think it's been well managed. We think the balance sheet is in good
shape. And certainly, from a Zurich perspective, I mean, I'm not anticipating that we will
make any radical changes here.

A - Richard Burden

{BIO 1809244 <GO>}

Page 10 of 11



Company Name: Zurich Insurance Group AG
Company Ticker: ZURN SW Equity
Date: 2017-12-12

Thank you, everybody. There are currently no more questions on the call. But obviously, if
you do have further follow-up questions, feel free to give the IR team a call during the
course of the afternoon or over the next couple of days. And with that, I wish you all a
happy holiday season.

FINAL

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Yes, Merry Christmas.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's Q&A session. Thank you for participating
and wish you a good rest of the day. Goodbye.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 11 of 11

