Q4 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Paul Norton, Chief Financial Officer
Philipp Gmür, Chief Executive Officer
Ralph-Thomas Honegger , Chief Investment Officer

Other Participants
Daniel Bischof , Analyst
Guilhem Horvath, Analyst
Iain Pearce , Analyst
In-Yong Hwang , Analyst
Jonny Urwin, Analyst
Peter D. Eliot, Analyst
René Locher, Analyst
Stefan Schürmann, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, good morning or good afternoon. Welcome to the Full-Year Results 2016
Conference Call. I'm Sarah, the Chorus Call operator. I would like to remind you that all participants
will be in listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded. After the presentation, there will
be a Q&A session. The conference must not be recorded for publication or broadcast.
At this time, it's my pleasure to hand over to Mr. Philipp Gmür, Group CEO. You will now be joining
into the conference room. Thank you.
(0:41-3:37)

Philipp Gmür
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome you to our yearly analysts' conference. I welcome
all the people gathered here in this room in Zurich, as well as all those joining us on the phone. I'm
very pleased to present to you our 2016 full-year results. We are looking back on an intense and
successful year 2016, which resulted in a solid business development. During this presentation, I
would like to give you detailed information on the key aspects of our 2016 financial statements.
So, let us turn to slide number 3. Following my introduction, our CFO, Paul Norton, will explain the
key financial figures to you, report briefly on the highlights of our business performance in our
Swiss home market, and then present our investments result. I will then provide you with an update
of the implementation of the helvetia 20.20 strategy. Following the presentation, Paul Norton and I,
as well as our Chief Investment Officer, Ralph Honegger, will be pleased to answer your questions
as always.
I will start with slide number 4. First of all, I would like to share with you a brief overview of the main
performance indicators. Paul will give you detailed information on the developments of these
figures later on. Let us begin with the underlying earnings, which achieved a pleasing increase of



FINAL

12% to CHF 492 million in 2016. The improvement was driven by the non-life business and the
other activities, while the life business was more or less stable despite the ongoing challenging
environment.
In the non-life business, the good technical development underpins the earnings performance. The
business area, other activities, also benefited from a better technical result from Group
Reinsurance. The solid technical performance in the non-life business is also reflected in the net
combined ratio that improved by 0.5 percentage points to 91.6%. Thanks to the very good
progress of the integration of Nationale Suisse and Basler Austria, underlying earnings already
included synergies of more than CHF 118 million pre-tax on a yearly cost basis. Back in 2015, CHF
45 million synergies pre-tax were included in underlying earnings.
The integration of Nationale Suisse is almost completed. The merger of the operating Italian
entities is still outstanding, but will be realized in the course of this year according to our plan.
Business volume increased by 2.6% in original currency to more than CHF 8.5 billion. Life business
volume grew by 3.4% in original currency. Let me highlight that the modern capital-efficient life
products showed very satisfactory growth, resulting in an increase of over 18% in original currency
compared to last year.

Bloomberg Transcript

The non-life business volume was impacted by portfolio optimization measures, which have been
initiated following the acquisition of Nationale Suisse, as already communicated at the full-year
results presentation one year ago. These measures had a negative impact on volume growth,
which was therefore only 1.5%.
The portfolio optimizations are almost completed by now and should therefore affect volumes in
2017 to a lesser extent. I also want to highlight that the new business margin in the life business
rose from 0.9% in the previous year to 1.3% in the current year. This improvement shows that we
have successfully turned our new business towards modern capital-efficient products.
Ladies and gentlemen, when acquiring Nationale Suisse, we promised our shareholders a step-up
(8:31) in dividends as soon as synergies are realized. Now that we are ahead of our original
timetable with the synergy realization, we want our shareholders to benefit from this by speeding
up part of the dividend increase as well. So, I am very happy to announce that the Board of
Directors will propose to the Shareholders' Meeting to increase the dividend to CHF 21 per share.
Please understand, however, this does not mean that we increase our dividend every year by CHF
2 per share. The timing and the amount of the increases in the future will, of course, depend on
both further realization of synergies, and following the completion of the synergy program, the
usual considerations around profits and capital adequacy.
I will now continue with the details on the achieved synergies on slide number 5. As of end 2016,
Helvetia had 585 full-time employee equivalents fewer than it did as of June 30, 2014 when we
started synergy tracking. Of these employees, 446 left the company due to the two acquisitions
and can therefore be counted as net staff synergies. As of January 1, 2017, an additional 30
employees left the company, but they have not yet been included in the reductions mentioned
above.
At the same time, however, we have a slight counter effect with the business investments that
were made to support our strategy, in particular in IT and to expand functions that Nationale Suisse
had outsourced. The staff reduction corresponds to around CHF 82.8 million in personnel cost
savings on a yearly cost basis. We also generated non-personnel cost savings of CHF 35.5 million
in 2016.
In particular, synergies were achieved here through a reduction in redundancies in the areas of IT,
logistics, marketing and corporate. Overall, we realized synergies of CHF 118.3 million, and I am



happy to confirm once again that we make great progress in achieving our target. Originally, we
were setting forth a range of between CHF 105 million to CHF 130 million. In the meantime, we are
confident to end up at the higher end of this range.

FINAL

With that, I would like to turn over the presentation to our CFO, Paul Norton, who will now provide
you with the most important information about the key financial figures.

Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Thank you, Philipp. So, ladies and gentlemen, I'd also like to welcome you to the analyst
conference. Over the next 20 minutes, I'll give you some more detailed information on our
financial performance in the 2016 financial year. I'd like to turn to slide 7 with the results by business
area. Our underlying earnings for the 2016 financial year amounted to CHF 492 million, an increase
of 12% compared to the previous year. This increase was due to a solid non-life business and a
significant improvement to the results of other activities.

Bloomberg Transcript

We increased underlying earnings in the non-life business by 2.6% compared to 2015 to CHF 341
million, which is mainly due to a better technical result. We'll have a closer look on the non-life profit
by sources in a few minutes on slide 11. The result from other activities improved from minus CHF
69 million in 2015 to minus CHF 22 million in 2016. This is mainly attributable to the technical result
of our Group Reinsurance, which improved significantly compared to the previous year. Just to
remind you, in 2015, the technical result was impacted in particular by a number of large losses and
claims arising out of the portfolio of the former Nationale Suisse.
Alongside the improvement in the technical result of Group Reinsurance, the previous year have
been negatively impacted by currency effects, which were attributable primarily to the SNB's
decision in January 2015 to remove the Swiss franc peg to the euro. In the current reporting year,
we've had several one-off positive tax effects. The life underlying earnings amounted to CHF 174
million and were, therefore, with an improvement to the operating profit, marginally lower
compared to the previous year. I'll provide you with details on profit by sources of the life business
on slide 14.
If we turn now to the segment results on slide 8, all segments posted robust results in 2016. The
Switzerland segment once again showed it is a stable foundation for the group by reporting a
profit of CHF 366 million. In the Swiss non-life business, underlying earnings increased compared
to the 2015 financial year, thanks to a better technical development and synergies.
In the life business, underlying earnings was slightly below last year's figure. Increased operating
result was offset by lower gains and losses on investments, as well as reserve strengthening
related to lower interest rates. The segment result for Europe, which comprises the market units
of Germany, Italy, Spain and Austria, increased by 15% to CHF 113 million. Both the non-life business
and the life business contributed to this profit increase.
Non-life underlying earnings in Europe increased. Alongside a slightly better technical result, the
net increase is mainly attributable to one-off positive tax effects in Germany and Italy. Underlying
earnings of the European life business increased. The largest effect was higher gains and losses
from investments, offset to a large extent by higher expenses for interest-related reserve
strengthening.
Specialty Markets includes the business lines Marine, Engineering and Art. In the Specialty Lines
Switzerland and International market unit, the French unit specializing in marine insurance and the
globally active reinsurance. The segment result for the Specialty Markets was CHF 36 million, which
was below the previous year. The decline was mainly attributable to a lower technical result in
France due to higher run-off result in the previous year.



FINAL

The Corporate segment includes the Corporate Center and Group Reinsurance in addition to the
financing companies and the holding company. Its result of minus CHF 24 million significantly
improved against the previous year's figure of minus CHF 67 million. This was driven by a strong
result from Group Reinsurance and lower currency effects compared to 2015.
I'll continue with our growth in business volume on slide 9. In 2016, Helvetia Group achieved a
business volume of CHF 8.5 billion. This equates to an increase of 2.6% over the previous year
expressed in original currency. In the non-life business, we achieved an increase in premium
volume of 1.5% in original currency, despite the fact we were carrying out portfolio restructuring in
order to improve profitability in some country markets. This growth was driven by Active
Reinsurance, in line with its strategy.
The life business increased by a currency-adjusted 3.4%. In particular, I'd like to emphasize that in
individual life business, the volume of the so-called modern insurance products, that's investmentlinked insurance solutions and deposits, increased by 18.3% overall, while the traditional insurance
solutions declined in line with our strategy. Looking at the individual segments, the Swiss market
posted the biggest growth in absolute terms with an increase of CHF 153 million, just over 3%. I'll
return to that on the next slide.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the Europe segment, we generated slightly less premiums compared to 2015 in original
currency. As I've already mentioned, we carried out targeted portfolio optimization measures in
the former Nationale Suisse portfolios in Germany, Italy and Spain in order to improve profitability.
In Italy, alongside portfolio restructurings, the motor business suffered from a price-sensitive
competitive environment, which resulted in decline of average premiums in line with the market.
In the Specialty Markets segment, we also achieved a greater than 13% increase in volume over
the 2015 financial year in original currency. Growth was driven by Active Reinsurance, in line with our
strategy, resulting from targeted diversification by region and business line, as well as the selective
expansion of existing business relationships.
With that, I'd like to turn to our home market on page 10. In the 2016 year, the domestic market
was once again the solid foundation of the group. In non-life business, we slightly increased
premium volume to CHF 1.4 billion. The main growth driver was the change of the invoicing period
for motor vehicle insurance. As we already mentioned in the half year results, the former Nationale
Suisse motor portfolio partly had a different invoicing sequence which has now been aligned to the
Helvetia portfolio.
This already had a positive effect on growth in the first half year and slowed down towards the end
of the year. Either lines of business, volumes remained stable or slightly declined compared to
previous year due to the intentional termination or nonrenewal of some major contracts and the
reduction of coverage for liability policies. Business volume in life business increased by 4.1% with
the biggest growth contribution coming from the group life business.
In group life, Helvetia continued to pursue a strategy of being very selective about new business.
Nevertheless, single premiums increased by 8.2%. The increase was due to a single transfer of
policyholder bonuses into retirement assets booked as premiums and should therefore be
regarded as a one-off effect. We did report that at the half year.
Regular premiums, which are important for assessing business performance, increased by nearly
CHF 10 million or 0.8%. I'd like to highlight the demand for the modern capital-efficient product
sold through Swisscanto, also grew pleasingly. Here, Helvetia only acts as a reinsurer for death and
disability risks. In individual life business, premium volume increased by 2.7% to CHF 977 million,
whereby the main contribution came from modern capital-efficient insurance solutions, increasing
by 11.8%.



FINAL

Sales of both the guarantee plan and the two-tranche products issued in spring and autumn were,
again, very strong. Traditional life, by contrast and in line with our strategy, decreased.
I'd like to talk now the profit by sources in the non-life business on page 11. In 2016, Helvetia again
showed a very strong technical performance for the non-life business, which is reflected in the net
technical result being 10% above the prior year. Looking at the profit by source, you can see that
the gross technical result, meaning the full reinsurance, increased by 41%, thanks to portfolio
optimization measures and significantly lower large claims in 2016.
However, the total recoveries (21:57) from reinsurers in 2016 were lower than in the previous year's
results, the net technical result improved by 10%. This was due to changes in our reinsurance
structures between the units in group reinsurance and because of the different nature of many of
the claims, which meant that the lower claims expense could be ceded to reinsurers than in 2015.
The investment result net decreased compared to the 2015 financial year. This was due to lower
gains and losses on investments, partly as a result of performance of equity markets in the first
half year. Also in 2015, Helvetia actively realized higher gains in order to compensate for the
currency effects which were attributed primarily to the SNB's decision to remove the Swiss franc
peg to the euro. Finally, the previous year's investment result was positively impacted by higher
appreciation for real estate.

Bloomberg Transcript

And I would like to move to the combined ratio on slide 12. The net combined ratio improved to
the (23:05) prior year by half a percentage point to 91.6%. As a result of much better claims
development following the portfolio optimizations, the gross claims ratio decreased significantly in
almost all country markets.
These developments also benefited group reinsurance as the European entities ceded less to
them. The net claims ratio also improved. The cost ratio also improved, thanks to realized
synergies, although synergies are partly offset by higher commissions and special effects. I'll give
you some details of those in the following chart. Finally, I'd like to mention that all market units
achieved combined ratios below 100%.
So, we move to slide 13. Compared to 2015, the cost ratio improved from 29.4% to 29.2%.
Additional realized synergies had a positive impact on the cost ratio of 1.3 percentage points, but
were partly offset by the following factors: Firstly, lower business volumes resulting from portfolio
optimizations were partly compensated with better new business, the positive effect of which can
already be seen in the claims ratio. By contrast, new business commissions increased and
therefore had a negative impact on the cost ratio. Other effects with negative implications on the
cost ratio include several single items with the biggest single impact coming from the pension cost
accounting under IAS 19.
Slide 14 contains the details of our life business. The operating result increased by CHF 32 million
or 8% against its prior year level. The improvement came from a better savings result which
benefited from the decrease of the minimum interest guarantee in the group life business in
Switzerland in the mandatory and the non-mandatory area.
The changes made to traditional life insurance product in recent years also had a positive effect on
the savings result. However, the risk results are mainly due to weaker claims development which is,
however, in line with normal volatility. Higher interest rate-related reserve strengthening, especially
in Switzerland and Germany, was partly compensated by higher capital gains and losses, with the
policyholder participation mechanism also partially offsetting the reserve strengthening. The tax
charge was lower due to one-off effects. Profit after tax, therefore, was up by CHF 1 million.
I'll now continue with the new business margin and embedded value on slide 15. On this slide, first
of all, I want to highlight that the new business margin used in the traditional embedded value



methodology improved by 0.4 percentage points to 1.3%. This very pleasing development shows
the impact of our measures to improve profitability in the life business.

FINAL

In line with our strategy, in 2016, we focused on marketing modern, capital-efficient life insurance
products and we reduced sales of traditional life (26:20) products. New business volume therefore
was down in 2016 compared with 2015, but portfolio quality improved.
The increase in new business volume from investment in products considerably exceeded the
decline in new business volume in traditional savings products in Switzerland. Helvetia – Switzerland
Helvetia took a conscious decision to reduce its sales of full insurance solutions via occupational
pensions, that's the second pillar. By contrast, new business generated by Swisscanto increased
significantly. Here, Helvetia only acts as a reinsurer for the risks of death and disability.
In Europe, new business volume for capital-intensive traditional products also declined. The
decrease was almost fully compensated by higher volumes of investment-linked products. The
value of the new business written in 2016 increased from CHF 23 million in the previous year to
CHF 33 million. In Switzerland, traditional savings products were revised, which helped to offset
declining yields.

Bloomberg Transcript

In group life business, value in new business also increased. The improvement was due to the
higher share of new business coming from Swisscanto on the one hand. On the other hand, more
favorable assumptions led to improved interest margins for the occupation pension business.
In Europe, however, the value of new business declined year-on-year mainly to lower volumes and
lower new investment yields. Helvetia Group's traditional embedded value was CHF 3.3 billion at
the end of 2016. This means an increase of just over 2% compared to December 2015. The main
drivers were positive operating profit and a positive contribution for new business despite the low
interest rate environment.
Negative economic deviations due to lower interest rates had a counter-effect, although not to the
same extent as in the previous year. Helvetia financed a dividend attributable to the shareholders
also out of the Life business as in the past years. This additionally reduces the embedded value.
If you move to slide 16 which deals with our direct yield and guarantees in the life business. The
direct yield in Switzerland and the EU countries declined as a result of lower interest rates.
However, the interest margin improved significantly in Switzerland and in the European countries.
The increase of interest margin in Switzerland and Europe was closely linked to lower average
technical interest rates on the liability side.
In Switzerland, the biggest impact results from the adjustment of a guaranteed interest rate for
BVG retirement assets as of 1st of January to 1.2% – sorry, 1.25% to 1% for the mandatory part and a
corresponding adjustment of non-mandatory rates.
The lower average technical interest rate in both Switzerland and Europe is also because we have
been successfully restructuring our portfolio of traditional products. Maturing insurance contracts
with high guaranteed rates are being replaced by lower guaranteed rates. Additional reserve
strengthening also had a positive influence on the interest margin.
On the right-hand side of the graph, we have a slide – we have a graph showing the interest rate
buckets on guarantees on a group level. Whereas in 2015, only some 25% of group-wide life
reserves had guarantees less or equal to 1%, this year, more than 40% of reserves have average
interest rates below that level. Whilst the lowering of the BVG minimum interest rate in Switzerland
played a significant role here, it also shows how much we have done to restructure our portfolio to
improve profitability and capital efficiency.



FINAL

I'd now like to move to investment performance on slide 17. The current income in the 2016
financial year was CHF 1 billion, which was CHF 11 million higher than in 2015 due to the higher
investment volume. Direct yield was at 2.2%, and therefore, unchanged compared to the prior year
despite an unchanged challenging low interest rate environment.
In addition to current income, realized as well as booked gains and losses amounted to CHF 145
million. This figure came mainly from gains on and sales of fixed income instruments,
predominantly due to the deliberate switch of the bond portfolios from low euro yields to the
currently more attractive U.S. dollar bonds. In total, the investment result recognized in the income
statement was CHF 1.14 billion, CHF 39 million up on 2015.
Investment performance increased to 2.5% against 1.6% in the prior year end. Unrealized gains and
losses recognized in equity marginally increased. Finally, we earned CHF 66 million more in assets
backing investment-linked insurance solutions for our customers.
On slide 18, you can see the investment result broken down by asset class. Two-thirds of the
current income of CHF 1 billion came from bonds and mortgages, which contributed CHF 574
million and expect to be CHF 87 million in absolute terms. Dividends account for CHF 65 million
and investment property CHF 236 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

Gains and losses on investments were CHF 145 million, mainly driven by bonds. You should note
that the other category relates almost entirely to our own hedging instruments, which generally
move in the opposite direction to the underlyings. Most of these cover interest rate and currency
risks and bonds, as well as price movements on equities. As a result of the hedges, the net equity
gains were not material, which showed the impact of our conservative approach to hedging.
The development of non-realized gains in equity was driven by lower gains and losses on bonds
due to the slight increase in interest rates, as well as the recovery in share prices. The unrealized
gains on the bond portfolio decreased by CHF 32 million.
The lower half of the slide shows the return on new and recurring investments. Around CHF 5.4
billion in total were reinvested or newly invested in the 2016 financial year, 77% of which were
allocated to bonds, primarily U.S. dollar bonds, in the corporate sector, as well as long-term U.S.
Treasuries. We had to contend with higher hedging costs to cover our foreign currency exposure.
But on a net basis, we earned a yield pickup, which allowed us to mitigate the negative and very
low bond yields in Swiss francs to some extent.
Investing in mortgages and equities and to a small extent also in investment property also
contributed strongly to mitigate the impact of the low investment yield environment. Direct yields
on new and reinvestments totaled an appealing 1.6%. I'll now continue with slide 19.
I would like to remind you that we are (33:52) only in position to report the previous half year's SST
ratio. Based on the end of June 2016 SST ratio, Helvetia still enjoys a solid capital position. The SST
ratio then was within the new target range of 140% to 180%. I understand that certain of you would
like more information regarding exact SST figures. But given the great state of flux that SST is in at
the moment with the development of standard models and other initiatives by FINMA, it would
make little sense to give you further details.
Once the situation is stabilized (34:33), which is equivalent to the EU's SFCR reporting has been
introduced, you will obviously be able to have much more information around this topic. Thanks to
increase in underlying earnings, return on equity improved from 8.9% to 9.7%. Equity also increased
driven by the strong earnings and despite paying an attractive dividend. By comparison with last
year, the lower volatility in interest rates and FX caused only very limited movements in unrealized
gains and losses within equity.



FINAL

I'll finish my presentation with details on the dividend on slide 20. The excellent full-year result, the
good progress on synergy realization and sustained balance sheet strength have enabled us to
increase the proposed dividend to the shareholders' meeting to CHF 21 per share. This
corresponds to a dividend payout ratio of 44% on underlying earnings basis, which lies within the
target range. The dividend payout ratio is 58% based on the pure reported IFRS result.
The dividend yield is what we consider as being an attractive 3.8%. I would like to emphasize an
increase of 10% per share in the dividend will not necessarily be repeated again regularly in
following years. We made certain estimates of what we believe the dividend potential for the
Nationale Suisse acquisition to be. And we stated that we expected a steady conservative increase
in dividend until the synergies had been fully earned when we expected a larger step up. At the
moment, we are confident that we could slightly accelerate the timing of the step-up and hence a
slightly earlier increase in the dividend than we had originally anticipated.
Now on that note, I will hand back to Philipp Gmür.

Bloomberg Transcript

Philipp Gmür
Thank you, Paul. Now, after all those details regarding the financial performance in 2016, I would
now like to come to the last part of our presentation and give you an update on our strategy. We
will start on slide number 22. One year ago, in March 2016, we announced our new helvetia 20.20
strategy. The new strategy makes us fit for the future. Ladies and gentlemen, you already know
these slides, but once again, fit means that our product offerings and sales channels are becoming
more innovative and increasingly digital, and we, as an organization, become more agile and
efficient. By combining our strengths with new opportunities, we want to focus even more intensely
on the needs of our customers.
With that, I would like to move on to slide 23. Over the past months, we have been fine-tuning the
details for implementing the helvetia 20.20 strategy. The implementation is based on our vision of
being the leading Swiss all-lines insurer, with a national and an international ambition, digital and
innovative, and with a highly developed customer focus. Together with our objectives of
accelerating profitable growth, enhancing efficiency and delivering quality, as well as with our
financial targets, this forms the basis for the implementation framework.
I will continue on slide 24. As you can see on this slide, the new framework comprises 16 groupwide strategic initiatives and ensures a consistent and well-managed implementation of helvetia
20.20. Every initiative is sponsored by a member of the senior management. All initiatives have
been designed to accelerate profitable growth, enhance efficiency and deliver quality. Sixteen
initiatives, of course, sounds like a lot.
To obtain a holistic view however, we also included internal initiatives that form the basis for the
successful strategy implementation. For instance, future-oriented IT systems or an effective CRM.
Other initiatives such as value-creating capital management or strong international positionings are
not new for us and we have been constantly working on these topics in any case. Due to their
strategic importance for the entire group, however, they have been included in the framework as
well.
I will now move to slide 25. Over the past months, we have already been working with the
framework, as well as starting our initiatives. And therefore, we already achieved important
milestones in various areas. Within the next minutes, I'm happy to provide you with some insights
regarding selected initiatives. Those on which I want to take a closer look at are shaded in green.
In December 2016, Helvetia successfully concluded Project ONE. The project focused on combing
the group and the market unit (40:40) Switzerland functions defining an adequate organizational



structure and nominating the relevant functional executives.

FINAL

Vacancies in the newly created executive management area of Non-Life Switzerland and IT, as well
as in the new support function, Corporate Development, have already been successfully filled. The
new structure has been operative since January 1, 2017.
Both the board of directors and the Executive Management furthermore focused on designing an
implementation framework for helvetia 20.20 as just discussed on the previous slide. Project ONE
also looked at individual issues such as the future growth strategy of the direct insurer smile.direct.
I will give you more details on that on the following slides.
Turning to slide 27, in Switzerland, we are very well positioned. Helvetia is already able to serve all
customer segments, pure direct customers, hybrid customers and traditional offline customers.
With smile.direct, Helvetia has the only direct insurer in Switzerland that is already very well
established on the market and repeatedly achieves top results in terms of quality, service and
quotes in independent comparison tests. According to our own estimates, smile.direct has a
market share of 22% of the Swiss online market. Please have a look at the following short film. It
shows how smile.direct is working and aiming to enhance its services.

Bloomberg Transcript

[Video Presentation] (42:42-44:27)
Okay, with a smile, I would like to turn on to slide 28. Ladies and gentlemen, as you have just seen,
smile.direct is already well positioned in the Swiss market and continues to make a very good
progress. This is the reason why we want – why we aim to further expand and strengthen its
product portfolio.
The ambition of smile.direct is to deliver the greatest possible benefits to its customers. In order
to achieve this, the company will, according to its new strategy, realize step by step new
innovations based on the customers' needs and their feedback.
An example could be on-demand insurance. smile.direct also intends to offer new products that
can be easily bought online as for instance, a pure risk life insurance or a building insurance in the
non-life area. smile.direct will, of course, take advantage of Helvetia's product know-how. With
innovations and new products, smile.direct is fostering the profitable growth of its core business.
By successfully developing new partnerships, smile.direct intends to tap into new business areas
and to exploit new distribution channels. This might include partnerships with other industries, such
as car dealers or in the retail sector. The goal is to expand both the product offering and the
customer reach.
Finally, within its new strategy, smile.direct wants to develop new customer segments. Families with
a high online affinity, for instance, are an ideal new customer group with a perfect fit to the smile
brand offerings and services. smile.direct aims to position itself as a professional advisor for the
day to day family life, and therefore, build up the ecosystem smile.family as a second foothold.
Let us now move to slide 29. In order to further providing our customers with first class customer
interaction and experience, one of the key pillars of our strategy is to systematically transform our
business model. We are, therefore, putting emphasis on the following three key topics. First,
development of ecosystems; second, corporate venturing; and third, development of own
business models through an in-house incubator. We define ecosystems as an interaction, a
network or a cooperation between different suppliers of solutions, service providers and
customers around a particular topic such as home.



FINAL

The partners participating in an ecosystem will profit from gaining access to customers, while the
customers themselves will benefit from a continuous and excellent customer journey. Helvetia aims
to achieve a leading position in building up a home ecosystem.
By acquiring 70% of MoneyPark, the largest and most advanced technology-based mortgage
intermediary in Switzerland, we set forth a strong anchor in building our ecosystem, home. With
MoneyPark, we are adding a new independent business model to our current portfolio. This offers
us not only the possibility of tapping into new sources of revenue, but also opens up access to
new customers and the broader range of products. With corporate venturing and corporate
incubation, we will be taking advantage of the opportunities from targeted business model
innovation, giving us the opportunity to capture new value from the markets.
We have launched the Helvetia Venture Fund at the beginning of 2017. The fund invests in startups,
which can contribute to the digital transformation of Helvetia's existing core business. We will invest
around CHF 55 million in approximately 25 young companies over the next five years. Helvetia
aims for an operational cooperation with the startups we are investing in. We are working together
with b-to-v Partners in the venture capital sector.

Bloomberg Transcript

The Helvetia Venture Fund will, thus, benefit from the start-up deal flow and the experience of bto-v. Any investment decision, however, will remain with us. This allows for the necessary agility,
lean processes and quick decisions for all investments. Finally, we are also putting emphasis on the
development and implementation of own business innovations through our in-house incubators.
With slide number 30, I would like to provide you with more details on our strategic initiative
comprehensive customer access. The objective of this initiative is to enable Helvetia to achieve
above market growth through relevant customer channels in the profitable private and corporate
customer segments by opening new and expanding existing channels.
In this context, Helvetia has initiated measures to promote SME business in Switzerland. The nonlife market in Switzerland is reasonably saturated. Nevertheless, due to our own market position,
our distribution capabilities and our products, we consider the SME business to be a market
segment that still offers attractive growth opportunities.
Helvetia has, thus, launched a new insurance package especially for SME customers, including
redesigned and simplified product coverages, which are now much more convenient and relevant
for our customers, as well as for our distribution partners. With that, Helvetia is getting closer to
the market leader in this segment.
In addition, the new SME product also includes attractive adaptations with regard to specialty lines
components such as technical insurance and cyber insurance. This enables us to make use of our
dedicated know-how in providing specialty lines coverage at the point of sale, also for our SME
customers and, thus, differentiates our sales from our competitors.
Another strategic business area we want to push further is the mortgage business. We, therefore,
launched the new sales initiative for our own tied (52:11) agents. Helvetia has been successfully
providing mortgages for selected customer segments for many years. A unique value proposition
for our customers is the overall risk assessment, combining with financial planning and insurance
advice for pension solutions, building, household and liability insurance. Mortgages do not only
offer a considerable growth potential, they are also an important element of our home ecosystem.
Furthermore, in this low interest rate environment, mortgages will generally remain an interesting
asset class for insurance companies. Especially, when providing long-term mortgages, insurance
companies do not have to hedge interest-rate risks due to the long duration of the liabilities,
providing a financial advantage compared to banks. With the development of new online models,



FINAL

we are expanding our digital products and service range, thus, responding to the needs of the
growing share of online affluent customers by making their customer experience more convenient.
In Germany, for instance, only a few clicks are needed to buy a Helvetia insurance policy by digital
means. All products have a modular design in order to deliver greatest possible benefits to the
customers. Payment is easily arranged with PayPal, the most popular online payment service
provider today. This is a service that has not been offered by any other insurance company in
Germany so far.
With these products, Helvetia Germany has been a first mover when it comes to a full digital
insurance solution.
In Spain, finally, Helvetia insurance in collaboration with Telefónica, launched the mobile application
Helvetia Good Driver. Through this new app, our Spanish customers can learn about their driving
habits and how to improve them, gamification of insurance-related behavior.

Bloomberg Transcript

Both the Helvetia Good Driver app, as well as the My Helvetia app that offers registered
customers the possibility to consult personal (54:50) data, agent's data, policies, receipts and
claims data were very recently nominated among the best insurance apps in Spain.
Let me now move to slide 31. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot has happened in the 2016 financial year.
We are driving forward the implementation of our strategy, and I'm proud of what we have already
initiated, not least, thanks to the strong commitment of our employees. Helvetia is well positioned
and, therefore, I am certain that we will also be able to report on many interesting achievements
on our Capital Markets Day on June 8, 2017 here in Zurich. You are already cordially invited to join
us for that event.
This brings us to the end of the presentation. My colleagues and I would now be pleased to
answer your questions. Thank you for your attention.

Q&A
Operator
A - Philipp Gmür
First, are there any questions in this room? Stefan Schürmann from Vontobel.

Q - Stef an Schürmann
Yes. Hello. I have three questions. The first one is on the life side, can you maybe remind us how
much you increased reserves in 2016 and give us some indications – split how much was due to
Switzerland group life, individual life and – or abroad? (56:41) The second one on sensitivities. You
showed that on SST, 100 basis points lower level of interest rate has a minus 11% impact. Can we
assume that one (56:55) to be, more or less, linear if interest rates increase? And the last one,
also on SST. Can you give us some feel how much basically change in the reporting by FINMA
market value margin and scenario would bring as an uplift to your SST ratio?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Repeat the last one.

Q - Stef an Schürmann
The changes from FINMA in terms of market value margin and scenario accounting.



A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. Thank you for those three questions. It's easy for me. I hand over to Paul.

FINAL

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

The reserving on the life business is actually shown on page 172 of our accounts. It's CHF 162
million, of which almost entirely, it's Switzerland, and almost entirely the life business. The split
between group life and the individual life is not given.
The SST scenarios increase versus decrease, we have an interest capping mechanism in place
which acts as a dampener, so we don't get too wild swings. So it's difficult to say whether – it's
equal pluses and minuses. You tend to find that you won't get the same necessarily impact, but it's
not too far off.
In terms of the changes in the market value margins and the scenarios, the scenarios by the way
are still in play. They have not changed. They promised at one point in time to take them out, but
they are back in. The market value margin is a cosmetic (58:30) move, I can't tell you off the top of
that. I think we can give you some figures at some point, but -.

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. Then, please, Mr. Daniel Bischof from Helvea Baader.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Daniel Bischof

{BIO 17407166 <GO>}

Thanks. Three questions as well. The first one on the integration cost of CHF 217 million. There
seems to be a little bit of an overrun here. What was the reason for that? The second one, also in
SST, different sensitivity, the credit spreads sensitivity, and you increased the corporate bond
exposure, also moved a little bit further into the BBB segment, so this sensitivity increased by
another six points. We are at, I think, 32 or 34% points now, do you feel comfortable with that
number and is this re-risking process, you're (59:30) complete, or would you even move up further
here?
And the last one on the page 38. I mean, yes, all entities (59:41) with the combined ratio below
100%, Austria, Switzerland, actually very pleasing. Italy, you mentioned the pressure on the motor
side. Could you talk about Germany, Spain and France, whether you're satisfied with the
performance, and what do you expect here in the years to come?

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. Thank you, Daniel. I would ask Paul to answer question one and two, and I will then answer
question number three. First to the integration cost.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Yeah. The integration cost, as you said, is slightly higher than we expected, but also the end
synergies should be slightly higher than expected. We expected over CHF 130 million now,
(01:00:23) and when you look at the payback period, then it's not much changed. The other thing,
of course, is, in certain countries, particularly in Europe, you just don't know how long it's going to
take and how much you're going to have to pay to people, but I think from a payback perspective,
it's roughly in line with what we expected.
In terms of SST, yes, you're right, the credit spread is now the – or the biggest risk that we have.
It's clearly a reasonable size risk, but we're all comfortable with it. There's always a risk-reward
tradeoff, and that's something that when we're looking at – it's obviously driven almost entirely out
of our life business. That's what Ralph, Beat and myself, together with our Chief Risk Officer, Peter
Bamert, we form a sort of, how to say, (01:01:14) (01:01:15) that's the right word, where we're
looking at all those tradeoffs, where we're looking at potential yield we want, the asset-liability



matches that we need for the business we are writing in the life business and the risk impact. And
so, we are comfortable with that.

FINAL

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. Turning to your question number three with regard our combined ratios in the different
country markets. We have, as you probably know, given a guidance with regard to the group-wide
combined ratio, which should end up in a range between 92% and 94%, we do not give...

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Below 93%.

A - Philipp Gmür
Below 93%, okay. So we are below this target. We do not give any guidance with regard to the
specific country markets. However, we are happy with the overall trend. We are happy with the fact
that all business units do have combined ratios below 100%.
We are not yet satisfied, though, with the combined ratio in France, for instance. France is specific,
because the marine business is pretty cyclical and we do not want to give a guidance over the
cycle. So overall, we are confident to achieve combined ratios overall below 93% and to really work
profitable in all different markets. The trends, as you see, goes in the right direction.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Philipp, maybe I can say a word on Germany and Spain. I mean Spain, as you know, the prior year,
they changed the so-called Baremo rules on bodily injury, and that resulted in a little bit of
additional reserving across the whole market.
And in Germany, actually, if you look at the gross combined ratio, it is actually (01:03:24) excellent.
And I mentioned that the Group Reinsurance absorbs a lot of the pluses and minuses, that acts a
buffer. So this year effectively, they are paying back to the Group Reinsurance. (01:03:36) So, we
expect further improvements in that.

A - Philipp Gmür
And a signal regarding the way on how we are working on the combined ratio might be our
portfolio management in different foreign countries, especially in Spain and Germany where we
wanted to get rid of certain, each (01:04:06) client segments or non-life portfolio. Okay. More
questions. René Locher from MainFirst.

Q - René Locher
MainFirst.

A - Philipp Gmür
Go on. (01:04:19)

Q - René Locher
Thank you. Morning. So, I would like to start with slide number 14. That's the breakdown of the life
result. And as we can see, there is quite a lot of volatility like in the saving results, in other results.
And I was wondering if you could give us a little bit of a feel what life result could look like in 2017,
2018? So, what is a reasonable run rate?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

There is no guide. (01:04:48)



Q - René Locher

FINAL

And then on slide 33 and 34, here, again, I guess, 2017 is the last year you're showing the
underlying earnings and, yeah, trying to get a little bit of feeling, because I do believe in 2018, we
shouldn't see integration cost, we shouldn't see this amortization of intangible assets. We should
see a little bit more of the synergies. And here as well, perhaps, you can give us a little bit of
feeling where you see Helvetia going into 2018, 2019? And...

A - Philipp Gmür
A third question or...

Q - René Locher
Yeah. A third and a fourth question if I may. But very quickly, on slide 18, for Ralph Honegger, it's
interesting to see there (01:05:53) yeah, the new money yield on bonds is 1.3% and looking where
the 10-year Swiss franc yield is, I would say, this 1.3% looks very good. So, I'm wondering a little bit
where do you invest. (01:06:11)

Bloomberg Transcript

And this might be a little bit a strange question, but Helvetia is very active on slide 29, very active in
insurance stack. (01:06:27) You bought MoneyPark, you have this Helvetia Venture Fund. And
interestingly, and I saw that in the latest financing round, in the fintech area, investments are
decreasing now. So I'm wondering a little bit if insurance are now jumping on the train on this
fintech story and – well, last but not least, I'm asking if you invest that much money into fintech, is
there enough money left to pay a decent dividend to the shareholder? Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. Thank you, René.

Q - René Locher
Yeah, you're welcome.

A - Philipp Gmür
Four long questions, maybe short answers, I don't know yet. I would ask Paul to answer questions
number one and two regarding the life business and the integration cost, then ask Ralph to answer
the question with regard to the investment results, and I would then end up with answering the last
question regarding the fintech investment. Paul?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Okay. Yeah. Slide 14. I seem to get from that you wanted some guidance on future years, but as
you know, we don't give guidance on future years. I mean, I think what I can say is that the saving
results and the risk result was the main, the steady, stable, underlying pillars of the life result. And
the risk result has had a bit of fluctuation this year, but (01:08:12) has indicated that's well (01:08:14)
within the bounds this expected fluctuations, and therefore, it should carry on that way. (01:08:20)
And the savings result will depend, to a large extent, on other two things we've mentioned earlier
which is the decisions of the Bundesanstalt (01:08:29) in respect to the second pillar, the industry
and such in our (01:08:34) interest rate and also in our ability to turn around the products and sell
them.
Some individual life products turn around make them for modern capital life lower (01:08:43)
guarantee and so on and whether we can sell them. But as you've seen, we seem to have a
reasonable success for the past couple of years, so that goes on.



FINAL

Extraordinaries are (01:08:54) – this is the reserving here and I think predominantly the reserving.
And I think that's also a factor of the low interest rates. And if it stays the same, you'll see more, in
particular in – obviously, (01:09:11) the biggest amount in Switzerland than you have fair (01:09:14)
reserving for the conversion rate, the environment stuff, that's the big issue that's (01:09:16)
coming up the next few months. And also in Germany and Austria, they have a very crude
(01:09:23) simplistic mechanism that (01:09:26) So, from that, I hope (01:09:31) that you can take
your own guidance.
If we go to page 34, the acquisition – I think you – if I understood, you we're looking at how
underlying earnings will eventually move on after 2018 once the integrated part is over. (01:09:54)

Q - René Locher
After your integration. (01:09:54)

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

They should be converging, that's correct. Yeah. So, I mean, they will start converging. There will be
a little bit of a tail of difference there. So, the amortization of the bonds to fair value, there should
be some of that still going on, because that goes on for some time. It's on an effective
amortization period.
The amortization of intangible assets, I think we decided to get rid of them over three (1:10:18)
years. So, you shouldn't see any of that. And the integration costs and – well, the synergies. The
synergies should be fully earned by the end of this year. There may be some still going into 2018,
and that means there may be some integration cost then in 2018, but it should be very minimal in
the conversion there (1:10:37).

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. Thank you, Paul. Then, Ralph, please.

A - Ralph-Thomas Honegger

{BIO 4932832 <GO>}

(1:10:47). As you know, we only started investing in BBB corporate bonds in 2015. So, also in 2016,
there was some room left to make investments in this asset class, and that's what we basically did
in U.S. dollar, but also in Europe and in Switzerland. So, this certainly was one of the main drivers of
the direct yield number. Obviously, there were also some investments in govvies (1:11:23), and
there again in U.S. dollars, but also in Europe, and obviously, in the financial sector (1:11:34)
mortgage-backed securities.

A - Philipp Gmür
Thank you, Ralph. With regard to the fintech industry, of course, we are carefully looking at what's
going on in the market. Now, as we announced in January, we want to invest over the next five
years CHF 55 million. And what do we want to do with that? We want to learn from new business
models. We want to invest in new possible business models, in new possible earnings streams,
and at the same time, we have the ambition to, in roughly 10 years, double what we are investing
now. So, it's not only a nice idea of going on a learning journey. It's also a financial target, of course,
to get not only an impact in our traditional business model, but also an impact on our earnings
stream.
Now, CHF 55 million is a lot of money, of course. But if we split it up in five years, it's CHF 11 million
per year, which makes roughly 2% of our profit – underlying profit of 2016, sorry (1:13:13). So, it does
not have any impact on our dividend capacity. It's an investment in our future. It's an investment in
new ideas. We could, at the same time, invest in new people or invest in other ideas. We are
investing not only in new people, not only in our own IT systems, but also investing in new ideas
coming from outside. And given, over the period of five years, the number of, as I said, CHF 10



million, CHF 11 million per year, if it's finally split up, I mean it depends on the investments we are
doing at the end of the day, I think it's very brief (1:14:06).

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

FINAL

Can I just add to that? You're assuming that's been taken away from the dividend capacity, but it's
actually an investment. It's no different from other investments that Ralph makes. It's not...

Q - René Locher
(1:1418).

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Well, no, it's from the investment pool. So, basically, it's just another investment class. So, it's not
being written off. So, it doesn't affect the dividend capacity. Obviously, if we have failures in some
of them, they get written off. Some of them – then that will affect the dividend capacity. But think of
it as investing (1:14:38) private equity as opposed to bonds. And if you look at an investment
portfolio of nearly CHF 50 billion, then CHF 55 million shifting from bonds into something more
speculative doesn't make any difference.

A - Philipp Gmür

Bloomberg Transcript

More questions in the room? If not, I would like to hand over to the operator. Maybe there are
some questions on the phone.

Operator
The first question from the phone is from Guilhem Horvath from Exane BNP Paribas. Please go
ahead.

Q - Guilhem Horvath

{BIO 18460437 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning, everyone. I actually have four questions, and the first two ones are following
up questions on what has been asked by my colleagues. First one is on the life operating result
split, on the fee result, which I'm a bit surprised to see it flat year-on-year. Can you maybe
elaborate a little bit on the reason why it's flat despite nice contributions from modern products, et
cetera, and what's your ambition there?
The second is on Germany, and you spoke about German P&C already. But I read an article from
(1:15:51) making on re-underwriting the book was ahead of competition. And I just wanted to make
sure that you're perfectly comfortable with what you have on the book today in terms of industrial
risk and SME risk in Germany – in German P&C.
Then on synergies, you say that you are confident that you'll be above CHF 130 million in terms of
synergies run rates going forward. And maybe if you can comment – it might be a bit complicated,
but if you can comment on how substantially above CHF 130 million you expect to be. And the last
one is on – an update on the growth target, which is to CHF 10 billion, and it depends very much on
how much you're able to source M&A deals. Maybe if you can update us on if it's still German P&C
and Spanish P&C that you're targeting. Maybe also if you have already some targets potentially in
sights on this side. Thanks very much.

A - Philipp Gmür
Thank you for those four questions. I would ask Paul to answer the questions regarding the life and
fee result. Then, to answer the question about the German book, I might add in maybe two or
three words, and the questions regarding the synergies, whereas I will then answer the question
regarding the growth target. Paul?



A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah, okay. Yes, the fee result is flat. But the product mix that we have is actually not similar to
(1:17:36) Swiss life have a much more fee-based business. When we talk about modern products,
fees do take – play a role there, but the savings result will be one of the biggest drivers of those.
And it's all about how you allocate also the benefit. So, it's not purely a fee-based business there.
That's the most important thing to understand.
The second thing is on the German P&C, we are much more comfortable with the book of
business. We've had a process for the last two to three years of cleaning the book up, first of all,
our own book and then the Nationale Suisse book. We have a good retail book of business. We did
have a small, but rather unpleasant portfolio – or turned out to be unpleasant portfolio of large
industrial business and we had some large claims coming out of that.
As I mentioned earlier, we have in Germany a very good gross combined ratio this year, which
indicates that that is doing – this cleaning process is doing very well. There are always pockets you
have to follow and clean-up, but we are pretty comfortable now with our book there. And in terms
of the synergies, we've always stuck to the line, first of all, CHF 105 million to CHF 130 million, and
in the last year when we got more comfortable (1:19:03) said it will be over CHF 130 million, but we
don't want to put any numbers on it at the moment.

Q - Guilhem Horvath

{BIO 18460437 <GO>}

Understood.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Philipp Gmür
Thank you, Paul. With regard to our growth target, I would like to make the point once again. With
regard to our financial targets, there are some tough and promised targets such as the dividends,
such as the ROE, such as the profitability overall, and there is a rather soft target like the ambition
of growing to CHF 10 billion company. And why is it soft? It depends on the opportunities we might
encounter during our way to helvetia 20.20. And on the other hand, it also depends on our own
wishes.
Of course, there are targets in the market. But if, for instance, they would not comply with our
profitability targets, especially in the traditional life business, we would not want to look – have a
look at them. As we said in – on previous conferences, we are especially having a look at targets in
Germany and in Spain, because we think that those two markets are still fragmented and we know
both of them. We know the Spanish – we have known the Spanish market for decades now and we
have been active in Germany for 150 years. So, those two markets are well-known in our company,
and of course, it depends on the opportunity. But it's too early to talk about specific targets we are
(1:21:04) will be identifying.

Q - Guilhem Horvath

{BIO 18460437 <GO>}

Okay. That's very clear.

A - Philipp Gmür
More questions?

Q - Guilhem Horvath

{BIO 18460437 <GO>}

Thanks.

Operator
The next question is from Jonny Urwin from UBS. Please go ahead.



FINAL

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Hello. Just two for me, please. So, firstly, on reserve releases, I note that there's no change in
disclosure today. Can you guide us to the – or just give us some color around the absolute level of
reserve releases, that would be great. We're just trying to get a better view of the underlying
combined ratio. Secondly, on claims inflation, are you noting any trends in each of your sort of key
P&C territories? We've seen some signs in certain regions of late. And I'd be interested to hear
what pricing is doing versus claims inflation, i.e., combined ratio sustainable at current levels,
especially in Switzerland. Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. Paul, please.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Okay. We don't, as you know, give any details on the so-called reserve releases. Our view is we
don't have reserve releases. But I can turn you to slide 40 (sic) [slide 39] (1:22:15) in the pack, which
gives you a walk between the prior year and the current year combined ratio. And you can see that
the change in claims in previous years was 0.7% impact on the claims ratio. So, it fluctuates within a
reasonable range, but I would argue that is part of the underlying claims ratio.

A - Philipp Gmür

Bloomberg Transcript

I would like to add with regard to the question of sustainability. So, we did not pop-up this result
with any specific reserve releases in order to make any kind of window dressing. We are and we
remain adequately reserved in our non-life book.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Claims inflation versus pricing. That's a good one. It varies from market to market. I think in Italy,
we've obviously seen the situation, less the claims inflation, while the pricing is coming down
compared with existing level of claims. I think generally, there's not been much in the way of claims
inflation going across our markets at all.
The pricing environment – our personal pricing environment, so to speak, compared with the
market, it varies from market to market. We have a big pricing initiative at the moment going
through the markets, particularly looking at the motor business and – where we're adjusting the
tariffs and the inputs into the tariffs. But certainly at the moment, there's nothing which indicates
that claims inflation is significant or is indeed outstripping our pricing.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

A - Philipp Gmür
More questions on the phone?

Operator
The next question is from In-Yong Hwang from Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Good morning. Thank you very much for taking my question. Just two from me. First on
smile.direct, which you seem to focus on quite a lot today. Could you just give us some details
around, as that just becomes a more substantial part of your business, whether you're worried
about risk of cannibalizing your core non-life business in Switzerland and how you control for that
risk.



And second, hopefully, a very quick one on Swisscanto. You talked about good progress there. I
was wondering if you could any – give numbers or figures around that so we can get a kind of
clearer sense of what's going on there. Thank you.

FINAL

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. With regard to the smile business, of course, we are following the customer journey and we
are following the customers where they are moving around, be it offline or online. And we do not
want to cannibalize our own book of course. We are also working with smile.direct as a known
brand. So, in the eyes of the clients, it's not, at first sight, a Helvetia company, to the contrary. And
if we are talking about cannibalizing, we have always to take into account are we addressing the
same clients with the same risks in the same circumstances under the same brand and here, we
are not. We are addressing other clients with, to a certain extent, other risks in another customer
journey. So, we do not see a big risk with cannibalizing our own book. And talking about Swisscanto,
Paul?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

I don't think we disclose separately the Swisscanto volumes actually. We have – if you look on the
page 44 which shows the breakdown of reserves, you'll see that of the group life, we have CHF 17
billion worth of group life reserves, of which CHF 6 billion is other, which is essentially the
Swisscanto business. So, you can say basically it's about a third of the business.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Philipp Gmür
What I can add here is that we are happy from the perspective of our setup in the group life
business that we have more than 40% of our clients in the off-balance model of Swisscanto. And
with Swisscanto, we also see good growth during the last two or three years. And of course, we
want to stress that point in the future because here, we are a poorly reinsurance company. We do
not bear the savings risks of the Swisscanto clients on our own balance sheet.

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Great. Thank you very much.

A - Philipp Gmür
More questions?

Operator
The next question is from Iain Pearce from Berenberg. Please go ahead.

Q - Iain Pearce

{BIO 19522835 <GO>}

Hi. Morning, everyone. I just had a couple of questions on dividend guidance, in particular, because
it seems to be a little bit confusing. So, at the moment, you're saying not to expect a CHF 2
increase. But the step-up could be brought forward earlier. At the moment, consensus is assuming
a CHF 25 dividend in 2018, which is clearly assuming a CHF 2 step-up over the next two years. So,
I'm just worried, just slightly concerned about that. Could you give me a bit more guidance on that,
please?
And then on Slide 34 again, on the forecast and target percentages of when the synergies and
integration cost are coming through, I don't think those have changed. Are you still happy with
those or those are just what you're sticking to?

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. I ask Paul to answer question number two and I will then turn to the dividend guidance.



A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah. The synergies, we are happy with basically the phasing in and the integration costs relate to
them. As I said, I think earlier, it's not always predictable, particularly in certain European countries
where the laws – labor laws are more complicated than one expects. And also, certain laws
regarding mergers of companies are also not as easy as one would expect. So, there may be a
little bit of a tail into 2018, but basically, yes, the synergy phase-in and the integration cost phase-in
is as we expected.

A - Philipp Gmür
With regard to the dividend guidance, when we announced the takeover of Nationale Suisse back
in 2014, we also said and promised that we are going to share the synergies with our shareholders.
And we then assumed that the integration will be completed and at the same time, of course, the
synergies will be realized by end of 2017.
In the meantime, however, we are ahead of schedule, and that's why we're talking about a
dividend increase of CHF 2, which is a little bit ahead of our schedule of course. Now, with regard
to the future, what we promised is to hand over at least CHF 1 billion over the next few years, over
the next five years of course. And at the same time, we have to take into account that the dividend
will be dependent on our profitability. In the next few years, it will be dependent on our risk
coverage capital ratios. It will dependent on what the market is doing, of course. So, it's too early
now to promise a specific dividend number as of 2018.

Bloomberg Transcript

Paul, do you want to add something?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

I think that's proving us (1:30:58) about right. I mean it's – we estimated at the time of acquisition
the synergies to be roundabout CHF 3 to CHF 4 – worth CHF 3 to CHF 4, (1:31:10) CHF 4 actually
per share. And I understand there is some, I wouldn't say concern, but it's a question mark as when
is that timing going to take place. We've always said, as we have a steady state increase and then
one big functional jump. And I think what we're doing now is simply saying, look, we're a little more
confident, so we can increase slightly more than that CHF 1 per share increase. But at the end of
the day, it will turn out probably, hopefully, to be roundabout the CHF 3 or CHF 4 that we
anticipated. It's a question of when that will take place. And we don't want to finalize that until the
synergies have been fully phased in, which will certainly be not until the end of this year. So, at the
earliest, 2018 year in this (1:31:57) payment.

Q - Iain Pearce

{BIO 19522835 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmür
More questions?

Operator
The next question is from Peter Eliot from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thanks very much guys. And I apologize in advance. I had to step up for 10 minutes because I hope
I haven't – I'm not asking something that has already been asked. But the first one I would – would
you rather tell – say what the payout ratio is on statutory earnings? And perhaps just a quick – a
follow-up on Iain's question just then. I mean just looking from a slightly different point of view,
taking the things that you said earlier on the call, you were sort of saying, you're still expecting the



upper end of the synergy range. So that kind of implies this CHF 12 million left to find. And you
were sort of saying that you would raise the dividend in line with the realization of synergies.

FINAL

I mean, it sounds from your comment just then to Iain that you haven't raised the dividend as far as
you could have done for the synergies that you have realized. So I mean, presumably, there's still a
little bit of sort of catch-up to go there. But I just want to square that with your earlier comments.
And perhaps a final point on M&A, I mean, I guess now your management's time is a bit more
freed up. Does that mean that you're perhaps a little bit more open to sort of bolt-ons than you
were or have been over the last couple of years? Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmür
Thank you, Peter. Paul?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Yeah. The payout ratio on statutory is roughly 58%. Obviously, that's a bit provisional because
statutory accounts take longer to produce but actually (1:33:44) a good guidance. Yes, we
potentially could raise; we could raise the dividend a bit more, but we want to be a little
conservative. We want to wait until the dividends are – so the synergies are fully phased-in and we
actually know where we are with the synergies.

A - Philipp Gmür

Bloomberg Transcript

M&A.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

M&A, yeah. M&A, yes we do have more capacity, more time to do M&A transactions. But the first
and biggest consideration is can we find the right M&A transaction to do. Those who remember us
pre-Nationale Suisse days, we often reported we've had a look at a lot of M&A deals over the year
and we haven't done any and that will still be our philosophy. Just because we've got more time,
please don't expect us to rush into doing M&A transactions.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

A - Philipp Gmür
We are having a look at quite some targets, but becoming rich means somehow not to buy, but
you could buy. Okay. More questions?

Operator
There are no further questions from the phone.

A - Philipp Gmür
Are there any questions left in the room? If not, I would like to thank you very much for your
attention, for your interest in our company. And I would once more like to invite you cordially to our
Capital Markets Day on June 8, 2017, here in Zurich. We would like to provide you with some more
insights on our future projects and different products we are launching or thinking about. And if not,
then, we are gathering again on September 4 for our half year results. Thank you very much and
good-bye.

Operator



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Ladies and gentlemen, the conference is now over. Thank you for choosing Chorus Call, and thank
you for participating in the conference. You may now disconnect your lines. Good-bye.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

