Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2017-03-09

Q4 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Anton Gildenhuys , Chief Actuary & Group Risk Officer
Heinie Carl Werth, Executive Director & Group Financial Director
Ian Maxwell Kirk, Chief Executive Officer-Designate & Director

Other Participants
Francois Du Toit, Analyst
Ian Cruickshanks , Analyst
Mark Ingham, Board Member

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Mark Ingham

{BIO 17384674 <GO>}

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome. My name is Mark Ingham. I'm the
Board Member of the Investment Analysts Society of South Africa. And a warm word of
thanks to Ian Kirk, the CEO; to Heinie Werth, the FD, and to his executive team, for
hosting us today. This is the results for the 12 months ended December 2016. And (00:24)
to Ian a very solid set of numbers there too.
Sanlam dates back to 1918 as a company, so it's been around for a century, and what a
century it's been for them. The business today is not just a household name, but it's a
prime example I think of corporate excellence in South Africa. It's got a market cap of
approximately ZAR 150 billion, which makes it quite a leading corporate on the JSE and
providing services across four distinct platforms.
In addition to the strong foundation that it's built over a century in South Africa, it has a
growing presence in emerging markets in other countries. Group equity value comfortably
exceeds ZAR 100 billion as the results show today. And I think presentations such as this
are a great opportunity for us all as analysts and fund managers to interact with
management and to get a sense of not just the past but also what the future can bring.
The company is known for its excellence in corporate reporting and for the disclosure of
information. And it's no surprise that it's got a good institutional shareholder following
both domestically and abroad. There will be an opportunity for a Q&A. We are being
screened live, there's a webcast, there's an audiocast, and there's live TV as well. And
questions may be asked through the live call access numbers and through the e-mail
functionality on the website. And I will just ask if you do wish to ask a question that you
state your name and the organization that you represent, and could I also ask you to mute
your telephones.
Page 1 of 21



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2017-03-09

Ian, over to you, and we look forward to another great presentation.

FINAL

Ian Maxwell Kirk

{BIO 1778703 <GO>}

Thank you, Mark. Morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for your support to
the Sanlam Group over the year and thanks for coming down to listen to what we have to
say again. Thanks to those analysts we had to – I think we put the figures on the book on
the system at 7:00 this morning. So, you can have the results there with the breakfast and
we appreciate that. I know it's not easy. It's a difficult time as well the results, and so we
appreciate your interest.
I'll talk a little bit about vision and strategy, the operating environment. And then Heinie – I
guess, Heinie, it's your first presentation with me, I think, on the results. So, we'll miss
Kobus, but Heinie is with us. And also, Anton will take some questions as well at the end.
And then some of my colleagues are here to answer some of the more difficult questions
if you've got.

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. So, let's get straight into it in terms of the vision. And this remains to lead in South
Africa client-centric wealth creation, management and protection. So, I think it's the base,
as you know, and we've worked off that and they will remain the base certainly for the
foreseeable future.
Our position in Pan-Africa is significant now, we'll go through it a bit later. But we have a
very, very valuable diversifier in the businesses in India and Southeast Asia. As I've
mentioned before, we've dialed down a bit on Southeast Asia but our businesses in
Malaysia are very valuable for us.
And then we support that with a niche presence in wealth and investment management in
certain developed countries essentially to service our South African base. But of course,
to do that effectively, you have to be able to deliver first-class services, which means you
have to service the local market as well. So, no change there. And really, if I look at this
strategy, just moving straight into that, it's – again, we've got the five-pillar strategy and
we've been solid on this for – since 2003. It's working for us. It's around implementation
and execution on the strategy, that's what we're focused on.
So, in each of the five pillars that we've had, our businesses are challenged. We challenge
them, and they've done exceptionally well. So, the strategy is really working for us here at
Sanlam. And that's essentially down to the people that we've got on board. We've
attracted excellent people through tough times. We try and position ourselves as the goto insurance company for talent, and we've retained our people, and that's the key thing
for us. And I think you've seen a very solid performance, and that's just down to the
execution of the strategy. So, there's not really much to say on that one.
In terms of the footprint, largely in place. I've mentioned before, we're not in Egypt, we're
not in Ethiopia. Egypt, we will do in time with Saham. Ethiopia, we'll get in when the time is
– when the opportunity is there because up until 2021, the regulations don't allow it. So,

Page 2 of 21



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2017-03-09

FINAL

we – pretty much everywhere, you see that we managed to complete the second phase
of the Saham transaction.
And there is only one Saham, and we would not have been able to complete this footprint
without the transactions with Saham. And I think it speaks well for the relationship within a
12-month period they will have before us to go up to 47% that we were able to do. So,
that's really the – it's a portfolio of businesses we've got on the continent. Some are
obviously going to face headwinds, some are going to find it a bit easier. But overall, I'm
really very, very proud of what we've been able to achieve in tough times.
And many South African businesses are currently trying to do this thing. It hasn't been
easy. And I realize all of you will understand that. But we've got that footprint in place now.
We're comfortable with it. We'll buy up additional parts. If opportunities come up to get us
into the one, two, three position in those countries in general insurance, in life, we'll take
those opportunities. But I think the key message is the footprint is in place now. And the
accelerated organic growth strategy that I've referred to before is going to be the main
focus for the Sanlam Group for the next three to five years.

Bloomberg Transcript

I have to just talk a little bit about the clusters before I hand over to Heinie and the
numbers just to give some context. I mean, SPF under Hubert and the team has really
done a fantastic, fantastic performance. I mean, people say it's a mature business ex
growth; it's not ex growth. It's clearly not the case. Mature, it may be; but ex growth, it's
not. And Hubert and the team really set about reengineering. I talked about it in the last
presentation, and I'll show you a little bit what's been achieved.
But to go through the extent of change with the re-engineerings, Project Re-Imagine, and
to show the results that have been done in a tough time. And you can see relative
performance very, very solid here. It's fantastic. The opportunity around BrightRock came
up, and I was delighted. That's not something we were necessarily running around.
Although, obviously, we knew about BrightRock because we trade in the risk business.
And I'm very proud that we were able to achieve that and the BrightRock people thought
that we were the right partners for them. And as I've said before, opportunities will come
up for Sanlam, where the business needs to be taken to the next stage or, alternatively,
certain – some of the bigger groups exit businesses, so it's very nice for us to be there.
Our risk business did very, very well. So, when we see the BrightRock together with our
existing matrix offering, I think we're in a very, very solid position. This has been a threeyear story now. We're gaining solid market share there.
Sky did extremely well. Under Yuri's (08:26) direction, we really had a solid turnaround
there. We tried to get back into the savings market in the previous year, so we had to rejig
those products this year. But the funnel, (08:37) the base risk product did very well.
And then, what's very encouraging for me is not just that we can look at this potential
disruptor like BrightRock, but also our existing businesses embraced the digital
technology and the big data and the analytics. This is a big solid business. It's been going

Page 3 of 21



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2017-03-09

FINAL

for 98 years, so it's easy to get disrupted. But we really take those things onboard and
offered additional benefits as well through Reality synergies.
So, the business is in great shape. I'm sure you will hear later. But just a little bit in terms of
the – what it's – how we've ended up. The single premium business that we had in the,
what we used to call, the sales business ended with up Glacier, Sky servicing the entrylevel market. And then the middle market business, traditional middle market business
are now split into risk, into recurring premium savings account, into a closed book
capability which is – and really what we've done here is created a very, very clear focus.
So, those businesses are now focused on the market. They know their segments. Their
know their capabilities. They know where the business is. They know how to go and get it.
They know how to integrate digital and there is face-to-face distribution. So, I think we are
in a very good space here, and congratulations to the team that they can manage to do
this and right-size and appropriate it. It was a growth re-engineering. It wasn't a cost –
although there will be significant cost savings out (10:07) over time. But to do that and to
deliver the results that we have, hats off to the team.

Bloomberg Transcript

Emerging markets was a great performance, 29% increase in the operating profit. So,
these are kind of the highlights for the year. We managed to conclude the first phase of
Saham obviously in February, then we had the Shriram options and the life insurance and
general insurance, the 23% that was done. We took through some nice gains on that in
this financial period.
And what I think was nice is some of the challenges that we had in 2015 in some of the
territories, which are inevitable. We talked about that from the outset, that the recovery
takes place, whether it's collecting the money in India from the equipment finance
business, whether it's facing up to the challenges in Zambia or doing a bit better in Kenya.
And that's very encouraging for me that we can recover there, and the growth is coming
through.
Now, on the African continent, of course, it's tough because, as you know, the commodity
currencies in particular came under pressure. The non-commodity currency is doing a bit
better as a general comment. But I mean, in countries like Nigeria, we're now number two
in life, and we're up and running in general. I mean, it's a very tough environment. And I
pick out Zimbabwe. And I mean, I think most of you know how tough it is there, but we
had a fantastic performance there. So, this was Heinie's business. Heinie has handed over
now to Junior. We are very proud of what they have achieved and very encouraged by
what can be done in the future.
Robert and his team also had a good year. Had to do some readjustment in terms of
putting together a business that can serve Sanlam and, at the same, build an additional
capability in the third-party market. You can see strong flows in retail, about ZAR 16 billion.
A refocusing of the Sanlam Capital Markets business largely around the Central Credit
Management, which was very successful for us, and we've already had brought some
benefits through on that.

Page 4 of 21



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2017-03-09

FINAL

So, the UK remains a work-in-progress for Robert and the team, but we're very pleased
of what has been achieved there. And just to show, they have also done some of the
restructuring, setting up a capability for the Sanlam business, repositioning capital
markets, dashing ahead with the wealth management, and also keeping the retail
business with a strong capability to attract the money, and then changing a little bit the
institutional side where the investment core people now introduce and now deal directly
with the institutional market.
So, those are all changes that Robert had to implement. So, I think we're in good space
there and times are tough, obviously, when the markets don't deliver. You can see that
affects the fee income, but we're pleased with what's been achieved.
On the Santam side, they presented the results last week. This business I know pretty
well. And we're very proud, I mean, 6.5% or 6.4%, not bad, not obviously what they
achieved in 2015, but that was truly outstanding year and it's well within our expectations
for them to achieve that. MiWay growing strongly, 7% growth overall, and the economy is
growing at 0.5%, and market share close to 25%. So it's a tough as (13:24) to get that
business to grow.

Bloomberg Transcript

One or two challenges on driving up the value of the Sanlam Emerging Markets
investments which they've co-invested along with us. And the business is in good shape
and, of course, we were very proud to get a special dividend of ZAR 8 a share, always
appreciate that. I think now it's probably really five special dividends in the last 10 years. So
I say to Lizé, I don't mind, you can still call it special and give it to us every year. But an
ongoing focus on capital management.
And there's Corporate cluster, good year. Employee benefits, we're coming back to our
rightful place there. We had slid back a little bit but we're in very solid position. And I think
on a relative basis, you can see the results are good there, improvement. Sorry, I forgot to
say, in SPF, we had a good improvement in risk experience in the second half of the year.
We also had a good improvement in risk experience in EB in the second half of the year.
And Afrocentric, which we got involved in in 2015, has done very well, above our
expectations. So, overall, a very, very solid performance in tough times.
So, we'll stay the course on this strategy. It's around optimizing the capital base. You'll see
in the – and Heinie will go through the detail. There's ongoing opportunities there, balance
sheet management, Anton driving that strongly. We have a number of key partners that –
and I mentioned African Rainbow, creates a lot of opportunities for us, that's one. But
there are other partners too that we will go forward and collaborate with as we build the
business, right? Not just in South Africa, beyond South Africa as well. And we're open for
disruption in some of the new technologies. So, I think the business is in good shape.
A little bit about the environment. And of course, (15:21) many of you will know, these are
just sort of comments from me, many of you will know this. I think 2017 for South Africa is
going to be a year to hang in. The Angolas (15:30) that we scored in the past, hopefully,
we'll probably score a few Angolas. (15:36) But hopefully, they'll remain small ones in 2017
and the focus of course will be on other territories, how the U.S. will get through with all

Page 5 of 21



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2017-03-09

FINAL

Trump there and what's going to happen in Europe and what will be the outcome for the
UK trying to exit Europe.
So, those are, hopefully, what will keep the world focus. And if we can just keep it
together in 2017, I think the recovery in the economy will stand to our course. We expect
1%, 1.5% on the GDP side, we'll expect some improvement in the inflation. So, it will be
better I think for us in South Africa. But these things around the commodity-based
economies for Africa, we've also got to keep an eye on because we're in many countries
now.
So, I'd say the pressure is there. You can see in the SPF business, there were certainly
some pressure on single premium. I don't think the budget is really positive necessarily for
that, for the affluent market. So, single premium will remain under pressure. But we're
very proud of what's been achieved on persistency and new business growth in the
middle market and in the lower income. And you will see now when Heinie does the
figures that we're really rock solid on the persistency, which is not the case with all the
players in the market.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then, of course, as business, we have to continue to play our role. There's much to
do. Sanlam continues to play its role, but through organized business, through our industry
associations, we're under a lot pressure. But the Finance Minister is there solid. He knows
what the priorities are and it's our job to continue to support him. So, I think a better – not
nowhere near where we should be, but a little bit better than 2016 would be what I'll say.
And in terms of the Rest of Africa, again, some improvement there. I think Nigeria will
recover a bit quicker than Angola. Angola is making – it's a bit harder for them because of
their over dependence on the oil and some of their political issues in the year. But Nigeria
we think will come right. And then the East African countries doing a lot better, not
impacted by the commodity strain. So, I think overall, a little bit better is what we expect,
but it was very tough in 2016. There's no doubt about that.
India, we'll start doing a lot better there. We started collecting some of the debt that
we've had to provide for in 2017, and then there's characters as you might have seen.
They pulled this announcement where they took away about 65% of the notes in
circulation. They call it demonetization. They were a little bit slow on the remonetization.
So, India certainly has had a bit of a tough time from October, November on.
We think maybe one or two, perhaps even three quarters, we'll be a bit soft, but we've
got great businesses there. We're very pleased with our partners and I think, over the
long term, that demonetization will probably be the right thing for the country, but it has
caused a few issues which we don't see in the results, but I think we might just see
coming forward a little bit.
On Malaysia, reasonable there. 2016 wasn't the best year. 2017 looking a bit better. The
issue really for us in Malaysia is not the economy. We're quite comfortable with the
economy. It's the issue around motorcycle sales and we haven't diversified sufficiently in

Page 6 of 21



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2017-03-09

P&O. And then just the work that's necessary to sort of make sure that we earn the
returns out of MCIS.

FINAL

So, I think that those – all the environments probably recovering a little bit in 2017, but
we're looking forward through to 2018. And through this whole thing, the messages, we
stay the course. We don't change our approach. We have a diversification. We've got a
clear strategy and we'll move ahead on that.
Okay, Heinie, over to you.

Heinie Carl Werth

{BIO 7529974 <GO>}

Thank you, Ian. Good morning, everybody. I think Ian have set the scene on the
environment. And I think, between the lines, you could already have seen that it's actually
a very solid set of results, I really want to say, in very difficult or turbulent times.

Bloomberg Transcript

The highlights of our results. We got a 10% increase in our operating profit, which we
believe is very, very good on the circumstances even if we stripped out our new
acquisitions, being Saham; Afrocentric in South Africa and Zimbabwe, it is still 8%. As you
would have seen with many of our competitors, everybody have struggled on the
investment side and, predominantly, our investment results came down quite a bit as a
result of the exchange rates linked to the investments we've got abroad.
Headline earnings, but (20:40) looks good, 6%, but that is really due to certain tax –
deferred tax that we had to create. So, we do not see that as part of our sustainable
earnings, and that's why it looks good on that line better than what we believe the better
line to look is the normalized headline.
We're also pleased with the dividend that we fill (21:04) and even with this dividend, with
this cover, we are holding back cash also for further investments, and I'll come back to
that. But we do think on the circumstances a very good dividend growth.
Overall business volume is 11% growth in difficult times, very, very good. Very pleasing
also, last year, we had difficulties, we had some PIC outflows, we had outflows in the
Botswana Pension Fund. Notwithstanding even after we add that back, we had a very, very
good net inflow this year. And we did succeed to get quite a bit of the money back in
Botswana that we lost a year ago. Value of new business up 18%, also a very good
number if we normalize it for the – you may remember, at the end of 2015, we had (21:52)
or we had a bit of changes on the Minister of Finance side. It pushed up interest rates. As
a result of that, there was pressure on value of new business. This year, that reversed. So,
even on a comparable interest rate basis, it's still up 10%, but overall a good one there.
We succeeded to increase the margin slightly. And then the only area where I want to say
where we did not meet really the expectations was on the RoGEV, our return on group
equity value. We set an internal rate of about 14% and we delivered 11.8%. However, if you
add back, and predominantly, it's the impact of the strong rand at year-end, and if you
then also take out the benefit of the interest rate which can lower that right, the adjusted
Page 7 of 21



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2017-03-09

FINAL

one is back at 17.8%. So, on a like-for-like basis, we actually outperformed our hurdle rate
by quite a margin.
Ian have already said the difficulties around the economic environment in which we
operated, just a few other areas to put perspective before I get to the detailed results.
I've already referred we've seen a decrease again in the interest rate, which obviously
helped our results. It helped our EV. It helped our VNB. And then – but on the other side,
and it was much more worse or detrimental, was the rand. During the year, the rand was
still weaker. So, our profits and our VNB was helped as you can see, but then, with the real
negative impact going through was on the year-end exchange rate that we used for GEV.
And just that alone (23:42) our returns was negative 6%. We are not complaining about a
stronger rand. This is just putting perspective on other (23:51) volatility has hit us. So, this is
what I refer to, we were helped during the year, but at year-end, the strengthening of the
rand has hit us.

Bloomberg Transcript

Also, the markets were very volatile. So, during the year, the market returns were lower
than what we would normally use in our assumptions. You will see it in our GEV returns
later. And then we had also the CGT inclusion rate during the year, which caused our
investment returns to be about close to ZAR 200 million lower on a comparable basis to
the previous year.
We always near knew the transactions were coming on Saham and also on the exercise of
the Shriram options. So we had to – we took a deliberate decision to hedge, to help get
the money out in dollars, to put structures in place on the Indian rupee. But again, the
returns were then lower than what we would have had otherwise because of the returns
on those currencies and then back solving (24:52) it to the rand.
Underwriting results, it was not an easy year. You may recall in the first half, like, all our
competition and everybody, there were huge pressure on the risk profits and the risk
margins. Ian have referred to it. We have started to see an improvement in the second
half, and I'll come back later to that as well. And then the Santam story is well-known by
now. Also, as you will see in the results, just like Ian, it's the first time that we also report
separately on the Corporate cluster.
So, Sanlam Personal Finance, still the biggest business in the group, the 1% volume growth
do not do justice to the results. In Sanlam Sky, there was a deliberate decision. You may
recall, the previous year, we had issues on the profitability of saving products. So, product
changes took place. There was a deliberate effort to change the product mix, and we
don't see it here in the results. The funeral (25:55) business did well. Safrican had a few
particular good schemes. And when we get down now to the VNB, you will see that,
although the 1% on volumes doesn't look great, we are seeing the benefit fully in the
value of new business.
Individual Life and Glacier, the main reason why they also only came in at 1% was Ian
referred to the pressure on single premiums. Again, stripping out the single premiums,
both in Glacier and in the Life license, the rest, we have seen a very, very good
performance on the recurring risk business side, which you don't see in this, but in our

Page 8 of 21



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2017-03-09

detailed results, you – in our books, you will see it. Net flows. That is really the impact of
the single premiums then impacting on that.

FINAL

Sanlam Personal saw the value of new business, a very, very healthy 22%. And even if we
adjust it for the mature market and mature business, 11% growth is very good (27:00).
Margins, you can see the turnaround in Sky especially with the margins moved up quite a
bit relative to the previous year.
On the profit side, the only one which could stand out is a bit disappointing, but we really
don't see it as disappointing. You don't want to go big in personal loans in difficult
circumstances. So, we're also seeing the results there of deliberate management
decisions to not go flat out during difficult periods on personal loans. For the rest, a
pleasing performance from all the businesses. And overall, we think the 7% – the 7%, we
should also put in perspective.

Bloomberg Transcript

We were (27:43) started various new initiatives which will – (27:45) good for the future.
Those new initiatives do cost money. So, we are now seeing the expense side coming
through which may lead to the (27:55) profits look a bit moderate, but we are working and
the benefits will come through in years to come. And we are already starting to see the
benefits on the value of new business. So, overall, a very good return on group equity
value and overall a good set of results.
Sanlam Emerging Markets. I must be careful not to be biased, but I really do think it is also
a very good set of results in very, very difficult circumstances. The 63% was obviously
helped also by the acquisition of Saham. But even if we exclude that, it is still a 40% type
of growth in volumes. Net fund flows, I've already referred, we had the (28:41) negative of
the BPOPF leaving us in 2015, and we got it back in various different funds, and overall, a
very good net fund flow. Namibia, same pattern as in South Africa, it is basically not seeing
the single premiums that we used to see.
So overall value of new business, even if I take out the new acquisitions, it's about a 15%
increase and the margin remained healthy. Profit, 29% up. If we take out the new
acquisitions, it's still up about 18%. Namibia came down, but it's a bit like the Sky story you
will see on the next slide. We are seeing the benefits in the value of new business. So we
saw the new business strain coming through the year. A year ago or so, we also struggled
a bit on the entry-level side, that has turned around again and we are seeing that coming
through by putting pressure on the new business strain, but it's coming through in the
profit side or on the value of new business side.
Again, as I've said, even if you take out the new acquisitions, 18%, 19% type of growth.
The disappointing one for us as management is minus 2% on the RoGEV. If we normalize
it just for the exchange rate and interest rate, it is 11%. It is still falling short to our
expectations, and there's different reasons for that. We do not talk a lot about it, but we
sit with quite a bit of excess capital in these businesses. If the markets then give a good
return, there's 1% or 2% that disappears as a result of that.

Page 9 of 21



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2017-03-09

FINAL

In addition to that, we really spend money and we are going to see it in other year
coming. We invested a lot in the footprint. To provide good support to the footprint, we
are now investing also in resources to the opening. I want to say we are not going as
extreme as some of the other companies are doing, but we are investing and that is
pulling down on the RoGEV. And then, also, we are not taking benefits that we would like
to see yet that should come through in the future.
So, I think the good thing is we understand why we didn't deliver to the result, and all of
those areas are getting attention. The only one that I really want to say, the two real
negatives in the RoGEV was these orders where we had the fraud and the write-offs that
we had. And then Ian also referred to it, the one other area that really needs a lot of work
still is diversifying P&O, the predominantly motorcycle insurance business in Malaysia. And
we have seen good profits there, but we are not seeing the sales coming through. And as
a result of that, we took it into account in our valuations.

Bloomberg Transcript

Sanlam Investments. Again, what we are really seeing here is the retail flows being very,
very strong. It was a good drive and a separate focus on the retail flows, institutional flows
and Sanlam money on its own. And we are seeing the benefits of the retail strategy
coming through. Wealth Management, another good year.
The disappointing one, and this is not just only the rand, the UK did not deliver to
expectations. A lot of restructuring happened during the last year. And, yes, we will now
have to start to see the turnaround coming through in the next year or two. It is a business
that management has spent a lot of time on now to fix it, and now we need to start to
see the results. Capital management, not really so much a story here on the volumes, but
when we get to the profits now, you will see.
The area that management is looking at, you will see the new business remains small in
the UK. And that's a question that all the time have to be answered is our focus on the
wealth and investment management side on the life side. And this is something that
Robert and his team is working on, and we will have to make calls where we put the focus.
But we are not comfortable with the ZAR 7 billion VNB in that business.
Profits, if you take the market conditions, all of that, overall, 9%, good. We really have to
compliment Sanlam Capital Markets. You will see there in the outstanding performance. I
think for the people from the management team here, it was possibly the best set of
results in the history, so really good performance there.
The international side speak for itself, not a good year. And then wealth management
doing good. And then the investment management, the reason for the 1% in these
markets, we did not get good performance fees, so that is basically what is dragging it
down.
Overall, RoGEV also not meeting our overall rates. On an adjusted basis, it is about 10%.
So it's still falling short of our expectations, and that's predominantly then as a result of
the UK.

Page 10 of 21



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2017-03-09

FINAL

This is just showing that our holding (34:18) are still doing a good job in the investment
returns. And this is really an important slide when it comes to how you would start to see
future flows our clients start to support you and whether they will invest or you need to
keep the investment returns going, and we are still above 80%. We would like it closer to
the 90% like it was. But this is obviously always a focus in Sanlam Investment
Management.
Santam, Ian has referred to it, they have delivered their results, and I'm not going to
spend time on that, but also we think a very pleasing set of results. Lower than last year,
but still within the mandate or the requirements that we give to them. What I can highlight,
a very high Return on Group Equity Value. This is driven by the movement in the share
price. So we do not try to be (35:12) on what the share price should be. The previous year,
the share price didn't do well. This year, it did very well.

Bloomberg Transcript

Sanlam Corporate, the first time we report on them separately, and this is the area that
we know is still under pressure. We have started to see risk profits improving in the
second half. We didn't chase volumes, and I think that's the core reason why recurring risk
premiums is down. In difficult times, it's easy to go and lower prices. And, yes, then you
have to catch up a year later. I think what we are seeing towards year-end is by us not
following suit and dropping prices, yes, we lost out on the top line side but, yes, we are
seeing the benefits on the bottom line side on the next slide.
They had a very good year in terms of institutional inflows on the annuity side investment
flows. And the margin is not where we want it to be. The value of new business is not
where we want it to be, but that's just the result of the recurring premiums. But as I've
said, a very, very sound set of results then coming through on profit. And this is where we
are now seeing the Employee Benefits business, notwithstanding the issues on the risk
premium side, on the volume and on the high claims, we are seeing them doing very well
in difficult circumstances.
And then the main reason on the Health side is the first time inclusion of Afrocentric, and
also Afrocentric in their first year outperformed what we expected in the business case.
Again, the RoGEV doesn't look so great, but if we adjust it for the interest rate
movement, they are above the hurdle. They are well into the 14%, so delivering to what
the group expect of them.
Pulling that all together in the group results. So, I'm just going to look at bottoms. I've
already said we think under circumstances a good set of inflows and a very good set of
net inflows in these circumstances.
It was a tough year. In a tough year, as you would expect, more pressure on the retention.
Key in our business is not just to get new clients. Key is to retain clients. And this
measurement has been placed for years. So in the middle market, you can see that
notwithstanding very, very difficult economic conditions in South Africa, the team really
succeeded to retain clients. So clients are not leaving us. So even in difficult times, it mean
the sale was done to the correct people.

Page 11 of 21



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2017-03-09

FINAL

The same on the entry-level market, which is actually even more hit in difficult times. Yes,
a slight uptick in the 9.6%. We don't see that as a new trend. We feel that is also well
within the historical trend line. We have been at the 9.6% levels before but also here we
believe, and when we get to our return on embedded value earnings, you will see on the
persistency assumptions actually that things are improving relative to our own
expectations.
I've already referred to this, so 18%, all businesses doing very well other than Sanlam UK.
And then, on a normalized basis, 10%, and margins holding up. We want this trend line
that is starting to show a pick-up again. The end of 2015 was largely driven by the spike in
interest rates, but we would like to get this line, the margins up again and to see a steady
uptick in our VNB. But again, we think very good results under circumstances.
Profits, I'm not going to go through it again. Solid set of results.

Bloomberg Transcript

Other lines on the income statement, I've already referred to the operating profit up well.
But then in the investment return and the main driver there is the stock market and then
also the impact of the rand or money that we invested offshore and bringing it back to
rand terms we will get with the exchange rate.
The fund transfers line, please, I must state to you is not a recurring line. With the change
in tax legislation, we were able to create a RPF. There were certain movements now there
to take place between the individual, the IPF and the RPF. The result of that is that we
have to create certain deferred tax assets and it's a one-off. And we don't try to show it in
our core results, and that is why it's shown here as part of the fund transfers because it's
not sustainable and it's really an accounting matter rather than a business matter. I must
be careful there's lots of auditors in the room.
Group equity value, I've already referred to all of them in the different businesses. We fell
short to our target. Associated, just correcting it again for the rand, would've added 6%
which would have meant we have met our results on a normalized basis.
This is a slide which I think in the June results caused a bit of questions and concerns. And
the one line I want to focus on this slide is we've talked about value of new business,
there's the expected unwinding of the discount rate, but the operating experience
variances. This is the line where there was quite a lot of questions because in June this
year we – the market I want to say, we got used to reporting about ZAR 1 billion type of
experience variances. And then it came down to ZAR 75 million in June.
And the main reason why it came down was the experience, the difficulties on the risk, the
risk business both in SPF and in EV, and I've said that has turned around. So we were now
at ZAR 983 million, we are not yet on the risk business where it used to be, but Ian has
referred to the balance sheet initiative that Anton embarked on, the new initiative with
CCM with Sanlam Capital Markets. We are starting to see benefits coming through. Detail
on this is set out, if I remember, on page 63 in the pack. But the story is coming together
again and we believe – we don't – we can't guarantee that we're back at the ZAR 1 billion

Page 12 of 21



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2017-03-09

FINAL

level. But what is nice is that there's a bigger mix of areas contributing to that. And as I
say, there is more detail on that.
For the rest, the storyline around embedded value earnings, you will see also on the
operating assumption and these are the operating experience variances is to us very
important that it is a positive every year. We don't want to go into negative territory. If you
go and dug deeper into that one, you will also see that on persistency, yes, we have a
very, very small negative persistency which is – but weaker than the previous year. But
what was good was when you look forward there to the operating assumption looking
forward, we actually improved or we had to release this. So our assumptions, we are
actually seeing better persistency than what we have assumed a few months ago.
The diversification is continuing, and I do think the set of results show the benefits of
diversification. Yes, you might have a bit of bad times one year in India. You might have it
in South Africa in one business. But overall, and the overall portfolio, both in terms of the
geographic diversification and both in terms of the product diversification is carrying the
group. And the focus will remain to keep on diversifying the business. The intention always
is not to get the South African business smaller. We really want them to keep on
outperforming, but it is adding to that on the international front and diversifying the way
that we are less dependent on life.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please don't get shocked by this slide. I think people got used to the ZAR 3 billion
notwithstanding what we did. (44:04) and Ian and the previous management always got
to ZAR 3 billion. We didn't try to get it back to ZAR 3 billion.
What is very important in this ZAR 550 billion is those two lines, South Africa and rest of
Africa. South Africa already we have now provided the ZAR 700 million we need to pay for
BrightRock. So, the cash is still in the bank. So, we could have showed it lower, but we
prefer it is a commitment that we don't have reason to believe the transaction won't
happen. And in the rest of Africa, ZAR 2.7 billion is for the Sanlam Phase 2 or the additional
17% we are buying. The money may flow in the second half of this year.
So, the ZAR 550 million one can say looks now very low, but I can assure you, and in our
detailed write-up, we do refer to that. Anton and his team have also done more work in
terms of the SAM legislation or regulations. And assuming nothing change or that it is
implemented as envisaged, we do anticipate that there will be releases of about ZAR
500 million per year for the next four years.
I would also like to think Anton and the team wouldn't go aggressive on things. So, most
probably, that is on the lower side. But there is already decisions approved by the board
where will see capital releases out of our capital as a result of some (45:38) going to
come through.
Other stuff, we are moving assets between Sanlam Capital Markets. We'll start to work
more on the Sanlam Life balance sheet. So, there's going to be capital releases. I've
already referred to that we are paying out a solid dividend, but we are not paying out all
our cash earnings. So, just out of that, there will be another ZAR 500 million plus. So, I just
Page 13 of 21



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2017-03-09

want to give you the comfort that we are not starting to become reckless on capital or
that we don't have excess capital left.

FINAL

In terms of our – given these stuff that I've referred to and looking at our pipeline, our
potential transactions, we feel we are well in control of still matching our needs with what
we have available in the group.
On that note, that ends I think overall a good set of results in difficult circumstances. Thank
you. Ian?

Ian Maxwell Kirk

{BIO 1778703 <GO>}

Thank you, Heinie, excellent. It's not so easy with the complexity of the group to be on
top of the numbers as Heinie is. So, I'll just take you through now the priorities for the
clusters and then just close up in terms of how we see the group in 2017.

Bloomberg Transcript

Personal Finance, I spoke earlier about how pleased I was with the results in that year of
restructuring. So, I think the business is in really good shape there. And we can be pleased
that that is the engine of the growth of the group and will continue to be. So, it's about
being – making sure that now we turn that to our advantage and being really on top of the
various segments of the market and going after the business.
In tough times, I think the stronger businesses get better, and Hubert and the team, they
know where the business is. This business now, I mean, you add on the BrightRock
offering, we're in very, very strong position there, and the analytics and the big data and
digital capabilities that we've invested in.
And I'm really pleased that the way the team have embraced this thing. For a business
that's 99 years old, that's been serviced from agents and from brokers to take on board
and bring the intermediaries with us with the new digital to create this omnichannel
capability. It's not easy. It's easy talk about it, but it's not easy to do it. And I'm really
encouraged by how the team has done on that.
The other thing, of course, is you'll be aware of this significant degree of regulatory
change, retail distribution review. So, they're not just affecting entrant side of the
company; they affect all the distribution side. And that creates challenges, but also our
team has really taken it on board and we think that there'll be significant opportunities
there around that. So, the businesses are in good shape. They're agile. They're costefficient. They're focused in the market and they're out after the business, and it's really
encouraging for us.
Emerging Markets, and we talked about this last year, this focus to accelerated organic
growth is important. We've said openly where we – the two countries where we aren't,
and in time, we'll get there. We'll take additional stakes when they come available. But
largely, that footprint is in place and we're comfortable with the footprint and there's no
need to do more on that. It's a case of enhancing the businesses and we're busy with that
now.
Page 14 of 21



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2017-03-09

FINAL

And Heinie has done a fantastic job with his team, he's handed it over now to Junior. And
Junior will really get stuck in there and drive and improve, so that we'll have more Sanlam
businesses and more Botswana businesses and more Namibia businesses that we've
very, very proud of, Ghana as well. It'll just take a bit of time but we'll stay the course, and
that's a wonderful opportunity for us.
It's about human resource development, of course, as well, and we're busy on that. You
just get better at it. Your own people get more comfortable in travelling and adding value.
And then, of course, at the same time, you're building up the skills in country. And this isn't
easy to do, but very confident that we're doing that. Of course, governance, compliance
and ethics is a non-negotiable as we know and we had that experience in Rwanda so
we've worked off that one.

Bloomberg Transcript

And again, in Rwanda, we've gone after the money. It's something we've just sort of
accepted the situation and that speaks a lot. And as I've said before, when opportunities
come up to take additional stakes in businesses that we will do that or where partners
need some assistance on that. Okay, so in good shape there.
On the Investments side, I think the restructuring around the institutional business has
taken place. Retail, we continue to be on a very strong position I've mentioned before.
The dial is turning back now and retail flows whether the intermediaries are going for the
outcomes base as opposed to trying to play multi-manager, which some certainly did for
some period of time and the retail money tended to go away from the Sanlam's and the
Life associated investment houses. And that's certainly turning back in our favor and you
can see it in the flows. So we're in better position there. And I think in time, we'll grab
more of the institutional market.
So, the credit business is fantastic. We were underweight there, and we've gone about
that and we have a real capability there. So, that will continue to add. UK, as Heinie
mentioned as well, is a work in progress. And the semi-operational efficiencies just
because pressure will certainly come on fees, investment fees going forward, particularly
on the retail side. So, our business in good shape there. Santam, we've spoken about.
But it's around balancing growth and profit. It's about working with us in the Sanlam
Emerging Markets business to drive up the value of the general insurance businesses we
have on the continent and make sure we are there for the corporates, offering a
consistent level of product and service. Not easy to achieve because of different
regulations in every country, but that's what the international intermediaries need and
that's why we're there to deliver them. And we've had some success. We can certainly do
more there.
We've had two with the downgrade in South Africa. Of course, we've had to put a new
reinsurance arrangement in place to make sure that we can offer an A-rated paper to the
internationals, international brokers and to their clients. So, that's now in place, and I think
that will certainly help us in the specialist areas where we came under a bit of pressure
because of the downgrade to our rating as a country. And again, it's working with the

Page 15 of 21



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2017-03-09

FINAL

municipalities. I don't need to tell you that things are not perfect there. But it affects the
risk profile of Santam and we're busy with it.
And again, as I mentioned about Personal Finance, it's very encouraging the way that the
Santam people have taken on the digital. They don't want to be disrupted by anybody. If
they're going to disrupted, they'll disrupt themselves. And they've taken on this thing and
it's really encouraging for me that they bring the intermediaries. And this is an
intermediated company, 98 years of getting support from intermediaries. And we've
taken the intermediaries with us on this journey around digital as we did back in 2007
when we started MiWay. So, I think you'll find some very interesting transformational stuff
that'll come through from Santam in time. I didn't attend Lizé's presentation, but I hope
she spoke a little bit on the same things.

Bloomberg Transcript

Santam Corporate is up and going. We've mentioned before we don't think we're getting
our fair share out of South African corporates. We think we can do better in Employee
Benefits and in Health. And we've started to show progress already, and the two clusters
are working together along with other clusters in trying to get us back to our rightful
position there. And that all speaks to our leadership, our desire to be in a leading position
in South Africa.
And it's not just about retail. It's also about corporate. And of course, then, the learnings
that we get there and how we get better at that, moving that on to the African continent
is what it's all about. And the EB guys have been left behind on the digital, they've
introduced some very nice technologies so you can – if you're a member of one of the
schemes that are under our administration, now you can find out all your stuff. If you want
to wake up at 2:00 in the morning and get on to your cell phone and find how much you
lost yesterday or made yesterday, you can do all those things. God knows why people
want to do it, but I'm told that that's what people need these days, so that's what we're
delivering for them. So, it's very encouraging for a business and a legacy business like SEB
to be able to do that type of thing.
I'm encouraged by what I've seen from Afrocentric. It's early days for us, but Ahmed is
doing a great job there with them for us. And I think there's some exciting things that can
be done there and we can sort of try and bash away at closing the gap there in
Healthcare, which we've been out of, as you know, we've been out of. We were a leader
in the 1990s, lost our way a bit, and then only got back a couple of years ago into that
business. But we think it's very important. We're now starting to deliver products into that
Healthcare base that we didn't have before. We're starting to use the data that we didn't
have before. So all the sort of stuff that we've talked about when we announced that deal
last year, we're now starting to deliver on so it's quite encouraging all around.
Okay, so the outlook, and I've talked a little about this earlier. So if you look across all the
countries, Africa, India, and Malaysia, the three that we see under pressure, interestingly
enough, is South Africa and Nigeria and Angola.
Now, I just want to make the point. It's how organizations adapt under pressure that's
important. That's very, very important. And I think Sanlam is adapting well in South Africa,

Page 16 of 21



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2017-03-09

FINAL

and you can see that in the relative performance. You saw it in 2015. You see it again in
2016. Heinie showed the two halves of the year where we had a bit of pressure on
experience variances and how we went about doing that. And as the leadership team that
we can't expect more from the people.
Nigeria, very tough one, and look at what has been achieved on the Life side. And that's,
of course, because we've got good partners and the insurance penetration in that country
is very, very low, which is why we invested there.
Angola will be tougher. We anticipated that. We had some time when we did the Saham
Phase 1. We saw the opportunity. It's come through. Look, we will have to improve in
Angola by 2018, 2019, but those are the countries that are under pressure. But it's a
portfolio.

Bloomberg Transcript

India, a couple of soft quarters I expect because of the demonetization. I'm sure you've
heard about that. It affects all businesses, but in the longer term, I do believe and I agree
with them over there that it will come through positively for our business. Malaysia as well
as East Africa where we'll be – those three environments are probably the ones that are
going to be the most positive in 2017.
So, I've mentioned that the budget will be a bit negative for discretionary savings which
was under pressure anyway. And we have to watch the rand. Now, it's great for our
international investors. Of course, they've shown fantastic returns on their Sanlam
investment. But we have to reflect the results in rands, and that does certainly put us
under pressure, and you saw in the Investments cluster in UK in particular and in the SCM
cluster the impact of that. I think it's a positive thing overall, but just to note that it does
make our – it makes it challenging for us on the RoGEV.
But over the long term, it's not going to – we still believe in the diversification that shows
substantial advantage for us. And of course, it is nice. The strong rand is nice for Santam
on the claims side, as a contrary to what we've had to challenge with before.
We'll have volatility on investment markets, and one has to be careful how to do that. I
mean, our people know how to do it, and it hasn't been so bad that we – industry
challenges around disruption and regulations and big data and digital, we're all busy
spending money on that intelligently. We're not wasting money on that one. I think the
second phase of Saham will finalize BrightRock.
And then the partnerships, I've mentioned some important partnerships that we will have,
and that's an important part of the whole omnichannel strategy. One has to accept that
customers today can get products from various organizations, not just entirely from
Sanlam. They can get Sanlam products from retailers and from banks and even from
telcos and all that sort of stuff. So, we've got partnerships, key partnerships in place there,
and that's an important part of our omnichannel.
And then capital, as Heinie mentioned, we'll remain focused. Balance sheet management,
Anton, his team are busy with that, and the corporate cluster.
Page 17 of 21



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2017-03-09

FINAL

So, I think at the end, the business is in good shape. 2016 was tough. We've come through
it well. I mean, to get double digit in the main operating metrics, I have to say when asked
it here and presented in September, I was unsure whether we'd be able to do that. So,
I'm really proud of the team and how they've adapted and dealt with the challenges that
we faced. And the business is in good shape. We'll stay the course. No need to change.
Some businesses will do better but diversification will continue to work for the Sanlam
Group.
So, thank you very much. Thank you for your interest. And we'll open now for some
questions. Heinie, maybe you can join. Anton, you can join. And I'll just do the questions. I'll
make sure that I can handle the more difficult ones as a team. So, we'll start, if we can
start here. Ian, yeah?

Q&A
Q - Ian Cruickshanks

{BIO 15916317 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. Ian Cruickshanks, Institute of Race Relations. Just a comment first. This isn't
really a question. You mentioned that the situation at municipalities, and I'm sure this
extends to the SIEs (01:01:02) as well, it's somewhat less than perfect. Well, I'd just to like
to comment that's the biggest understatement I've ever heard. But anyway, what I think is
important that you clearly see that is opportunity which, of course, is encouraging, too.
Then, the other point I wanted to ask about was looking at – you want to leverage credit
capabilities. Do you see yourselves moving towards, call it, a one-stop all-stop financial
services group, whether it's a retail, whether it's an individual, corporate or whoever need
to go no further, you'll give them financial services across the board.

A - Ian Maxwell Kirk

{BIO 1778703 <GO>}

No. we don't define traditional banking, either corporate or retail banking, that's what we
do. I think what we're saying there, Ian, is that we've been a bit light on corporate credit,
which gets originated by the banks and will continue to do so. And we needed to lift our
capability a little bit there in terms of how we've done it. We have an excellent capability in
our Capital Markets business to be able to do that. And that's not around the one shop,
we're not looking to expand into the banking area. Banks are our partners.
And the fundamental reason there is we don't think we're necessarily going to get the
best banking talent into Sanlam. I know some of our competitors might think they will, but
that's our view. And by the way, we say to the banks, we don't think they're going to get
the best insurance talent into their organizations. And we keep telling the banks that, and
they don't always listen but that's our view.
Maybe, Anton, you can also talk a little bit about corporate credit.

A - Anton Gildenhuys

{BIO 4058523 <GO>}

Page 18 of 21



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2017-03-09

FINAL

Yeah. Basically, like Ian mentioned, it's around corporate credit. And the Sanlam balance
sheet has a capability to absorb quite a lot of credit and be rewarded for it. So, we saw
the opportunity there to extend our credit presence. And in doing that, not only the
Sanlam balance sheet, but actually also contribute to South Africa, investing in
infrastructure, corporate expansion, those kind of things.

A - Ian Maxwell Kirk

{BIO 1778703 <GO>}

But banks are our partners, Ian, we don't necessarily see ourselves doing the origination
there. We work with them, and we make our capability available to them. They retain the
relationship with the corporate. But as you all know, certainly with the Basel regulations,
certainly over the longer term, assets are more suitable for an organization like a Sanlam
than under the new regulations for the banks. That just creates opportunity for us.
No more questions? Well, Heinie, you did a great job. Other questions from on line, okay?

Operator
Hi. We have a question from the line. This comes from Francois Du Toit of Renaissance
Capital.

Q - Francois Du Toit

{BIO 16128719 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, Ian. Can you hear me?

A - Ian Maxwell Kirk

{BIO 1778703 <GO>}

Hi. We can hear you, Francois.

Q - Francois Du Toit

{BIO 16128719 <GO>}

Excellent. Thank you. My question is just around your capital management. I think you're
thinking about 310% STR cover on the new SAM. And obviously, that suits your excess
capital currently in the last business in this capital is earmarked for the dividends. But you
don't actually mean (01:04:33) at 120%?
I think you've also stated that you expect to operate that business in (01:04:40) capital
rather than ZAR 2 billion which is allocated to the (01:04:45) Life business at the moment.
So, that release this ZAR 500 million for the year, is that also your growth expectations for
(01:04:54) Life that you expect that additional release? And then I guess, on top of that,
you get a release from investment return on capital because that's not included in your
definition for distributable earnings or earnings that defines the dividends.
So, by my reckoning, it looks like the life business alone should be generating about ZAR
1.5 billion of free surplus over and above what goes into ordinary dividend per year, but
not next four years since (01:05:29) if investment returns are around 7% on the capital.

A - Ian Maxwell Kirk

{BIO 1778703 <GO>}

Page 19 of 21



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2017-03-09

FINAL

Okay. Francois (01:05:34), I'm going to hand over to Anton. I'll just make two points. The
one is that, first off, you may have your own projection models there in Somerset West.
But our people have been working on their projection models as well. So I'll ask Anton to
speak to that. I know you're both clever actually, (01:05:55) so maybe they can line up the
numbers. But it's essentially the ability to project forward which takes into account growth
that enables us to come with a comment like there will be surplus coming out of the life
business.
The second point I'll make is that, in preparation to the run-up to SAM, we were fairly
conservative, Francois, (01:06:14) in releasing that capital out of the life business. So, with
those two comments, I'll hand to Anton.

A - Anton Gildenhuys

{BIO 4058523 <GO>}

Thanks. Francois (01:06:24), a couple of comments here. You're absolutely right that
there's quite a difference between our statutory cover. We disclosed this in balance sheet
in our annual report in quite a lot of detail, an internal view (01:06:36) which is at 220%.

Bloomberg Transcript

When we determine our required capital, we project the balance sheet forward. And as
you point out, we do not take into account (01:06:44) new business. So the contribution of
capital from new business is not taken into account in our projected capital release. And
we also do not take account of growth on the shareholders' funds because that will make
our capital releases dependent on investment market.
So, you're right, in good years, it will contribute one and all, but it sounds a bit rich
(01:07:02) for me. But there should be surpluses coming out in normal conditions over and
above the ZAR 500 million that Heinie referred to. And the reason is (01:07:12) balance
sheet is very complex and really dynamic. And we've come to the conclusion anyway to
do capital planning and through (01:07:20) projection models and scenario planning and
so on to fix our capitalization.

Q - Mark Ingham

{BIO 17384674 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. Just another question around your SAM balance sheet. Your inclusion of
Santam at 1 times and excluding all of the surplus capital in Santam, obviously, will make
your group capital SCR look a little bit weaker. Is there a move towards a more composite
structure where excess capital on the short-term interest balance sheet counts groupwide? Is there other ways (01:07:59) of using the diversification benefit between the two
entities at group level?

A - Anton Gildenhuys

{BIO 4058523 <GO>}

You're right. We currently (01:08:09) Santam at 1 times cover because we do not regard
the surplus as fungible at this point in time. (01:08:17) our group cover actually down quite
a lot. But it's a group cover (01:08:20) also around 2.3 times (01:08:22).
Evidently, there's a big constraint at the moment. In terms of a comfortable (01:08:27)
accounting consolidation method, we're absolutely thinking about it, but we will have to
go through an approval process with the FSB in that regard. So it's not going to be a quick
Page 20 of 21



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2017-03-09

FINAL

process. But in that aspect, we are currently participating in International Capital Standards
which works on the accounting consolidation (01:08:46). FSB is also largely (01:08:47)
involved in that.
So, I think (01:08:50) regulator, we are starting to broaden our understanding of where a
consolidated balance sheet looks like. And in aggregate, the cover ratio is not that much
different if we consolidate. But their surpluses are (01:09:03) balance sheet becomes
bigger.

Q - Mark Ingham

{BIO 17384674 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Ian Maxwell Kirk

{BIO 1778703 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Are there any further questions from the line? Okay. Excellent. So it remains for me
to thank you very much for coming down and listening to what we had to say. Thanks for
your ongoing interest and support. And thanks to the Investment Analysts Society. And we
look forward to spending time with you again in September, hopefully, in our recovery in
South Africa. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 21 of 21

