Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

Investor Day
Company Participants
FINAL

Andy Watson, Chief Executive Oﬃcer United Kingdom
Antonio Cano, Chief Operating Oﬃcer & Director
Bart Karel de Smet, Chief Executive Oﬃcer & Executive Director
Christophe Boizard, Chief Financial Oﬃcer & Executive Director
Emmanuel Van Grimbergen, Group Risk Oﬃcer
Frank Vandenborre, Group Head-IR & Corporate Performance Management
Gary Lee Crist, Chief Executive Oﬃcer-Asia Region
Jozef G. de Mey, Chairman
Steven Georges Leon Braekeveldt, Chief Executive Oﬃcer-Continental Europe;
Country Head-Ageas Portugal
Unveriﬁed Participant

Other Participants
Arjan van Veen, Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Bart Horsten, Analyst
Benoît Pétrarque, Analyst
Cor Kluis, Analyst
Matthias de Wit, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

Good morning. Good morning to all of you and welcome at Lisbon for the 2017 Ageas
Investor Day. The short introductory movie is probably the best possible way to illustrate
you and to literally let you feel the importance of Portugal within our activities. And hence,
why we thought it would be useful to bring you to Lisbon instead of our usual location in
London.
This Investor Day is rather unique in the Ageas history as it is the ﬁrst time we bring you
together for a full day of presentations. And indeed, we believe there are enough topics
from which we can share some additional insights with you in order to better explain what
we do or to let you better understand why we do the things the way we do.
So, ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest we have a quick look to the agenda of the day,
which looks as follows. So, logically, we will start with Steven Braekeveldt, our CEO in
Page 1 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

Portugal and of Continental Europe, who will kick oﬀ and provide you with a status of our
Portuguese activities and more speciﬁcally our integration project.
Next, you will have Antonio Cano, our COO, who will come back a few times on stage. He
will update you on the progress of the Ambition 2018 program. As you know, we're
almost in the middle of the term. And he will show you with a number of examples how
we tried to integrate the more innovative concepts in our business model. So, his
presentations, as you can see, will come across the day in between the various other
presentations.
After the coﬀee break, we have foreseen the more technical slots of presentations of
today with, on the one hand, an update on Solvency II, as we believe there are still
enough questions and issues which is of some explanations. And secondly, we will
provide you with our long-awaited view on free capital generations.
Both presentations will be given by Emmanuel Van Grimbergen and Christophe Boizard,
respectively. And I guess then there will be enough food for thought, but we also foresaw
some re-food so it's time for a lunch break.

Bloomberg Transcript

The afternoon will start with two business presentations. Firstly Andy Watson, CEO of
Ageas UK, who will explain how he evaluates the situation in the UK and also he will shed
some light on the action plan to bring the segment back in line with our group ﬁnancial
targets. Secondly, Gary Crist will update you on our Asian portfolio and he will disclose
our improved disclosures for the future.
The formal part of the day will be ended with a presentation of our CEO, Bart De Smet,
who will, on the one hand, listen carefully to everything that has been said and asked
during the day and he will share his thoughts. At the same time, we also prepared a
number of frequently asked questions; you could call them burning questions. We already
prepared and on which he will also tell his view on these things.
As you also see, of course we have foreseen enough time for Q&A after each presentation
and also at the end of the day to make sure that you have enough time to ask all the
questions you would have. To end the formal part, we have the closing speech of our
Chairman, Mr. Jozef De Mey, after which we kindly invite you for those who can stay with
us for a dinner, where you will be joined by the management committee and the entire
Investor Relations team.
So ladies and gentlemen, I hope I could raise your interest, your appetite to listen to all
the presentations. I would now like to ask Steven to start the presentation, but before
doing that, we have foreseen a short movie to introduce a theme. Thank you.

Steven Georges Leon Braekeveldt

{BIO 15857794 <GO>}

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, to all of you. We just saw on the picture, Henry
(04:31) is a navigator, it's a person who pushed the Portugal to discover the world's – to

Page 2 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

open roots over the world and I'm, of course, very pleased to welcome you also in
Portugal, which is a home country to Ageas.
I have to make a disclaimer – a personal disclaimer because when I talk about business, I
get very passionate and surely when it goes about a turnaround and entrepreneurship,
and I think this is in short what the story of Portugal is all about. And as it is a turnaround
like Henry (05:01), I'd like to take the winds and go fast and when it's about
entrepreneurship, I'd like to discover new territories.
And so let's see how we're going to go over the whole discovery of Portugal. I will dwell
over ﬁve points. First, we're going to show the evolution of Ageas' presence in Portugal.
As you know, we are quite already sometime in Portugal. Ocidental, a success story since
2005. And we go to Ageas Seguros, which we have is our latest child since a year, the
turnaround and the independent set-up on track. Strategy priorities for the coming years.
And ﬁnally, the conclusion.
Our presence in Portugal started already in 2005 with our partnership with Millennium
bcp where we invested €510 million. It was an entity that was already active in Life, NonLife, Health, and Pensions.

Bloomberg Transcript

In 2004 (sic) [2014] (06:04), we made a step-up from 51% to 100% and we bought the
totality of the OCS, Ocidental Seguros and Médis for a total of €123 million and kept, of
course, the distribution agreement that still goes until 2029. And recently, a year ago, we
added acquisition of AXA Portugal with an investment of €264 million, which all together
became the new whole market for Ageas.
It's not the mic, it's my ears, probably.
Now, the economy, as you all know, it's a huge recovery that we're having. Actually, the
ﬁrst quarter of 2017, there was a growth of 2.8% in GDP. Probably, a lot of you amongst
here will go on holidays to Portugal. This has been a huge impact in the total economy.
Tourism is one of the highest in 2016. It was the highest tourist season in Portugal and
probably will be repeated in 2017. The unemployment rate dropped below 10%. This is
ﬁrst time since about 10 years that it's – and it's dropping further. So, this is a very good
evolution that we see in the market.
Now, we came to Portugal, why Portugal? Because we want to strengthen our foothold.
We know the country quite well. We've been here a long time. We want to pick up on this
growth as Portugal went through big and deep. And with Millennium bcp, we continue
that we have the capability to generate good returns.
You probably already have known from the ﬁgures that even during the deepest of the
crisis, we were one of the companies that kept and continued to make proﬁt in the
economy, one of the only companies in Portugal. But, now with having Ageas Seguros, we
have a real multi-channel insurer, which can go to all the customers, and this results that
we're number one in Life in Portugal, in our new home country. We are number one in

Page 3 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

Pensions, we're number two overall insurer, we're number two in Health, and number
three overall insurer and Non-Life.
We are represented with two corporate names, this is Ocidental Grupo and Ageas
Seguros; eight entities active in Life, Non-Life, Health, Pensions; and six brands, over to
the Ocidental brand is the bank brand, the Ageas brand is the agency brand and then we
have of course Médis, which is a standalone brand, which we sell through banks, agents,
other partners.
This is Ocidental, it was very strong in Life & Health and Pensions, and Ageas Seguros is
very strong in Non-Life with portfolio in Motor, which is a good add-on to the portfolio we
have in Ocidental Seguros.
So, the total makes a very good ﬁt in the total portfolio, or then we have about 1,233
employees serve through 671 branches, couple of thousands of agents. You have to know
that in Ageas Seguros, we have three diﬀerent types of distribution channels, we have the
privates, we have exclusives, and we have the multi-brand channel. And of course, we
have a Direct platform and a huge network for our Médis network.

Bloomberg Transcript

This puts us in the ranking. As you see, this is a total market, €4.1 billion. First one is by far
Fidelidade, who is owned by Fosun; the second one is private equity, Apollo; and then
comes Ageas third in the place, which we have a better diversiﬁed portfolio. And with this
new agency and direct distribution, we cover the whole market overall in Portugal. Note
that there is (10:03) about 25 Non-Life players in the market.
In Life, we are number one in mathematical reserves that is growing again. We were on
the verge of becoming second, but we have a huge, we have big amounts of maturities in
Ocidental Vida. The coming years we have less maturities, which make that we are again
growing much rapidly in the mathematical reserves and keep our ﬁrst place.
In the Non-Life gross inﬂows, you can see that overall in Non-Life we had organic growth
that was going up every year. But, of course, with the acquisition of Ageas Seguros, we
made kind of quantumly from 6.8% to 13.5% market share, so that's. And in Life, we added
also, you know that Ageas Seguros also have a life company, although small, but it added
a couple of percentage to our market share in Portugal.
If you go to Portugal within Ageas and Continental Europe net proﬁt, you can see that
about 6% of net proﬁt of the group, but for Continental Europe, it's quite important, you
see that 45% of the proﬁt of Continental Europe comes out of Portugal. And of course,
although I don't want the total proﬁt lower, but I hope that it goes up in the future as well.
Combined ratio, you see that it's something that we are working very hard on. We have a
combined ratio of 86.2% without Ageas Seguros, you know that in Ageas Seguros there
was a portfolio which need some pruning and where we have the impact still of the
portfolio, which makes that with Ageas Seguros included, we get to a combined ratio of
93.5% and that of course our goal is to get it back to the levels that we know in Portugal.

Page 4 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

Also in operating margin, the operating margin and guaranteed. With the small company
we have in Ageas Vida, it increased our margin in Portugal.
Shareholders' equity, some ups and downs, which have been explained by dividend
payments, by capital upstreaming being replaced by subordinated loans, by the
acquisition late going up to €803 million. The acquisition of AXA of €264 million, and of
course also the proﬁt of Médis and Ocidental that remain in the country. So, we see this as
the normal ﬂow that we see in the capital streams.
The net results, so we see on the right side. The dividend upstream, this year ﬁrst quarter,
we upstreamed already €25 million to the group and you see there that the pattern, I
mean, it's a capital – there is a good capital upstream towards the group in dividends.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, if we go to Ocidental, this is really since 2005 a good success story. I would say
actually if you look upon it, its real bancassurance specialist, I cannot stress. And every
time we have meetings in the group of knowledge transfer on bancassurance is we have
daily meetings at all levels with the bank. So this is very important, our insurer really is
completely integrated in meetings at all levels in the bank, which makes that everybody
thinks like how to continue the business for the banking side. Quite important.
Also in Health, I mean, we have a distinctive value proposal. If you think about Médis in
Portugal, we do not sell health insurance. This is something that we do not do. We do not
sell health insurance, we sell a concept, we sell caring, and that is what attracts the
people. I mean, we do more. We call from Médis, we call the patients in the hospitals if
they go well. Imagine yourself, getting a phone call from the insurer in the hospital. I
mean, this is the caring part what we do. That's why also people they go to Médis
because there's a lot of services (14:08), which they appreciate and they're willing to pay
for it, and that's what attracts Médis.
And if I would put in a nutshell also the success of Ocidental, actually I would describe
Ocidental as one big family. And it might sound like hollow words, but this is very
important in a business, that the people they really know each other. I mean, they never
accept an Ocidental as standstill. That's what I mentioned we have in Portugal a story of
turnaround and entrepreneurship.
When you go into our Ocidental and Médis companies, status quo and standstill are
words which are not accepted. They always want to innovate. They want to see how they
can take the business further. They sit down. They always want creative. They want to push
the business further on. And it's a very open and ﬂat structure. I mean, that helps of
course in getting the ideas going and everybody knows, everybody cares about
everybody and that makes that the business is really going forward.
You can see this in the results. So in Ocidental Life, it was – overall these years we have
had a market growth plus 5%, which you can see on the graph on the top left. Proﬁt, you
can see it on left from €18 million in 2011, but of course 2011 was also the year of the crisis,
but we're just €49 million in 2016.

Page 5 of 89



FINAL

Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

What is although also important is that we have been able to sell more and more open
unit-linked into the network. Portugal is a country where open unit-linked is not very – is
not sold or is not known very well. So, it's closed unit-linked. But for us, it's quite
important to move towards the open unit-linked and also we are the ﬁrst one who is
putting proﬁts in the market, but market value adjusters which is less capital intensive, so
we are the ﬁrst ones to move in that direction. That shows also always the
entrepreneurship and the way we look into the business and the same goes actually for
Non-Life.
Overall, these years we had a market growth of the market plus 7% and the market has
gone down a lot steadily. We have a ﬂat rate in the market in Portugal, but we keep
growing every year our market share and the growth. And you see on the bottom, this has
resulted in moving the proﬁt in Ocidental and Médis from a total of €12 million to €31
million.
On the combined ratio, you see 86.5% and that's of course also to the very good
management of Médis, which is the biggest part of the portfolio. The cost reductions and
the negotiations with the hospitals, looking at how we can reduce the cost, how the
operations, the surgeries, we can go down in price.

Bloomberg Transcript

There is a clear strategy that we have in Ocidental and it's all about partners. And we have
a dedicated innovation team, project management, project team of about 10 people who
constantly are working on new partners, new digital, new innovative ideas and we
continuously put on additional partners.
If you go to the homes or wellness clubs in Portugal, it's all known statistically that's a
good health, good sports gives you better, less cost in Médis, so we give discounts in
Médis. If you go to sports clubs, we have partnerships with adequate Zurich, with Liberty,
with (17:32) and we keep on growing adding more and more partners to our portfolio
here.
And customers, the Net Promoter Score of April was 71 and the Net Easy Score 72, which
are very high scores, but they are being followed up month-by-month, how our customer
– how easy it is for our customers to get in contact with us and how good they think of us
in the market.
As mentioned, also in Ocidental, innovation is extremely important. We launched a
couple of months ago the Think (18:05) platform. Think (18:06) platform is for all the
employees of Portugal so the 1,250 where any manager can put his problem online and
can have the input of all the employees how he would solve the problem, which makes
that we get all the employees within our problems, we get them involved in solving
problems, and not only about having these discussions on top level. We launched a
Healthcare City, which is a incubator for (18:33) healthcare, could develop on some
projects that we are launching and do businesses and setting up start-ups.
We went through all the universities of Portugal to challenge them to get to us with new
projects and ideas and also their magniﬁcent projects have been proposed, and of course
Page 6 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

the people already important to us and as one of the areas as well as you see in the last
point. We're implementing the shared value approach within our processes. And the ﬁrst
one will be handling in Portugal is diabetes.
You probably don't know, but Portugal has the highest level of diabetes in Europe with
36%, but the biggest problem is that 42% of the people do not even know they have
diabetes or predestined to have diabetes, which makes that 60% of the healthcare cost in
Portugal goes to the eﬀects of diabetes being eyes, amputations, liver, et cetera, et cetera.
So, we also do there a huge project within the country from Ocidental.
Coming to our latest acquisition, which is Ageas Seguros. It's a turnaround. That's why
you will not hear me talking a lot of innovation here, about entrepreneurship. Here it's all
about focus, get the house in order before getting to the next step. So we're very
concentrated, disciplined in how to move this thing ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

As you probably know, on August 7 – it's already a while ago, but 7th of August 2015, we
had the signing. We then had to wait some time on the approval of the regulators
because we had three regulators who had to approve. It was the Spanish regulator, the
Portuguese regulator and the European regulator, so till all of them have agreed to the
(20:14). And we signed, we had the closing the 1st of April, so about 14 months ago, we
really took here, then oﬀ the company. And on the 26th of April, we had the rebranding
from AXA Seguros into Ageas Seguros.
Now the proﬁle, 675 employees, about 650,000 customers, €400 million premium and
mainly Motor, which was something that we are having – we have a huge healthcare
portfolio, we have a household and here it's (20:49), it's a good ﬁt for our total portfolio in
Portugal.
Ageas Seguros, about four focus points. The ﬁrst one, and I will get into more detail later
on, it's the rebranding and the boost of course of commercial lines. The second one is
managing towards full independence. The third one is the real business transformation is
how do we get this company and will we get back in proﬁts. And the fourth one is, of
course, overall, all of the entities we have already in Portugal and Ageas Seguros, how do
we go to synergies and integration.
So the ﬁrst one is rebranding and commercial dynamics is of course as of day 1, as of the
day of acquisition. Manage towards independence, our deadline is coming up, it's end of
September 2017, so quite important date. Then, we have the business transformation
where we see from mid-2016 to 2018 all the projects that are ongoing to put a turnaround.
And of course we have a staged approach to have the synergies and integration over all
the companies.
Let's go to the ﬁrst one, the rebranding and boost of commercial dynamics. I mean, there
is something we can be proud of, and I think incredible job that all the teams have done
of communication and rebranding in everybody is that in a kind of minimal time, we have
an awareness of 32%, it went up gradually, but the AGS brand within Portugal is quite
new, it's a kind of new ﬂavor, also the way we go into radios, plus the way we go into TV,
Page 7 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

the way we go into branding is quite new and is away from the traditional way that other
companies are branding in Portugal.
So – and our aim is of course quite ambitious, we want to get to 60% awareness in a year
from now, and I believe that we will get there. But more important, and personally I must
say that I've never thought it would go so fast. You have to know that the agents have
been lost and left already for about four years to ﬁve years when it was AXA Seguros, I
mean, the one they went all to the left, the next year they went to the right, third year they
went straight, the fourth year they went back and the agents were lost, they didn't know
really what the strategy was.

Bloomberg Transcript

And as of the ﬁrst week of our acquisition, we had all the meetings lined up all over the
country. I can tell you that the criticism was extremely high when we met them, also the
skepticism towards the company. But over time, I can see now that there is conﬁdence,
there is trust, because they see that we want to go online. And they see that, we're quite
consistent in the messages that we're giving. And that results in what I found much sooner
than I thought, the new business is growing, is already growing much faster than we used
to have, and that it's a very good sign. So the trust, we all know that trust comes on foot
and leaves on horseback, well, I believe that it went, it had gone by horseback, but we're
getting it back.
So on the rebranding and commercial dynamics, it's our aim to boost, of course, also our
network. You can see that we have today 160 exclusive agents that's our, if you and I'm
sure you will come visit and go on holidays to Portugal, but if you drive through the
country, you'll see Ageas shops all over the country. These are the exclusives with an
Ageas brand. We have also 240 private agents, which are more than high scale customers
in the markets and who can sell – and Non-Life and Protection In Life, so we're going
boost from 240 to 300 agents.
Also the brokers, we have selected eight brokers, I mean before the company was
working with all brokers, we selected eight brokers to focus on and going gradually back
to 20 brokers. And on the multimarket, we would go from 825 to 1,000, so there we have
quite good stage to growth and we select very carefully where and whom we want to get
into our network.
Second point, the carve-out, you have to imagine that when the AXA was running
completely on the systems of AXA Group, some of the systems were in Paris, some were
in Madrid, some were in the Mediterranean region. So we agreed that up to September of
this year, we had 18 months to get all the systems, all applications, all back into our
company and (25:21), but so far so good, we're running on time and we believe that by
September 2017, we will be completely independent. And then from 2017, we can go on.
So this was the biggest cost of integration lies behind us now, I mean this was the period
from April up to September, and from then on, we'll go into the business as usual.
Now, business as usual for Ageas Seguros is, of course, the transformation project, which
is also key to our success. It's a very comprehensive program where we're working in 14
areas of the company. It's a two-year program. We have about 25 projects that are

Page 8 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

followed up every two weeks with a complete meeting where we go in every detail and
looking where are we running behind, where we are on track, what track to adjust, et
cetera, et cetera, and it is based, of course, on three axes.
Number one, we have to improve the proﬁt of the underperforming lines of business and
there are clearly two such as Motor and Workmen's Comp. Secondly, the company has
big assets and there is the distribution network. So, we want to grow the network into
where it is proﬁtable business and of course, big part is ﬁxing the operational setup.
Now, this goes with, of course, diverse challenges, but also achievements. I mean, we
have been pruning the portfolio. We have put in place even that we have our systems not
in house a new tariﬀ in Workmen's Comp and also in Motor. We upgraded the claims
operating model. We have a new household products, all launched in this year when we
have all this turnaround and integration.

Bloomberg Transcript

We strengthened our sales tools. You have to know that at the beginning we've got as
many ﬁgures as the person if you ask the ﬁgures to, now at least we have one ﬁgure. We
know the ﬁgure and every was based on the ﬁgure, which is very important. Improved
collection process, also in the processes and policies, everything is being implemented
and this is all in the ﬁrst 14 months.
As mentioned, we have the Motor. So Motor is an area where we need more and more
granularity. So what we did that we strengthened the technical teams because we need
more technical analysis and to be really sure that we're getting these right segments, right
prices. It is of course 46% of the total markets was quite important, it's majority agency
business.
But also there, so with our new tariﬀ, we optimized also the renewals, we strengthened
the technical teams, we are analyzing and implementing a complete analysis of the body
shops and to steer the claims towards the body shops where we have the prices. We have
controls and follow-up internals, and so you can see that in the loss ratio, we had a hike in
2016, but you also see that for Workmen's Comp which was a strengthening of the
reserves.
But I can tell you that the evolution is followed up and that we will get below the market is
our aim of course just like we were and we have been experiencing in Ocidental since so
many years. The same is the case for Workmen's Comp, as you know Workmen's Comp is
line of business which is loss-making in Portugal, complete loss-making in the Portugal.
Also, in Ocidental, we are making, doing exactly the same implementation of what we're
doing in Ocidental. Next year will be the ﬁrst year and we will probably be the only
company making proﬁts in the Workmen's Comp. So, we are tackling this line of business
in exactly the same rigorous way with the same reports and implementation and pruning,
increasing prices. And if it's not proﬁtable, then it's not for us. You can see at the bottom
line that the corporate side, the big corporates which used to be part of the portfolio of
30% is really down to 16%, and this is going to go down further.

Page 9 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

Now the strategic priorities of the coming years. So, external, we want to become a
reference in the market, and we have already our ﬁrst meeting with all the employees
together. I must say that all the employees know that we want to be the reference in the
market in the three distinctive areas in ﬁve years' time, and that we will handle these, all
these companies as one single company.
So, it's about customers and emotions. The main message, and we repeat the message all
over time, we were in insurance, and insurance towards the – also internal, external, it's
not about ﬁgures only, it's about emotions. Insurance is emotions, protecting our family is
about emotions, protecting our house is about emotions, protecting our car is about
emotions, protecting your body, your health is about emotions. And the message is to
everybody, and product design, and get emotions back into business and insurance, and
that's what we did in Médis and we see it works. And we want to have it back, also the
emotions and all the rest of the business.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the three areas where we want to be distinctive within the ﬁve years is about ageing.
If somebody comes to Portugal and once says, what is the company? Who is best in
ageing? We wanted to do be everything is the Ageas Group. If it's about health, it's Ageas
Group; and if it's about connected homes, it's the Ageas Group. Connected homes has
not started yet, because we have focused on a turnaround of Ageas Group, but in Médis
we have gone already through a whole revamp of the program, and that will be
implemented in the next 15 months in Médis. At the same time for Ocidental Life, we went
through three months, four months, period of ageing, and what should we do in ageing,
that will be implemented.
The vision is actually quite, quite simple. I mean, it needs to be simple. We want – so
Ageas will become the reference in the market – in the Portuguese market, it's the second
home market for Ageas, nothing new there, and it's a great place to work for
entrepreneurial people.
The last part is quite important. We push people really to come up with ideas through
distinct platform to all kinds of ways. And the mission is to deliver an emotional and
meaningful insurance experience into people's life. Also, internally we boost this
entrepreneurship, we want to be an outstanding employer operated as one company.
And therefore, it is quite important we are dealing with two complete diﬀerent cultures,
and we will manage all change in management towards one single culture in Ageas
Portugal.
Now, you see these graphs on the right. Actually, the ﬁrst thing that we focused on is
putting leadership in place. I think, this is – we think that is very important that everybody
knows extremely well as of the start, who is leading, who is responsible, so that's the ﬁrst
thing we focused on.
Second thing is then, where are the people going? Who are the people going into
diﬀerent departments? Processes is, of course, already more diﬃcult to unifying. And you
see in the graph, it takes – the red line takes more, because unifying all the process you
have to analyze, see the implications, see the eﬀects.

Page 10 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

And of course, last but not least, we have all the IT systems that we have to go towards,
but this will take more time as well. Just to give you an example, I mean, we were actually
thinking of changing the complete system in Ocidental Seguros 2.5 years ago, then we
came with AXA, and we stopped all process of going to a new system. Now, we have
Ageas Seguros, and of course, both IT departments are now looking for one system for
both companies.
Now, we go, in Portugal, from two groups working in a complete diﬀerent way to actually
this is our model that works already today. We go to 20 business units within Ageas
Portugal with transversal areas.

Bloomberg Transcript

As of the ﬁrst couple of months, everything which is – all those legal compliance,
reinsurance, ﬁnance, IT has been in transversal areas and go over all the companies. And
we have three platforms; we have the Life platform, and that is also the responsible or
taking care of the bank insurance or everything which is bank insurance will be taken care
of the platform. Then we have the health platform. This is the distribution towards the
partners, but Health Médis distribution to banks to agents to partners to everybody, so it's
mostly focused on partners. And then, we have the Non-Life platform, which is mostly
responsible of the distribution channel of agents, but of course also makes the products
for the bank channel. So, the Life platform is making the products for also the agents. The
Non-Life platform makes also the products for the bank channel, but they are actually the
machine where the research land (34:23) for all the products of the areas. And of course,
Health stays on its own, because it distributes to everybody.
We went by ways. So at the beginning, the integration oﬀers that we have in place and is
looking how we will integrate further as designs – there is a much more detailed design of
course in how we will put to ways over the diﬀerent tiers to go to that One AGEAS over
the entities. And I can say that we're working as one (34:58). We launched One AGEAS for
all the employees. They very know where we were. We put up the holding in Portugal.
Solvency II and capital management is done at the country level, and we had the ﬁrst
integration with all the ten transversal areas.
A lot of work, a lot of energy that has been done in ﬁrst 14 months, and then the Wave 2
where we're in now. So now it's the – launching the Ageas employees to all the
employees level and launch change and change management program to get to that one
culture. The IT global planning, so we have to ﬁnish this – the focus is the carve-out, we
have to. It has been weekends, nobody has been taking holidays in the IT department for
the last two years, so it's very focused in getting this carve-out done.
And then, of course, in 2018, this target operating model must be fully working in all levels
– all diﬀerent levels of management, in processes, in management committees, ex-gross,
we roll out IT plan and the ﬁrst core ITs have to be rolled out. And then, of course, we
have all the settlement in 2019. We also have to go to one location, so we need to go one
location in Lisbon, also in Portugal, and then we also – we have the roll out of all the
product harmonization process, harmonization, IT harmonization that goes on.

Page 11 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

So, conclusion, we have taken already a lot of wind with our boat. We know where we
want to go, and what harbor we want to end. I'm quite conﬁdent, unless there are some
unexpected events that are happening in Portugal or with Portugal that we will enter into a
good harbor by 2019, because the target, we all know, is to get the target of 11% to 13%
return on equity. And this is great for everybody.
I mean, if you get to know or get to talk with some of our employees, on each event, I see
employees, I tell them that every time Ageas buys a company, we have a tattoo shop that
we buy, and we put that tattoo shop at the entrance, and all the employees get the tattoo,
which is (37:06). And I say, when you're in the shower, you will remind you that you're
working for Ageas, it's all about proﬁts rentability, right, (37:15). And this is something that
we repeat, and there was – I mean, we had 1,250 employees. And when there was a
questionnaire of what do you remember, all that we said, we go for proﬁts. And this was
actually good message that everybody knows, that's what we are and why we are here.
That was a presentation from Henry the Navigator in Portugal. Thank you.

Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

Thank you, Steven. I think it's now time for some questions. We have one to two, three
questions after every speech. Cor, you have the mic on the right side.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q&A
Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Cor Kluis, ABN. A question about the deﬁnite upstreaming. For this year, you have €25
million deﬁnite upstreaming, I think you're targeting a proﬁt of around €80 million, €90
million, €100 million going forward. Can you explain why that is lower in 2017? And
related to that going forward, what part of the dividend upstreaming from Portugal in
relation to your proﬁt? That's my question.

A - Steven Georges Leon Braekeveldt

{BIO 15857794 <GO>}

Well, in 2017, we upstreamed €25 million – this is not working – so in 2017 ﬁrst quarter, we
used to have an upstream of €25 million, which was actually because we had the
downstream from capital injections, and there was already an adjustment made, which
made that in our calculations, we could easily upstream the €25 million.
Now, on the rest of the year, we'll have to see if everything comes in all from Ageas
Seguros, because this has to be according to plan and also how the evolution goes. We
have now a situation, of course, the spreads in Portugal are going down, but it might not
take – it can happen very rapidly as you can see the volatility insolvency where we came
from and where we're going through today.
So, if it's now much more – it's more diﬃcult to predict where we will be by the end of the
year in Solvency II if we can upstream or not. But if everything stays that way, which I hope,

Page 12 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

then we'll see how we make our calculations, how much you have – but it's too volatile, I
think, for the time being. Ashik?

FINAL

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah. Hi, good morning. Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan. Just one question. If I look at
your earnings projection, you're kind of saying that €40 million of earnings will go to €90
million in three years' time, that's a €50 million uplift.
And if I look at slide number 31 and 32, the loss ratios you have shown for motor and for
workmen comps, the majority of the drop is coming from – in 2017. And these two drops,
if your combined ratio behaves like what you're showing, your earnings will get better by
€30 million this year itself. We are in halfway in 2017 already, so what's the progress on
that? And is my assessment right or do you think that the improvement from €40 million
to €90 million will be more straight line? Thank you.

A - Steven Georges Leon Braekeveldt

{BIO 15857794 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

First, I would say that in those ﬁgures when you look at the proﬁts, actually you have to –
last year, we had a hit also on the equity, right? So, if you add that, which this year we
don't have, you get to €52 million. I mean, the big turnaround will come, and that's
important not only for the proﬁts of Portugal but also for Solvency II in the turnaround of
Ageas Group. We were in a minus – we were in the minus, we want to go to zero and then
it has to go into proﬁts, which will make that you will have a kind of double eﬀect.
At the same time, don't forget that we have also Ocidental and Médis, which are growing,
let's say, double than the market share, which give them also an increase in the proﬁts. So,
our projections are that with all of this and the pruning of the portfolio, because that's
quite important, if you look to the combined ratios of the end of last year, there was a lot
of reserve strengthening in there.
So, if you take that out, we are actually quite okay, yet it's not good, right, it's about others
(41:23), not good. But we're going to work with the same methodology and discipline we
have in Ocidental to get the underwriting, and also in the claims cost, we are working
quite hard with the whole team. Now, on the average claims cost, which we have to get
everything down again under control, so I believe that our projections, we need to have
that, I think, we will get there.
Maybe ﬁrst, Benoît?

Q - Benoît Pétrarque
Yes. Benoît Pétrarque from Kepler Cheuvreux. Yes, so to come back on this turnaround,
how much will come from better underwriting versus better cost, because we don't talk
about cost cutting, but I guess there's also cost cutting component in the improvement,
just wondering how much is discrete there?

A - Steven Georges Leon Braekeveldt

{BIO 15857794 <GO>}

Page 13 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

Well, we did not yet take that into account. And the reason is because we want to see – we
will get our systems as of end of September, we will be own chef in our cuisine. Once we
have those systems, we have to analyze how to improve the systems into our house. What
we're doing actually is replacing the systems that are existing in AXA and putting with
ours. Of course, where we can, we have improved the systems where it was possible, but
there's a huge rationalization to be done.
So, today, we cannot just analyze sale as per cost because there might be a lot of
elements that are still in Excel spreadsheets or need a hand (42:48), I mean, we have to
analyze all the things how we'll improve in the future, how we'll replace those systems. We
also have to analyze how we go to one system with Ocidental Seguros, and these are the
analysis, that's why in the projections, you see that we cannot just say narrow the cost, but
we have to see all the analysis now with Ocidental Seguros. Ageas Seguros is going for
one system, where of course the cost cutting might come. Deﬁnitely it's on our radar
screen, and now we will have to look into it.
Okay. Another question?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

Thank you, Kim (43:24). Just coming back to the improvement in the motor and the
workers' comp portfolio following the previous question, can you give us a feel for where
the underlying ratios are in each of those two classes, excluding the reserve adjustment
you pointed to, and then your level of conﬁdence in achieving your 2019 target. It sounds
like motor you're much further on the way than workers' comp? And then also, can you
just clarify what you mean by breakeven for the workers' comp portfolio? Is that
underwriting basis or proﬁt basis including interest?

A - Steven Georges Leon Braekeveldt

{BIO 15857794 <GO>}

So, on the workers' comp, of course, we have the market element. I think, the whole
sector hopes that the improvements we have seen in the last two years, the increase of
prices need to continue, because the home market is working over 100% combined ratio.
So last year, we had an average increase of about 8% to 10% in the home market. I think
we still need two, three years of increase of 8% to 10% before the home market gets to a
100% combined ratio. That's of course something we have increased some of our prices
with 40% according to segments, some with 20%, some of the good portfolios we did not
increase because they are good portfolios.
So we're actually now getting to the granularity of every company. We do not – you have
seen in the chart already that we really move in our strategy from big corporates to midsized self-employed companies, which are the smaller companies where you can have a
bigger eﬀect. But we also have – we're training the companies, we having meetings with
them, what they can do to improve the combined ratio, so that's what's on. And when we
say 100%, it's of course also, if we get to the ﬁrst stage to 100% with the investment
income, we think we're okay in the market, which is structurally loss making and take it
from there.

Page 14 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

In Motor indeed, we are already further ahead in the granularity. And there is a question
of underwriting. It's also the portfolio we have to really analyze more the risk price,
because I believe that part of the portfolio was not rightly priced. So, we're going to –
we're changing the prices, we're changing also the way we sell motor, I'll give you an
example. If – with agents, we give them more advantages if they sell motor plus
household together. So we do a lot of cross sales, and that's something how we want to
improve also the total portfolio. If I look to the exclusives, also they are very big in motor.
So, there is a lot of places where in the exclusive channel, the 106 you saw, we are actually
above our market share over Portugal in those areas, but we are way below our market
share in health and in household. So, with our exclusives, we have put also a whole – we
are putting a whole program in play that combined with the motor, they should sell health
and household to get also in that channel a better portfolio, and then all these measures
will make that – we'll balance it, we will be more strict (46:24) in motor but selling more of
the proﬁtable lines of business.

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, good. Then, I would like to thank you, Steven. And I propose to go through the next
presentation. As mentioned in the beginning, we have now Antonio who will in fact
throughout the day shed some color on our Ambition 2018 in factory interventions. He
will each bind (46:48) focus on a speciﬁc aspect of the execution of our strategy.
So, I'd like to invite Antonio to come on stage. Thank you.

Antonio Cano

{BIO 16483724 <GO>}

Good morning. This one works. Okay. And thanks, Steven, for – practically miracle as
you've been spot on time, even ahead of time, makes a little bit more relaxed. So, as
already said in the introduction, we're halfway in Ambition 2018. The tag line is, planning a
future built on what we do best, what we know best. And I hope that at the end of my
three interventions, you come up to appreciate that is actually what we mean.
Now, Ambition 2018 is inclusive of about seven strategic choices. Remember, our
previous strategy included ﬁve strategic choices, which still appear here, so it's a very
consistent approach. Obviously, it is about focus on insurance, we are an insurance
company; partnerships, it's something very special, very unique to Ageas, that remains a
clear strategic choice. We have our regional focus, which is Asia, but not just Asia, it is the
growing parts of Asia and Europe, and it's not just all over Europe, but in Europe, as you
know, we focus on countries where we are present and where we have or we believe we
can have a strong position.
It is about a well diversiﬁed portfolio, obviously regional, it's Europe, Asia, but also
diversiﬁcation across Life, Health, Non-Life, diversiﬁcation across mature cash generating
markets and growing markets particularly in Southeast Asia. And it's also still what we call
Page 15 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

now omni-channel, we used to call that in our old strategy and multi-channel approach.
Omni-channel is a bit of a reﬂection of how we see that customers are changing their
behavior, they're expecting to interact to have touch points as is scoped (49:06) with
company at various levels is how we adapt to that.
And I'm speaking about customers, so we have added one of the strategic choices, which
is about being closer to the customer. And that's a bit weird that a company has to invent
that there are customers. Here it's very clear that we've made a choice to be closer to the
end customer. We want to understand him better, because we see that his expectations
are changing and we wanted to understand better. So as to develop together, obviously
with our distribution partners, we want to develop solutions that ﬁt these changing
customers.
And then, there is a seventh one that's smart synergies, but I will not dwell too much upon
that one, because that will be the topic of my second presentation.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our ambition statement, I guess, like many groups, it's a lot about stakeholders. We truly
believe that our long-term success depends on the long-term success of the relationships
we have with all the stakeholders, now you can deﬁne many stakeholders. We stick to
four, which are not that strange to you, the ﬁrst one is partnerships. Again, something very
unique in the DNA of Ageas. We like this partnership model. We like this win-win
relationships always in mutual respect. We truly believe it is a competitive advantage of
the group.
Customers, again, an obvious one. We believe that they are becoming more demanding,
and it is our role to actually meet those increasing demands. It is about providing peace
of mind, which is a bit the essence of insurance, you see that coming back many of the tag
lines or branding messages, we will come up with, and it is about this better customer
experience.
Then, the third one, it's (51:06), because they are true. To have satisﬁed customers,
actually you need to have motivated, engaged colleagues and personnel so as to be able
to satisfy those customers. So we spend quite some time, energy, and money also to train,
to motivate and to keep our people engaged. We particularly like people with a
collaborative mindset, team players that ﬁt well also in this partnership model. We're not a
group that tends to attract the mavericks or the prima donnas, I mean, that's a choice,
there are other groups or companies that have been on that.
And then, last but not least, there is obviously the investor community. I understand that
we even have tattoos to remind us all of the importance of proﬁtability. And it's true we
like to oﬀer a long-term sustainable competitive return to our investors. We like to be
trusted for doing the right things, and we actually think – I think I'm convinced that so far
we've also delivered the promises we've made and we would like to continue to do that.
I mentioned a few times the word long-term view. Famous UK economist saying the longterm real debt, so we stopped speaking too much about the long-term. Actually when we
say this long-term view, it's about spotting the long-term trends we see in the market. And
Page 16 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

here again, we try to do that in a pragmatic structured, a bit disciplined way, in the
process where about all the businesses actually are participating. So like many, we scan
the environment and we see the usual trends around changing customer behavior. As
mentioned, that is obviously a technology that is changing regulation. And also not to
forget, we're still living in a very low-yield environment, maybe 6 months, 12 months ago,
we thought that yields were gradually edging up. I think that doubt is back again in the
market. So, yes, we have to go with the slow yields and volatile ﬁnancial markets.
Now, this is a glimpse of actually how this method, this approach, the words that we use
throughout the group we call it our radar screen, where we plot these various dimensions
of trends we see in the markets we operated and in the economies in general. And then,
we decide there are some trends that we just follow from a distance to understand what's
happening. It's still far away, don't require a lot of speciﬁc action, that will be a bit like the
outer shield.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then, there are trends that we believe deserve a bit more action that deserve analysis,
more detail, but also already some experiments, and then things evolve. They get closer
today to reality, and we see the trends that demand certain action and actions that go
beyond, say, the classical proof of concepts, but actually introduction of real propositions,
be it products, processes and changes, et cetera. So, again, I think we have a very
pragmatical approach. And you actually see in the remainder of the day actually seen
already something that is mentioned here in this radar screen on Portugal, particularly
everything that's around health and ageing, but you will see some complete examples of
these actions that we do.
You can also look at this in a diﬀerent way, you can see what are the themes. Again, I think
nothing that will really surprise you, there are these more hi-tech futuristic themes around
artiﬁcial intelligence, the word Fintech/Insurtech, because we'll write about it, also get to
read about it anyhow. So these are more likely long-term things that we are following,
partnering, I'll come back later in my presentations.
Then there are themes that are rather more regional where not all operating companies
are really impacted by or involved with, but again coming back to Steven's presentation,
health is deﬁnitely a topic that is very relevant for the Portuguese market, but increasingly
also with some of our Asian JV partners and also in some other European markets. There
are things that we tend to call neo-life, what is that actually new life insurance propositions
that are sustainable, proﬁtable in this new low yield environment. There are quite some
interesting ideas around that, and things we've launched. Again, Steven mentioned that
the unit linked product in Portugal, the fact that we introduced, I'd say, classical insurance
products here but with the market value adjustment, which was a quite novelty in this
market, and there are ideas in the pipeline around more protection products.
And then, we have more like you could see common themes where everybody is more or
less involved. We call that group focus. Obviously there is everything to do about data
analytics. It's about digital transformations. It is about just getting closer to the customer,
which is a theme that is present throughout the organization. And then, also Steven
mentioned brieﬂy the Internet of Things, and speciﬁcally connected homes and
experiments we do around that and also around mobility, we used to call that connected
Page 17 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

cars. Now, it is moving beyond the connected cars. It's the whole issue of mobility, and
the impact that it has on insurance industry. So, this is the way how we look at the
environment and a lot of the actions we do to meet these challenges in the environment
ought to do with innovation.
This is not a complicated graph. It is actually quite simple and pragmatic. We believe that
most of the innovation, and I think you will appreciate that certainly innovation that
provides returns giving also the risks is more of what we call the sustaining or incremental
kind, which is, in your bottom left part. It is innovation that is – it is about improving the
skills and assets we have in the companies. It's mostly about convenience towards the
customers. We are not that much a price player, so you'll not see a lot of innovation in our
companies that are really there to oﬀer lower prices. We tend to play more in convenience
and access (58:26), but the bulk of the innovation is in that corner.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then if you move to the middle, what we call the edges, it is our experiments and, more
than experiments, actually products that we already launched that have required certain
more fundamental change in our processes, in our internal organization, a lot to do about
the use of digital technology, and that also provides customers just more than
convenience. It is not totally new, but it's an experience that goes beyond the
convenience. We label that diﬀerent attributes, I mean, that's a bit marketing lingo, but I
guess you understand what we mean with it.
And then, there is the upper part, we call radical, some people call that disruptive
innovation. I don't think is really the same thing. It's the place where everybody gets very
excited about, just doing these radical things. Well, we are not that excited about that
place. We look at it. It is more in this -analyzing, partnering, like partnering type of style, I
think we invest as a group less than €2 million in that space. So it's not a big central bet on
being radical.
Why we don't like it? Well, I call it this is not La La Land, I call it more for – I don't know the
Spaniards in the room, but in Spain we have this expression, it is Comanche Territory. So
what is that Comanche Territory, well, a lot of pioneers have gone to, but it all – most of
them end up with a lot of arrows in the back, okay? This is where things typically fail and it
is where the venture capitalists are good at, it is not typically where the incumbents are
good at. Obviously, some of these things really work. I can have higher returns. Having
said that, in the insurance space, I don't see a lot of examples today, but probably I'm
wrong.
I don't think (01:00:46) I'm doing perfectly okay on timing. Next I'm going to show you a
video, and it's about AG Insurance, talking about the core business and solidifying the
core. It's our core business (01:00:59). You will see examples – I was already alluding to
likely about how do you get an organization digital ready. You will see this product that is
a purely digital product aimed at savings for children. And you'll also see how you can
revamp processes that were more or less eﬃcient in the past, but that through digital
technology, you can bring them to an entire new level. Now, some people may sell these
types of projects, ideas as very radical and innovative, even transformational, I think these
are big words, it is hard work, but I'll let you be your own judge.

Page 18 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

[Video Presentation] (01:01:47-01:02:20)

Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. This was the end of the ﬁrst part. So, I would like to invite you now for a coﬀee
break, which will be served in the lobby. And I plan to see you back by 11:10 for the
second part of the morning session. Thank you.
[Break] (01:02:37-01:02:58)
Okay. We'll get everybody seated for the second part of this morning, the part I'm sure a
lot of people in the room are waiting for. So as said in the beginning, we have two
presentations before we go for lunch. The ﬁrst one will be by Emmanuel Van Grimbergen,
our Group Risk Oﬃcer, who will update you on Solvency II to, let's say, 18 months after the
implementation. And we've still a lot of issues that sometimes come on the table, and on
which Emmanuel will try to shed some color, some additional answers; followed by
Christophe, our CFO, who will give you insights and our view on free capital generation.
So I would like ﬁrst to Manu to come on stage and to start with the ﬁrst presentation.

Emmanuel Van Grimbergen

{BIO 18010465 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, thank you. Thank you, Frank, and good morning, everybody. So indeed the next
two hours on Solvency II, I will take the ﬁrst part on, let's say, the frequently asked
question that you have that are still on the table, and I will deep dive in certain themes,
and Christophe will then go the main (01:04:18) of the capital generation.
So, here are the diﬀerent themes that I will zoom in. I will spend some time on – again a
sort of recap or (01:04:33) that we look at Pillar 1 as opposed to Pillar 1I. I will also have –
also a deep dive in the way the volatility adjuster is working and impacting our Solvency
ratio. By the end of 2015, just before the implementation of Solvency II, we had a Investor
Day on Solvency II and there we made some choices. We will do also a recap on the
choice that we made. Then sensitivities, yield curve, spreads widening on government
bond. I will zoom into the way it works and why are we impacting the way that we are
impacting for those two sensitivities.
Then the LACDT, it's also a sort of special animal in all the Solvency II framework and
calculation there, but we'll go through the dynamic of the LACDT. And keep in mind, we
are the one that are aware. The National Bank issued a new circular and I'll have to give
some insights and the potential impact of the news there (01:05:47) for the LACDT. The
put option, again a recap, how that we treat the put option. And then also the regulatory
hybrid debt capacity (01:05:59).
So to start with, perhaps I will – certain of the themes I will go quite quickly through it
because I want also to stay within the time. We have the Q&A and also more than happy
to take questions during lunch or coﬀee break. And some of the other themes I will spend
more time to really make sure that it is clear (01:06:28).

Page 19 of 89



FINAL

Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

So the ﬁrst one, on Pillar 1, Pillar 1I. Yeah, Pillar 1, Pillar 1I; so the – Pillar 1 is a regulatory
framework. Pillar 1I is what we – the way that we look at Pillar 1I is as much as possible
economic view on our capital position. So Pillar 1 is a regulatory view and we consider –
and it is very important, we consider that one as a sort of ﬂoor. We manage based on
Pillar 1I for the capital management, and our risk appetites is based on Pillar 1I, and Pillar 1
is a ﬂoor. So if you look at our (01:07:21) front of you is the Pillar 1 position. Our Solvency
position Pillar 1 insurance pool was 166% by the end of 2016. It's below our target, but we
will not take action because we manage based on Pillar 1I and Pillar 1I was at the level
higher that its target capital of 175%. But if you look at the UK, the blue bars in the graph
here, by the end of 2016, the UK Pillar 1 was at a level of 96%, of course there the ﬂoor is
working. So we took action and by the end of Q1, the Solvency position Pillar 1 of the UK
was at a level of 106% (01:08:14), so above the minimum capital requirement. So that is
just setting the scene. Pillar 1 is a ﬂoor and we manage based on Pillar 1I.

Bloomberg Transcript

What are the main diﬀerences between Pillar 1 and Pillar 1I? There are three main
diﬀerences. The ﬁrst one is the treatment of spreads. Under Pillar 1, (01:08:42) you know
that there is a capital charge on corporate bonds, for the fundamental spreads and for the
non-fundamental spreads. There is no capital charge on government bonds. In our Pillar
1I, we will apply a capital charge on corporate bonds, but also on government bonds, and
that's very important. The capital charge that we apply on the ﬁxed income portfolio in
our Pillar 1I is the so-called fundamental spread, is the so-called E Fortis (01:09:12). But we
do not apply a capital charge for the non-fundamental which is to a certain extent a sort of
illiquidity or sentiment that you can have in a market. So, capital charge on ﬁxed income
on both sovereign and corporate under Pillar. That's the ﬁrst diﬀerence between Pillar 1
and Pillar 1I.
The second diﬀerence between Pillar 1 and Pillar 1I is the treatment of real estate. Parking
concessions under Pillar 1, no own fund, no Solvency capital requirements. Interparking is
consolidated with third party interest deducted, that is under Pillar 1. Under Pillar 1I, in the
close of 2015, we worked on a internal model real estates and there this model internal
real – this internal model real estate has been approved by our independent validation
team. We apply it in the Pillar 1I and there we have – for parking concession, we have a
value in the own fund with the associated capital requirement and interparking
consolidated on a proportionally basis.
And third diﬀerence between Pillar 1 and Pillar 1I is about the transitionals. Indeed, we
have applied transitionals in France and in Portugal, in Portugal for Mbcp Ageas, but also
for Ageas Seguros. The transitionals are reﬂected in Pillar 1. That's as we want to give as
much as possible economic view under Pillar 1I, we did not reﬂect the transitional under
Pillar 1I.
So what does it mean in terms of numbers? So starting from the left, we have the Pillar 1
position, where we have a own fund of €7.6 billion and a capital requirement of €4.6
billion. Under the ﬁrst correction moving to Pillar 1I is the treatment of spread. And there
we see that for corporate – because we only take the fundamental parts and not the nonfundamental parts, they have a capital reduction of €1.5 billion of capital charge with
corporate, while for the government bonds, there we have an increase on additional
capital charge of €1.4 billion.
Page 20 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

And it goes in such a way that we recognize the sort of fundamental capital requirement
for the government bonds. All-in-all, some almost neutral. So that's the ﬁrst diﬀerence
between – moving to Pillar 1I. For the second diﬀerence, is a treatment of real estate, we
apply our internal model and there we have an additional value in the own fund of €400
million, but we have also a capital reduction of €400 million.
And then the third one, the third diﬀerence between Pillar 1 and Pillar 1I is on the
transitionals applied in Portugal and in France. Moving to Solvency II Pillar 1I, we take out
the positive impact of the transitional and which means that we have a decrease in our
own fund of €0.5 billion moving then to the Pillar 1I numbers. What does it mean then? At
the end at the insurance level is that we have capital – own fund of €7.5 billion and we
have a capital requirement of €4.2 billion. So hopefully it gives – and this gives you the
transparency how to move from Pillar 1 to Pillar 1I.

Bloomberg Transcript

Region by region what does it mean, starting from the left Belgium. We have 201%
Solvency Pillar 1, 245% or 244% Pillar 1I. So impact of the transitional on Belgium is zero,
we did not apply transitional in Belgium. Real estate, yes, a big impact. The biggest
increase from 201% to 244% is the impact of real estate. And ﬁnally the treatment of
spread has almost a neutral impact on Belgium.
For the UK, Pillar 1 96%, Pillar 1I 100%, so again, transitional no impact, real estate no
impact. And the treatment of spreads has a slightly positive impact for the UK under Pillar
1I, because the UK -the biggest part of the UK portfolio, asset portfolio, is in corporate
bonds. But Continental Europe it's the other way round. For Continental Europe, we have
a very strong capital position under Pillar 1, 211%. And moving to our Pillar 1I, our internal
view, we end up with a capital position of 127%. There, transitional, of course it has an
impact because you apply the transitional in France and in Portugal. So we take oﬀ the
€0.5 billion own fund that is recognizing Pillar 1, we take it oﬀ move into Pillar 1I. So that's a
one big negative impact moving to Pillar 1I.
Real estate, no impact for Continental Europe. And the treatment of spread, yes, an
impact. But there, the impact is the other way round then for the UK. The impact is
negative for Continental Europe because indeed we are also invested – one, it's more
invested in government bond; and two, we have also indeed Portuguese debt where in
our internal view, we have a capital charge that is applied on the Portuguese debt. So that
are the way that you have to read the Solvency numbers and the diﬀerence between Pillar
1 and Pillar 1I.
A question that we also often get is, will we apply this under Pillar 1. So we have internal
model real estate that has been validated by our independent validation team. We apply
them on Pillar 1I. We are working on a more broadly internal model market risk and we will
add this model in the course of 2018.
We will also let that model be validated by the independent validation team. We will of
course most likely apply it in our – under Pillar 1I. The question is whether we will apply it
for Pillar 1, we don't know yet. We will take – we will – as we move, we will consider it, but
one element that is extremely important to realize also, even if you apply the internal

Page 21 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

model market risk, it will not take away the volatility in the balance sheet, the basis risk
that we have in the balance sheet.
And that is the transition to the next theme that I will elaborate on is on the volatility
adjuster. So the volatility adjuster; so if we think about it, the Solvency II is all about market
consistent, and the assets have to be market consistent, the liability has to be market
consistent. For the asset, we have a market. It's a mark-to-market and we can reap the
value of the ﬁxed income portfolio and there we have a market. For the liabilities, we
don't have a market, so we go to mark to model, question is what is the discount rate that
we have to use for discounting the liability. The philosophy of Solvency II I think is good in
the way that it has been approached. The application is less good, the implementation is
less good, because it creates a bit basis risk, and I will explain why.

Bloomberg Transcript

Looking at the asset side of the balance sheet, we have yields and we can decompose the
yields in three diﬀerent part. The ﬁrst part is a sort of risk free, where a proxy is a swap and
then we have a fundamental part, which is really the risk that we have in it with the default
risk and the non-fundamental part. And the non-fundamental part can be a little bit of
illiquidity, can be a little bit of emotion in the market or whatever, but not considered as
really a fundamental risk on that ﬁxed income.
So, the way that we want to – that we have to discount the liability, again the philosophy is
good, so we start on the right-hand side of the slide. The swap, we use also the swap. So
there we have alignment with the asset side of the balance sheet. The fundamental part of
the yield will not be used to discount the liability, makes sense, because there we believe
– or there is really the risk of default, it's not fair to take it into account to the discount the
liability, because you will not earn it over the life time of your portfolio.
So, the non-fundamental part, which is a volatility adjuster, yes, that one we can discount
the liability because we will earn it over the lifetime of the project or the balance sheet.
But the point is that in order to calibrate this volatility adjuster is not really an alignment
between the asset side and the way that the volatility adjuster has been calibrated. And it
is what we call the basis risk that we have in the balance sheet.
So, two issue there, and I will start now with the ﬁrst one. So, in order to calibrate the
volatility adjuster, EIOPA is using a portfolio, a European portfolio. Corporate bonds,
government bonds and also other type of assets. And before Q3 – and that's what you
see on the left-hand side there on the slide, before Q3, the part of the reference portfolio
that is not used to calibrate the volatility adjuster was 13%. And you can see that we have
48% – 48% represented by corporate bonds and we have 39% represented government
bond.
And in Q3, ElOPA decided to also add in the reference portfolio the asset backing the
Unit-Linked portfolio. You can see that the composition of the reference portfolio changed
completely. Before Q3, it was 13% that was not used to calibrate the volatility adjuster is
inclusion of the asset backing the Unit-Linked portfolio, it moves to a level of 29%.

Page 22 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

And you see that the corporate part stay at the level of 44%, but the government part
decreased to a level of 27%. That means because we have almost 30% that is not used to
calibrate the volatility adjuster that the reactiveness of the volatility adjuster is decreasing,
is really becoming low. So, that's the ﬁrst point to really realize how the volatility adjuster
is working.
The second part is about looking at the composition of the reference portfolio. On the
right-hand side – what you have on the right-hand side is – and it was on the previous
slide – is the proportion of corporate bonds 44% in the ElOPA reference portfolio and the
proportion of the sovereign bond which is 27%, total 71%. Again, 29% not used to
calibrate the volatility adjuster.
When we look at all the portfolio at Ageas, we have corporate 28% and we have
sovereign 56%. Total 84% of our asset portfolio is composed by ﬁxed income. So, there
you can already see that there is a mismatch between our portfolio and the reference
portfolio of ElOPA. And even moreover you can see that there is – the split or the mix
between corporate and government is completely the other way on between our
portfolio at Ageas and the reference portfolio of ElOPA.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then what you have on the second part of the table is a little bit of composition of the
diﬀerent government bond in the reference portfolio of ElOPA. And let me just take
Belgium, in our portfolio, Belgium represents 50%, while in the reference portfolio of
ElOPA, it only represent 10%.
Okay. Now, I would say that gives already a ﬁrst indication how it works and a ﬁrst feeling
about the basis which that we have in our balance sheet. But it's not ﬁnished and here the
way or that – really the way it is taking into account of the diﬀerent country to calibrate the
volatility adjuster and we discovered this recently. We discovered this by the end of 2016,
because ElOPA only made it, then replicate (01:25:13) that moment. They are not using
the composition of the – or the composition of the – the weight of the diﬀerent
government. In the reference portfolio, they are not using this, but they are using a proxy
based on the ECB curve. And you have to also realize that the ECB curve is not ﬁxed
based on exposures in euro, but is based on the numbers of lines that every country is
issuing as debt.
So, for instance, let me take Germany, in the reference portfolio, it's 16% in euro term, but
in numbers of line of debt, it's only 11%. Belgium is relatively aligned. But if we take, for
instance, Italy, Italy is also relatively aligned, sorry. But if you take Portugal, the last one on
the slide there, there we can see that in the reference portfolio, Portugal is representing
1%, but in the ECB curve, is representing 0%. Why is this? Because there's, on top of this,
an exclusion mechanism. Okay, so the only thing here or what I hope that you can retain is
that there is a quite diﬃcult mechanism to calibrate the volatility adjuster and also that you
can see that it is not really, let's say, from a – it's not really intuitive or it is calibrated. But it
is causing quite a big basis risk between the assets and the ability of an insurance
company.

Page 23 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

What does it mean in terms of numbers? And here what you have in front of you is what if
we have a spread widening, for instance, on Belgium of 50 basis point, then we see that
the impact on the volatility adjuster is 1 basis point. In euro term, on the asset side of our
balance sheet, we will lose €1 billion – more than €1 billion, and it will be only
compensated on the liability side by €48 million by the volatility adjuster.
If I take, for instance, the last line which is the corporate – if we have a spread widening on
corporate of 50 basis points, we see that the volatility adjuster will increase by 14 basis
points and on our assets, we lose €770 million, but it is more than compensated on the
liability side. On the liability side, we will gain €836 million. So, if we had a spread
widening on corporate, it goes via less weighted in corporate, we will have a increase in
our Solvency position, and I will come back on this later.

Bloomberg Transcript

So under Pillar 1, what do we want to do? So we investigated diﬀerent options, also
hedging, be aware and just taking that one. There is no market to hedge €20 billion of
Belgian Government bond, so you will not be able to reduce this. Another options is,
okay, can we – will we change our asset mix and replicate the ElOPA reference portfolio?
No, we will never do this, because if you really think about it in a country, you have the
client expectation and the client – the client has never heard about a volatility adjuster, a
fundamental spread and all these type of things. And the sophisticated client that follow
(01:29:44) the return on their home country and usually the product are designed based
on the characteristic of the country and the characteristic of the government in the
country. Just take the example of Belgium, we have a market value adjustment that is
based on the Belgian Government bond.
In Portugal, we just also introduced a product with a market value adjuster, which is also
partly based on the Portuguese debt. So that is an alignment between client expectation
and the business reality, but there is a complete misalignment in the reference portfolio.
And we will not change our asset portfolio and replicate the European reference portfolio
of EU, but it simply does not make any sense.
On the Pillar 2, yes, we are investigating diﬀerent possibilities to have more an economic
view of the situation. So, very quickly over, so today we have the EIOPA reference
portfolio, European portfolio, we could think to base this and to use the same mechanic
to base it on a sort of company reference portfolio that is already stepping in a good
direction.
Company, we could also do the same, exactly the same mechanism, but based on the
company asset portfolio that will also reduce the basis fee that you have in your balance
sheet. We have also investigated what we call an expected loss model. And there what we
do, we project the P&L and we will deduct the fundamental risk that we have in the ﬁxed
income portfolio in such a way that we then keep the non-fundamental in order valuation
of the balance sheet, but at least we will reduce the basis fees there.
So, we are investigating all those options. We are doing a SWOT analysis and by the end
of this year, we will come with a more economic appropriate way of evaluating the assets

Page 24 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

and the liability in our Pillar 2. And I even didn't talk about the ICS, the insurance capital
standard, that I'm sure that you are following this as well.

FINAL

Okay. Next in, prudent approach. So, one year ago, when we had the Investor Day in
London, before the implementation of Solvency II, indeed we made a couple of choices,
what I will do here is, do a recap of certain of them just to make it perfectly for everybody
and also why we did it and why we continue to do it.
So, the ﬁrst one is on the geographical diversiﬁcation, indeed, so when we look at the
capital requirement at solo level, we have a certain capital requirement in every op-cos.
When we sum all those local capital requirements, it is higher than the capital
requirement at group level. And it is higher by €350 million, why is this, because it's a
diversiﬁcation. And it's a diversiﬁcation where I guess you will agree with me that adding a
storm in the UK and a earthquake in Portugal at the same time is very unlikely. And
therefore, we recognized this diversiﬁcation in our capital requirement.

Bloomberg Transcript

The question that we can add is to what extent this €350 million is fungible, when we have
an event happening in the UK or in Portugal, can we transfer money from one country to
the other; we can debate hours on this. Nobody is deducting, nobody or to the best of
my knowledge, let me be also prudent here, and none of our peers are deducting the
geographical diversiﬁcation from the Own Funds. We have also the particularity of adding
third-party in certain of our operating company and we decided to prudent view to the
(01:34:45) the geographical diversiﬁcation from our Own Funds. If we would not do this,
that would increase our solvency position by 8%.
Next element to be aware is Solvency II is indeed European framework. We have nonEuropean non-controlled entities that are not subject to Solvency II. All of them, you can
see that we have available regulatory capital of €4.3 billion for our non-European entities.
We have €1.6 billion regulatory required capital. It's just an indication, it's not something
that it's not a consolidation, it's just summing the available capital and the capital
requirement on the Solvency II numbers. Then we have an increase of 20% of our
solvency position.
And the last one is on the transitional measures. Pillar 1, we recognized €500 million
additional Own Funds. Pillar 2, we do not recognize it, because we believe it is a more
appropriate view on the position of the group and the operating company. If we would
have done this, it would have had an impact of 11% of our solvency position. Just be
aware, also when you compare with diﬀerent groups. In our Pillar 2, we don't do it, but it
has an impact of 11% on our capital position.
All right. So, sensitivities by Q1, we released our sensitivities over 2016. Our base case
situation was 179% of the insurance pool of solvency position. When we have yield curve
down 50 basis points, we lose 13% in our solvency position, and I will come back on that
one. Looking at the other ones, yield curve up, we gained 10%; UFR, we are not so
sensitive to the UFR to change in UFR. So, when we put the UFR at the level of 3.65%, we
see that we lose 4%, so we are not so sensitive on the UFR.

Page 25 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

Equity and property, we lose 3%, also not so sensitive. And then on spread, yes, there we
are sensitive, I already gave you some insight in the basis risk on the volatility adjuster. On
corporate, we gain, again, so I think that you understand why because you're less
invested in corporate bonds and VA react, so we gain in solvency; and on sovereign, we
lose quite a lot.
So, I will zoom on two of the sensitivities. I will zoom on the yield curve down by 50-basispoint, and I will zoom on the spread widening of sovereign, because there we get also
quite a lot of question around it.
First one, yield curve down by 50 basis points. So, if you look at the impact on the Own
Funds, there's almost no impact. Own Funds remains at a level close to €7.4 billion, which
reﬂects the fact that we are very well cash ﬂow matched. But if you look at the impact on
solvency capital requirement, there we have an increase of €270 million on our capital
requirement. So I think the ﬁrst lesson is absolutely when you look at sensitivities, it's very
important to look at the impact on Own Funds, but also the impact on the solvency capital
requirement.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, why is this that we have an increase of our solvency capital requirement of more than
€200 million, which is explaining the decrease in our solvency ratio. It is because – and
you can see it here completely at the right-hand side, the lapse risk. Lapse risk is
increasing by €150 million. It is a lapse risk on the base case, it is a lapse risk when we
have the shock of 50-basis-point on in the curve. Why is this? So, you have to understand
that lapse risk, the way it is calculated is, you have a mass lapse, you have a lapse up, a
lapse down and we have to take the worst of the three.
But when interest rates are going down, the one that is really impacting you is lapse
down. And there the weight start to be much heavier, and that's the reason why we have it
in place. So, important to realize that it is not because we are not cash ﬂow much, the
Own Funds are stable, but it is on the solvency capital requirement. This is also what we
call a secondary eﬀect. And the secondary eﬀect on the SCR, important that you realize it
and keep it in mind also in the capital generation and Christophe will come back on this.
So, that's one, let's say, a inside in why do we lose more than 10% when interest rates are
going down. And the other one is on the sovereign spread widening of 50 basis points.
There our solvency position goes from 179% to 151%. Indeed, we lose on the Own Funds.
And that's normal, so you again, volatility adjuster, we lose quite a lot on the asset side
and we gain not so much on the liability side. But also there is a big impact on the SCR.
So, again very important when you look at sensitivities to look at the composition of the
impact on the Own Funds, but also on the solvency capital requirement.
Why is this that we have quite a big impact in an increasing solvency capital requirement
is because of the LACDT. And it is again a secondary eﬀect on the spread widening.
And that brings me to the next point on the LACDT and also provide a lot of questions,
good to understand the dynamic of the LACDT. So, I will skip that one, but here the only

Page 26 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

thing to keep in mind is, LACDT, the biggest part is Belgium, in the other countries is less
important. In Belgium, we have more than €1 billion of deferred tax liabilities.
So, how does it work? On the right-hand side of the slide, so you can see a simpliﬁed
balance sheet of Belgium, where we have €80.6 billion assets; we have €73 billion fair
value of liabilities; we have Own Funds of almost €7 billion; and we have deferred tax
liability of €1.090 billion. The maximum LACDT that we can use in our solvency capital
requirement is €1.1 billion, which is 34% of the gross taxable solvency capital requirement.
There is a CAP that is the old circular issued by the National Bank. All three are working,
there is CAP, which is deferred tax liability minus deferred tax assets, and the CAP is
€1.054 billion, which means that we have a solvency capital position of 245% for Belgium
in the base case. What happen when there is a spread widening of 50 basis points. We
see that the Own Funds decreased by almost €800 million, so the Own Funds decreased
by almost €800 million. There we lose €2 billion on the asset side, we gain €700 million
on the liability side, but the important element is that there is also an impact on the
deferred tax liability in the balance sheet. And there, the deferred tax liability decreased
by something like €400 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

And that means that when we look at the maximum that we could use is €1.1 billion, but
because of the CAP in the old circular of the National Bank, what we only are able to use
is €648 million which is DTL minus DTA, that was the old situation. And indeed, we have
quite a big impact on our solvency position in Belgium, decreasing from 245% to 190%.
Now there is a new circular issued by the National Bank, and the new circular issued by
the National Bank will allow us to recognize more than the net DTL minus DTA, subject to
recoverability test and the CAP that the National Bank is putting on the recoverability test.
So, we and the Belgium entity is now in discussion with the auditors, and you also have to
realize that there is no format for recoverability test in Belgium, so that is ongoing
discussion with the auditor. We are relatively conﬁdent on that one, and we expect that
when we can apply the new circular, there will be a positive impact of 4% on the solvency
position of Belgium. But even more important and it is really, really, really the big beneﬁt
is then when there is a stress from the spread, which we will be able to recognize more
from the LACDT and that will then reduce the volatility in the solvency position of AG and
of the group.
So, with this simulation on this for all the sensitivities that we published in Q1, and as you
can see at group levels, so this is at group level, the new circular at group level will have a
positive impact of 1%, but the most important element is the fact that, for instance, here
that when we have a decrease in interest rate, the volatility will be lower, but even more
important when we have a spread widening, the volatility will be by 10% lower with the
new circular. So that is very good news. We are in the process of discussing this with the
auditors, and we are conﬁdent to be able to apply the new circular in the coming
quarters.
Put option, very quickly, so that's a put option, you know it very well. BNP Paribas is an
option, were quite to sell 25% of its stake in AG Insurance. The option will be between

Page 27 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

January 1, 2018 and June 30, 2018. The way or that the put option is reﬂected in our
numbers today is the following. At AG Insurance, it is at 100%. Then in the insurance, we
will deduct the free fund belonging to BNP Paribas, €1.1 billion.
What do we have in the general accounts, we have a liability. We have the put option
recognizing the general account, which is the liability €1.3 billion, which means that we
reverse the non-transferable that we have here in the insurance pool. And at group level,
we have the put option recognized as a liability, which means that in the current situation,
it is like if the put option is exercised.
What happens when the put option is exercised, nothing for Belgium, still at 100%. Of
course, the non-transferable disappear because the put option has been exercised. So,
we own AG at 100%, which means that the liability put option and the reversal also
disappear. And at the end of the day, at group level, there is no impact. The solvency ratio
remains on the same level, under the condition of course that the price that we pay is
equal to the value of the put today. That's an assumption.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, if the put option is exercised, no impact on the solvency position of the group under
the condition that the price is equal to the put. If the put option is not exercised, Belgium
nothing happens. Of course at insurance level, the put option is not exercised, so BNP still
own 25% of AG. So, we have the non-transferable here. But in the general account, put
option not exercised so the put is disappear, the reversal of the non-transferable
disappear. And in that scenario, we see that we have a slight positive impact on the
solvency position of the group of 5%, of course, on the current value of the put and the
current value of the non-transferable.
Okay. And last point that I wanted to quickly go over is a debt capacity. So, you know the
regulatory constrains, we have Tier 1, the restricted Tier 1 should be maximum of 20% of
the total Tier 1, and also Tier 2 plus Tier 3 may not be higher than 50% of the SCR.
So, where are we on this by the end of 2016? As you can see, here we have €1.7 billion of
Tier 1, and if we apply the 20% rule, we are kept at the level of €1.4 billion, which means
that €350 million will shift to Tier 2. And looking at our position Tier 2 and Tier 3 including
the shift on €350 million from the Tier 1 to the Tier 2, Tier 3, then we see that we have €1
billion of Tier 2 and Tier 3 while the maximum regulatory capacity allowed is €2.3 billion.
So, if you do the math, you can see that there's still more than €1 billion of capacity for Tier
2.
Okay. Conclusion, hopefully it gives you a little bit more color and insight on the way that
you have to look and read the numbers, our Pillar 2 numbers. I didn't mention it in the
presentation, but good to again repeat it. Our expected dividend is always extracted from
the Own Funds. The non-European, non-controlled entities, of course, are not included in
the Solvency II numbers, but if you just sum them to the Solvency II numbers, it has a
positive impact on 20%.
We deduct the geographical diversiﬁcation, which has an impact of 8% on our capital
position. We apply a capital charge for sovereign, and there you can see that it is oﬀset by
Page 28 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

the lower capital charge on corporate, so it's relatively neutral. The LACDT, I gave you
some insight on the new circular, has a material positive impact on the volatility of our
solvency position. The transitional are not applied and not recognized in Pillar 2, 11%
impact. Put option, if the put option is exercised and we pay the price of the put, no
impact. If the put option is not exercised, we have a positive impact on our solvency
position of 5%.
And ﬁnally Real Estate, in Pillar 2, we recognized our internal model real estate which has
quite a positive impact on our capital position. Pillar 1, Pillar 2 just repeating, we managed
on Pillar 2, because we believe it's more an economical, but we consider Pillar 1 as a ﬂoor
and you have seen it and realized the way that we manage it, the UK for instance by the
end of 2016.
Finally, yes there is volatility in Solvency II. We believe that substantial part of the volatility
is not really an economical volatility, I'm referring to the volatility as just a discussion. But it
does not impact our way to manage the business and it has no direct constraints on our
decision on capital management.
So, that end up my part on the Solvency zoom for diﬀerent teams. And I now invite
Christophe on the stage for the main dishes on capital generation. Thank you very much
for your attention.

Bloomberg Transcript

Christophe Boizard

{BIO 15390084 <GO>}

So, thank you, Manu, and good morning. So, I will give you the long-awaited free capital
generation presentation, it put some pressure on me. I will try to give convincing image of
what we have done, and so we'll have two part, and one part dedicated on the method
and more on the ﬁgures. But let's go to the agenda ﬁrst, the precise agenda.
I will give you some words of introduction to see how we can introduce the concepts or
some general comments, then we will come to the deﬁnitions themselves; some
observation or more, let's say, some element of cautiousness about these deﬁnitions; then
we will go to the results themselves, the results will be based on 2016. The results will be
given by segment, and you will see that Asia is included which is of interest and knowing
that there is a need to have more disclosure on Asia, and we have made the eﬀort to give
some view on the free capital generation coming from Asia. Then some conclusion and
the next steps.
So, as I said, a few words of introduction, I think that we can safely say that it's a fact that in
analysts' mind, the insurance sector has moved from a growth to value story. And this
implies that a lot attention is given to dividend. So, dividend can be given by the IFRS
ﬁgures, but a lot of attention is put on dividend sustainability as well. And on
sustainability, which is the key word we have to recognize that IFRS is of little help.
So, Solvency II, here, having some forward-looking element in it, can give some answer
and is better equipped than IFRS to assess some aspect of sustainability. So, what we
have seen during this 2016 after the implementation of Solvency II, and early 2017 is a lot
Page 29 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

of papers, a lot production on the fee capital generation. But I think that work has to be
done on the organization of deﬁnition, and we think that there is still a lot of work. So,
what you will see here is our approach. And this approach can evolve knowing that the
market is evolving, but we think that we have work suﬃciently enough to give a good
contribution, and I will give you some insights about the work done at the CFO for home
level.
Let's come back for a short while on the diﬀerences between IFRS and Solvency II. So, on
IFRS, we start from the left of the slide, where it's – here the present situation with IFRS 4
phase 1, so we have a lot of element, which are at market value, but not all of them. With
IFRS 17 and as IFRS 9, we go one step further into market valuation everywhere, but what
is really missing is the forward-looking element I was mentioning in my introduction, so.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, if we switch to Solvency II, which is the second framework which is available, what
can we draw out of this? So if we – and I will make the parallel between IFRS and the result
and the dividend and Solvency II and what could correspond to the result and dividend.
So on Solvency II, we could easily say that the valuation of eligible own fund give some
kind of results in a market consistent balance sheet, but what is really missing is
something corresponding to the dividend we have in IFRS.
And it is where the free capital generation enter into play. So, we need to deﬁne what is
available for distribution, taking into consideration some part of the future. Having said
that, let's be aware of the following: We know that Solvency II can be used to calculate
free capital generation in order to provide a prospective view and to some extent give
some view on the sustainability of dividend. But – and there is a big but, the Solvency II is
not a value framework, it's a credential framework, so it is based on cautious estimates, so
– and it will, so all the ﬁgures have to be interpreted with this in mind and the fact that it is
not a value framework, so a lot of element are linked to the prudential aspect, so it's not
an economic view.
Then, we have second limitation. The second limitation is the fact that Solvency II applies
mainly to Europe and European entity, which means that we have no view, no ﬁgures
coming from Asia. So what we have done here is, we have tried to expand the deﬁnition
of free capital generation to Asian entity and we think that we can apply all the diﬀerent
deﬁnitions to diﬀerent regulatory framework. As soon as you have regulatory capital, as
soon as you have required capital and the target capital, you can have a view on what is
free, and as I said – and the free capital generation, but we will see that later.
So, after these few words of introduction, it is now time to go to the deﬁnitions
themselves. And let's start with a list of deﬁnition, which is needed to end up at the end
with what the free capital generation is, so starting with the eligible own fund. So you have
here the eligible own fund. Then we have the expected dividends. You know that in
Ageas framework, we deduct the expected dividend, but we have to be aware of this. You
will understand why after, but the expected dividend has to be – to appear on this. Then
we have the solvency capital requirement the SCR, so this is the red – the red portion and
then the yellow portion is our expected – our target capital, our target capital is set at 175%
of the SCR.

Page 30 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

And for further consideration, but it won't be used in the free capital generation, I
mention the surplus, but it won't be really used, but in the conclusion when I will try to
compare with peers.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

So now what is free here? The free capital, it seems obvious that the free capital is exactly
the portion of the eligible own fund, after having added back to the expected dividend,
the portion above the target capital.
Here, ﬁrst, important deﬁnition, the free capital, so free capital is what is above the target
capital after having added back the expected dividend. I think now that the deﬁnition is
quite obvious. And the deﬁnition of the free capital generation is the change during a
period on free capital, having in mind that we may have paid dividends, so this has to be
added back and here on this behalf, you have the deﬁnition of what we mean here in
Ageas with the free capital generation. So that's the change in free capital after having
taken into consideration what was paid during the period. Obviously, we need more
granularity to explain the free capital generation. So now in term of presentation, we will
present the free capital generation with their main component. So the change in eligible
own fund and the change in SCR and at last, the roll-forward of the free capital
generation. So the free capital generation is and you can check this again on the graph, it
is the movement of eligible own fund, minus 175% of the movement in SCR, plus the
dividend paid. We need to have the movement on the two main components, eligible
own fund and SCR, to correctly explain the change in free capital generation.
Then, if I take the X axis, there is not a lot of detail. You only have two boxes, abrupt
changes and paid dividends. So we deﬁnitely need more granularity here again and we
have listed the main blocks which are relevant in the analysis of free capital generation. So
ﬁrst, model changes, you know that during 2016, we had very signiﬁcant model changes,
so I think it is fair and honest to isolate the eﬀect of the model changes. We have some
M&A operations and you will see that M&A appears twice, at the beginning and at the
end; I will come back on this. Then we have some exceptional impact and on exceptional
impact, we have to be very careful not to put too many things on exceptional impact. And
you will see that for 2016, we only put the proposed settlement in the general accounts
and we put the impact of the change in Ogden rate in the UK and that's all. Then we
obviously have the capital operations, capital increase/reduction, sub-debt movement,
share buybacks of course, and then the paid dividend, which is the last block.
But now let's try to come back on this market impact and operational impact and I would
say that most of the work that we've done during these past few months were precisely on
having the breakdown between market impact and operational impact. So let's enter into
more detail what does this mean exactly. So in market impact, we include impacts of what
we call external factors, the change in interest rate curves, equity market movement, real
estate value, currency movements, present volatility adjustment, whereas on the – so at
the end, all this is the – is what is not directly under our control comes from external
factors, and here, you will get that all, most of the volatile elements are there. So we
isolate the volatile element in markets and then we have operational impact and it
includes mainly, what we call, management actions like the sale of new products. So this
includes the one-year hold forward of contract boundaries. We have expected return on

Page 31 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

investment, change in the investment portfolio, management of expenses, in a nutshell,
everything is related to management action.
Here let me come back on how investments are treated. So you can read here that in
operating with expected returns on investments. So our choice was the following. Here,
we will put the investment income based on what is expected. So based on the global
return of the investment and for instance taking equity, we put 7%, real estate 5%. So
things like this, what is expected on the long run. What is used in our strategic asset
allocation and on market impact, we put what the diﬀerence between what was expected
and what we really got. And it's the reason why we put in the equity market movement,
real estate value, so this is the diﬀerence between the 7% on equity and the 5% on real
estate of global returns that I indicated a while ago.
So we are almost at the end of the deﬁnition. So this is our, let's say, preferred and
working graph for – to study free capital generation. So the hold forward of own fund
comes ﬁrst on the top of the slide. Then you have the hold forward of SCR and in the
bottom, you have the hold forward of the free capital and you can read that the free
capital generation referring to the previous slide; that's exactly what is included in that
triangle.

Bloomberg Transcript

You remember other synergies and paid capital. So the free capital generation is rare.
Since all the graphs will be like this, I'd like to go through all the diﬀerent blocks, quickly
through the diﬀerent blocks. So we start from the left on the eligible own fund, SCR, and
you can see here the expected dividends. So then we have the ﬁrst block, which is the
model changes with the eﬀect on eligible own fund and SCR.
Then, we have the M&A and you can read between (divestment), our choice was the
following for the treatment of M&A. We drove all the assets sold during the period. So
you will see in the following slide that M&A divestment refers to IGA, which left the scope
during the year 2016. And at the end, you have M&A acquisition here. Everything which
was acquired during the period is here, which means that in the middle, you have a pure
scope of analysis. So everything which was solely (02:13:54) deducted at start and
everything which was acquired is at the end, and then you have the remaining block. So
you have the market impact already described. You have the operational impact, the
exceptional impact, capital transaction and the paid dividends. So, and you can read this
graph vertically. For each building block, you have the change on eligible own fund, you
have the change on SCR and you have the resulting eﬀect on the free capital generation.
We are close to unveiling the ﬁgures, but last observation, I am managing the
expectations, so but managing the expectations, we – I said in the introduction. First, this
is based on regulatory framework with a lot of prudency inside, we have to keep that in
mind, but there are other things that we have to keep in mind, so in the – for a lot of
people, the free capital generation is seen as what is available for the future. The change
is what is available for distribution. So we think of dividend, but we have to be aware of
several aspects.

Page 32 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

First, it's a theoretical exercise and it's a potential. And since we have some elements
coming from the future, these elements have not been around under the accounting
framework, which means that they are not yet distributable. And so the ﬁrst thing is be
aware. But what is generated is not distributable immediately; we may have to wait for a
while. And we have other constraints that we have to keep in mind, for instance, all the
dividends come from statutory accounts. So we have to have the corresponding
distributable reserves.
So the free capital generation is step number one, but then, we have to check with the
accounting result and the amount of distributable reserves. And having said that, we
know that for the amount of distributable reserve, we may have mean to trim an
insuﬃcient (02:16:35) amount of distributable reserve. For instance in subsidiaries, we can
do capital reductions (02:16:43), but the idea I want to comment here is that free capital
generation is an indication of a potential.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now with the results, so for the results, I will go through all the diﬀerent segments and
starting as usual with Belgium. So Belgium being at 100% and we are consistent with the
way Belgium is treated in the accounting, but also in the Solvency framework. So here,
you have hold forward of eligible own fund on the top, SCR on the back and we didn't put
the free capital generation, it will for next slide, so that you can read the ﬁgures and so
that the slide is not too busy.
So going quickly, from the left to the right, the ﬁrst component is the model change. We
indeed had a big model change related to real estate mainly and other things. I give you
the impact. So, if we take eligible own fund, we had an increase of €198 million of which
real estate, including parking, accounts for €164 million. So that's the main part that we
had. Other model changes, for instance, we changed – we included some lines of
business which were not included during the ﬁrst clariﬁcation. So we have to appreciate
the fact that 2016 was the ﬁrst year where Solvency II was used. So we had to reﬁne the
models, what is expected in the future is that this block will be much smaller.
So, as I said, real estate accounts for €164 million and on the SCR, we have a reduction of
€132 million, of which real estate €271 million. So it means that the reduction is more than
the total, which means that in other model changes, we had some element increasing the
SCR.
On divestment, nothing. On the market impact, we mainly had the OLO spread, so the
sovereign debt spread. And if we take the €226 million, the OLO spread accounts for
€301 million. And we had OLO spread, also the impact on the SCR. Then we have the
operational impact with an increase of €284 million. So that's the creation of own fund
and we have to be aware that here, we have the eﬀect of the terrorist attack. And I will – I
remind you that the net eﬀect, what is consistent with this ﬁgure, was €25 million. Then,
you will remember that we produced a lot of investment product at the beginning of the
year, with a still 1% guaranteed rate and that was not giving a lot of free capital generation,
but we'll see that later.

Page 33 of 89



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

The next is on the capital transaction, the minus €95 million relates to the reimbursement
of the Hybrone, which was a sub-debt, sub-debt on lent (02:20:33) from the general
account, but it was reimbursed. And then on the dividend side, please remember that
here we are at 100%, which means that the portion of the dividend paid to BNP Paribas is
included here. So we have seen the building block. Now what is – what do we have for the
free capital generation? So as I said, you take all the blocks vertically, you take the change
in eligible own fund, minus 175% of SCR and you have the hold forward on the free
capital.
So if you take the – what is in the triangle, the amount of free capital generation is €617
million, hopefully – not hopefully, €617 million, but boosted by the change in – the change
in model. So it is fair to concentrate on the operational impact and here, you can see that
we have a contribution of €247 million and this is the building block where we put a lot of
attention because it is where, as I said, it is the result of management action. So it is where
you can measure, let's say, for long-term, having in mind that the market swings could go
to zero or be compensated from one year to another. That's one of the major building
elements, the operational impact. So that's it for Belgium, so €617 million, of which is €247
million for operational.
Let's go to the UK now, so on the UK, we have some model changes we have on the
eligible own funds and we have reﬁnement on the valuation of some subsidiaries. And on
the SCR, what was done is a transfer of the FX risk. We found that it was not fair to put the
burden of the FX risk on the diﬀerent segments. So what we decided was to transfer the
FX risk impact from the UK to the general account. Then we have a big element on the
market impact, we had the decrease of the pound against euro. So you had a decrease on
eligible own fund and SCR, that's something logical. Then we have the operating – the
operational impact, plus 2018. But please keep in mind that here, we had some
exceptional like the Glasgow and the fact that we closed down the Glasgow oﬃces is
accounted for €28 million.
And then we had you remember this was explained during the 2016 result call, the fact
that we had a scheme which brought negative result and the cost at the end was €39
million. So, all in all, we can claim that we had €58 million of exceptional, but which were
less in the operational impact, because as I said only Ogden was isolated in the
exceptional impact. So what you can see on the following box is exactly the Ogden
impact. And then you have capital operation and dividend, this should be seen together.
We put in place a sub-loan for €48 million and the €48 million of sub-loan was
compensated by a corresponding dividend. So, it was an internal operation to optimize
the balance sheet.
And now the result. So again, the eligible own fund, minus 175% of the SCR, you will – you
can see that we have a negative free capital, which is easily explainable, the fact that the
solvency is not at 175%. And here, I would like to make one comment, you may ask why we
use 175% for all the diﬀerent segments and why we took this, being which is the group
target to all the segments, knowing that we don't have, in our internal management, 175%
as the target capital for all the diﬀerent segments, it is – the reason is the following: So
since you will be interested in the group, the group result and the group is with 175% to
have, to get easier explanation from the diﬀerent segments, we thought that it was good
Page 34 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

to have the same framework. But since we are talking free capital generation, since it is a
change, the choice of the target capital doesn't really change the analysis.
So having said that, on the UK, so what we have is a free capital generation which is
negative, if again, we take what is within the triangle. So if we take what is within the
triangle, we are at minus €107 million. But if we come back on, as I said, the interesting
component which is the operating impact, we are at minus €20 million, and here again, if
you restate by the exceptional things I was mentioning, you can see that we are in a
positive territory if we restate by Glasgow and with the special risk in.
Let's move now to Continental Europe. So again the same exercise, starting with the
eligible own fund. So the ﬁrst block to explain is the model changes. Here, we transfer the
goodwill from the region to the general account as well and same type of – same
consideration, we thought that it was not fair to have the goodwill deducted from the
result of the segment. So we decided to allocate the goodwill to the general accounts,
which means that it's a plus here, and so it's an improvement. We don't deduct the
goodwill anymore, but obviously, we have the compensation in the general account.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then we have a big market impact, we see big negative ﬁgures on the eligible own fund
and this mainly relates to the spread on government bonds, and I will mention the
spreads on the PGBs and the Portuguese bonds and this – the impact alone of PGBs
amounts to €118 million. So we have €232 million, but the PGBs alone is half of the total.
Then, what is of interest is the quite large – we have a big number operational impact
here. We take beneﬁt of the term business in Portugal and we take beneﬁt of the very
good combined ratio as well.
Then, what we have at the end, we have the acquisition of AXA, at the end here. So the FX
(02:29:40) that's the integration of AXA with eligible own fund and SCR, as I said, and we
put that at the end. And we are sure that this will contribute to the free capital generation
of Continental Europe in near future.
Having explained the diﬀerent building blocks, we can go to the results, the free capital
generation of Continental Europe. So again here, we are – we start with a negative
position of free capital and what we have is precisely, so if – taking the free capital
generation, what is in the big rectangle here, you have negative ﬁgure, minus €70 million,
but we have to keep in mind these two main building blocks and the market impact,
which is big decrease, and we know that the situation will improve, and we know that
spread on the Portuguese bond have reduced in these past few months, and then we will
still have, and that's the regular component, the operational impact, which is in green, so
we expect positive free capital generation in Continental Europe in the near future.
Now, let's have a quick look on the general accounts, so the general accounts, we have a
lot of (02:31:19) elements. First, if we take the model changes, we have the goodwill,
which comes here. We have the transfer of the currency risk in the UK that I already
mentioned. You have divestment, you have AICA sale, on the other hand, you have the
acquisition of AXA. One comment on dividends and it was a choice in the presentation,
but this could evolve in the future. (02:31:50) dividend paid is positive as we received

Page 35 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

usually the dividend paid is negative that's an outﬂow. But here it's a balance, it's the
balance between the dividend paid and the dividend received.
The last big element obviously on exceptional that's a proposed settlement, now you will
have recognized the impact. And then the free capital generation negative again with this
minus €967 million, but again we know where it comes from the proposed settlement,
which is the main part. So we have seen all the diﬀerent segments and we can take I think
for ﬁrst subtotal, which is the group and here we have the Solvency II scope here. So we
have added all the diﬀerent segments, so I won't comment the building blocks and the
building blocks are exactly explained by what I said for the diﬀerent segments and I will
directly go to the free capital generation. So on the free capital generation of the group,
we are at minus €511 million but I will draw your attention on the exceptionals and the
settlement of course, and I would like to draw your attention on always what is for us the
most important factors, more of let's say recurring and regular factor which is the
operational impact where we are at €184 million, which could be seen as slightly low but
please keep in mind that we had exceptional during the year 2016 which are included in
this, and then we have for instance, and taking the – our main contributor AG, we had
during the beginning of 2016 quite signiﬁcant inﬂow of (02:34:32) of investment product
and minimum guarantee rate was still at 1%, and this has now created a lot of room in
terms of free capital generation but this has been addressed during the year. We've set
whole changes and you know that we are now at 0.25% and I will tell you that now the
free capital generation coming from AG is much, much higher, which give us, no that it
will come, the slide with – no it is not in the book, it has been added but it will be available
on the website, it has been added, there too.
At start, the idea was to give all the segment in total, and we thought during the
presentation that it was interesting to have the consolidation at the Solvency II level alone
because here you will see now we are (02:35:44) Asia and to our non-control
participation, and this is part of the innovative aspect of the presentation. So what we did
here, we gathered the element coming from all the diﬀerent countries and mainly China,
but we have China, Malaysia, India and Thailand here. And we did what I explained at the
beginning of the presentation. So we took into account the regulatory capital, the capital
required – the required capital, the target capital, and we did the exercise of calculating
the free capital. And what we did, so beyond this and that was done by us and it was not
given by our JVs. We did the split between the market impact and the operating impact.
So if you – so going from the left to the right, the ﬁrst big change, model change comes
from China where you know that they changed their Solvency framework to adopt CROSS. C-ROSS was adopted January 1, 2016 and you can see here the exact impact of CROSS that's the Chinese model change, and that's the only thing that we have. Then we
have a small market impact. The operating – the operational impact is interesting here,
what you can see is the growth of the business, so we have, as you know, a very solid I
would even say (02:37:32). So, we have on the eligible own funds this creation of €598
million, with the direct consequence of an increasing SCR, but you can see here that and
that growth doesn't result with an SCR, which will oﬀset the creation of eligible won funds.
Then to – and the comment on this ﬁgure. On M&A, you have our investment in the
Philippine and in Vietnam. And then what is mentioned here as paid dividend is what we
Page 36 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

received from the diﬀerent JVs. So, now, in terms of free capital generation, so we're
holding forward of the free capital for Asia, we're obviously helped by the change and the
switch to C-ROSS, but what you can see here is that despite the growth there is some
room created and you have this nice green operational impact, which amounts to €175
million.
So, it means that, we are creating Eligible Own Fund, but with a reasonable increase of
the SCR. Now, it is time to have view on the group everything put together and here we
have not performed a real consolidation. I would rather call this an aggregation, which
means that between group and NCPs, we have only added the diﬀerent elements, which
means that here again we have a prudent stance, because we don't have any beneﬁt
coming from a geographical diversiﬁcation within Asia for instance, which could be
added, but we are not fair at this moment.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, here, you have the addition for the group and then if I take the last slide to the free
capital generation view. At the group level, with the aggregation of Asia, so starting with
what is within the rectangle, we have free capital generation, which amounts to €621
million and then if we go to the breakdown of market and operational, on operational, we
are at €359 million and again, with the inclusion of some exceptional.
Now, some conclusions, so, what we can see and it's a ﬁrst exercise, and you will
appreciate the fact that, ﬁrst it is based on 2016, so it's little bit outdated now, but we have
done quite a lot of work and lot of the work, the underlying work here was in the split of
the diﬀerent blocks between eligible and from NSCR. The work on Asia and the split
between market and operational so that we have a view on what is volatile, put on within
the market impact and what comes from the management – management action.
So what we can see is that based on this very – on this result, we can say that we have a
sustainable dividend payout, and with this I compare the operational impact of the group,
the aggregated, what was paid and which was €330 million. So in a year, which was not
by the decreasing interest rate and rising spread, we ensured that we have the
sustainable dividend payout, but we have to recognize and to be aware of the fact that we
have lot of volatility here. So the volatility and to give you an illustrative example, we have
here the Q1 view of Belgium, so the main contributor for the European task, so Belgium at
100%.
First view on Q1, so on Q1 you will see that we have some market impact and we have the
– some increasing spread you remember all the concern how presidential elections in
France or in other countries, so the spreads were quite high, but they have come back.
And then the creation of Eligible Own Fund which is quite high, €200 million with very
reasonable increase of SCR and with very reasonable increase of SCR and if we go to the
free capital generation aspect we have €177 million after one quarter only, whereas you
remember that in 2016 only €247 million were created for the four quarters. So after one
quarter we are already at €177 million, and I will relate this to the fact that we still sell this
investment product, but the minimum guaranteed rate is at 0.25%, so much lower than
the one we had last year and then the rates are slightly up. So, it means that it contributes
more to the free capital generation.

Page 37 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

What are the next steps now. So ﬁrst in term of disclosure, we will do this kind of exercise
every year with this detail and maybe with something more, where I mentioned the
operational impact what we still need and what is not – what doesn't appear here is the
value of new business, so it would be nice to further break down the operational impact
with the value of new business.
We have the ambition to disclose things on a quarterly basis and we will start on Q2, but
maybe not by the time of disclosure of the account, because it takes some time, here we
have just ﬁnished the 2016 view, obviously we'll be much quicker in having the quarter,
but so we will do something on a quarterly basis, not starting of Q2, not by the time we
will release the contract, maybe slightly after. And then we have to check on Asia which is
really available, that's the kind of thing we still have to check on a quarterly basis.
So the last element, this is not far from what you have been embedded that you have
diﬀerent steps. So there are discussion that the CFO for home level to see if we could
issue some recommendation, so nothing will be mandatory, but if we can disclose some
recommendation and here we are along with active lenders.
And with this, I end my presentation. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

Okay. Just a second. I'll leave you all sometime for Christophe, Emmanuel, and we'll also
invite Filip Coremans, our Chief Risk Oﬃcer, and obviously, also on top of these topics to
the project. I think we have time for about ﬁve questions looking at the number of hands
raised, that should be okay. And obviously, there is lunch and this people are aware that
they have lot of time to eat, so we (02:46:51)

Q&A
A - Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

Okay. Good. Arjan, I think you are the ﬁrst one.

Q - Arjan van Veen

{BIO 5197778 <GO>}

Thank you. Arjan van Veen with UBS. I'm a little bit confused with some – your operational
capital generation numbers are the key thing we're looking for today. Firstly, I can't add
up your divisions, so if I add up all your individual divisions, I get to €403 million, you got
€184 million. This is the ﬁrst question – it's really what that missing €219 million?
And secondly, what I saw was really oﬀ to get some feel for on a go forward basis. There is
lot of one-oﬀs in your 2016 numbers, (02:47:37) there to get some feel, what we could
consider to be a more natural capital generation number compared to your dividend and
your buyback. And if I just take Belgium as an example, you have €247 million for 100%,
you had €177 million for the ﬁrst quarter, those are huge diﬀerences. So to get some feel
maybe on which are the divisions, what a more normalized number would be or maybe

Page 38 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

some way of reconciling it back or give us indication of how it compares to the operating
– IFRS proﬁt maybe which shouldn't be too diﬀerent for example?

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Emmanuel Van Grimbergen

{BIO 18010465 <GO>}

Okay. So we're deciding who to start. Okay, I'll start. So, ﬁrst, you are right. In 2016, we
had a lot of one-oﬀ and then I would say the site that we have all these model changes
relates to the fact that it was the ﬁrst year or so, in the coming years, it will be more
straight forward and we want to have all this eﬀect, it will be easier. So agree with you.
I think on the exceptional what we should do, and that's what I tried to do is to explain
where we are. I told you what we put in exceptional item in operational. I gave you some
hints about what was left here, and you can make your own consideration about what you
consider as exceptional or not. With the reconciliation issue that you mentioned, so
obviously there is something missing, and you cannot add all the segments like this, why
because you have some of the consolidation, the consolidation mechanism which works
between the segments. So for instance you have some elimination, you have the
geographical diversiﬁcation, you have for instance the fact that when you consolidate
Eligible Own Fund, you have to take into account the non-control interest. So all this, we
had some lines of between the sum and the group aspects, and it is true that I didn't give
the detail. But it is a main, so geographical diversiﬁcation elimination, and that's it
(02:49:52)
I think it will help when we have the group slide also in the back, because obviously that's
one of these closing blocks that is missing in the current one. Maybe I want to come back
to your second part of the question, is about forward-looking capital generation and what
is now really the underlying. So in fact if you listen to the story indeed Christophe has
hinted to quite a few exceptional or explanations why certain ﬁgures are what they are.
The forward-looking ignoring the current explanations, there are in fact four main sources
I would say of capital generation in an operational context. First and foremost, indeed as
you indicate Non-Life results, but then on a best estimate basis they almost entirely ﬂow
into operational capital generation. Of course, if you're reserving policy and your best
estimate are more or less in tune, Non-Life results are one of the Pillars, that's why you see
quite a substantial portion of that coming into play, even in the UK if you ignore the
exceptionals but certainly in Continental Europe and in Belgium.
And the second one is the – we have this restricted contract boundaries. Yearly renewable
risk contract, depending on many new revenue portfolio will lead to substantial positive
evolutions and we see that predominantly underlying the Continental European ﬁgures
also just some extent in Belgium. But in Portugal, we have a lot of yearly renewable term.
Now that is boosting this free capital generation from that perspective.
And the third one is your operational performance and improvements, assumption
changes you make to all the components that Christophe talked about, expenses, lapse,
all the normal operational stuﬀ. If you have substantial, if you can improve on the
dynamics there, that will also create operational capital.

Page 39 of 89



FINAL

Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

The last one and that is the most diﬃcult one to assess and to appreciate is the what you
would call the normal value in new business, which is not the extension of contract
boundaries, but just live business, which is being written. And there Christophe hinted to
the fact that this year the huge inﬂow in new business in Belgium in the beginning in the
ﬁrst half of the year where industry rates were really low and in fact people were
anticipating that we were going to cut down the guarantees. We had a huge inﬂow of
course on a market consistent basis is just not add immediate capital to the picture from
this perspective.
In fact it consumes, it's the concept of strain and recurrent embedded value but mind you
that may come back. It's a bit like the pull to par on the spread it's an issue, but it comes
back through income. So, we have been able to deploy and invest for these products, and
that's what you saw in our regular reporting at reasonable rates.
So it is like, you have a (02:53:19) product, it doesn't mean that the future capital
generation potential is not there and went of course to grow this year and that's what you
saw in these type of products reduced dramatically, because you don't have that strength,
but the margin that you have generated and made on this product is showing up.

Bloomberg Transcript

So it's very diﬃcult to put the exact ﬁgure on a forward-looking basis, but you feel that we
are ending at the fact that in Belgium, the ﬁgure of last year was helped back a bit by the
huge production in the beginning of the ﬁrst half. But that should support better ﬁgures
looking forward there because the deployment has been good.
And now we are in a situation, which is in reverse. The guarantee has never been so low,
but the markets recovered quite a bit. And so, margins now are obviously better and
that's what we show or in that when you look at the results of Q1. We have fantastic NonLife results in Belgium, which you also saw. Last year, the ﬁrst quarter impact was €25
million, almost €30 million. So this is the story in Belgium.
And in the UK, obviously, we had Ogden, we took that out already. We consider it in the
one-oﬀ. But also the other two components don't keep in – don't forget that Andy and his
team, they are going through that restructuring. We closed down Glasgow, that's a very
necessary investment, I would say, to turn it around, but the cost of that is nothing. We
also strengthened for the special risks in the UK last year, (02:54:51) about €30 million. So
both combined in the UK. I would say it's exceptional kind of one-oﬀ of €60 million is also
guaranteed. Keep these things in mind, but we are not going to make forward-looking
statements, but at least this leads a bit the reasoning on those two here.

Q - Arjan van Veen

{BIO 5197778 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

(02:55:10)

Page 40 of 89



FINAL

Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

Hi there, gentlemen. Firstly, I think it's actually quite a good start in terms of presenting
what is actually a quite complex group. The questions I really have are just with regards to,
ﬁrstly, aggregation method. So once we've reached the group number that you're talking
to here, are we looking for instance having proportionately consolidated the Belgium
business, so I presume we're taking 75% there. And then, secondly, just looking at slide 23
on the Asia components, I'm just trying to understand how you've weighted the SCR
there. It feels a little bit to me like you might have weighted this around about 150%. And I
think, it also feeds into the comment from the previous presentation when you mentioned
the impact of say bringing in the non-Solvency II stakes would be 20 percentage points
on Solvency II. Again, could you just give us a sense of what kind of, I think I would call it
the equivalence conversion factor you're using to make that calculation, please?

A - Christophe Boizard

{BIO 15390084 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So, I'll take immediately the last question. So in my presentation indeed, you saw an
indication of just 20% when we just add up the NCP – the Asian NCP there. Just keep in
mind what we did is we took simply the local regulatory requirement, the minimum local
regulatory requirement, plus the capital requirement that we took and we add up to the
Solvency capital requirement Solvency II. And the available capital is also the local
regulatory available capital that we adopt to the (02:56:51). So in the plus 20%, indeed
there is no target capital for instance of 175% like we have in the Solvency II framework.
In the presentation for Asia, and so it's the reason why we added this group view, which is
consistent with Solvency II. But on the Asian side, ﬁrst we took our share, so we took our
share in each and every country, and there it's a mixed bag, in the sense that we took for
each and every country the target capital of the country, and so it's kind of addition, and
it's the reason why I call this not a consolidation, but an aggregation and we miss here the
geographical diversiﬁcation, as I said. So we take our share, and we took the country oneby-one, we were speciﬁc target capital, and we added things up, and that's all.

Q - Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

And for Belgium, because you had also just (02:57:52)

A - Christophe Boizard

{BIO 15390084 <GO>}

So for Belgium indeed, you always see the numbers on Belgium at 100%, but when we –
when we – when you look at the group, it's not a proportional consolidation. So what we
do is we have to take and that's a Solvency II rule, we have to take the SCR at 100%, and
that's for (02:58:13) and the 25% of BMP is determined between the diﬀerence of the own
funds, total 100% own fund minus the solvency capital requirement, multiplied by 25%. So
it's a free fund, that we then subtract from the Own Fund.
Is that clear, because I see some people frowning in Solvency II, so it's just maybe clarify a
bit more, because it's also the reason why under the put option, the solvency ratio actually
increases when you execute, it's the same eﬀect.

A - Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

Yeah
Page 41 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

Okay.
For the consolidation is a free fund that is subtracted at group level, there is lot of
proportion consolidation.

FINAL

Okay.
Maybe ﬁrst Ashik and then Bart.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Hi. Just a couple of question. One on Asia, so the capital generation that you're using on
the numerator and denominator, is it fair to say that you're just focusing on the regulatory
number. You're not doing anything on embedded value capital generation like that? So
that's one thing. Second thing I think there is still a bit of confusion on consolidation of all
the solo numbers because, for example, I was looking at the SCR of Belgium, UK, and
Europe. On the individual basis, it's coming to be like €60 million, €40 million, €50
million, whereas when you are consolidating the SCR impact on the capital – on the
operational capital generation is like €120 million. So if I think about consolidating from
the 100% to your consolidated number, it should be lower, why would it go up? Does that
make sense or shall I repeat the question?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Antonio Cano

{BIO 16483724 <GO>}

In fact, the consolidation in the end is normal Solvency II reporting, so all the eﬀects that
play in our Solvency II reporting are also the ones that are here. There is no diﬀerence at
the end between them, so you ﬁnd all the corrections related to non-transferrable,
diversiﬁcation, the proportionality factors, they are all in the general account area. And
some SCR aspects related speciﬁcally to the general account components are also there.
So adding them up – they don't appear in general account. We have the general account
alone, and then on the top we have all these adjusting factors and the adjusting factors
with all the diﬀerent building blocks.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

So with respect to these additional adjustment that we don't see when we add all the
subsidiaries to the ﬁnal account, where would that be part of? I mean, I thought it would
be (03:01:06), but I think that area – that part is still missing in the presentation, which we
are not getting, because when we add the numerator, capital generation, only the
operational part, and when we add the denominator of capital generation, we don't get
to the number that you are ﬂagging. So there is something we are missing at the moment.
Thank you.

A - Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

There are so many – okay, probably we need to – we can give more details, also have a
discussion oﬄine on this, but you have also – for instance, just take one, you have also on
the (03:01:39) you have an elimination of the (03:01:40), because you have repayment of
the (03:01:43) at the AG Insurance level, general account, but then there you have also an
Page 42 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

elimination of €95 million. So there are quite a couple of elements of elimination that we
can give more detail on it. But to summarize, it's a kind of reconciliation in the end.

FINAL

(03:02:02).
Okay, we will discuss that with you, but we take it as further improvement, and please
keep in mind but it is still working-in-progress all these things. So for 2017 we will be more
explicit on how it works, the elimination, the geographical diversiﬁcation, but you have
things that can be added to that total.
So in the future, oh yes, why shouldn't we share the, yes, geographical diversiﬁcation
elimination? There is no secret. These are technical things. So we could add a slide which
could be consolidation eﬀect. We – all the comments, we can do that for the future. We're
not – propose we consider it and by the way also mention that indeed the version you
have seen on the screen will be the one that is posted on the website, so the missing
slides, no worries, you can download them easily.

Bloomberg Transcript

Just one follow-up question on the consolidation of Belgium. Do I understand correctly
that if you look to slide 28, we have – you say we have €359 million in free capital
generation. Does that include Belgium at 100% or 75%? That's the ﬁrst question.
The second question relates to your investment return assumptions. So an important
driver of capital generation is the assumptions you use for your investments. I think you
mentioned 700 basis points for equity and 500 for real estate, which seem relatively high.
Could you also share the number for government bonds return assumptions? And do you
think these numbers are volatile going forward and also impact your operational capital
generation? Thank you.
Real estate is 650 (03:04:00), not...
The ﬁrst part, the sections here for the individual regions are on 100% basis. To make no
confusion, the ﬁgures you see in the slides which related to regions on 100% basis, so part
of the consolidation is indeed proportional and huge factor (03:04:22) on that. In the
investment assumptions – Christophe? – are used in the operational side, 7% for...

A - Christophe Boizard

{BIO 15390084 <GO>}

7% for equities, 6% for real estate. On government bonds we will then take – for the ﬁxed
income, we will take more sort of risk free, but then every period – when, for instance, I
take the example just to ﬁx the idea, so we have a sort of risk free, but if the return on the
Belgium Government bond that we have in our portfolio is 2%, 2% will come into the
operational impact. It – sorry?

Q - Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

(03:05:08)

Page 43 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

A - Christophe Boizard

{BIO 15390084 <GO>}

Not, but the spread volatility will come into the market impact.

A - Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

FINAL

It's like the yield to maturity, so the goal ﬂows...

A - Christophe Boizard

{BIO 15390084 <GO>}

That volatility comes into the market impact, but the recurrent income both risk free come
into operational. If you look at Continental Europe, if you remember, there was quite a
strong operational own fund generation. It's mentioned, is the story about the term
business and the Non-Life business, but it's also the excess return on the assets compared
to the risk free that we have in Continental Europe. If you think about the return of the
Portuguese debt is 3%, the risk free is 0.5%. The excess return is coming into the
operational in Continental Europe. So there you can really – that's very important that
there you can – if there is no accident, if there is no default, then you can see there that it
will generate capital from one period to the other in Continental Europe.

A - Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well, maybe last question before we go to lunch.
Excellent. Hopefully there is a small point of clariﬁcation. Back on the Belgian free capital
generation, I mean, you – I wondered if you could be more precise, because you were
clearly saying that the biggest distortion between the ﬁrst quarter and the full year is new
business. And presumably you have some sense what the new business value was,
because you've been monitoring that in the past. So I wondered if you could just try and
help, be slightly more precise on that number.
And then secondly, hopefully very brieﬂy, why is the general accounts operating capital
generation ﬁgure a positive number? Because I would have thought that's where you're
holding your central costs and the rest of it inside I understand on a positive basis.

A - Antonio Cano

{BIO 16483724 <GO>}

On the ﬁrst one, I will answer with a small smile, because one of the things we are still
working on is, as Manu or even Christophe said, is to get grabbed with the concept of
value new business. Let's not forget it, because, of course, we publish our MCV ﬁgures.
And we did that for the last time probably because we are going to get over from
Solvency II contract boundaries to the restricted – from the MCV contract boundaries to
the restricted Solvency II contract boundaries and the notion of value new business
changes. And, in fact, we have not ﬁnalized the calculations (03:07:39) on Solvency II, on
the Solvency II contract boundary.
The only thing I said is that you can see visually in the ﬁgures over the ﬁrst quarter the
impact, but also intuitively it should be clear at the moment you do evaluation on a riskfree basis of – at that point in the ﬁrst half over 1 billion of eight-year term policies being
written at the time that interest rates were below of percentage with guarantee of one,
Page 44 of 89



FINAL

Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

(03:08:13) on a risk-free basis a negative spread. And if there is an (03:08:18) duration,
most of it with single premium. And that's as far as I go. But, obviously, we have deployed
that not at 0.5%. We have invested in the normal asset mix, which will generate a normal
return and we do, as you saw or you can see in our regular reporting the new money raise
that we make. I think in the ﬁrst half was between 2% and close to 3%, still you see that
that spreads will come, but it will not be there on 0.0% (03:08:47). It will come in the
future capital generation. And we will work hard to improve on indeed giving insight on
what is the new generation of (03:09:01), and those which were restricted by the contract
boundary being added to the book of business (03:09:09), but you have to give us a bit
more time to come up with these ﬁgures.

A - Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

One precise question, maybe on the general account, you are right that we shouldn't
have positive ﬁgures. It's more a matter of allocation and in allocating the dividend that
we received, not all the dividend was in the deduction of the paid dividend. So, for
instance, the RPI and what we've received from RPI, which is a little bit aside from JVs and
subsidiaries was put in operational, but I think in the future we will (03:09:45) review the
allocation in the general account, but the general account is tricky part, but you are right,
so further adjustment could be made on general account.

Bloomberg Transcript

May we conclude this Q&A session. And, of course, all the other questions you have, feel
free to ask these gentlemen. The lunch is served I see outside, so the weather has been
improved. And I expect you back by 2:30. Thank you.

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

Good. Hope you're all back for the second part, the afternoon of the Investor Day. As
mentioned in the beginning, we have now, in fact, in the next block foreseen some
business presentations from the UK and from Asia, but we'll start with Antonio, who will
do his second presentation on Ambition 2018 with respect to the status and how we
implement our strategy. Thank you. Antonio?

Antonio Cano

{BIO 16483724 <GO>}

Such a nice music. I always love this slot after lunch, particularly after the two chunky
presentations we had before lunch; lunch, sun, so I hope you all stay awake. If necessary,
I'll raise slightly the volume of my voice. Okay.
So, my second presentation and it's about, as I announced in my ﬁrst presentation, about
smart synergies. I'll discuss that a bit. But the key word is here local. You know that one of
our values is that we believe that this is a local business, particularly in the types of
markets we are operating in; regulation, customer habits, distribution habits, they all tend
to be very diﬀerent from country to country. And as you know, we are actually present in
quite some countries with quite some many diﬀerent cultures from here – from Portugal all
the way to China. That's, I guess, about half the globe. So you imagine that each country
Page 45 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

requires some sort of at least local adaptation, but we think it's actually a bit more than
that.

FINAL

Now, while we accept and actually embrace these local diﬀerences, and important of local
diﬀerences, nevertheless we think we should leverage somehow our skills and resources,
and that is what we describe as smart synergies. That was the seventh strategic choice I
mentioned earlier this morning.
Now, a way to visualize this how we go about it is look at it like in three rings or clusters or
circles. Well, actually, the outer circle is where we talk about local structure, but it's
basically very natural spontaneous interactions between businesses, very often also in
diﬀerent regions, where business people of these businesses exchange value through
experience sharing. What can this be? It is, for example, exchanging pricing algorithms. It
is developing together an SAP platform in the Philippines, in Vietnam. It is also, for
example, exporting the experiences we had in Belgium dealing with repair shops to
Portugal. So very spontaneous value driven interactions. That's what we call the level
three.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, on the level two is what we call our level two platforms. I would say these are topics
that we believe have some common issues. These are actually, in fact, the topics you saw
in my ﬁrst presentation around digital closer to the customer, the Internet of Things both
in the connected home space or in cars. These are things where we believe some sort of
more and more structural knowledge sharing and some facilitating from the center has an
added value. That is our second way of sharing knowledge. And that's a bit new in
Ambition 2018. Before that, actually we just stick basically to the outer ring.
And then we have what we call the entry level one or the One Ageas. So these are actually
activities or capabilities that we believe merit some sort of centralization. These are
limited number of activities. These can be things like the use of our captive reinsurance
entity. They act as a captive reinsurer for actually most of our Non-Life operations within
the group. It can also be things like risk management and models. You saw lot of those
models this morning. Actually all this modeling work is tiered from the center. These
models are run by the center by Filip and Manu's team.
It can also be things around robotics. We'll show you the example around that. You can
also think about analytics, so not too many things. Things that we believe there is some
value added by sharing that and centralizing that.
It is also actually a part of our partnership model. It is a way of freely letting information
ﬂow within the group, and it's important for wholly-owned subsidiaries, but it's also very
important in our partnership model, which are very much part actually of this knowledge
sharing system, both at the level three, level two, level one. Also our JV partners, notably
in Asia, are very active in that. And as I said, it is very much part of our operating model.
And this – actually through this approach – it can seem a bit theoretical, a bit abstract from
the outside, but it's actually working a fairly natural way, because it's also part of our DNA,
this partnership, this collaborative attitude. It works and it makes us a bit more than just a
Page 46 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

ﬁnancial holding. We will never be – what in corporate strategy terms is sometimes called
nice word – a parental developer. These tend to be groups that centralize lot of activities
that, for example, build centrally core insurance applications that there are lot of diﬀerent
markets. So these are heavy, we say they are rigid corporate centers that try to standardize
a lot of things.
I'm not saying there is no merit at all in that model, but our ﬁrm belief is that because of
the markets we operate in are so local, forcing these types of synergies upon businesses
that have very diﬀerent challenges, various diﬀerent levels of maturities can actually create
some damage. And let's be fair, I think forced synergies have a kind of a dubious track
record, and we believe it is because of this local – very local speciﬁc needs, not because
people at the center are stupid. Although maybe people in the business will say, okay,
maybe these guys don't really understand what we are doing. It is just simply because the
markets are too diﬀerent and the challenges are too diﬀerent. That is our view.

Bloomberg Transcript

Having said that, we talked a bit about innovation this morning and around some of this
common themes, we believe that the group can help like joint innovation. We don't
commute – we don't assign huge budgets to, say, big corporate labs or garages that
experiment with whatever, and then it being rolled out within the group. So we don't
spend a lot of money on these things. What we try to do is promote investments that
could help various operating companies.
Now, rest assured, the bulk of the innovation investments and the examples you saw this
morning, and you see a couple of them again later, they are done by the local businesses.
They're very much in the space that I call the incremental or sustainable type of
innovation. There is where the bulk of innovation happens. There is where the bulk of the
returns are made. But we decided that on top of this, on average, €50 million that is being
spent by the group on this type of innovation, which, okay, we are willing to invest, say,
€25 million per year more in domains where we see that projects could have some sort of
cross-border beneﬁt. It can sometime be very speciﬁc that you actually try to copy a bit of
concept that is being developed in a market to another market, or just elements of a
concept that you can copy in other markets.
Now, you may question, what are these types of investments? So, again, I think they're
very consistent with our strategic choices. They're very consistent with the themes that we
identiﬁed through our radar network, things that are coming towards us. Some of these
themes will have impact on various operating companies. So it is around those themes
that we have various projects, where the group kind of lends a ﬁnancial hand to support
these investments. So what are they? And this is our recent history. You could say, it's like
25% is around the connected homes, connected cars, Internet of Things, analytics. There's
about a quarter that is around, let's say, getting closer to the customer, remember there
was the sixth strategic choice we believe we have to get closer to the customer, getting to
know more so also from the group we kind of sponsor initiatives that move us towards
that goal.
Then there is the OpEx type of projects. I think you saw bit of a ﬂavor of it when we
showed the case of the healthcare project in Belgium. So really things that really improve
operational processes. You will immediately think about robotics and these types of
Page 47 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

things, so that's typically one of these projects there. And then we have – it says 30%, but
it's going to be around 25% to 30%, we have this concepts, actually more like products
that have been launched or are being launched soon, around this new innovative
oﬀerings, a lot of it is digital, these new propositions.
As I said, you saw some examples this morning on Belgium. In a minute we'll show you
also some examples of UK, and then we'll also show you what the diﬀerent local ﬂavor is
to some of these innovations. So before I actually give the stage to Andy Watson, who is
our UK CEO and who will share with you how we deal with the challenges we are faced
with in our UK operations, I'll share with you a short video. You're going to see actually
again a product that is, let's say, digital – fully digital product this time in the Non-Life
activities aimed at millennials, actually an award-winning initiative.
Also again, the digital products around ﬂexible solution for ﬁre insurance also from UK,
and then also the example on what we do with robotics. So be aware, this is not really
rocket science. These are robotics that really help actually the back oﬃces. And actually
this robotics initiative, which originated from the UK, where the initial pilots were done, is
an example of something that was picked up in this platform structure and is actually now
today being rolled out with the same provider, with the same group of people that are
getting experience rolling this out in diﬀerent regions.
So we'll have now the video.

Bloomberg Transcript

[Video presentation] (03:23:07-03:23:24)

Andy Watson

{BIO 20961640 <GO>}

Hello. Good afternoon, everyone. I'm Andy. I'm going to talk through Ageas' strategy in
the UK. And to do just that, I will talk through, ﬁrst of all, some generic remarks about the
UK market in general, and particularly those that are more speciﬁc to Ageas UK. Some
further detail on the as-is situation in Ageas UK. I'll give some further color and ﬂavor to
our 2016 results that have been referred to once or twice already, and then I'll talk about
our future plan.
So as I say, some generic remarks about the current states of the UK market. What you
have on the screen is a list of the main non-life insurers within the UK ranked by GWP and
Ageas' position within that ranking. They're all non-life players, but the operating models
are very diﬀerent, so you have some pure commercial lines players, some pure personal
lines players, and some that are a mixture of both.
Even within the pure personal lines players, you have some that are mono line and
eﬀectively mono channel, and others that are multi-products and multi-channel. So I'll
comment on those areas of the market that are most relevant to Ageas UK. We
concentrate, certainly from a product's point of view, on Motor, Home, and Small
Commercial, so some comments on each of those.

Page 48 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

On Motor insurance, you will have seen, I am sure, the charts of the Motor underwriting
combined operating ratio in the UK over time. And that shows two things; that at a market
level the CRR is very often above 100%, and there is indeed an underwriting cycle. Of
course, the CRR excludes investment returns and other income that's available to some
insurers, such as installment income, add-on product, and claims income. So proﬁtability
can be improved beyond the underwriting result.
In terms of the underwriting cycle, Ogden has clearly been a major market dislocation,
and I'll come to Ogden later. Prior to Ogden, we were in a part of the underwriting cycle
where prices were rising, which on the face of it is very good news, but there is also
reasons for caution, because part of the reasons for prices rising was IPT, and there is
certainly underlying claims inﬂation. Last thing to say about Motor, as you will know, the
aggregators have established a very powerful position in the distribution of Motor.

Bloomberg Transcript

The Home insurance, there is much less. It's probably fair to say there is no insurance
cycle as such. But the results at a market level tend to be dominated by weather. We
clearly have weather in the UK, but the last of the signiﬁcant events was right at the end of
2015. Current situation with household is that it's a very diﬃcult market. Prices have been
falling for the last year or two. One of the reasons for that will be the growing presence of
aggregators in the distribution of household insurance. But prices are falling in spite of
IPT, in spite of the extra costs of Flood Re, and indeed in spite of underlying claims
inﬂation. So margins are certainly falling.
Final reference is Commercial for Ageas UK, means SME. Actually it means vSME
(03:27:15), and it's an area where brokers still dominate distribution, although electronic
trading is increasing.
No overview of the UK would be complete without some comments on regulation and
legislation. We have a prudential regulator, obviously the PRA, their focus for sometime
has been Solvency II. The conduct regulator, the FCA, it says it doesn't want to be a price
regulator, yet my view is that it's certainly operating on the periphery of that, and that's
why we have the recent introduction of value measures, we have the very recent
introduction of renewal pricing transparency, and we currently have investigations into, for
example, the use of big data and retail pricing.
As far as the government is concerned, I've already referred to IPT and to Ogden and, of
course, I guess it depends on what happens in the election on Thursday. But assuming a
conservative government as a result of ﬁrst day's election, we can certainly expect more
legislation around whiplash and around the compensation culture.
I'll move on to talk about the more speciﬁc situation within Ageas UK. Number of pieces
of information on this slide, but what I wanted to draw your attention to was the with the
line, the chart is a chart of GWP for Ageas in the UK, including Tesco Underwriting from
2002 right through to 2016.
It's clearly a story of growth, but I would say it contains a number of other stories too. For
example, it's a story of M&A activity way back when the launch of RIAS. We then acquired
Page 49 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

businesses called OutRight and Aﬃnity Solutions. We then established the joint venture
arrangement with Tesco. And in more recent years the purchase of KwikFit, Castle Cover,
and Groupama.
It's also a story of product development. So right at the beginning pretty well entirely a
Motor underwriter, and during the course of these years expansion – further expansion
into Home insurance and Commercial. And it's a story of distribution development as
well. Back in 2002, pretty well all distribution for Ageas UK was via third-party brokers. We
then added brokers that we owned, initially RIAS and business called Auto Direct and
Cover Direct, more recently KwikFit and Castle Cover. We then entered the partnership
channel, not least the JV with Tesco, but other partnerships as well. And more recently,
we've been changing the model of our owned brokers. So, rather than having a panel of
insurers sitting behind them, they have a sole underwriter, Ageas and they're much more
akin now to direct insurers.
So what are the conclusions from this particular slide? First of all, we operate in three
channels, brokers, partnerships and direct. We have clearly had a history of acquiring
businesses, but that is absolutely not our focus now and indeed our history of acquiring
businesses over this period has made us a very complex, too complex business and our
focus now is very much on making ourselves more eﬀective and more eﬃcient.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me talk about the three channels that I've described, broker, partnerships and direct,
some further detail on each of those channels. The broker channel historically has been
our most important and absolutely will remain our most important channel for the
foreseeable future.
Within the UK market, there are very many disparate operating models for brokers
themselves, but since the prediction of their demise over 30 years ago, they've remained
very resilient. There are of course parts of the broker channel that are under pressure, in
particular, if you are a broker that merely sits between aggregators and insurers, but there
are plenty of other brokers carving out very signiﬁcant and very successful niches for
themselves.
In terms of the partnership channel, we select our partners based on a combination of
some, ideally all of the following characteristics. First of all, some distribution advantage,
either because the partner has a very popular brand or a large and loyal customer base or
they have some kind of point-of-sale advantage. Ideally, the partner would bring some
data or some insight that helps in terms of risk selection and pricing, and of course the
ﬁnancials have to work for both us and the partner. And whilst these are still the
characteristics that we look for, the growth of the aggregated channel has diminished
their eﬀectiveness.
And then ﬁnally, comments on our direct businesses and are competing within the direct
channel. The basis of our direct business was indeed brokers that were converted from
using a panel of insurers to a sole underwriter, ourselves.

Page 50 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

In addition over recent years, we've rationalized the number of brands that we use to goto-market. We have signiﬁcantly improved our pricing, our marketing capabilities and our
anti-fraud capabilities. And we are now ﬁt to compete in on the aggregator channel.
There's a slide in your pack that gives the product mix and how that's evolved over time.
You can see that household and commercial has indeed grown. I'm not going to
comment too much on that slide. I've made most of the points that I would do already,
and the ﬁnal slide in this section. Again just the league table by those parts of the market
that are most relevant for us, so private car and household, and you can see that we have
good positions in those markets.

Bloomberg Transcript

I thought I would give a further detail and ﬂavor around our 2016 results. So, let me do
that now. If I display this slide, ﬁrst of all, there's no new news on this slide. We're merely
repeating numbers that have been reported previously. There is the impact of FX, of
course. All the numbers that you see in my presentation are in euros. But we tend to
manage the business in pounds and for example, we were looking at the equivalent
numbers in pounds, the GWP ﬁgure would have increased from 2015 to 2016. But as you
know, the results for the UK for 2016 was heavily negative, and let me take that reported
result and let's drill down a little bit.
So we take the reported result. Now, I absolutely understand and get the situation that
every year, our results will tend to include some kind of one-oﬀs or elements of
exceptional. But these really did dominate the 2016 result and it's worth stripping them
out. And then as far as this slide is concerned, weather is not treated as an exceptional. So
what does the chart share with? It says that, the three main exceptionals in 2016 were
some restructuring expenses of €27 million. The Ogden impacts of €155 million and a
non-performing MGA of €31 million.
So let me say a few things about each of those signiﬁcant entries. First of all, restructuring
our organization. Now the situation is that we have too much property, partially because
of the acquisitions, which I've talked about, but also our sales and service operations are
becoming much more eﬃcient. And ﬁnally, the general customer trend of a customer
preference for using the internet rather than telephone. So we have too much property,
we took the decision to close Glasgow, albeit that decision triggers this very negative
entry relating to redundancy costs and to an onerous lease provision.
Looking forward, we still have restructuring changes to make within our business, so
we've certainly not ﬁnished. But so we have, as I say, future restructuring changes to
make. Some of these will have a cost of change, but we do not anticipate similar charges
to this one in the future.
Let me say a little bit about the nonperforming MGAs. MGAs and delegated underwriting
authorities are a standard part of the UK market, and we continue to use them. But this
particular arrangement, which started in 2009 and it was terminated as soon as we were
able earlier this year was inadequate in a number of areas, not least because the products
underwritten were outside our areas of expertise. The value chain was extended and our

Page 51 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

contractual ability to really control the arrangement was extremely limited. The
arrangement is now in runoﬀ.

FINAL

We've taken what we believe to be an appropriate and prudent provision to protect
ourselves from an adverse runoﬀ. And again, looking forward, we have thoroughly
reviewed our existing and continuing MGAs and delegated authorities, and we have
known to have the weakness of this particular arrangement.
The ﬁnal thing to comment on is Ogden and I'll pitch my comments on the basis that you
know all about Ogden. And we have increased our reserves to take into account the new
discount rates on all open claims. (03.38.41-03.38.47). We've increased our premiums
between 9% and 10% and so we're (03:38:53-03:39:15) certainly our top line in the last
few weeks has been impacted, but this is a major market dislocation that will take time to
settle down, takes time to settle down even if the new business and a premium from a
premium point of view and it's far too early to assess any impact of the moment on claims
settlement pattern.

Bloomberg Transcript

[Technical Diﬃculty] (03:39:36 -03:40:04) stakeholders and put into that consultation
that's eﬀectively sitting in a drawer someone in the Ministry of Justice. And when the new
government is elected, its response will be known. In terms of the 2016 result, there's a
slide in you pack about the GWP and where we are and how that's moved again. I've
made most of the points on that slide. So I'll not repeat them.
Let's talk a little bit about the underwriting – well the underwriting and indeed the
underlining performance. We talked about the exceptional, so some comments on the
underlining performance. In the tables on this slide and the next few slides, we do
highlight the impact of weather. So you can see from this table, our overall COR was
below 100%, but it's clearly higher than the group target of 97%. So we have much to do.
Again if I talk about the individual product lines. On motor, in a hardening market, we
were able to push rate through to increased margin. I've referred to our pricing reaction
on Ogden, but our business as usual pricing approach if you like, our pricing and
underwriting plans continue to prioritize an improved motor COR.
I'll talk about household. This is also an attention point for us. Given the market
environment I described earlier, it's just not possible to increase prices and grow this
account in the current market environment. So our actions are concentrated on a number
of areas. First of all, dealing with some underperforming schemes; secondly,
improvements to the sophistication of our pricing and underwriting; and ﬁnally, there are
areas of indemnity spend where we feel that we can reduce and indeed we are reducing.
Situation on commercial is a little bit diﬀerent. After several years of improving the
proﬁtability of this account it's now broadly where we wanted it to be. So, our approach to
commercial is much more about striking the balance between growth and proﬁtability.
Final slide just summarizes what I've been saying. Let's talk about operating costs. As I
referred to earlier, we are currently too complex, and we've been simplifying the ways that
Page 52 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

we are organized. You can see the beneﬁts of some of this work in the blue expenses
element on this chart. There is a signiﬁcant year-on-year reduction in costs, in spite of the
fact that levies have been increasing over this period, and you'll see also that our staﬀ
numbers are reducing.
When we disclose our results, we state our overall expense numbers net of other income
and charges, and other income and charges are reducing, and this will continue to be a
feature of our result in the short term. It is caused by a couple of things. First of all, the
change of model in the direct channel from a panel of insurers to solus insurer. And
secondly because we have started to underwrite some of the add-on products ourselves.
The ﬁnal – sorry penultimate slide in this part is around investment returns, nothing
particularly to draw out of that. You've got the slide in your pack. And then ﬁnally a
comment on Solvency and I'm afraid I have to return to Ogden again. But obviously,
Ogden has had an impact on solvency, as we heard in Manu's presentation, earlier we
were down at 100% of SCR Ageas at the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've taken three actions since then. First of all, we implemented a stop-loss reinsurance,
and we sold some of our BBB and BB rated corporate bonds from the investment
portfolio, both of those actions in the ﬁrst quarter improving our solvency to 109% at the
end of the quarter one. And subsequent to the end of the ﬁrst quarter, there has been a
capital injection. So solvency has improved to 121% in terms of, what might happen in the
future, then retained future proﬁts will improve solvency further, and we still have some
capacity for further reinsurance.
So let me talk about our plan and what we intend to do from that position moving
forward. Our plan has four elements to it, developing our channel mix, improving the loss
ratio, further action on costs, and we do prioritize the customer. We talk about those
brieﬂy one-by-one. So the ﬁrst one, is developing our channel mix. We continue to be
committed to the three channels of brokers, partners and direct. Brokers will remain our
biggest and most important channel over the plan period. We continue to build on very
close and growing relationships with those brokers that are important to us, and have a
track record of supplying proﬁtable business. We continue to be clear about the product
areas, especially in commercial, that are important to us, so our broker partners know
where we have an appetite and where we have an interest.
In terms of partnerships we continue to review the partner portfolio. We have exited some
partnerships recently and we will be robust in our assessment of the current unlikely
future proﬁtability with our ongoing partnership arrangements. And then ﬁnally direct, we
have signiﬁcantly enhanced our ability to compete in the aggregator channel. So we will,
in a cautious manner, increase the volumes coming through this channel, partially by
expanding our underwriting footprint. In addition, we believe that there is scope in the
non-motor, non-aggregator space for some new propositions. We've seen those on the
video. We hope to launch Ageas Elastic (03:47:05) in the next couple of months.
I'll move on to our second key priority improving the claims ratio. This slide really does
emphasize, improve what we've got approach. We will improve the sophistication of our

Page 53 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

pricing and underwriting in both motor and household. The battle against fraud both at
the application stage and at the claim stage is a constant and we have targeted areas of
claim indemnity spend, where we think we can improve.
Third key area is action on costs and we have, as I've described already, made some very
good progress. Whilst that is the case, our cost eﬀectiveness and eﬃciency is not yet
where we wanted to be. So our simpliﬁcation process continues. We embrace digital
some time ago and it already impacts large parts of the business. This will continue and
continue at pace. As will the move to automation and customer self service, you saw some
of the impact and some of the things that we're doing on the video before my
presentation.
And last but not least we have within Ageas UK always provided a great customer service.
We can validate that statement by pointing to independent third parties, either because
of the awards that we win or the assessment against external benchmarks. Our
determination to continue to provide great customer service is as high as it has ever been.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me draw to a conclusion. If we assess our situation at the moment and where we're at,
we believe that we've got a number of things that we can build on. We have strong
positions in our core product markets. We have a long established commitment to the
broker channel, got good relationships in the partnership channel and we provide
excellent customer service. But as I've said and has been the theme through my
presentation, we are too complex and we have a program of simpliﬁcation.
So, in the future, building on those strengths, we will continue to be multiproduct and
multichannel. We will look to, when the time is right, build our market share in our core
products of motor, home and small commercial. And we will certainly move into the more
specialist areas in those markets. Digital is a large part of our business and will continue to
be so. The real core discipline of claims handling and pricing underwriting, sophistication
of those processes, we continue to work on. And as I say, simpliﬁcation is a theme that we
have at the moment, and we will continue to build on. The over-arching long-term target,
the over-arching aim that I and the UK team absolutely has, is commitment to achieve a
combined operating ratio of 97% for the UK business.
Draw to a close with that, I think and move to Q&A.

Q&A
A - Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

Okay. Who wants to shoot? Will (03:50:46)?
Thanks. Couple of brief questions. Do you have further risk-related to Ogden with regards
to third-party reinsurance spend? I'm not sure when your main reinsurance program
renews, but it clearly seems to be a talking point that the cost of reinsurance for a motor
TPL could be going up an awful lot. I think you guys have already allowed for that, but if
you can talk brieﬂy on that.
Page 54 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

A - Andy Watson

{BIO 20961640 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

FINAL

And then, the 97%. Would you care to put a date from when you're going to achieve that?

A - Andy Watson

{BIO 20961640 <GO>}

I look to some of my Investor Relations colleagues, but over the planning period is as
vague I'll be with the answer to your second question. And the answer to your ﬁrst
question in terms of reinsurance, our reinsurance program is on a calendar year basis. So
clearly, where we are for 2017, we will see what happens in our 1st of January 2018
renewal. We expect reinsurance premiums to increase signiﬁcantly and that has been part
of assessment in terms of the pricing increases that we have made. And we've made the
pricing increases that I talked about with a view to having our targeted combined
operating ratio for 2018 including the impact of reinsurance premiums.

A - Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Other questions? (03:52:18).
As you mentioned, you're one of the few I think to fully put through Ogden pricing in the
market, others obviously have diﬀerent reinsurance arrangements, et cetera, and you
commented on the fact that it's impacted your top line. So, could you maybe give a bit
more color around the top line pressures you're facing this year including where you're
seeing (03:52:42) et cetera coming into that space?
And then secondly, just curious a little bit on your comments around partners. So you're
saying you're reviewing them all. I noticed in the market share stats, you didn't include
Tesco in your combined market share, so just curious as to speciﬁcally adding on Tesco,
because it's not been signiﬁcantly proﬁtable, it's sort of been borderline, neither here or
there, so I was just curious as to whether you think that can improve?

A - Andy Watson

{BIO 20961640 <GO>}

Yeah. Yeah. In terms of top line, the price logs, and we have a situation where we targeted
on moving towards a 97% COR for our overall business, so we are absolutely prioritizing
proﬁtability above premium growth, that our top line was improving, but it was improving
because of increased premiums rather than increased policy count. It's diﬃcult to be
speciﬁc about the answer to your question post Ogden, because it's a very ﬂuid situation
at the moment. As I say, we've moved pretty ﬁrm and pretty hard. The situation in April
was that our top line was well oﬀ, but the situation has recovered to a larger extent, but
not totally in May. So, it's moving around almost on a daily basis. We look at our panel
shares from brokers and alike and it's moving around on a daily basis. So, it's a vague
answer to your question, but it reﬂects the market reality at the moment. So, I think it will
take another month or two before the post Ogden situation is more stable.

Page 55 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

Again on household, one or two of our competitors have said that their appetite to right
household businesses is much diminished and I'm not surprised, given the market
conditions and as I said we will prioritize proﬁts over top-line there as well.
When I make comments about partners and of course, we include the Tesco Underwriting
arrangement, our joint venture with Tesco is under the umbrella of partnerships, but it is
atypical – it is a totally diﬀerent arrangement to the other partners, where we typically
provide underwriting and sales and service capacity for those partners and return for a
commission and other revenue shares. So, it's a very diﬀerent arrangement and my
answer will therefore be diﬀerent for the two.
Tesco Underwriting is a joint venture with Tesco. There's a new management team in
Tesco Underwriting, which we are very comfortable with. If it wasn't for Ogden, Tesco
Underwriting would have had a very good 2016 and we're very comfortable and indeed
positive about that arrangement going forward.
My comments therefore, you picked up some reticence about the partnership channel
may be, would be in the more – in the other types of partners, and whether the revenue
share is correct or whether the partner is indeed living up to the characteristics which I
talked about. So, that's why we're having quite a signiﬁcant review in that channel.

A - Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

More questions?
Hello. Just one simple question. I mean how should we think about the capital that is
deployed in UK and your normalized earnings run rate on that. I mean, the group clearly
has a target of 11% to 13% and I think UK is still a bit short of that. So, what needs to
happen for that to – for you to reach those ROE targets? Is 97% combined ratio would
really help going to that target or do we need to be better than that?

A - Andy Watson

{BIO 20961640 <GO>}

I think I said towards the end of my presentation that the main target that we're
concentrated on is 97%. Number two, we're not too very far behind is the return on capital
target as well. But our overriding focus certainly on the immediate future is to improve the
underlying proﬁtability of the business and we'll measure that by COR. That will go a long
way to achieving the 11%, but not all the way and it may well be that further action is
needed.

A - Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

Okay. May I assume that – oh, another question, Vikram (03:57:13).
Hello. On slide 17, where you show the underlying combined ratio, it doesn't really
exclude the prior year development of the reserve releases. So I look at the pure
underlying combined ratio is still above 100 and given the claims deﬂation, do you think
that is a headwind to get to 97%?
Page 56 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

A - Andy Watson

{BIO 20961640 <GO>}

Our pricing plans include what we believe to be a full allowance for claims inﬂation and
indeed an improvement on the margin moving forward. So I think our pricing plans take
that into account. The second comment on prior years is that we have a fairly stable
position in terms of prior years within the UK business and again, I caveat that with a preOgden situation. The pre-Ogden typically we were sort of 3% to 5% in terms of prior years
and we would expect that to be under the normal circumstances a fairly stable run rate for
us. But Ogden changes that on a number of ways, not least and it's diﬃcult to say what's
going to happen. There's a view within some of my peers within the UK market that
Ogden might – the Ogden rate might improve as a result of the election and then the
consultation moving forward.
So, it's diﬃcult to know what might be happening with claims settlement patterns, and
how those are feeding into models, but without very detailed and technical comment to
one side, we would expect our prior years to have the stability that they've had previously.

A - Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

Okay. Then, I suggest we end the UK presentation here. And I think it's up to Gary, to
update us on Asia.

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Gary Lee Crist

{BIO 17360987 <GO>}

Good afternoon, and thank you for spending your time with us today. As advertised, I will
walk you through our Asian businesses. I will start with an overview, a historical overview
of our position in Asia, a few comments on market dynamics and why we think it remains
to be a very attractive market, some comments on our business model and an overview of
our ﬁve-year historical performance. I will then move for a couple of slides on a story
deeper into Taiping Life, providing some insights into their strategy and what drives their
management, and then move to our changes in our disclosures.
Ageas in Asia is a very consistent strategy with what you've heard from Antonio. We are a
model (04:00:18) in Asia that's predicated on our fundamental choice. We are selling
retail products. To sell retail products, you need distribution and you need a strong
understanding of the market. Relationships and partnerships address both of those critical
success factors. So, when we went into Asia, it was on a partnership model. We went in
with very strong businesses, Kasikorn, Maybank, Taiping.
And in those situations, you make other choices, do you want control, do you want
majority or not. We believe it's better to be in the market with a strong partner and work
cooperatively and in an equal situation with them than to insist on control. So, that is the
choice we have made. It has led to a position where since 2001, we have generated €18
billion in gross inﬂows on a 100% basis and we now have technical liabilities of €49 billion
– almost €50 billion. We generated €182 million in proﬁt last year on the Ageas share.

Page 57 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

When you see the numbers on my presentation, we will have adjusted them for the sale of
AICA. Later, when Bart takes you through his presentation, they are the as-reported
numbers and there will be a slight diﬀerence, because those include the AICA numbers,
just to clear that potential misunderstanding up. In addition to the countries shown on this
slide, we now operate in Singapore through our partnership with Maybank, and in
Cambodia and Laos through our partnership with Muang Thai.
This timeline shows you the capital ﬂows in and outside of Asia with a cumulative return to
our group of €101 million over the time since 2001. The key bars that you see and the
largest bars that you see on the chart start with Malaysia and China, where those
investments moved to Thailand in 2004 with the investment in Thailand. In 2007, the bulk
of that bar is AICA plus India. In 2008, there is a return of capital through the restructuring
in Muang Thai.

Bloomberg Transcript

2011, unfortunately, we injected more capital to support AICA. In 2013, we injected more
capital to support the growth in Taiping Life, and then you see dividends emerge. And
then last year, AICA made up – the sale of AICA made up €1.2 billion of the number you
see there with €89 million in dividends. So, the cumulative position of €101 million
returned to group.
Now, why do we continue to think that Asia is a strong opportunity? Why will it continue to
drive growth and proﬁts for Ageas? We believe there's a fundamental environmental
driver. If you look at the chart, our countries are highlighted in orange at the bottom. And
as you see with the blue dots, the growth in density – the improvement of density will
drive six of our markets and the improvement in penetration will drive four of our markets.
Singapore is more a story of exploiting the distribution platform of our partner, which was
relatively untapped. So, while the graphics of the Singapore opportunity are not as clear
as the others, we do have, I think, a unique situation which was what led us to go into that
market.
This chart on the left, this is maybe pie in the sky. But what it tries to show is that if Asia
can move towards per capita GDP in the G7, then the potential size of the market could be
seven times the size of the G7 insurance market. Will we ever get there? Not in my
working lifetime. But we will continue to see strong growth, and I think it goes to show the
long-term potential of the market. The right-hand side of the chart just shows you how
CIRC looks at this. They have a plan to build the regulatory framework, to try and do in 15
years what it took the U.S. 50 years to support growth in the insurance market.
This chart is one you've probably seen quite a bit before for Swiss Re and others, and it
really points out the opportunity through the protection gap. But I won't spend a lot more
time on it. Now, I'll move to an explanation of our business model in Asia. As I said, it's
predicated on partnerships. It's predicated on the belief that you really need a strong
local team and they need to be empowered. If we don't have the right people on the
ground and the country to make decisions, then we need to change them.
And the Regional Oﬃcer's job is to consolidate and to report, to analyze, to support and
to facilitate. And we do that through the role of the people in the regional oﬃce, which

Page 58 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

we've coined as knowledge brokers. And our knowledge brokers work in these four
domains, ﬁnance and risk management, commercial development, operations and IT, and
then through the formal governance frameworks of the boards and the various
committees and the management positions which we hold in the joint ventures.
What you see here is a selection of the projects that we worked in and across these
domains as our knowledge broker model. I won't go into each and every one of them, but
I will talk a bit about analytics. It's been a – the accessibility of the expertise that you need
to take advantage of your data in Asia confusingly is somewhat limited. If you look at the
Thailand market, the Philippine market, even the Chinese market and the Malay markets,
the access to data science is not as evident as you may think it would be. India is a slightly
diﬀerent story. But then, you take those people and put them into the insurance industry
and it becomes complicated again.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, what we've built in conjunction with Brussels (04:06:24) is a level one platform, where
we have a team of data scientists that we deploy on speciﬁc projects in the various
countries. So, in Malaysia, we've worked on Motor renewal, where we've improved our
renewal ratio for the target customers that we wanted to renew by 30%. We've worked on
Motor segmentation in preparation for the detariﬃcation of the Malay market. So, we now
know exactly who we want to renew and who we don't want to renew, and we have an
idea on what we want to do in pricing in each of those actions.
I'll sidestep a little bit and talk about detariﬃcation in Motor. It's a scary word. If you've
seen what has happened in China and in India, as they've taken the tariﬀs away, the
markets have collapsed. I don't believe that will happen in Malaysia, because I don't
believe they're actually going to do it. What they've put is a 10% ﬂoor on rate reductions.
So, they're going to test, see how the market reacts and then decide to take future steps.
So, it's still very much Bank Negara acting as a patron to the market and protecting
proﬁtability as well as protecting the customer. They're trying to balance that now.
So, I think what we've got planned and what we've got in place through the work with the
regional oﬃce and building the segmentation model should protect us in what can be a
volatile area. And clearly, with Bank Negara setting at a 10% ﬂoor on rate reductions, that's
helping us as well. The other key projects that we've worked on in analytics are across
three countries, Thailand, the Philippines and Malaysia on lead generation through the
bank channel for both cross-sell and for new sell.
Other initiatives, you saw a couple of references to Yongo. We're working actively on a
couple of markets where we will bring that product or potentially bring that product to the
markets, as I think it's a natural ﬁt for the family structure in Asia. We are also working on
various initiatives with third-party providers. One pilot in Thailand at the moment
introduced to Muang Thai through the regional oﬃce is with a company that has quite a
bit of experience in mining social media, so that you feed leads to the agent.
So, they would look at my, if I had one quite frankly, a Facebook account and they'd see
that I'd sent a message to Christophe on this investment plan and it would be pinged to
my agent. And then he would contact me or she would contact me and say, I see you're

Page 59 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

interested in this product or in this investment opportunity, here is some other material
that you might want to look at. So, it keeps the agents engaged with the customers and
then can lead to sales opportunities. Quite successful in the U.S. market where the
company was initially formed.
In Taiping Life, we have developed a chat-bot capability, where now some 30 questions in
inbound customer service are answered through voice recognition automatically by
robotics with over 90% accuracy. Our secondee in Taiping was instrumental in building
that capability and he is now working on taking that to Thailand and Malaysia. So, these
are examples of how we truly do build synergies and transfer knowledge across the
markets.

Bloomberg Transcript

This slide doesn't require a lot of explanation. These are the key management positions
that we hold in the various joint ventures. You'll notice that we're focused on key technical
roles and then jointly selected with our partners developmental or commercial roles,
those people that are underlying our members of Senior Management Committee in each
of the various joint ventures. And then, this slide simply conﬁrms our positions on the
boards and the various committees and in the formal governance structures that we have
across the region.
So, now, I'll take you to a bit of a view on the historical performance over the last ﬁve
years, 2011 to 2016. Gross inﬂows, we've grown 27% CAGR. Interestingly, regular premium
new business is up 31%, renewals 29% and single premium held at 19%. APE is up 24%.
And what we've seen in 2011 and 2016 is a shift from 70% of our business being regular
premium and renewal to 78%. Considering the growth in the market in that time, I think
that's – it's more signiﬁcant than it may sound.
Life inﬂows by country, China leads the way with 31% CAGR, Thailand at 22%. And again,
you've seen a – if you look at the two pie charts, 64% of our business is now in risk, par
and unit linked products. And surprisingly, while there's a balance between banca and
agency, when most people look at Ageas, they think bancassurance. Agency is actually
our largest single channel in Asia, and it's the channel that creates probably more value
now than banca does – well, it deﬁnitely creates more value than banca does, I assure you.
Non-Life inﬂows, the chart on the left is on a GWP basis. If you take out the MAT, the
Marine Aviation & Transport business in Malaysia, it's probably – it is a 10% CAGR with
Motor up 11%, and property, PA and others up 10%. The MAT business is ﬂat. It has a very
low retention. It is written in Malaysia. It's part of Maybank's positioning as a champion.
So, Etiqa is the champion in the eyes of the Malay Government. And we insure Petronas,
we insure Malaysian (04:12:36) Airlines, we insure other large quasi state-owned risk.
The retention on those is relatively small. So, we've done a great deal of analysis over the
last three or four years, given what's happened with Malaysia Airlines, whether we want to
continue to write this business. We do make proﬁts on it even when you account for the
capital charges with the heavy reinsurances that we place, and with the subsidiary lines
that we write and retain, this is quite proﬁtable business and very important to the bottom

Page 60 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

line of Etiqa. So, it doesn't necessarily show up in the net earned business. It strictly is the
MAT business, but it is quite important to us.
Net results and value creation, as you can see, our proﬁts have grown signiﬁcantly 58% –
or 56% oﬀ of a low base in 2011 driven by ﬁnancial market turmoil in China. VANB and EV
are both up over 30%. And you see very strong and relatively stable ROE over that period
of 2012 to 2016 as well. And then, technical liabilities up 20% – 21%, shareholders' equity
up over 30%.
The investment portfolio, this is a snapshot as of December 31, 2016 across Asia as a
whole. There's one point that needs to be explained a bit, that's 9% in cash, which is
highly unusual and driven by dynamics in the pre-sale – pre-collection of policies sold,
were then booked in Q1 2017. That's cash that was not yet been invested. So, the stable
norm for our cash position is 4%, and then you would take that additional 5% and apply
proportionally across the other assets. Solvency quite stable.

Bloomberg Transcript

And this slide, I think, is quite important. It shows what we are doing to try and improve
our proﬁtability and our ongoing sustainable proﬁtability. You'll see the ﬁrst set of bars on
the left indicate an improved leverage in our portfolio, a 7% reduction in operating
expenses across the region, a 50% (04:15:11) increase in sum assured and an almost 20%
increase in funds under management, gives us a bit more leverage and margin in those
areas.
The cost ratio still has room to improve, 2% – or 2.4% (sic) [2.6%] (04:15:23) is still quite
high. But it is improving, and I think we'll continue to see it be worked on. 2011 in the
combined ratio is a reﬂection of the Thai ﬂoods. Since 2012, we've been at or below 90%
in each year. So, combined ratio continues to perform extremely well.
Now, to China. Taiping Life was re-designated as a simple state-owned enterprise to state
council-owned enterprise. With that came a mandate to the new Chairman, Wang Bin,
grow the company. You're not important enough to be a state council-owned company.
So, he went to the management team and challenged that can we double Taiping Life in
three years. And they said, what do you mean. He said double assets. They said, yes sir,
we can do that. Double proﬁts, yes, we can do that. Double sales, yes, we can do that.
Amazingly, they did it. The central direction provides quite a bit of focus and drives
performance in China. So, across the top, you see what has happened to these four
components over the period of 2011 to 2015. So, it doesn't directly relate to the three-year
period. But they have accomplished what they wanted to do, which was regain some
market share, but do it while continuing to focus on proﬁtability and growing VNB.
Now, the focus is on maintaining market share and continuing to build value. So now, we
see the numerical results. Chart on the left is inﬂow. What is important is the regular
premiums through this period have grown 35%, with single premiums growing at 27%.
But from 2015 to 2016, they are eﬀectively ﬂat. And the new regulatory environment will
reinforce this position and the single premium market in China, where the margins are
very, very thin, if not negative.
Page 61 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

What Taiping has done and if you'll note – you won't notice this, unless you read the little
comment at the bottom. But the banca single premium actually declined from 2015 to
2016. What Taiping has done is it has tied single premium sales to regular premium sales
in the bank channel. So, an individual bank branch, if it does not hit its single premium
quota – sorry, if it does not hit its regular premium sales quota, that manager will no – the
Taiping manager will no longer be allowed to sell single premium product to that bank
branch.
It's a very eﬀective management tool that they've used. They basically terminate people if
they fail to hit these targets, and the results are showing. What you see with the VANB on
the right is consistent growth in VANB through 2012 and 2014, while they went through
this rapid growth, and then signiﬁcant growth in 2015 and 2016. But what is equally
important and maybe not so visible is Taiping's shift to agency. The value creation in the
bank channel has diminished dramatically over the last ﬁve years. So, the China Taiping
and Taiping Life management have agreed to rapidly build the capacity in the agency
force. So, they've moved from 133,000 at year-end 2014 to 254,000 at year-end 2016 and
over 300,000 now.

Bloomberg Transcript

While they've done that, persistency has improved as well, and 95% persistency in the
agency channel. I would challenge you to ﬁnd that anywhere else in the world. It's an
exceptional persistency rate, especially when you factor in that growth in new agents
coming into Taiping. As you see in the chart on the right, productivity has been consistent
through that period as well. So, their on-boarding of agents, their activation of agents and
the training of them is exceptionally good. This is the platform that will drive Taiping
through the next ﬁve years. This is agency platform. It's an incredibly important
development in what's going on in China.
Now, we move to what Koen and Frank assure me is the main agenda item for this
presentation, our additional ﬁnancial disclosures. I will try and give you the why and the
what we will do and then illustrate the historical view of each of the disclosures, so that
you will understand what they will mean going forward. This slide is relatively
straightforward. It gives you what we have today. There's no point in really reading it. You
can refer to it at your leisure.
These are comments from you as to why you think additional disclosures are important,
and then this is why we think additional disclosures are important. This is a view of the
valuation by the analyst community of Asia, and you compare it to our embedded value at
year-end 2015, which you'll see in the slide coming forward, of €3.2 billion. So, there is a
discrepancy in how we are valued.
But the main point, I guess, is we've listened to you and we're acting on your requests.
You're not going to see everything that you want, but this is a move in the right direction
and we have addressed speciﬁc requests. So, our starting point is to continue reporting
what we've given you in the past and to continue to respect our partners' disclosures. This
is important, China Taiping, Maybank, Kasikorn and the Indian banks are all listed, and the
insurance entities are important to the banking entities. So, we must respect their
timelines and their disclosures.

Page 62 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

We will disclose at either an individual country level or at a China plus others level, and
that again is based on what our partners disclose. The timing will be surprisingly quarterly,
semiannually or at the full-year, but again driven by how our partners disclose. And this
will start with 2018. So, we closed 2017, and you will see these disclosures emerge either
year-end 2017, Q1 results or the ﬁrst half year results.
The ﬁrst disclosure that we will improve is on gross inﬂow, where we will now show new
business regular, new business single, renewal premium and APE. We will show it per
country, and it will be done semiannually with a one quarter delay. And so, had we done
this in the past, this is what you would have seen. I think what's important on this slide is
the look – the view on Malaysia, whereas you look at the single premium in Malaysia in
2012, €500 million. Today, it's down to €200 million or actually below €200 million in
2016. This is a strategic move.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, what you see in the single premium in Malaysia is primarily proﬁtable MRTA
(04:22:55) business and a reduction from investment-driven campaign tactical sales,
which added very little value to the company, and it occupied the bank channel and it
actually impacted our ability to sell regular premium, because their time was occupied
with single premium. That's quite an important development that you would have seen
emerge over this period of time.
So, Malaysia's CAGR in single premium is actually negative 13%. This is what you would
have seen had we disclosed new business regular premium, with China up 35%, Thailand
up 22%, and importantly, Malaysia up 20% primarily in the last three years. And then, on
renewal premiums, you'll see growth of China 31%, Thailand 26%, India 10%. Malaysia
lags, 7% CAGR. That's a reﬂection on the past focus and the mature – in the single
premium business.
This slide shows the APE equivalent, with China growing at 26%, Malaysia at 10%,
Thailand with a CAGR of 22%, and India just below 10% at 9%. So, 24% CAGR over the
period. The next disclosure is Asia on a quarterly basis per country – I'm sorry, the current
disclosure is Asia on a quarterly basis. What we will disclose is per country on a
semiannual basis with a one quarter delay, and it's the technical liabilities with CAGR over
the period of 2011 to 2016 of 21% with China at 25%, Thailand at 28% and India at 21%.
Malaysia is ﬂat. Again, that's a reﬂection on the past historical strategy of single premium.
These are the net results, which if you mine our Annual Report, you would have found in
the past anyway. We will now report China plus other Asia on a quarterly basis.
Unfortunately, Thailand and Malaysia do not report proﬁtability. So, we cannot either. But
this is what you would have seen historically over the past. We will also disclose net
capital gains, again, China with other Asia quarterly with a one quarter delay, which you
would have seen was the volatility in China.
This is – you must remember that we have a diﬀerent impairment basis than Taiping does
as well. Taiping impairs if it's – if the value of the individual share is down 50% or if it's
below acquisition cost for a 12-month period, everyday during that 12-month period. So, if

Page 63 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

it goes up for one day, then you reset the 12 months. So, our impairments do very
dramatically from what you would see if you just look at the Taiping results.
Shareholder equity, again, China and other Asia quarterly with a one quarter delay, and
we will disclose local solvency on the same basis and embedded value. Embedded value
in the next slide is VNB. There are local bases. So, as Christophe said, this is an
aggregation, not a consolidation. And we'll report it China and other Asia with a one
quarter delay on an annual basis. What you do not see here is 2016. Taiping just released
that, and it's €2.8 billion in 2016.
You can write that into your chart. And that gives Taiping over this period a 46% CAGR in
EV. Thailand and Malaysia only prepare these numbers in May and June. So, we will
disclose them when they are available. And then VNB, again aggregation rather than
consolidation. Will disclose it semiannually on a quarter delay. 32% growth in VNB and
35% in EV over this period.

Bloomberg Transcript

Market position, we will disclose, on the left-hand side, market share. Each country has a
diﬀerent basis just to make your lives enjoyable. China is gross inﬂow. Muang Thai Life is
new business only. MTI, the Non-Life company in Thailand is GWP. Life Malaysia is new
business and Non-Life Malaysia is GWP. So, we will ensure that, as we report, we highlight
that each time. The India APE is done on APE, and that excludes LIC. So, it's a private
sector companies only.
And then, the chart on the right, we will try and improve, because actually China is down
in market share, and this implies it may be up, whereas Thailand is up in both Life and
Non-Life, Malaysia down in Life and up in Non-Life, and India up. And then, we will
disclose the number of new agents. There, you see the rapid growth in China. And then,
this is the summary slide for your reference of all of the disclosures.
In conclusion, I think we've had an exceptional ﬁve-year period. These are maturing, yet
still growth companies. This means the leverage will improve through strong growth in
renewal premium and regular premium and risk premium, and in lowering our cost base.
The companies are largely self-funding, we believe, and we believe that we are entering a
sustainable pattern of proﬁt growth. We have a vibrant franchise with 20 million
customers that we have the opportunity to cross-sell through by taking advantage of our
analytics capability, and we have a clear focus on improving productivity, VNB, ALM
capabilities, dividend ﬂows and persistency.
And with that, thank you very much.

Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

Thank you, Gary. I hope this clariﬁed a bit our plans on Asian disclosures. Any questions –
we also have our CFO, Philippe Latour, in the room for more speciﬁc questions on the
ﬁnancials. But you can also keep them for the coﬀee break. I see ﬁrst question from
Matthias.

Page 64 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

Q&A
Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah. Thank you. I've got two small questions. First is on capital allocation. I wonder how
much do you have in each of the ventures on this crucial topic? So, I'm here to get your
comments on that.

A - Gary Lee Crist

{BIO 17360987 <GO>}

Okay. On capital allocation, we will only disclose shareholder equity, I believe, on China
and other Asia. But if you look at the timeline, you can probably ﬁgure out what we've got
in each country. On exit strategy, we prefer not to exit. In fact, we prefer to grow in these
companies and continue to build with our partners. I'm not so sure that there is only one
natural buyer. There is clearly one buyer that has an interest if we were to decide to exit or
if the partnership were to come into trouble, and hoping to buy the business, but we are
continually, at least, hearing from people that are asking, what our position is in our
various countries. So, there is strong interest. There is a belief that we could be replaced
by other parties, so I'm not sure that there is only one buyer for each entity.

A - Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

More questions? Ashik?

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes.

A - Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

Mic is coming.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Thank you. I mean, you have clearly given some indication as to how the growth has been
for past ﬁve years, but how should we think about going forward? On one hand, you're
ﬂagging that these are maturing business, but with still some growth potential at the –
also you mentioned that Taiping Life two (04:31:38) year hurdle of doubling everything
has been done. So, how should we think about growth from here, especially in terms of
technical reserve and in terms of proﬁts?

A - Gary Lee Crist

{BIO 17360987 <GO>}

Sure.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

And secondly is, how does the mechanism of dividend works from these businesses? Are
these based on solvency ratios, are these based on IFRS proﬁt, how should we think about
that? Yeah.

Page 65 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

A - Gary Lee Crist

{BIO 17360987 <GO>}

So, ﬁrst, I think those three slides that show the environment, give a contextual story on
the potential for future growth. The view on economic growth in the markets is still quite
robust. Insurance tends to grow quite well with GDP. So, environmentally, economically, I
think we're in a very strong positions. Taiping Life, yes, it doubled this company, but it
hasn't stopped. It's still growing in excess of 10%, 15%. Thailand continues to grow in
excess of 10%, 15%, but I think they're maturing in the fact, in the sense that you've got a
large renewal book now, that is continuing to grow because of the relatively high
persistency. Yet, you're still seeing very strong new business growth as well.
So, that growth in the renewal portfolio will allow us to see more proﬁts emerge through
leverage on our expenses, and then we'll continue to build these businesses as we grow
the companies. And I don't think we're going to see growth stop in our businesses in
Asia, and I think that will lend to sustainable growth in proﬁts as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

Dividend policy is discussed jointly amongst the partners. It's in evolution. Each of the
countries is going through a regulatory evolution as they look at their solvency regimes.
So, C-ROSS has just been implemented. It's just over a year old. The RBC 2 regime in
Thailand is still settling down. In Malaysia, we're splitting into four entities and we're
moving into – we're continuing to involve the regulatory, the Risk-Based Capital regime
there as well.
So, I would say there is some conservatism today and what we're holding in the
businesses. So, what we have is, I think what you've seen is historically the country they're
trying to maintain a percentage dividend and staying consistent with what they've done in
the past. But I do believe as we will go through these regulatory changes, there is the
potential to see these percentages increase.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Sorry, just one more question. With respect to your embedded value disclosure, can you
give us some color about the basis of those embedded value? Is it similar to like
accounting of the big Asian insurers that we know, I mean, commemorates (04:34:41) or is
it MCEV, EEV, or what's the basis of these embedded value?

A - Gary Lee Crist

{BIO 17360987 <GO>}

They are largely TEV. And they're based on each country's regulatory environment. So,
we've done – all we've done is added them up. We've taken them from what we develop
based on a regulatory environment in each country and simply added them. There is no
adjustments to put them on an MCEV basis.

A - Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

Bart.

Q - Bart Horsten

{BIO 2390919 <GO>}

Page 66 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Bart Horsten, Kempen & Co. I've a few questions as well on. First of all on the investment
exposure in China, obviously, you've seen a lot of growth over there, so your investment
portfolio grew accordingly, and we also have more and more, well, worries on Chinese
debt and sustainability of that. How do you manage these investment risks and how do
you cope with these challenges? And secondly, can you shed some color on how these
agents are incentivized in China and whether the increased role of the regulator may
change the way they operate now or maybe in the future? Thank you.

A - Gary Lee Crist

{BIO 17360987 <GO>}

Okay. Let's go backwards in your questions. I think the regulatory focus right now is on
the bank channel. The real concerns with the growth in certain companies, which I won't
name, but if they weren't in the top 10 ﬁve years ago and they are now, those are the ones
that I'm talking about. They are really – they've been taking policyholder funds and
investing them in hotels. And that's where the regulator's focus is, and to try and bring
discipline back into that sector. I think the agency market and the agents have performed
generally much better in terms of behavior and what we've got in Taiping is quite a robust
training platform. There is a follow-up call on every new sale to check with the customer to
see if they understood what they bought and give them the opportunity to immediately
give it back if it's not what they understood they were buying. I think we've got a pretty
strong platform in the agency channel in China.
I said we're going to go backwards and now I've done that classic thing as an old guy and
forgotten what the questions were. Pardon me. Chinese debt. We have the Chief Risk
Oﬃcer. Taiping Asset Management manages 97% of Taiping Life's assets, and we have the
Chief Risk Oﬃcer and Taiping Asset Management. We have built over the years a in-house
ability to do rating of corporates in China, one of the ﬁrst in China. I think it's a strong
team. Our bond portfolio is largely BBB and up. It's largely stayed away from property
developers. The one or two property developers that we've got in the portfolio are
oppose (04:38:06) to the company. We know them quite well. I think they are
comfortable with those exposures.
Chinese debt overall is, yes, it is an institutional worry, but I think Taiping has got quite a
robust risk framework and manages their risk exposures quite well. And now your ﬁrst
question. I think the investment policy is becoming more robust. There is more of a focus
on ALM and we're working with them on an SAA platform. So, you wouldn't see a
tremendous change in the structure of the asset mix, but I think you've seen a more
mature approach to how individual investment decisions are taking.

A - Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

(04:39:07).
Thanks. And just a follow-up question on the comment you made about the regulation,
you highlighted that the CIC is clamping down a lot on the – like I said that the newer
entrants in the market, particularly those selling universal life products. And we've seen a
huge reduction in the universal life sales in 2017. So, I was just curious, if you can elaborate
a little bit around, where the CIC focuses at the moment, because I understand they're
also increasing the percentage of insurance you have to add to products? We've seen that
Page 67 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

the pension annuity which is guaranteeing higher number, I think also would be removed
for the markets, so the guarantee seem to (04:39:47) come down, yields have come up
and the regulators, it seems to be quite actively focused. So just, maybe some comments
around the overall environment today versus where it was 12 months ago?

FINAL

A - Gary Lee Crist

{BIO 17360987 <GO>}

You've described it incredibly well. We're very happy with the environment and the way
it's moving. I think it reinforces the way Taiping has tried to behave over the last three to
four years. I think it addresses some of the frustrations of the Taiping's management that
had with some of the competition in the market. So, I'd say across the board, we're quite
comfortable and quite happy with the way the regulator is moving. The regulator is also
working on an ALM framework. So, they are focusing management teams attention on the
ALM situation, which again is a move that we entirely support.

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

Okay. Now, we proposed to end this block of presentations. First of all, thank, Gary. And I
think we can move to Antonio for the last part of Ambition 2018. I think there's also a
movie. (04:41:00-04:41:30). Does it work?

Unveriﬁed Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. (04:41:34).

Antonio Cano

{BIO 16483724 <GO>}

Okay. Eagerness to learn, sharing from East to West or West to East, and it is increasing
the other way around. As used the knowledge worth a (04:41:48) lot of time knowledge
sharing, best practice sharing, et cetera. So, you're obviously aware that we are very active
in Asia, giving you view on that. And you are probably also aware that this is a quite a
diﬀerent attitude towards innovation, sharing, copying in these markets.
Now, in Europe, we tend to believe that creativity equals innovation, okay? That is
something we believe and that has made probably this part of the world great in some
point in time. But we actually see that as in Asia they have a quite a diﬀerent attitude and
the problem is of associating, creativity with innovation, and everything that's not really
creative and novel. It is not worth a while and it means that we very often fall in the trap of
a Not-Invented-Here Syndrome. I guess we all have experiences with that.
And actually in Asia, they are a big fan of this fellow over there that I get you recognize. I
guess it's a face you see most presentations that have something to do with innovation,
and as Steve Jobs said that actually it's a trait of a great artist is not only copies, but
actually steals from others, and as you know, Apple was a great thief in this respect. Now,
we cannot go so far. I think, but it is really worthwhile to inspire ourselves on the way that
our Asian colleagues look at change and innovation, and really not shy away from this
Page 68 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

approach of just copying what seems to work in other places, maybe adapting into the
local circumstances, but it is deﬁnitely a very eﬃcient way to rapidly improve.
You saw in Gary's presentation and also in the video towards the end, he showed – put
some numbers of Muang Thai Life that has become the number one insurer in that
market. And by the way, to prove his mention by Prudential (04:44:03) is not really a very
large company in Thailand is (04:44:06) AIA, which is the main competitor. But Thailand is
actually a great example of a company that's embracing this love of innovation of not
being afraid to look around what's happening in the world and copying it, a small
anecdote. Long before we entered with the JV with Muang Thai Life, the partner bank,
Kasikorn Bank was called Thai Farmers Bank. I guess, you all know that.
Some of you know they had a brief stint in joint venture we had in Spain with La Caixa.
And during the last board meeting at Muang Thai Life, I was sitting with someone
(04:44:45) family guys of the Lamsam family, would actually visited Spain when I was
there. He was a guy who actually gone through the branches of La Caixa, and by chance,
(04:44:59) we know each other, (04:45:01) we have many, many years ago. And actually
Kasikorn was then Thai Farmers Bank. It was a bank that had that in regime (04:45:08). So,
a very successful partner. We're very happy to have them, and as you probably know,
we're also entering new markets that are close to them, so Laos and Cambodia.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, we are – I am gradually ﬂowing towards the end of my contributions. It's like a bit
we're here close to the (04:45:35), so it is the mouth of the river into delta. We're getting
into the open sea, unknown seas maybe, and it's actually when talk about the unknown
new skills, technologies and partnerships that lie ahead of us.
Before that and also wondering what about Fintech or Insurtech. I mentioned that very
brieﬂy and can be very short partnering with Fintech, Insurtech (04:46:06) want to learn
what they do. They are the guys that sit on that top right corner, remember (04:46:14)
territory, investing in them, rather not or with great care, we are not venture capital ﬁrm or
corporate venture capital ﬁrm. So, yes, we are very curious to know what's happening in
that space, but we actually wanted to learn at a distance if possible and certainly not to
commit large amounts in these types of investments. So, that's about Fintech.
What about new partnerships? So, traditionally our partnerships were with distributors as
Gary has explained, particularly in Southeast Asia, we partner up with people having large
distribution capacity like with it in Portugal, in Turkey, in Italy, so (04:47:05) partnership
model.
Now, we believe today that that model is evolving and again we are entering this maybe a
slightly uncharted waters, and these new partnerships are going to be about partners
giving access to data, partnerships that are or can become a member of what this
commonly called ecosystems around the Internet of Things, connected homes, car
mobility, but also partners that have provide these access to technology without the need
for us really to invest directly in that.

Page 69 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

And on that, I think we have two examples that we have already published or at least in
Belgium, we have been verbal about them and (04:47:59) in the room is also quite closer
to beehive. So, beehive is a kind of a new type of partnership. You could say this is not
really new, this is like an incubator type of entity. What is beehive, where we are actually
one of the founding members. It's a bit like a (04:48:18) government sponsored initiative
to make Belgium and Brussels in particular more an eﬀective place for ﬁnancial
institutions.
Now you read that recently Lloyd's of London has decided to set up their hub in Brussels.
I think the guys behind this initiative are also lobbying to make that work. So, we are a
member of this, call it incubator or matchmaker, and it gives us insight for a lot of things
that are happening in Belgium, but also in another places, Scandinavian countries, Israel,
some great things going on there around cyber security for example. So, we learned a lot
and it doesn't really cost us a lot.

Bloomberg Transcript

There's another initiative, that is, that you know about, I'm sure, but we also are
partnering, it is the blockchain initiative from the insurance sector, initially started by
reinsurers, notably Swiss Re started this. So, there is a lot of logic for reinsurers to
experiment with blockchain technology. You can see the savings that they could make in
avoiding this time consuming balancing of reinsurance accounts. So, there is a logic in
their model.
They have invited a number of insurers to join that platform, so quite a few have joined, so
also we have joined the club, and we're actually somebody more of IT technology
background that follows that up with us. And again, this is an example of a partnership
within the industry that again gives us the possibility to learn ﬁrst and read in (04:50:06) a
very concrete case what blockchain technology is, what you can do with it, what you
cannot do with it, applied to something that we will always be using, probably that is a
reinsurance contract.
So, again, it's an example of these new types of partnership from strange co-owners
(04:50:24) that do oﬀer us a view on this future that I talked about this morning. So, if I
want to wrap up a bit, what I have been saying in these three presentations today.
Ambition 2018 is obviously a journey, but a journey with milestones, with ﬁnancial
milestones, and I guess, Bart will give you a lot of details on the ﬁnancial milestones on
Ambition 2018. But, it's a journey that we'll continue and we will certainly develop further
our concept of these smart synergies, and how we can eﬀectively share knowledges and
best practices in the group to create a synergy what groups are all about.
We believe that insurance is still local, certainly, the types of businesses we are oﬀering.
You would see also in the way we innovate, you saw a lot of examples of innovation that
have a very (04:51:29) strong local faith – ﬂavor, but we believe some of these investments
that are initially made locally can be leveraged to a higher level.
You saw that we innovate mainly within our core business. We tried to invest also around
the edges of that core businesses, where we build new capabilities. And on the radical
thing, we actually have limited investments in the radical space. It is not something that

Page 70 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

we like a lot, but obviously, we have to follow that up. New partners, they will bring new
skills certainly, also new opportunities.
And now, I'm going to end maybe with a slightly poetic note. There was this videos on
Asia, and the knowledge sharing that we hear at closer to the river Tagus and Tajo
(04:52:33) (04:52:35) my home country. It ﬂows from East to West, and increasingly, I
believe, also that these best practices, innovation, and knowledge sharing is increasingly
ﬂowing from East to West. There is nothing wrong with that.
Thank you. And now, I think it's time for well-deserved cup of coﬀee that is going to be
outside until. Thank you.

Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

Okay. Everybody is still there, nobody left the room. Selling the shares, I think the markets
are closed now, sorry, or buying shares, who knows.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, I think it's time for the last part of today and I think there's only one word, it's time for
Bart, our CEO, to come on stage. As mentioned, we prepared a presentation based on
the frequently asked questions during Road Shows, Analyst Meetings, whatever,
everything that came into our minds, the way we believe that Bart's insights could be
helpful. We anticipated well the program of the day by putting an (04:53:49), so that he
could also react on what has been said during the day, and I think he has enough time to
reﬂect and share with you his views on the various topics. So, we can only ask him to
come on stage, Bart, please. Thank you.

Bart Karel de Smet

{BIO 16272635 <GO>}

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'm here expected to give some conclusions on
our ﬁnancial targets and strategic priorities. I have 30 minutes for a bit more than 50
slides, so I will go quickly through them because a number of them are, let's say,
reconﬁrming what has been said and I'll try to draw the attention to the most important
messages.
I believe that we have shown today our progress in our Ambition 2018 program, together
with our plans in Portugal and in UK. And in order to help you value our group, we have
provided further disclosures on Asia, also a deeper dive on Solvency II and a ﬁrst
elaborated view on how we look at free capital generation. When we look to our
realizations in 2016 compared to the targets we have set in Ambition 2018, you could say
that, objectively, (04:55:16) ﬁnancial targets have been met. But if you take out two
external exceptionals being the terrorists attack in Belgium and (04:55:24) review in UK, I
believe, we delivered on our promises.
And now, we go in the next 28-minutes-and-a-half through ﬁve themes where we try to
cover a number of frequently asked questions that you'll see on this slide. Let's start with
inﬂows. The commercial position, where we see that a number of questions are recently
or frequently asked about sustainability of the inﬂows in Belgium, have you seen the
Page 71 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

impact of that on last year's capital generation? The growth of Non-Life in European core
countries, the inﬂow in Asia, a question that has been raised by one of you also, and then
some views on the distribution channel mix going forward.
If you look to the inﬂows, you can see on this graph, as we've been consistently growing
at a growth rate of 13% over the past six years, of course, to a large extent helped by Asia,
because the growth is much higher also in Life, 16%, and in Non-Life, 5%, and is of course
much higher in Asia, while its 25% compared to Europe where we have a 4% growth. And
let me dive a bit further in details and more speciﬁcally in Europe, we still see a dominant
position in Life of the Guaranteed business over Unit-Link. Although, at the right you'll see
that the Unit-Link proportion to a large extent, thanks to Continental Europe, is taking up.

Bloomberg Transcript

And although, we live in this very low interest rate environment, we are able to keep, with
one exception last year, the hike in the ﬁrst part of the year in Belgium, but we are able to
keep our inﬂows, and as a consequence, the related technical liabilities at the solid level,
while preserving the margin we expect to meet our return on equity margin targets. And I
can even add that last year, the investment yields and the margin we make on the
Belgium Life business has been increased with some basis points.
If we then go from Europe to Asia, we look to the Asian inﬂows and there you repeat the
message of Gary, but as my Chairman regularly repeats the repetition is not bad. And I
think very encouraging is that in terms of single premium, we are a bit at the level of last
year and not that much higher than ﬁve years ago, but the growth has fully come by more
proﬁtable regular premiums and a very high persistency that helps us create the kind of
an exponential eﬀect. What you'll also see in the technical liabilities, that's increased with
more than 20% CAGR, and you can expect that this eﬀect of portfolio building and
exponential growth will still continue in the coming years, even when the new business
volumes will start maybe one day growing at a bit lower percentage.
In Europe, Non-Life, we have been increasing these volumes on one hand organically, but
also by acquisitions or what we did and Steven talked about it, have moved from 50% to
100% in the Portuguese Non-Life businesses. The full impact of the acquisition last year of
the company from AXA in Portugal is of course not fully in this ﬁgure yet. We will see it in
the course of 2017. What we also can observe at the right of the slide is that two-thirds of
our business in Europe in Non-Life is coming from Motor and Household, the other third
primarily from Accident & Health.
If we then move for a moment from inﬂows to distribution channels, we see that on this
slide, there is a big diﬀerence, this is Belgium, between the Life and the Non-Life
distribution in Belgium. But inﬂows for the Life business are for a bit more than 50%, 54%
to be precise, thanks to the bank distribution. We see that in the Non-Life, it's the
opposite, and there the Non-Life business is, let's say, realized for 70% by brokers and the
parts of the banks' analysts lower. We still have another part, which is from the Pension
business where we have a very dominant position.
In the Continental Europe, you'll see that in any case in Life, bank insurance is the main
distributor in our portfolio, but also in the market. Wherein in Life – in Non-Life, it is a bit

Page 72 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

less, but still something like 50%, but with the acquisition and the plans that Steven
developed, we expect that in Portugal also, the part realized to agents and brokers will
increase. And then in the UK, Andy talked about 75%, 80% is brokers, and the remaining
20%, 25% is equally split between Direct – growing Direct business and a number of
partnerships.
Finally, distribution in Asia has moved considerably between 2011 and 2016, with a much
more controlled agency channel, where we have seen the growth in number of agents.
And as a consequence, number of sales of that channel, combined with very high
persistency in this business, we are conﬁdent that this is the channel of the future. But of
course, in countries like Malaysia, Thailand, India, we still have a lot to do with our
banking partners.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, you could say as a conclusion that we are quite conﬁdent that in Belgium the inﬂows
will remain solid. We don't go for growth at any price. One of the reasons why we
reduced this 1% guarantee in three phases to 0.25%, and where you see it either we can
drive the business or the pricing based on the margin we want to achieve. Non-Life, we
continue to grow organically, and if there are inorganic possibilities, we'll try to look at
them. It's mainly a focus on regular premium, which is the most value creating. And then
we see – let's say, the distribution mix, overall stable with one exception Asia, where we
see more impact from the agency business. Part one.
Part two, net proﬁt. We receive continuously these questions about the underlying proﬁt,
what is the impact of the low interest rate environment and that's been primarily a
question towards the Belgium colleagues. The holding costs there, whether we can give a
ﬂavor of what is considered by us as being the recurring level. What about net capital
gains, is a part of our IFRS proﬁts, and then also your operating margin, your combined
ratio, how sustainable is it.
Let's ﬁrst move to Belgium. I think the Belgium proﬁt is very solid and robust. There you'll
see here one say, call it, an accident 2011 which was the impact of the Greek impairment,
but since then it's quite solid. And if you look to the right, we will do it for each of the
segments a kind of an underlying looking backwards, you can see that the underlying is,
let's say, between €375 million and €400 million at this moment, where of course the one
year to another, the Non-Life activity can be much better or a bit worse. I think 2014 was
the one that was impacted by the hailstorm.
Capital gains are part of our business. As mentioned at a number of times, what we try to
do is to keep our ﬁxed income portfolio in a buy and hold position. On the other hand, for
real estate and equities, banks who are approach of the strategic asset allocation, we
expect these assets to deliver more in the context of the free capital generation.
Christophe talked about the 7% equity, the 6% expected to return from real estate. And
that's something while taking to account for instance the fact that we account real estate
at amortized cost that we have a kind of a methodology of regularly realizing capital gains
in order to achieve this expected returns.

Page 73 of 89



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

You see that from time to time you also have some capital gains on ﬁxed income on
bonds, but when we do that, it's more an opportunistic move for instance to have an even
better matching than the one we have today or to have some yield enhancements. And
notwithstanding the fact that we have capital gains, you'll see the amounts on top of it,
above 100 million, you see at the right, the table where you see the unrealized capital
gains for those two categories, real estate and equities, where you see that over time, in
the last four years, let's say the buﬀer of unrealized gains has not really decreased. So, it's
not that we are selling oﬀ value in that portfolio, in real estate, we see even a slight
increase, in equities, it's more stable over the period.
Then the matching also – and this is a lot of ﬁgures on one slide, I just propose to look ﬁrst
at the upper part, which is on the back book. And on the back book, you'll see in the ﬁrst
line, the evolution of the guaranteed interest rate that's coming down from 2.8% to a bit
less than 2.5% now in the last year. And if you then look four lines lower, you have a kind
of the guarantee – sorry the fourth line, the yield that we have on that book. And that's a
combination of the yields on the bond portfolio, the ﬁxed income, plus the kind of an
estimation of 0.5% that we have additional yield from real estate and equity. And if you
then see, you will see that – consider that the diﬀerence between the yields we get and
the average guaranteed trade is something like 150 basis points, of course, this is before
proﬁt sharing and this is why we are able to guarantee this 85 basis points to 90 basis
points going forward.
If you now look at the second part, which is the new business, and there we have the
investment yields on new money, Life and Non-Life, where you'll see something last year,
it was 1.71%. If you – again, that's the kind of upside of real estate and equity is 0.5%. We
have somewhere an expected return of 2.21% for business that we've written between 1%,
0.75%, 0.5%, and now 0.25%, giving again a margin and okay, we sometimes have the
criticism almost also that somewhere the back book is subsidizing the new business. I can
assure you that if you really make the calculation that is about 3 basis points to 4 basis
points, not more, and if you calculate that in millions of euro, it's not more than a regular
marketing budget.
And that gives this picture, where you have the evolution of the black book in terms of
evolution of the liabilities and also the evolution of the ﬁxed income portfolio. Maybe
more interesting is to look through the two lines, where the upper line is the yield we
expect over the run-oﬀ of that portfolio without taking into account equity and real estate,
and the red line is the average guarantee over that period. And so, you see that the
margin between both is quite stable. We have this market value adjustment which also
avoids, say, unfavorable behavior in case of sudden hikes in interest rates. You could see
on this picture, the only remaining risk we have is the risk of the defaults of one of the
elements in our investment portfolio.
If we then move to the UK, so you see at the – I think it's very fair and we also highlighted
that, that we are of course aware of the fact that our performance in UK segment in 2015
and 2016 was not, let's say, what we expected. For the underlying result, we've taken out
the three special elements, it has been commented, and so you then see that we come to
something like €67 million. And I believe that – thanks to the restructuring measures that
have been taken that moves to the previous structural levels of proﬁt should be possible.
Page 74 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

So, a proﬁt level between, let's say, €60 million up to €100 million in the coming years,
underlying years, should be possible for our colleagues in the UK.
Continental Europe, I think the picture is deﬁnitely moving in the right direction. For the
underlying proﬁt, the only element that we've taken here into account where the
impairments also increased in 2011, and then the integration costs €11 million, if my
memory is correct, in 2016 for Ageas Seguros. So, you see that you'll end up to a level that
is closer to €100 million, and I think also the UK should be possible, thanks to progression
that will be made to – thanks to the further integration of the Portuguese activities, also the
very solid situation in, we name them, Italy and Luxembourg, that's the net proﬁt
contribution from Continental Europe will increase in the coming years.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then ﬁnally Asia, it has been really contributing to the net result since 2012. And if you
take clear out, everything relates to Hong Kong which was impacted, if I remember well,
2011 with an goodwill impairment. You'll see that we have a solid progression with one
exception last year, 2015, where we had incredibly high capital gains in Asia, something
like €60 million more than what you normally would expect. So, if you would correct that
for the €60 million, we see a steady growing line. And also here, we are of the opinion
and I think all the indications that Gary has given, underlying that that also here in Asia,
we have further potential for increase of our net proﬁts.
Then ﬁnally before we have the kind of a consolidated view, the net proﬁt impact from the
holding costs. So, you see that we have strongly increased the corporate costs in 2016,
but I believe it's not a surprise that all costs around the settlement has impacted us in
terms of legal costs in 2016. But we believe and you see it at the right that we should be
able to run this group at the holding costs, let's say, between €60 million and €80 million,
take €70 million as a good average.
All this together bring us to – again, let's have a look at that right side, an underlining net
proﬁt for Insurance that has been continuously moving up, something like a CAGR of 7%.
Expecting stable results in Belgium, let's not underline that Belgium, our Ageas Insurance
company is really popping the market, delivering year-after-year the expected results. So,
with stable results in Belgium and then potential for increase in Continental Europe, UK
and Asia, I think we can make without any problems, kind of a bold statement that we
expect the net proﬁt for Insurance of the Ageas underlying to between €750 million and
€850 million going forward.
I know that we sometimes have discussions and it's more importantly analyst calls about
the level of net capital gains that supports also that net result. Of course, we cannot
manage year-after-year the exact amount of capital gains in real estate. So, you can have
some volatility from time to time. But you could say in this slide, taking gain out in 2015,
the exceptional cap gains in Asia and some exceptionals in Belgium in 2014, you could
say that our level of net capital gains can be assumed to be between €120 million and
€140 million per year. And so, I would suggest not to take 2014 and 2015 as a reference.
If we then take the underlying proﬁt as I've shown two, three slides ago, and we express it
in return on equity on the shareholders' equity of the Insurance operations, excluding the

Page 75 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

unrealized gains and losses, which is our metric, you'll then see that we've been
consistently above the 11%, what this graph shows and what we have as a target. Still some
words about the operating margin, so you'll see that the target to achieve 85 bps to 90
bps on the Guaranteed business has been achieved in the past and there is, I can assure
show you, a group wide discipline to continue to realize this ambition. So, whatever
pricing we do, whatever decision of proﬁt sharing, every time this is what we look at, the
margin to be achieved.
And by the, let's say, decisions we have taken in Belgium do not, what some others did,
go out of this market. You could say that somewhere the competition on Life business has
been decreased, which makes us even in an more comfortable position to continue that
business without trying to make absolute great volumes beyond our proﬁtability target.
But while the stress to be best-in-class is, let's say, lower than it was some years ago when
we had much more competition in that market. And then, of course, the margin realized in
this country, in Portugal, is higher than in Belgium, but that's to a large extent also thanks
to the fact that there are much more rivals on these products, risk elements that create
part of this proﬁtability.
Combined ratio, so you can say 2015 and 2016, if we correct 2016 for terrorism and the UK
one-oﬀs, have shown our ability to come structurally below 97%. And in terms of prior
year releases, on the group level, they have been usually below, more between 3% and
6%. So, it's not that we have a very huge prior year releases. If we then look to the market
history of that in Belgium, a big decrease of combined has been made in the last two,
three years. Income to Europe, it always has been a very solid combined ratio. The
attention point is now what Steven said to integrate also our own methodology and
pricing discipline and underwriting discipline in the acquired business, okay. For the UK,
we know well the challenges and I think – and he clearly explained how he will tackle that
with his team.
But in summary on net proﬁt, my second point, you could say a solid underlying net proﬁt,
with sustainable net capital gains. A further yield decrease will not aﬀect the future cash
ﬂows, thanks to our nice portfolio. Although we are in low interest rate environment, there
is a stable evolution of the operating margin. I would even dare to say that in Belgium, for
instance, the margin has slightly increased after last year. And we have underlying cost
between €60 million and €80 million at the holding level, and we expect the underlying
operational performance to continue and I could add more net proﬁt underlying targets
between €750 million and €850 million.
Third element or topic, Solvency II and free capital generation. This has already received a
lot of attention in the presentations of Manu and Christophe. So, I will be short, but
nevertheless try to give some, what I would say, and hope important, let's say,
conclusions. On Solvency II and free capital generation, these are the questions we
received from time to time. Let's say, we have decided two years ago to put the target
Solvency level of 175% for the Insurance activities, knowing that the general account still
had the risk of being very volatile. So, that's what we've done. I can tell you that once the
settlement will be behind us, we hope that we will be able to move to a group target for
Solvency II and can forget this double focus.

Page 76 of 89



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

Solvency II Ageas, so it's what Manu referred to as our Pillar 2 Solvency ratio is what we
consider economically more appropriate and prudent, notwithstanding the reserves that
we made through the volatility adjustment that in our view is not exactly, let's say,
applicable for our portfolio. The 175% target is a pure decision from us starting from the
risk appetite that the board, the management wants to take. It's not at all asked by the
regulator and I repeat that it's the target, and target is not necessarily a minimum. So, it
means if you would be one day a bit below this 175%, it would normally mean we changed
our way we look at, for instance, dividend payout.
I think when Filip presented in London the ﬁrst disclosures or intentions with respect to
Solvency II, at the beginning, he want for the volatile eﬀects of Solvency II and – okay, I
think we cannot say other than that we have practices over the past ﬁve quarters and we
also have to draw the intention that the same volatility or a similar volatility will play on the
free capital generation, on the one hand Christophe showed you the ﬁgures over 2016,
and then somewhere there is an indication of the Q1 results of the free capital generation
in Belgium. As we try to do every time, it's always our preference to be as transparent as
possible towards the investor community, analysts, investors and – okay, my experience is
and I have already think of experience is that transparency, not always based oﬀ in the
short term, and it sometimes creates doubts, ﬁrst questions. But we believe, strongly as a
group that being more and more transparent, being more and more helpful to achieve, to
better understand what we are doing really in the long-term payoﬀ.
And so, we have given in this free capital generation a little bit of details. One big lesson I
think, myself, but also the colleagues when we showed – we talked about it in the interim
process is that we have to recognize that we should have given you even more, which is
the main thing we retain is the fact that the move from the diﬀerent segments and general
accounts to the group view is not that easy to determine. So, it's an action point, it's
something we will work on in the coming days and weeks. We will try to give you more
transparency and more help to understand how we come from this segment approach to
the total picture.
I think that also – and that's maybe a bit of bold statement, but I nevertheless want to do it.
When we see through the operational free capital generation and the end ﬁgure
somewhere, the €359 million, if we'll also look to indications Christophe have given
about, let's say, exceptional negatives in the past year, if we would recall – add them and
go to a more, what we say, and I'm only talking about operational impact, I think that the
ﬁgure of €500 million is a bit more close to reality, going forward, and okay, if you look to
what has been presented for Belgium for Q1, I think that is certainly under building that
view.
We move then to dividend and use of net cash. If you look to the upstream dividends in
the past few years, you see that it is on average €450 million to €500 million a year,
already for this year and now we are in 2016 – 2017 sorry, we expect something like €590
million dividend upstream over 2016, of course there is the 100% upstream of the proﬁts
in Belgium. There is a contribution from Continental Europe, as well as a contribution
from Asia, that is not that far from what we had last year. Remember, last year, that was
after a very exceptionally good year with these big capital gains.

Page 77 of 89



FINAL

Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

So I think it shows that with €590 million upstream, that's achieving what we say €450
million to €500 million really upstream, not only this year, but also going forward, and
referring to the proﬁt where I say underlying €750 million to €850 million, that we don't
see any reason why our dividend policy of paying out 40% to 50% of the IFRS result
should not be sustainable. If you then make the link to the capital generation – free capital
generation, I think that also the future will show that the statement that we believe that
that is permitting the sustainable dividend payout is a real, let's say, statement that
management and board strongly believes in.
Nevertheless, let's not mix up capital generation with dividend payout. In the capital
generation, for instance, in your own funds, are already included a number of elements
that will show up in the proﬁts in the years to come. If we have had the big negative
impact last year for the huge production at still 1% and 0.75% in Belgium, this business
strain (05:22:48) has been heavy on the capital generation 2016, but we will have the
beneﬁts from that in the coming years.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then this is a picture of what we've been returning to shareholders in the past, let's say,
eight years, something like €4 billion, when we made this slide, this was almost 50% of
the market cap. Today, it's maybe even more. But we think that the – again, we have the
possibility to maintain our discipline with respect to dividends when we look to buybacks
because that's another question. Buybacks always have been positioned since beginning
as being based on the cash we have in the general account and where, as long as we
don't see aﬀordable and strategically ﬁtting M&A activities, we might decide to launch
buyback. But I would say, let's wait and come back in August when the running buyback
program is ﬁnished.
Last slide on strategy and M&A. Four topics, what about the Fortis settlement? What with
the put option at AG Insurance? What with our M&A policy in Europe and Asia? And what
is our ﬁnancial capacity to fund organic and inorganic growth?
Fortis settlement can be quite short, next week on Friday is an important day. I can only
say that Philip and the team have done everything to make this a positive outcome. So the
Amsterdam Court will communicate its decision after a closing of the market on the
binding corrector of the settlement that we conclude most of the claiming parties, we are
conﬁdent, but as always, we of course have to wait for the ﬁnal decision of the judge.
The put option – AG Insurance is an option that has been created in 2009, the moment
where Fortis has been dismantled. It's, let's say, exercisable in the ﬁrst six months of 2018
and we valued it in our accounts. That's what is also in the description of the put option, at
fair market value and how do we do this? Well, we take the embedded value for the large
activities, we multiply with a multiplicator that is a bit, let's say, provided by a third-party
and based on peers and then for non-life, we use a discounted cash ﬂow and that has
brought the value of this 25% put option in our books at €1.34 billion.
What can happen now? As you know, this put option is maybe a bit linked also to the
distribution agreement with BNP Paribas Fortis, the Belgium Bank where we have an
exclusive distribution agreement that runs until the end of 2020, where there is a notice

Page 78 of 89



FINAL

Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

period of three years. So four situations can appear. One, the distribution agreement is
renewed, what we believe, should be for both parties, the most rational choice. And in
that case, there are two options with the option or BNP can exercise or not. If they
exercise, we have a kind of a status quo on distribution, most probably with a rediscussion on the terms and condition of this distribution agreement. But Ageas will, at
that moment, be the full owner of AG Insurance or they can opt to renew or continue
distribution and keep the stake at that moment, you could say, it's a bit of status quo as
we are functioning today. Right-size could be BNP deciding not to renew distribution
agreement. And in that case, okay, theoretically, the two possibilities are open. Although
we believe that not distributing distribution agreement and then not continuing
distribution agreement, and then staying 25% share of AG Insurance is maybe quite
unlikely. So it could then be the separation and in case of that option, it's clear that we
have of course a Plan B to react on that situation.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of ﬁnancing capacity, we have something like €1.8 billion cash, but €800 million is
ring-fenced for the litigation, so you could say €1 billion free cash that we can use. And on
top of that, there is something Manu referred to it, something like €1 billion to €1.5 billion
debt capacity. So you could say altogether, we have something between €2 billion and
€2.5 billion for expansion of our business. So it's clear that if, for instance, the put option
would be exercised that it's not at all (05:27:58) a given that we would do it fully in cash, a
combination cash, that would be, in any case, on our agenda and assessed.
The last point on M&A, so you know that we have a number of criteria. One is, we want to
be in markets where we have the top four, ﬁve position, where the entity has a
considerable contribution to the group and where we have a return on equity above
exceeding the 11% (05:28:28). When we look at that, we see that's okay, we – in priority,
look to strengthen positions in existing markets and let me be very precise there, if we see
a possibility to increase our Non-Life stake in Belgium or market share, we will look at
opportunities. The same deﬁnitely counts for Portugal. In the UK, as Andy said, the full
focus is on restoring the proﬁtability and then going through this target. So we are not on
a buying mode in the UK at this moment in any case not. Then we look to fast-growing
markets and you've seen the positions we've got in Asia, not new also is that the only
country we're still exploring is Indonesia. But again, it takes maybe a long-time, but it is
because we want to stay disciplined and not buy just to buy, and then okay, you could say
it's a kind of a ﬁnal open door if there would be something that's maybe not immediately
replying to these three ﬁrst bullets, that is extremely interesting, very opportunistic, we
don't exclude to look at it, but it should be creating growth and improve our business.
So in conclusion, I'm only ﬁve minutes over time, I think we work towards a sustainable
value creation. We want to be extremely transparent on what we do, what we do not do
on our ﬁgures and ﬁve things to retain. First of all, a healthy growing and qualitative inﬂow
mix, not volume for volume. It has to be proﬁtable growth. We balance proﬁt levels with
further potential for growth. We have a solid capital position, steady cash upstream to
fund the dividend, with that even that so the capital generation normalized is deﬁnitely
one that does not put our dividend capacity for the future at stake, and then in terms of
further growth, we have additional funding capacity to fund further growth.

Page 79 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

Before handing over to our Chairman, I would ﬁrst of all like to thank our Investor
Relations team, the whole management committee and all the other people from ﬁnance,
communication, risk, and I'm aware that I may be forget one or the other, but they all
know that the work that has been done for this day has been extremely happy but also
very instrumental. I think, we learned a lot through this process, and we will be able to
further continue to reﬁne a number of these elements.
And secondly, I want to thank you all for your interest, your support to Ageas, and I think
this is a message that not only my – me personally but also the whole team and our board
likes to address to you. Thank you very much. I hope you keep the interest and the
conﬁdence in our company. Our main message is to deliver on the promises, and I can
assure that we will do that. Thank you.

Q&A
A - Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Let's go towards (05:31:57) Q&A time. So, I invite Bart, Filip, Christophe and
Antonio on stage. We might limit it to 30 minutes to respect the timing, but this should
not prohibit you to ask your questions. And, of course, if you have questions for the other
people that have spoken today, no problem, or Hans in the room as well as CEO of AG
Insurance, who wants to take up the mic? Yeah. Okay. First question Arjan. I'll pick second
one (05:32:42).
Thank you. Some very helpful comments from your presentation. If I could just clarify two
of them. Just the targets that you gave around the proﬁt, realized capital gains, that starts
from 2017, just wanted to clarify that in terms of some of those ranges around proﬁt that
you gave?
And the second one was around sort of quasi pro forma capital generation you gave of
€500 million, just want to clarify the Asia part, because Asia would have a capital
generation it creates, you can't touch all that, you can only really get the cash from the
dividend, which is roughly given numbers you give in the half? So just some feel around
the composition of that?
Okay. The ﬁrst part, you have seen that the underlying proﬁt 2016 was something like
€750 million. When I said, we have a potential €750 million, €850 million; it's not within
ﬁve years. I think it's in the coming year or two years or three years that our €750 million
should underlying base move upwards or can move upwards. The second one, when I
expressed this €500 million operational free capital generation, I did not move anything
on the Asian ﬁgures, so something like €150 million from Asia that was in it is also in it.
One comment on Asia. You said that we cannot touch your dividend on (05:34:14) if you
refer to the presentation. So on Asia, we have an operational impact, which was €170
million, and you have seen that the paid dividend (05:34:30) paid dividend to us was
around €80 million so you can claim that half of this was paid, half of the operational
impact – impact was paid for dividend, so we have dividend coming from Asia and we
think that we are on a growing trend.
Page 80 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

(05:34:50).

FINAL

Yeah. Thank you. And I got a question on the BNP on the put option. In terms of the
accounting value of it, you mentioned how the Life part and Non-Life part is being valued.
Is this already pre-agreed upon, let's say, with BNP – when, let's say, the put option was
signed, so to speak, or could there still be a diﬀerence of opinion about when you have
to, yeah, if they're being exercised and you have to pay for it?
Let's say, there was not when it was signed, and I think our Chairman was present when it
was signed. There was not an agreement on the ﬁnal amount that the principal is in the
put option being fair market value-based, and that's of course in a stage where each of
the parties can have view, we have a clear view what's in our accounting, and then that it
might be that (05:35:51) as an overview and we will have to see how we get out of it. It's a
pure technical approach, but if you take for instance the Life part, and so on the Life part
we take the embedded value time market eﬀect of this multiple, and as Bart said, this
multiple is driven by some external parties and this should be the exact image of the
value, the market value at this very moment. So, I think on the Life side, it is a technical
assessment but it shouldn't be far from real market value. On the Non-Life part, its present
value, and I think it's a rather classical way of assessing the Non-Life operations. So, I think
we shouldn't be that far.
Over there.

Bloomberg Transcript

(05:36:47) Further on this put option. You stated that you have a Plan B if you would
separate with BNP. Could you elaborate on that maybe?
I, in this case, I would like to use my (05:37:02). It would be not wise to develop here what
our Plan B is. But, okay, it's clear that we cannot just sit and wait. It's clear that as well for
the distribution agreement, as for the put option, it's the other party who has the initiative
to take, and we, of course, have been able in the past period and we'll continue to reﬁne
it to see if A, B or C happens, what our reaction will be.
Yeah. Life and Non-Life will not end if distribution stops, but as Bart already indicated it, to
me, it will be very irrational if the distribution agreement would not continue for the both
parties, customers, et cetera, but you never know, but Life will go on. Life after Life. Maybe
one element is, we own the customers, so it's our (05:38:01). That's it.
One small question on the Belgium operations. If I look at returns on Solvency II capital,
I'm not sure whether you look at them as well like that, but you can obviously compare,
what you generate compared to the capital tied up. So, how satisﬁed are you with the
returns in Belgium, both on the current back book, but also on the new production,
because I guess it might not make sense to write a lot of new business in the current
environment, so eager to get your thoughts on that.
I think in general and it's clear from the underlying metrics of our business in Belgium that
we are actually happy with the return. You saw the ROE ﬁgures, they are way above our

Page 81 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

mark, and indeed last year maybe the new business on the Saving Life was not fantastic,
sorry?
I'm not speaking about IFRS...

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Yeah. I agree, I agree.
Okay.
So but for Non-Life, it's virtually the same amount. But one thing we should not forget is
that, free capital generation is not the same as return on capital. So, when we think about
value creation, it's not the free capital that is the value of the company, it's actually the
Own Funds that you generate. So, that part of it is temporarily parked as capital tied up
like in an MCEV environment and later released. So, you should look at the Own Fund
generation, and then putting things in perspective.
If you look at the amount of Own Funds we operationally generate over the – all of the
group, it's close to €1.1 billion, and part of that, €400 million is consumed by – as SCR
increase in Asia, and to some extent in Europe, okay ﬁne, but that will come back. That's
like an investment, so don't forget that's two diﬀerent countries. So we are quite happy
with the return on equity and the return on Own Funds in Belgium at this moment. From a
mark-to-market perspective, that's not all that, but of course it can be improved upon, but
what Bart indicated directly applies to that, when we said it's closer to €500 million
maybe underlying, I refused earlier today to give such a clear message, maybe I should
have done. But, let's be real that there we say we have this 60-ish million (05:40:28) in the
UK that we added, we have the eﬀect of terror, which we excluded in Belgium. And then,
depending how you complement it over 50 to 100 (05:40:42), I think, of Plan B that we
expect to be there today, which was not there last year because the margins were so low.
That being said, we also pointed out that, it's not because you have a strain on the
product when you sell it but the return in the end will not be good. It still depends on the
margins that we will make on the money, how it has been invested and deployed in the
real world. So, these are all risk-free metrics. It's in the end the real world where we live
and where the capital matures and comes out from, so we are not unhappy at all with the
performance of our Belgium book.
I think, back, you had a question?
Just maybe a follow-up on that – on Belgium. So, actually if you look at the numbers of the
Belgium operations, in the Own Funds, actually there is a big, big amount of value that's
captured in there like a future IFRS earnings, which, at the end of the day, will determine
also dividend is in that value. And it is – a big chunk of that values relate to our term lives,
so the protection business, which is not subject to any market movements, and even the
value of that is due to the Life Savings business is very well protected because of the NVA
(05:41:58) because of the matching.

Page 82 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

Yes, you might have the market impact moving up and down, but as there is no default,
also that value that is in the Own Funds will ﬂow through the P&L and will become
distributable earnings. So I think as the months go by and we show a few more quarters
of these numbers, I think we'll get more comfortable with these numbers.
Maybe your view on the partnership model. I can imagine that in the beginning years of a
new partnership this is very beneﬁcial, so we've seen from your growth in Asia and some
of the other countries. But once it grows it can become also more complicated in the
relationship with the majority shareholder, either in Asia, maybe in Portugal. So, I was
wondering if that's growing, would you reconsider that partnership model in that context?
And also making it for us a bit more easier to understand and also get more grip on the
drivers you actually inﬂuence? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think ﬁrst point is that, we are more than happy with the fact that we started in Asia with
the partnership model, and I think if you see the position we have in this market, be it
China, Thailand, Malaysia, maybe three biggest ones, I think in a controlled position, we
never have – would have been able to do that. And if you look to some of the European
insurers that went into China for a 50-50, and you sum them up altogether, they don't
have the market share that we have, but I think we prefer 25% of their ﬁgures compared
to maybe 50% of much lower.
I think it's also second point, an element that diﬀerentiates us from a lot of others, which is
one of the reasons why recently in Vietnam, in the Philippines, we've been not the only
party to be in negotiation with the bank that's wanted to set up an insurance company,
but if you are willing to go for a joint venture, you have immediately a number players that
are carved out, because they don't want that model. And I think, as Gary showed, we
have, in all these countries, whether we are there 15 years or 16 years like China and
Malaysia, and a bit less for Thailand, in all these countries, we have still very, very close
relationships with the partner, be it our Chairman, ex-co-members, management
committee members, I think we are – that's maybe something that characterizes that we
are very close to the business, the presentations of today have shown this, and that we still
believe that the progress that we can make to team up with the local partners that has
good knowledge of the market, a strong distribution channel, and at the same time
already an existing customer portfolio, is a less risky and a quicker move in a country than
try to buy a 100% ownership.
Is that a guarantee that we will, between 10 years, will say, this is the perfect move, I'm not
sure. And it might be that in some of these joint ventures that we always had them in
Thailand some years ago, that there is a change in the shareholdership that's not
excluded. But in any case we see that we are a real partner for the joint venture partner
and everything what is happening is done in dialog.
The main driver for your business decisions are the economic view that you take for the
group is the internal solvency to view where understandably Asia is not included under
the ambit of Solvency II, it's overlaid on the respective regulatory frameworks. But it will
be interesting to get an insight or your view on, what if Asia were to be looked at in the
same light as the rest of your businesses, and how would that – how does that inﬂuence
your decision in terms of capital allocation to Asian businesses?
Page 83 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

So, when you clariﬁed that the capital generation ﬁgures are aggregated and they're not
consolidated, I would expect that you probably gave that 175% loading on the Asian
businesses as well and presented what it really looks like?
I'll give a – I'll try to give a start with answer (05:47:05) and then see whether left or right
who is volunteer to continue. I think something that probably created some confusion in
the earlier presentation is that, and it has been immediately ﬂagged by one of the
interventions is that, wherein the European region, we each time see as free capital
generation, the move in Own Funds minus 175 – 1.75 times (05:47:34) SCR.
For Asia, we take the move in Own Funds minus the target capital ratio multiplied by the
local SCR. So on average, I think, some of the calculation is quite something like 150%. We
don't apply the 175% for the Asian activities; we do it country by country. The target capital
in that country was on average is 150%.
And you understand that, that is dominated by the situation in China, where they have
indeed the internal target where they say 150 percentage what they want to stay above of.
So, if you use that by weight and proportion, because in Thailand and Malaysia, the ratio
is actually quite a bit higher.

Bloomberg Transcript

Many of the target ratios locally set in the capital management policies of these
companies actually originate from when we discuss the shareholder agreements. We have
agreed upon some solvency target levels and capital management policies with most of
our joint venture partners. Actually initially most of them were 175% of Solvency I eﬀect.
Of course, life moves on, and all these countries have moved in some way, except maybe
India for the time being, to risk-based capital regimes who are closer or more distant from
Solvency II, and they're still on the move, I mean, in China we had already two
adjustments to C-ROSS in the course of this year and many more to come.
Thailand is also tightening its ﬁrst wave solvency regime through a risk-based capital
regime, which moved more in the direction of Solvency II, so that gap is narrowing. In fact,
Malaysia is quite tough already. I would say they're diverting in fair value to be (05:49:31)
as you know and their P&L always or they're already close to IFRS 17, in fact they're
implementing part of that.
So, that gap is narrowing, and I think it would not materially change the management
style. What it could change is risk appetite, and there, of course, not all investors and not
companies have the same view on risk appetite. What we have done in certain cases
where we say our partner has more appetite than we for certain risk, we can always add it
at the group level. You don't necessarily have to fully agree on every detail on the capital
management, you can buy hedges on certain exposures you don't like in a country if you
don't get alignment with a partner and cover it at the group level.
So, I do not see any problem with it. The underlying dynamics of this risk-based capital
regimes are Solvency II like. In fact, what products really generate proﬁt or value, what
features of products really consume capital? So, more and more in the lines. Of course,
Page 84 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

what we will not be able to do is really put ﬁrm capital management guidelines in place
on non-controlled participation, it will be a dialog. That's why we are partners, and we will
respect that obviously. And certainly when we have minority JVs, it will be something that
will be part of a mature dialog what we have today as well. I mean, that wouldn't change
dramatically.
And if I can just follow-up with a diﬀerent question, which is, can you remind us on your
key products maybe the top or the top two products in China on the Life side, which is
what I believe is the business, and what kind of guarantees are there in those businesses?
Maybe better for our CEO of Asia to respond to that, but I – and I will pass it on to Filip
later maybe, but in fact, let's not forget, in China, we sell a lot of regular premium, we
mentioned that. All Life policies are very popular. So, in fact, the basic guarantees in
China have never been extremely high. I think today there are around 2% with
government bond yields, which have irked up a bit. They're again comfortably around 3%,
3.5% (05:51:55) now. So, it is not the same environment as it is here. So, it's long-term up.
And so – while implicitly in all Life policies it's already, of course the mortality component,
which works in our favor. Aside from that, in general, they send more riders (05:52:13) on
the book. A very short-term controversial policies that you heard of, especially related to
(05:52:22), which have been blocked for selling or at least ﬁling certain of this product.
We have not been active in that segment, but maybe Filip you can add some color to that.
So, most of it, I would say, is very solid long-term regular premium product with decent
margins.

Bloomberg Transcript

Other questions? Everybody seems satisﬁed.
Then I propose to conclude this Q&A session. And, I think, to end the formal part of the
day, I would like you to listen to our Chairman, Mr. Jozef De Mey. Thank you.

A - Jozef G. de Mey

{BIO 2124631 <GO>}

Well, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It's been long day, but I hope you ﬁnd that
you've received a lot of interesting information or/and new or additional insights that help
you better understand a number of topics related to Ageas. When I saw the program for
today, my ﬁrst thought was, wow! This is heavy. But I believe that this was the perfect time
to bring you together for a full day. It allows us to dig deeper into the speciﬁc topics that
were presented to you today, as I think they do indeed deserve some additional
clariﬁcation, and these are exactly the same topics we, as a board, are interested in.
Also the idea to leave our usual location in London and move to Lisbon was also a good
suggestion, as it gives us the opportunity to present Portugal as one of our core countries
in Europe. And by the way, did someone in the room notice the day today? It is indeed,
the 6th of June D-Day.
And whilst I deﬁnitely do not want to suggest that this is D-Day for Ageas, I did Google a
bit, when preparing this speech and came across the following words from General
Dwight D. Eisenhower. This operation is not being planned with any alternatives. This

Page 85 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

operation is planned as a victory, and that's the way it's going to be. We're going down
there, and we're throwing everything we have into it, and we're going to make it a success
I believe this is also true for Ageas. We have been working for almost ten years now to
make Ageas a success, not just for today, but for the future. We will indeed throw
everything we have into it to make that happen. And this being said, let me come back on
the concept of today and what I as a Chairman would take away from today's
presentations.
First of all, I fully concur with the conclusion of the presentation of Bart. Everything you
have heard today should conﬁrm that we are managing this company for the future. We
want to ensure and maximize our proﬁts and our value in the most sustainable way
possible. None of the decisions we take are meant to show short-term beneﬁts or to make
the picture brighter than it is. We don't jump on new concepts or new technologies
simply because it is fashionable to do so. They must ﬁrstly prove their worth and we must
be convinced of the added value this brings to our customers and this was a theme of the
presentations of Antonio. Ambition 2018 and in all probability the next strategic exercise
will be a strategy of evolution and not revolution.
New ﬁnancial concepts such as free capital generation need to mature before we draw
real conclusions from them. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the beneﬁt of age and a
longstanding history in the sector on my side, and I have seen many concepts and
theories being brought forward. Traditional embedded value, European embedded
value, market consistent embedded value and now the concept of free capital generation.
If it's correctly applied intellectually and well understood both, in and outside the
company, we can surely derive interesting insights out of it. But at the same time, we all
know that all these concepts do not necessarily help to increase the understanding of the
business and its proﬁtability drivers.
Moreover, as there is no common and unique way to implement these concepts, it does
not create a level playing ﬁeld, so that you can easily compare our performance with
those of our peers. And the same goes for Solvency II, and probably we will face the same
issues when IFRS 17 starts to be implemented.
Here we have a joint responsibility to rigorously and in all transparency implement and
explain what we do. At the same time, there's only one concept that survives them all,
cash. Cash is king, ladies and gentlemen and that's how we as a board look to the
company.
Operationally, there obviously remains some challenges and let's be honest and accept
that there are a few which are not so easy to solve and need some time. UK isn't
concerned and as I am also the Chairman of our UK business, I'm even more closely
involved in this activity. I'm somewhat ﬂabbergasted when I am confronted with new
regulations and how this is being imposed and implemented.
The market discipline is also another concern to me. This does not make it easy to ﬁnd
quick and simple solutions to the problems we face, but that being said, we should not
Page 86 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

seek to blame others. We have a job to do and I'm pleased with the action plan presented
by Andy and his team. They know, they have my full support to execute the plan and
make Ageas UK once more one of the spearheads of our Non-Life activities.
With respect to Asia, I remain convinced that we made right choice more than 15 years
ago to invest in that region. I hope we managed to provide you with comfort about the
additional and useful disclosures that should help you to better understand the dynamics
of our new Asian businesses. I would hope that we can provide a solution to the often
heard remark that it is not easy to value this business properly.
Obviously and as mentioned by Gary, we need to respect the fact that we are a minority
partner in all our stakes, and hence that also when disclosing additional information, we
need to respect the timings and interests of our local partners.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Continental Europe, it is clear that the main focus is on Portugal. We have invested
quite a lot in this country and are more than aware that it is important for our track record
that we demonstrate, that we are able to integrate such an acquisition and to ensure it
meets our ﬁnancial criteria. It is not an easy task for the team present here, but we knew
that in advance. Everything I hear makes me believe, we are well on track and the timings
put forward should be realistic to do what we promised to do.
And lastly and deliberately, we have spent less time discussing our Belgium activity. First
of all operationally, Belgium is running smoothly. And the performances of our respective
businesses are fully aligned with our expectations. This is the result of hard work and
discipline and a clear focus for where we want to be. Also here we often question about
our strategic choices. And, of course, we don't have a problem with that. The only answer
we can give is results, results, results.
Year-after-year, Belgium proves its ability to deliver and I count on them to continuing
doing so. I believe it is how we prove that our choices are the right ones. Obviously, we
have some important challenges ahead of us with the upcoming discussions about the
extension of the distribution agreement and the possibility to potentially buyback the
remaining 25% in AG Insurance. There are two crucial ﬁles for Ageas. And on this topic, I
can assure you that in any of the potential scenarios described by Bart, I feel comfortable
that we're prepared for all of them.
And ladies and gentlemen, let me end these closing remarks with the next important date
for Ageas. And perhaps a little bit of delay, 16th of June, exactly 10 days from now. After
close of business, we will receive the verdict from the Amsterdam Court regarding the
Fortis settlement.
I'm hopeful that we should receive a clean, binding declaration, which allows us to
execute to settlement as planned and get rid of this historical legacy. The support among
all of the historical claimants and claimant organizations are overwhelming. And I
sincerely hope that the court will take this into account when taking its ﬁnal decision.

Page 87 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

FINAL

As I said last year, it will bring Ageas back to normal, and it will take away a big concern
for both of you and us with respect to the options for the future of this company. I should
extend one more time my gratitude to Philippe, the legal team, and so many other
colleagues who have worked tirelessly day-after-day to make sure everything is ready to
start the execution of the settlement, which believe me, is an enormous task.
Ladies and gentlemen, on that note, I would like to close the formal part of this Investor
Day, and hand back to Frank for some practical information about the rest of the evening.
Thank you, thank you very much.

A - Frank Vandenborre

{BIO 15168443 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Jozef. So, ladies and gentlemen, it was a long day, tiring day, and you have
received tremendous amount of content today and I'm sure this needs some time to
digest. But I do hope that we reached the objective of the day. And at least, from our side,
we believe it was an open dialogue on all the topics that surround our company, and on
which you obviously have and – maybe have still a lot of questions. But this also ﬁts in
within our culture, namely to be very transparent or as transparent as possible and to try
to bring you to a level of knowledge and understanding that enables you as I already
mentioned to understand how we do things and why we do the things the way we do,
and hopefully also to respect and appreciate why we do the things the way we do them.
So before you leave the room, I would like to remind you that also respecting a good
tradition, we have foreseen a souvenir for this, of this beautiful day. Little present, that
makes a link to the music you have heard throughout the day, and as we are a global
company with Belgian roots, but today in Portugal, we thought it would be nice to let you
taste some of the excellent Belgian and Portuguese music and we also foresee a little
Portuguese, specialty, which you should eat I think before you take the plane, otherwise,
you cannot take it with you.
That's all on of the ﬁrst thing we brought some music together of famous Belgian and
Portuguese performance in a personalized books and that will be handed over to you by
my colleagues when leaving the room. We have also foreseen some drinks for those still
having envy to do that and the dinner for those you can stay with us, is at 7:30 sharp. It's
an informal dinner, so no need to wear a tie. And for the rest, I can only wish you all the
best and thank you to be here with us, and I hope to see you next time again. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the

Page 88 of 89



Company Name: Ageas SA/NV
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2017-06-06

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 89 of 89

