Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-08-15

Q2 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Alistair Hargreaves, Head of Service
Cristina Nestares, Chief Executive Oﬃcer-UK Insurance
David Graham Stevens, Chief Executive Oﬃcer & Director
Geraint Jones, Chief Financial Oﬃcer & Director

Other Participants
Andrew J. Crean, Analyst
Barrie Cornes, Head-Research Insurance
Dhruv Gahlaut, Analyst
Dominic O'Mahony, Analyst
Edward Morris, Analyst
James A. Shuck, Analyst
Philip Ross, Analyst
Thomas Seidl, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Wajahat Rizvi, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. I'm David Stevens. I'm the CEO. Welcome to our 2018 Half Year
Results, and thank you very much for coming out on this August morning to hear what we
have to say. A brief introduction for myself. I'm very happy to stand in front of you,
reporting on these positive set of results characterized by growth pretty much across the
board and the company, growth in customers, growth in turnover, growth in proﬁts and
growth in dividends.
One particular milestone I'd like to ﬂag up is the arrival at proﬁtability of our EU insurance
companies, as we're calling them, somewhat preempting Brexit at Spain, Italy and France,
ﬂexibly (00:00:47) making a proﬁt for the ﬁrst time.
Talking more about our numbers will be Geraint, the CFO. Talking about the group
numbers, Cristina, UK Insurance CEO. And Alistair, Head of Service for the UK, talking
about the core UK business. And then, I'll come back and talk about price comparison
and then international insurance. Thank you.

Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}
Page 1 of 22



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-08-15

FINAL

Thank you, David. Good morning, everyone. I've been trying to work out all week why
Investor Relations have seen it ﬁt to include a picture of me with egg on my face at the
results, but I can't quite ﬁgure that out yet. I'm going to do my usual run through the result
highlights. I'll talk about capital and the dividend, and I'll ﬁnish up with a brief update on
Admiral Loans.
To start oﬀ, this is our usual highlights slide. David has given the ﬂavor already. I'll pick up
a few more words. The top line ﬁgures are at the top, continued really good growth across
the group, plus 14% on both customers and turnover measures in H1, £1.7 billion of
turnover, 6.25 million of customers. All parts of the group are growing. Those are both
record ﬁgures. Similar rates of growth in solvency 2017. Pre-tax proﬁt was up to £212
million, plus 9%. EPS was up similarly. Both of those are record ﬁgures. Another very
positive return on equity
and you probably agree, 54% is basically in line with last year, reﬂecting strong
proﬁtability especially in balance sheet. And our interim dividend is £0.60 per share was
largely up in line with earnings per share. And ﬁnally our solvency ratio still deﬁnitely
qualifying as very strong, just under 200%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next slide, looks at customer and turnover growth across the group. Looks a familiar
picture from last time. All the arrows are green. Particularly impressive growth again in
Households up around 40%, period-on-period in customers and turnover. That means
that we added nearly 120,000 household policies in the ﬁrst six months.
Our International Insurance businesses had a nearly 20%. Customers and turnover was
improved in the results nicely as you'll see shortly. And a couple of nice individual
milestones to report. Elephant hits 200,000 vehicles in the last day of ﬁrst half. And
L'olivier in France moved past 150,000 in the same month.
Of course, not at all to forget UK Motor, which is cars and vans. We reviewed very well in
the ﬁrst half, 14% in terms of turnover, 12% in customer numbers, netted over 200,000
cars in the ﬁrst half, moved past £4 million. And the total you see there includes over
200,000 insured vans. Our combined price comparison businesses grew a bit more
modestly, turnover was up 6% to nearly £80 million.
Moving on now to look at proﬁt. As you've seen already, we made £212 million pre-tax in
the ﬁrst half, £211.7 million to be precise, that's 9% up half year-on-half year. We'll go into
detail on the various segments throughout the presentation, so I'll just make some highlevel comments here. The main contributor clearly is still UK Insurance. Proﬁt was up 9%
to £247 million.
Bad weather hit the Household results and there was a loss there of £2 million, that was
around £7 million lower than it would have been with normal weather. Motor result was
strong £250 million of proﬁt in the ﬁrst half, 11% up. There were a few oﬀsetting practice as
usual within that result of higher other revenue as a result of the growth was an important
driver. Just to remind the UK Car insurance proﬁt is still on reserves at Ogden at minus
0.75%.
Page 2 of 22



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-08-15

FINAL

It's particularly pleasing to see a big improvement in the international Insurance results,
which moved from a loss of £10 million in the ﬁrst half 2017 to basically break even in the
ﬁrst half of this year while it's growing the top line by the 20% period-on-period. Net
results made up of a third of proﬁt in ConTe in Italy. And actually a combined proﬁt since
David has already mentioned from our European insurance for the ﬁrst time. That was just
under £3 million. Net total ﬁgure was slightly oﬀset by a loss, albeit improved period-onperiod around £3 million at Elephant in the U.S. Very pleasing international results.
Price comparison, as you can see, was essentially ﬂat with a good increase in proﬁt at
Confused.com in the UK, oﬀset by lower proﬁts in Europe with Compare.com in the U.S.
broadly ﬂat period-on-period.
Loans, I'll come on to very shortly but the increased loss we saw there was entirely
reﬂecting the signiﬁcant growth of our business in the ﬁrst half compared to the ﬁrst half
of last year. And other which is everything else, we put a detail again in the back of the
slides so you can see the whole breakdown. But the main points as you can see, ﬁrstly,
2017 investment income comes from realized gains on investments held in the parent
company, not repeated in 2018. And then secondly, higher shares in charges and the
increase there in the current year is mainly driven by changes in vesting assumptions for
variable awards.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving away from income statement, let's take a look at capital. This slide shows our
Solvency position at the half year in terms of the amount of capital, capital requirements
and resulting ratio. At the end of June, the half year point is 196% down from 205% at the
end of 2017
and 214% in the middle of last year. Main movements in the current year, as we expect,
economic proﬁts in the period (00:06:04) interim dividend and an increase in the capital
requirement which is due to growth.
In the ratio in the six months is due to the combination of that small increase in the capital
requirement and a very small reduction in own funds. The basis of the capital requirement
is still the standard formula plus the capital add-on. And in terms of internal model, our
team has made very substantial progress this year in preparing our application, and we're
having good, positive interactions with the PRA. We do expect, however, that those
discussions will carry on a bit longer than planned, and we now expect to apply the
model approval into 2019 rather than towards the end of this year.
But in terms of what that means to the endpoints of model approval, in a good scenario, it
doesn't really change. We'd be looking at the middle of 2019 for approval. On a less
good scenario, we won't be looking at the end of 2019 for approval. When we report our
full year results in early 2019, we'll be in a much better position to give clearer guidance
on that and hopefully start to share some numbers with you as well.
In terms of future guidance to solvency, another repeat of what I said six months ago, we
think that 150% is a good indicator of the upper end of the target range once we get

Page 3 of 22



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-08-15

FINAL

through model approval. And up until that point, we won't make further comment on
surplus capital that we're currently holding.
Moving on to the interim dividend. As you can see, we've declared £0.60 per share, 7%
higher than 2017's interim, and is 97% of the ﬁrst half earnings. Not too much more to say
on the dividend, moves largely in line with proﬁts as we guided and that you've seen
before. To repeat the former policy on the right-hand side of the slide, and I'd reiterate
that unless or until we say otherwise, the guidance for dividend is in the 90% of the
payout ratio, and we've got the relevant dates on the slide as well.
Now, one of the pillars of the Admiral Group strategy is diversiﬁcation beyond insurance,
and Admiral loans is the most important part of that right now. This slide gives a brief
update on our progress in H1. As you can see, we've continued to grow quite signiﬁcantly
and over £200 million of loans were outstanding at the end of June. We're very satisﬁed
with the way the business is going, including with the quality of the business we're
making. We continue to be prudent in terms of risk proﬁle.

Bloomberg Transcript

We ﬁnalized the next stage of the external funding for the business at the end of June.
The majority of that balance is funded externally rather than from group resources. Now,
the new funding will see us well in 2019 and plans are well underway for the future stages.
The loss for the period, as you can see, was £6 million, and the guidance for the full year
slightly raised to £10 million to £12.5 million of loss. And that change is due to growth from
the front loading of costs in that period rather than anything adverse. But I'd also say at
this point, we currently expect 2019's result will be better than 2018, obviously subject to
thing developing as we are currently expecting to. We plan to have Scott Cargill, who's
the CEO of Admiral Financial Services, who's in the room today. He will present to the full
year and give a more detailed look at Admiral Financial Services.
That's it from me. I'll leave you with a couple of highlights. Firstly, more growth, group
growth, plenty of it. Secondly, a really pleasing improvement in the international results.
Third, continued improvements in Household and Loans. The results of the ﬁrst half were
impacted by weather on Households, strong growth for Loans. And last but certainly not
least, a very strong solvency position maintained after paying a record interim dividend.
So, over now to Cristina and Al to talk more about the UK.

Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody. Alistair and I will cover the results for the UK Insurance
operations. I'm going to start talking about the results for Motor and the pricing of the
market in Admiral. And then, Alistair will cover some aspects of our Motor operation
including claims, expenses and customer services. And then, I will ﬁnish talking about our
Household results.
First, this picture, it shows Innov8. It's an annual event that we hold with staﬀ from all parts
of the business and they come together to work on innovative ideas. Some of the ideas
Page 4 of 22



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-08-15

FINAL

coming out this year included application or more applications for robotics and also ideas
in certain (00:10:23).
Now, before we go into the details, this is a reminder of the pros of our Motor and
Household business over the past few periods. In summary, we have seen very strong
growth in Household and good growth in Motor. For the ﬁrst half of the year, our Motor
book grew by 12% and that includes an 8% growth in the number of cars on cover and
also the growth of our (00:10:46) book which is now around 210,000 customers.
Household grew by 42% in this period and proﬁt in Motor grew by 11% in the ﬁrst half.
And as Geraint said, the Household result was impacted by the weather.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of loss ratios, this slide shows the current best estimate loss ratios with the
numbers in bracket showing the movement in the ratio in the ﬁrst half of the year. Now,
the best estimate that we showed them to be conservative especially for the most recent
years. So, the changes that you see in the ﬁrst half are normal, are in line with we normally
show and they reﬂect positive back year development. The 2017 year currently at 74%,
looks like it's going to be a good year. However, we continue to experience some
distraction in the pattern of settlement, large claims with uncertainty although we expect
some changes to this in the next few months. And ﬁnally, we have included some
additional information in the appendix of the presentation including best estimate ratios
on an underwriting basis and also proﬁt sensitivities on a number of diﬀerent loss ratio
change.
Moving on to look at reserve releases. You see another large release of 26% of premium
above the long-term average of circa 15%. The large release is driven by positive prioryear development as well as a slight reduction in the reserve margin. The margin remains
prudent and signiﬁcant which is consistent with trends over the past few periods. As
usual, we would expect continued large reserve releases in the future if things develop as
suspected.
In terms of commutation, we have fully committed all years up to and including 2016 in
the ﬁrst half of 2018 as we would normally would. There was no commutation in the ﬁrst
half of 2017 due to the open situation. Therefore, there is around £30 million adverse
impact on the income statement which impacts the comparison with previous periods.
Moving on to pricing in the market. It's clear that market prices have declined in the ﬁrst
half. We have put a graph on the left that shows two indexes. The ABI index is in green
and it reﬂects or is based on business written, so it includes new business and renewals,
and it shows a small decrease in Q2. The Confused index in blue, it focuses more on new
business puts, so it tends to show much more radical changes and it overstates in both
directions. But it shows an 11% decrease in Q2 year-on-year.
On the graph on the right, you have Admiral's Times Top. The graph is indexed to 100 in
June 2017. If you focused your attention from January this year, you can see that we have
been losing (00:13:47) and that is because we have kept our prices dropped. That is we
have not increased prices in the ﬁrst half of this year.

Page 5 of 22



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-08-15

FINAL

Now it's hard to predict the outlook of a market for the rest of the year but we believe that
the reduction that we've seen in prices are unlikely to continue for much longer. So we
think that we might not see premiums dropping as fast as in previous cycle, and this is
due to the underlying claims inﬂation, the government's response, which are likely to be
pushing to the future, as Alistair will explain, and also more rational players in the market.
In Admiral, we have always focused on a balance between growth and margin. And
recently, during Q3, we have done a small price increase to reﬂect the underlying claims
ratio.
And now I'm going to pass it to Alistair to talk more about our claims.

Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

Good morning. My name is Alistair Hargreaves. I've worked in Admiral for around 10 years
in a number of diﬀerent roles in the UK business. I'm currently Head of Service,
responsible for Marketing, Claims and Operations. So I'm going to start talking about
claims.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the left-hand side, we see the market claims frequency over the last ﬁve years. There's
a long term trend that's a gradually declining frequency, and some ﬂuctuations due to
winter weather. Most recently, there were some very positive reductions in 2017, which
were reversed in the ﬁrst quarter of 2018 largely due to particularly bad winter weather.
Our own claims frequency trends are very similar.
On the right-hand side is an exhibit to get a sense of the relative type of claims cost that
drive our ultimate loss ratios, which shows the three key components; damage claims,
largely bodily injury claims, and small bodily injury claims. Large bodily injury claims are
large in value, they're very small in volume and hence results in some volatility.
This year, we continue to reserve at a discount rate of minus 0.75%. And this, combined
with expected changes in the discount rates, make it harder to comment on large bodily
injury claims. So, I can't say that after seeing a relatively low level of new large bodily
injury claims in 2017, we have seen them increase somewhat in the ﬁrst half of 2018. This is
prudently reﬂected in the current year loss ratio and these large claims take time to
develop and will be inﬂuenced by any changes to the discount rate. On all the years, we
continue to see positive developments on large bodily injury claims over time.
On the next slide, we see drivers of the small bodily injury and damage costs. The graph
on the left-hand side shows the 12-month rolling total of small bodily injury claim
notiﬁcations for the market. There's a declining trend through 2017 and this is leveled oﬀ
with lower levels of notiﬁcations maintained in 2018. On the right hand graph, we see
market severity for damage claims. This shows continuing inﬂation at the rate of 6% due to
increasing technology within cars. Our experience on both BI and damage is broadly in
line with that of the market.

Page 6 of 22



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-08-15

FINAL

So, they are the underlying trends, but to understand the claims outlook we also have to
consider the change to the Ogden discount rate and whiplash reforms. It's been signaled
that the Ogden discount rates will move from minus 0.75% to between north of 1%,
reducing the average severity of large bodily injury claims. The whiplash reforms include
increasing small claims track and new tariﬀ system is intended to reduce the cost of small
bodily injury claims. The key point in this slide is that although both of these measures are
within the Civil Liability bill, the expected timing is diﬀerent
Following royal assent, the discount with Ogden (00:17:47) is currently expected to be
completed with September 2019. The whiplash changes are also dependent on a new
portal to allow customers to notify whiplash claims direct, and these changes are currently
expected by April 2020 at the earliest.
In summary, overall Admiral claims trends continue to be similar to those in the market,
relatively low frequency and small bodily injury frequency, with pressure on damage
severity and an increase in new large bodily injury claims. The most signiﬁcant
development in 2019 is likely to be the increase in the Ogden discount rate.

Bloomberg Transcript

So moving on from claims cost, let's take a look at the expense ratio. In the ﬁrst half of
2018, our expense ratio increased largely as a result of increased acquisition cost due to
faster growth. The graph also shows the comparison to the market, which is more diﬃcult
because of the change in data available but we maintained a sizeable advantage.
On the right hand, we show that there are two drivers of our expenses ratio advantage; a
higher average premium and our lower cost per policy. Interestingly, the mathematical
advantage from higher average premium only equates to 4% to points of our expense
ratio advantage. We continue to have high-risk, high premium policies but our growth in
recent years, combined with others in more high-risk business has somewhat reduced this
diﬀerence.
However, the most important component of our expense ratio advantage is the actual
cost per policy, a key component is acquisition cost, which is over a third of total
expenditures excluding levies. I'll talk a little bit more about this. Our acquisition
approach, a disciplined marketing spend and embracing price comparison keeps cost
down. But a key driver of acquisition cost is the number of customers who are newly
acquired, or to ﬂip it, the number of customers who stay with us. Consistency is a measure
that reﬂects the proportion of customers who stay with us for a full term and then also
stayed to start a new policy at renewal. The graph shows we have better consistency than
the market. However, we do not expect this to be the case necessarily. A greater share of
our customers come to us for price comparisons, and we have a higher proportion of
higher risk, higher premium customers. Both of these factors should result in lower
consistency.
So, why do our customers stay? Well, it's always important to remain competitive on price.
But another key factor is our service. On the left-hand side, we see indicators of customer
satisfaction. Our customers stay because they receive great service. Underlying this is our
culture, which Cristina will touch on in a moment. But the key point here is our people

Page 7 of 22



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-08-15

FINAL

including agents, who serve the customers directly and others who work on products,
projects or technology really care about the service that we deliver to our customers.
And the right-hand side is an example, showing calls received from active customer. The
types of calls we receive is something that we focused on. Ease of service is important.
Can we make changes to say the task at hand is called. This exhibit shows reduction in
calls for 15%. This reduction means we have less calls to answer and it's also saving the
customer eﬀort which is good for the customer, and hence consistency.
The improvements are due to a number of initiatives that include improvements to allow
customers to make more changes for that policy online. Online service is an area of focus
for us. We also have live chat, online claims notiﬁcations and we're trailing a total loss
portal.
That's all for me. Now, I'll pass it back to Cristina.

Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So, let's take a look at the Household results. A key thing for the Household business
since we launched ﬁve years ago has been stronger and we have continued with the
trend in the ﬁrst half of the year. The factors, the drivers we have remain the same, the
growth of price comparison channel which we believe continue in the future, but also the
growth of our direct and cross-sell activities. We use MultiCover to sell car and homes
from existing customers.
In terms of the results, we have mentioned a few times that they been impacted by two
weather events. The freeze that aﬀected much of the country in March and also the ﬂash
ﬂooding that impacted mainly the East Midlands in May. As you can see on the graph on
the left, these two weather events added 25 points to our loss ratio and they accounted
for £7.5 million. As a result, we have posted a loss of around £2 million. However, if we
exclude the impact of these weather events, we would have shown a proﬁt of £5.6 million.
One key advantage that we have able to replicate from our Motor book to our Household
operation is our excellent expense ratio. As you can see on the graph, our expense ratio
continues to improve and (00:22:50) advantage versus the market, which is around 45%.
This is particularly relevant when considering our strong rate of growth as expenses in
insurance tend to be frontloaded. This advantage is based on a more eﬃcient operation
and on our acquisition strategy. For the remainder of the year, we expect to continue
growing and to return to proﬁtability of course whether permitted.
Now, before ﬁnishing, I would like to highlight one aspect of our business that we're
particularly proud of, which is our culture. We believe in Admiral that people who like
what they do, do it better. And also, that behind happy staﬀ, you have a lot of happy
customers. So, we came this year number three in the Best Workplaces survey. But also,
we are the only company that has been part of this Sunday Times 25 Best Big Companies
to Work For since the inception of this survey back in 2001.

Page 8 of 22



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-08-15

FINAL

Also this year, for the ﬁrst time, they have published a study of Best Workplaces for
Women and we are very pleased to come number three. But also, I guess, the more
important I think our inclusive culture is also reﬂected on our paying structure and we
have the lowest pay gap among major UK insurers.
So, in summary, good growth both in motor and especially in household. We have growth
our car book by 8% despite not putting prices down in the ﬁrst half. We have improved
our result for motor and the household result has been impacted by the weather. And
ﬁnally, we expect a more stable UK Motor pricing outlook mainly due to current claims
inﬂation pressure.
And now, over to David to talk about our international results.

David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So, before going to price comparison and international insurance, we have a picture here
of the inaugural European Insurance Master Chef competition where our employees from
Spain, France initially gathered to compete and our CEO in the front row volunteered to
judge. Big success from the Welsh management team who is very keen to get involved
next year. We're conﬁdent we can teach the Spanish, Italian and French a thing or two
about gourmet cuisine.
Price comparison ﬁrst. For Confused, a good six months. 6% growth in turnover, 29%
growth in proﬁt before tax to just under £6 million. Small increase in market share but
most of that increase in proﬁtability is around operational eﬃciency particularly
reallocation of digital spends or the more eﬃcient digital media.
The European insurance price comparison Rastreator and LeLynx had a tough year, slow
growth and some shrinkage in margin.
Two factors involved there with the major one was the launch in France as a third
television advertising price comparison. So, now, you have (00:25:46) compared to
market and (00:25:50) as TV advertising. Great news for insurers that sell/buy price
comparison and ultimately potentially great news for the sector as a whole as we
collectively educate the French motorists upon the most eﬃcient way of buying insurance.
But as something of a headwind in terms of the eﬃciency of marketing for the LeLynx in
the ﬁrst half.
Going over to the state in Compare. The biggest thing of inﬂuence on Compares is
obviously in the ﬁrst half with a very strong change in sentiment in the U.S. auto insurance
market. This shows the U.S. auto insurance combined ratio and 108%, although it might
not sound too frightening for those of you familiar with the UK insurance market, was
something of a shock to the U.S. auto insurance market. And the focus in 2016 and 2017
was very much on repairing margin, increasing prices.
As you can see, the combined is coming down on earned ratio and a number of major
insurers are now writing business proﬁtability, and our team to grow the top line as well as
Page 9 of 22



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-08-15

FINAL

repair margins. That's led to those insurers particularly competing more aggressively for
the attention of the 25% to 30% of U.S. motorists who shop every year. And that caused
some inﬂation in the marketing arena, an arena in which Compare competes.
As a result of that, the operational improvements we made in the ﬁrst half has been oﬀset
by a more challenging marketing environment in a loss of, say, roughly ﬂat year-on-year.
Conversely though, because more insurers are interested in growing their business, more
insurers are interested in participating in Compare. And we've seen two or three quite
substantial insurers coming to us during the ﬁrst half of 2018 and asking to get involved
such that by the end of the year, we are expecting to be in a situation where 16 of the top
25 insurers in the U.S. are represented on compare in some way or another.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, I have to caveat that because it might be that they're only in one state. It might be
they're – one of their brands. But 15 will be there by the end of the year. And that's a very
positive progress and good for the long-term prospects of the business. I haven't cracked
the top four I mentioned last time that in concept, the third biggest brand from all state
have got involved last year. And we've made further progress with insurance direct brand
coming on board in a test mode just early in the second half of 2018. So that's progress
but still a way to go in terms of cracking the top four.
U.S. insurance, Elephant, very strong ﬁrst half, a return to substantial growth, 10%, in six
months up to 200,000 customers. And that's the persistency strategy beginning to pay
oﬀ in terms of customer growth as well as the attractiveness of the underlying business.
Fee business is still loss-making, it's still on the right-hand side. That loss is on a whole
account basis (00:28:57) turnover worth 11%, down from 16% a year ago. Roughly 1.5% of
that is a more benign hail season in Texas than the previous year but still substantial
progress that seeped through into a $4 million loss for us on the business as a whole. And
then very proud to see that in our biggest states we're now outperforming the market as a
whole on loss ratio.
EU insurance come up a couple of times already but very happy to see the business
reporting a proﬁt of €3 million, continuation of a trend. And over that period, we've also
been increasing the reserve strength across Spain and France building on the
conservatism that we've already seen historically in the UK and Italy.
So, I'm very encouraged by that and particularly encouraged by the fact that we haven't
had to buy proﬁtability by stopping growing, 18% growth alongside the emergence of
proﬁtability. I won't go into more detail because there's a European Investor Day on
September 17. Just to set expectations, we're not planning a dramatic announcement
(00:30:10) on that day.
We've had a number of investors over the last few years who's after more color, more
detail on our international businesses, and we'll give you that, and we'll give you about
the markets in which they operate as well. Also a chance to meet some of the
management team there, important part of the Admiral talent core, and hopefully give
you the two cents the opportunity to get a feel for the valuation relevance of the EU
business over the medium to long term.

Page 10 of 22



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-08-15

So in summary, increased proﬁts from Confused, a return to growth lower losses in
Elephant, and European insurance proﬁtable.

FINAL

Now, I do like to wrap up with a longer-term perspective. Investor Relations has put this
picture in ﬁrst which is me thanking staﬀ in Wales for 10 years of service. I noticed my
colleague is staring glassy-eyed into the distance which may be a subliminal suggestion
from Investor Relations that I can't go on too long.
So, I'll keep it short. And so ﬁrst on the core UK business and the long-term trend. One of
the long-term trends is the growing importance of focused, listed UK personal lines
played in the market or perhaps to be truly up-to-date, focused listed in price and private
equity owned

Bloomberg Transcript

You tape up the line players who now represent or the end of 2017 represents 40% of the
market. It's higher now. And by the end of the year, we'd expect it to be (00:31:42)
approaching 50% and that's a function of obviously companies ﬂoating. But it's also a
function of those companies having above average growth notably ourselves, Hastings
and Esure.
So, what – well, I think the so what is that when you have the market completely
dominated by players that have that personal line installments from the UK and the
discipline of the market, you get a more rational, collectively more competent market and
that is good news for everyone. It leads to increased stability in our view, good news to
shareholders who don't like the variability that the market historically has delivered. Good
news for customers who don't like the roller-coaster pricing of extreme cyclicality that has
been a feature of the UK market over the last few decades.
So, I think a better context for us going forward and for our peers, this is the business that
accounts for the majority of the value now. Going forward, I'm convinced that our
diversiﬁcations will deliver incremental value to our shareholders. Taking the same sort of
time perspective and looking at our business, where the bubble size is deﬁned by the
number of policyholders or more recently loan recipient. I can't do price comparison on
that model, so it's in the numbers at the bottom, but it's not in the bubble size.
What you see in 2010 is an irrelevant diversiﬁcation in terms of size, but not irrelevant in
terms of losses at minus £13 million, its losses beyond UK Car and Confused. 2014 is still
looking pretty irrelevant in terms of size, but it's looking even more relevant in terms of
losses at minus £30 million-plus.
And now 2018, I think the visual way of saying that these diversiﬁcations are relevant and
importantly are also less expensive. So, we're spending less on this in 2018 than we were
in 2010. So, I think a healthier environment for the core business and good prospects with
diversifying businesses.
Thank you for your attention. Happy to take questions.

Page 11 of 22



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-08-15

Q&A
Operator

FINAL

Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, we will begin the question-and-answer session.

Q - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

(00:34:20) second, just point of clarity, I'm not sure if I heard it right. When you were
looking at the second half of this year in terms of motor, did you say the rate of increase
would accelerate or decelerate? I just didn't quite hear that.
And then, in terms of reserve strengthening in Spain and France, was that – was it some
strengthening that went on in the ﬁrst half of this year or you're talking about the last few
years? I'm just trying to understand if it was a headwind or if it was...
We're taking a conservative approach towards earnings. That's been most relevant in the
UK and Italian market because they're exposed to bigger bodily injury claims. We have
extended that into France and Spain (00:35:09) become more material. I was mainly
making the point to say that we haven't delivered improved those results by accelerated
release of reserves pulling forward (00:35:27)...

Bloomberg Transcript

So, what's been the change there?
It's been changed over time in favor of (00:35:35) over a number of years. Cristina, are
you happy to take the ﬁrst two points?

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yes. Second question is decelerate. So, basically we have seen in Q2 strong decreases in
prices, and we think it's unlikely that it's going to continue for much longer given the
claims inﬂation. In terms of ABI initiative, we are fully supportive. We think it's a market
feature, but there are changes between (00:36:01) renewals, and there are things that we
can all collectively do to make it easier, the journey for our customers, especially focusing
on furthermore customers. I also believe that due to price comparisons, motor insurance
is one of the most transparent industries in the market when it comes to prices.

Q - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

(00:36:18)...

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

We don't give (00:36:25)...

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Other questions? Gentleman over there?

Page 12 of 22



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-08-15

FINAL

Hi, morning. Tony Evans (00:36:33) from UBS. Two quick ones for me. So, on the Motor
pricing outlook, I know that you're highlighting that it's still uncertain and that you're
expecting stable pricing from here. I wondered why stable if we are seeing signs of high
claims inﬂation across the market Admiral and peers. Admiral is now increasing prices a
little bit in Q3. And Q2, there was a sharp deterioration, as you mentioned. It feels like
perhaps pricing should be rising a little bit at the market level.
And secondly on the Admiral Loans portfolio, when would you expect this to return to
proﬁts (00:37:08) to make a proﬁt?
Do you want to do the pricing and maybe start in the audience. I'll now talk brieﬂy about
the prospects for loans, Cristina?

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

. Two aspects that we have to consider. The ﬁrst one is 2017 is probably going to be the
best year in the (00:37:25) so we start with a very healthy margin, and that's why we might
then see increases in prices there.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me start by saying that the ambition for this business is that we are looking to change
something that's meaningful and sustainable. And certainly over time become a very
signiﬁcant contributor to the group proﬁt. We – as Geraint said before, we're playing the
markets that are personal loans and car ﬁnance and that's our focus.
Over the last few years, we've recruited our team, which is experienced in these markets.
We're seeing distribution moving in our favor, particularly for a direct and price
comparison, distribution lines or familiar for Admiral Group generally. And over the last
few years, we've been building and testing our underlying capabilities and we're happy
with the early progress of the year.
Over time, I'd also like to – we would expect the whole – when we get to our certain skill,
we'll built a free an expense advantage and something that we are starting to have a
strong believe in. So, positive start and I look forward to do more at full year.

Q - Wajahat Rizvi

{BIO 19928187 <GO>}

Wajahat Rizvi, Deutsche Bank. Couple of questions on me, please. One on the UK car
Insurance top line growth. So, part of that I guess would be the reinsurance renewal and
your competitiveness being restored mostly often. But is there anything else or any other
initiatives or anything which are driving that growth because the growth is pretty sharp
compared to last year?
And the second one would be on price comparison business. So, you've talked about our
diversiﬁcation pillar of your business model. There, your strategy seem to be a stark
contrast to your peers who are looking to diversify in other verticals of energy and other

Page 13 of 22



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-08-15

stuﬀ where you're focusing on the car market. So, just wondering if you can comment on
that in terms of diversiﬁcation.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

FINAL

So I'll do price comparison. Alistair, would you want to do growth of the UK car base and
what's driving it?

A - Alistair Hargreaves

{BIO 20595748 <GO>}

I'll do it. Yes. Okay. So I think in terms of that 12% customer growth, Cristina showed our
(00:39:54) which is higher than last year. So there's partly our competitiveness in the ﬁrst
half. And the other thing that's maybe a bit diﬀerent is the bond that's included in those
numbers. So Cristina mentioned we've now got just over 200,000 bonds on cover.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Thank you

Bloomberg Transcript

Price comparison, I think you have to look at the world, Confused and the others primarily.
So in the Confused context, where you have four established players in the mature
market, what we've chosen to do there as a source of diﬀerentiation is to focus particularly
on an oﬀering to drive of which is car insurance, car ﬁnance, and other car-related
products, where I think it's important to diﬀerentiate in a world where you have maturity
and established players.
Internationally, we're investing in diversiﬁcation. On one of the bullets in terms of the
lower margin in the European insurance entities – price comparison entities was around
investing in diversiﬁcation, and energy would be a case in point in France, for example,
where last month we launched an energy vertical. In Spain, we've launched recently a
mortgage vertical and a car buying and selling vertical. So, we are broadening the
product oﬀer in those markets where price comparison is still very much an emerging
phenomenon and where we're typically in leadership positions.
And then we'll go on forward.

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

Thanks. Edward Morris, JPMorgan. First question is just on the impact of weather. You told
us how much it cost you in the home business. But I wonder if you could indicate whether
there is any impact in Motor which the proﬁtability aﬀected the tone in the ﬁrst half in
weather?
And the second question is on the new ﬁnancing for loans business, the warehouse
arrangement that you have. Can you just explain how the economics of that work? Is there
a certain limit that it runs up to and ultimately is it something that you would look to
securitize or what is the (00:42:01)

Page 14 of 22



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-08-15

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

FINAL

On the loan part of the question, I think what would be valuable for our investors is a
deeper dive in the loans in general. And that's what Scott would deliver at the full year
results. So one of the important elements of that will be understanding the funding we
put in place and the options going forward. So forgive me if I defer the answer for six
months on that one.
The ﬁrst part of the question is around household? Sorry on non-household, yeah.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

(00:42:27) despite what we see on frequency Q1 2018 that's debt showing weather impact
and going forward, one. Thank you.

Q - Dominic O'Mahony

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. Dominic O'Mahony, Exane BNP Paribas. So two questions for me. First is on
the impact of commutations. This shows a negative impact during this period. I was
thinking about going forward. Clearly, 2017 is better than 2016. The 2017 also seems to be
quite a good year across the market. So two parts I guess it is. If 2017 improves by a point
or two, are you expecting to see a negative impact on computation of value?
And then more broadly going forward, should we get used to the idea of sort of small
negatives when you commute which then unwind into positive (00:43:19) in future years?
And then, my second question is just on (00:43:23) UK Car, 26 points is well above your
15% long-term ﬁgure. Could you just help us understand what that would have been
without the slight relaxation in ﬁgures (00:43:34)? I think this time – six months ago, you
told us it would have been more aligned with that long-term ﬁgure. Does that still hold?
Thank you.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Thomas mentioned that the reason we – community reinsurance is when we have the
option is (00:43:47) economic sense to do so. So, reinsurance is cheapest to us if we
could use it as early as we can. If we think there's enough headroom and the possibility of
underwriting it, then we'll choose to do that as soon as possible. What tends to happen is
when we book an underwriting, you're at loss-making point to earlier on (00:44:00). It
means that we're recognizing an accounting loss platform.
I think it's probably fair to assume that we will carry on doing that as long as our
underwriting years continue to look proﬁtable. And we will have this sort of £30-ish
million negative impact usually in H1, which then addresses the plan of the underwriting
year we released. So, I think there probably is a trend.
And on the reserve release – on non-reserve releases, I think 20%, you're right, is quite a
bit above the long-term average. We've reduced the size of the margin, while that we
understand that a certain release that have been closer to the long-term average but still
above (00:44:36).
Page 15 of 22



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-08-15

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

I think a question coming on the phone, I don't quite know how to accept it. But is there
any questions on the phone?

FINAL

Operator
The ﬁrst question from the telephone is from the line of James Shrink (sic) [James Shuck]
(00:44:51) of Citi. Please go ahead.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

It's James Shuck from Citi. Good morning, everybody. So, I had three questions, please.
Firstly, just on the Chase, the Munich Re agreement, that car insurance has been in place
for kind of 20 years plus, as long as I can remember. I'm just wondering why now has
been the time to change the allocation of the installment income so that you actually keep
that because that's obviously driven quite a high proportion and increasing the other
revenue per vehicle?

Bloomberg Transcript

Second question around claims inﬂation, just returning to the large bodily injury size. So,
you're saying there's a kind of uptick in the claims inﬂation from large BI. I've been
hearing that the propensity to PPO would actually fallen very sharply. And I would have
thought that would have been an oﬀsetting impact. So, could you just explain a little bit
about what's driving that negative development on large BI whether that a frequency
thing or severity side of things.
And then thirdly, just around your systems and capabilities, I guess we're really having an
update from where you are like in UK, mostly I'm referring to our UK Insurance, I should
say in terms of your kind of capability. So, are you moving to kind of more ﬂexible
products? Do you have things in the pipeline that can allow much more tailored approach
towards customers?
We know that there's a number of things in the pipeline from many of your competitors.
So, I'm just keen to know how far advance you are on that side of things, please? Thank
you.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Geraint, do you want to take – thank you, James. Do you want to take Munich Re, Geraint;
and Cristina, systems analyst PPO?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Good morning, James. On the Munich Re coinsurance contract has – you're quite right to
be the place for quite a long time since the early part in 2000. We've made a couple of
reasonably signiﬁcant changes to the arrangement over those years, which generally
move more the proﬁt to Admiral and away from Munich Re, which is our objective
because they're not in the room.

Page 16 of 22



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-08-15

FINAL

But the most recent change we made is to keep all of the installment income where
previously they kept their 40%. The – on the face of it, that sounds like a very dramatic
change. But actually, it means that we will less proﬁt commission back from Munich Re
because they learned best proﬁt. And so, the net overall impact of that is actually quite
small, positive to Admiral Group clearly. But that's the fact which line
in the income statement that change ﬂows through, i.e., more installment income, less
proﬁt commission. The overall change is not that material.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

As presumably large BI and...
In terms of large BO, I was talking about the trends for new large BO. So, essentially
frequency rather than severity. In terms of the PPO, I think we haven't seen large numbers
of PPOs. Anyway, they tend to be used in speciﬁc circumstances. But logically a lower
discount rate makes the lump sum option more favorable.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

In terms of systems, we completed our migration to the Guidewire system and it went
well. We don't talk more about it because it's been (00:48:00). As we said at the time, it
allowed us to launch new products but also to improve overall operations. And just to
give you a few examples. After the launch or the migration to Guidewire, we have been
able to launch MultiCover which allow us to sell several products under the same policy
and to price them together. We have also done a move to online (00:48:22) in the past
and Alistair was talking about the reductions in calls and that's partly because we have a
better system that allowed us to do these changes. So, overall, pleased with our system,
but is an area that we continue investing heavily and are always keen to improve.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Back to the room. So at the back row and then one in front. Yes, that one.

Q - Barrie Cornes

{BIO 2389115 <GO>}

Morning. Barrie Cornes at Panmure Gordon. I've got a couple of questions from me. First
of all, just wondered with the relatively good weather, whether or not you anticipate any
substance claims on the horizon on the Household book. And secondly with the
announcements the last couple of days, just wondered what your views were on M&A
within the sector (00:49:06) very happy to continue organic growth? Thank you.

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yes. We're mindful of the work given very unusual weather. I mean we had a weather
extreme followed by dry and hot summer, so we're going to keep a close eye with it. We
have seen smaller spikes in July but this is too early. Normally, we will tend to see this in
September and October. So it's a bit early to comment. We're keeping an eye.

Page 17 of 22



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-08-15

FINAL

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

And obviously interesting to see eSure bought out (00:49:39) you can tell to a hurried
change in one of our exhibit. I think it perhaps supports the view that the sector as a
whole is looking more and more interesting to sophisticated ﬁnancial investors. In terms
of our own growth plans, we've always grown organically. We don't dismiss the possibility
that we could buy something at some point particularly perhaps to accelerate the growth
of some of our secondary – common secondary products but we haven't come across
anything yet that we feel is an appropriate purchase.
One forward and then we'll go back to the very back.

Q - Thomas Seidl

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

Thanks. Thomas Seidl, Bernstein. First on Compare.com, you used to have (00:50:17). So I
have to ask you David. So can you explain how the competitiveness is increasing there
and how it inﬂuences your outlook for Compare.com given it seems to stagnate right
now?
Secondly, in the home, you just took out the £7 million events but clearly there must be a
normal weather ratio for this business. So what would be a normal level of weather losses
given you're much more diversiﬁed book right now? And then on large bodily injury. Can
you just give us how much in the current year reported losses large bodily injury claims
have gone up in percentage?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

So household weather, do you want to take that one Cristina?

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yes. So the £7.5 million that I was mentioning, the only thing certain because of this two
weather events that includes normal weather. And we normally don't give results split by
the diﬀerent (00:51:12)

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

So On BI, it's particularly too early to try and quantify something that is very volatile in
terms of numbers. And is it's very unpredictable in terms of ultimate cost. So, it would be
misleading to try and put a speciﬁc number on the pattern we've seen in the ﬁrst half of
2018 versus the ﬁrst half of 2017.
What was the other one? Compare. Yes. Sorry. Okay. Well, I think what you have is you
have a number of ways of driving business in the U.S. And particularly, the digital ways
like Google and buying leads, it's simply the supply and demand. And so, the cost of
being number one on Google or buying digital leads has increased in the U.S. market. So,
that's the short-term negative.

Page 18 of 22



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-08-15

FINAL

Long term, the whole thesis behind Compare is actually the top four are eating up this
market and they've just gone over 50% market share, and the other – you might say the
other 600 because there's a large number of insurers. But actually, the other – the next 30
are collectively moving share and that's because they can't compete in the marketing
context. Logically, Compare is a huge opportunity for them in the sense to core marketing
dollars and function in a way that lets them actually grow their businesses eﬃciently.
That will happen if they give us their prices across a number of states, and if they pay us
the revenue for sale that is the true reﬂection of the alternative cost of driving business.
So, their appetite for doing that I think it materially increased by the term in the cycle and
by the level of marketing aggression of some of the biggest players.

Q - Thomas Seidl

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

(00:53:01)

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

One follow-up?

Q - Thomas Seidl

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. (00:53:04) isn't there an issue that in the United States you have with Geico insurer
which is likely to undercut any price Compare.com can oﬀer. So as a customer, if I look for
the cheapest price, you don't have Geico on the platform so why would I go in the
platform?

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Well. I think that exaggerates Geico's overall competitors. I think oﬀ the top of my head,
their market share is low teens. Yes, they would be a great addition to the platform. But
when you take 20 insurers and put them up against Geico, you beat Geico as a material
percentage of the time. If you have one or two insurers against Geico, you're much less
likely to. So panel Brexit (00:53:49) is important.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Good morning. It's Andrew Crean, Autonomous. Three questions, please. Can I clarify on
some £30 million shortfall in ﬁrst half 2018 proﬁt versus ﬁrst half 2017 on the
commutations? Are you saying that that will be made up in the second half? I'm not sure I
totally understand the situation there.
Secondly, the slide you had on the expense ratio advantage I think 8 points was per
policy. How has that impacted if you throw the shared scheme costs in, and why shouldn't
you throw the share scheme costs in? So, they seem to be a fairly permanent part of P&L
taking up 10% of the proﬁts.
And then thirdly, on PCW, could you say whether you get any insights in your
underwriting from the PCW businesses that you have because they don't look as though

Page 19 of 22



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-08-15

they are substantial or will be substantial contributions to the P&L and best case and
strategy and why wouldn't one sell it?

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

FINAL

Do you want to do commutations?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Commutations. Hopefully, I didn't promise that £30 million would reverse fully in the
second half. What it does mean is that we've commuted all years up to and including
2016. And so, the reserve releases that will come from those years recently been
commuted will be bigger than they would have been otherwise. And so, you'll see a
release in H2 from 2016 almost inevitably that will now be bigger because we've done our
conversation. Whether all that £30 million comes back in the second half will depend on
how much we bring the 2016 loss ratio down.
The timing impact was the fact that we didn't do a commutation in the ﬁrst half of 2017. So,
there's a – if you compare like-for-like, there's a £30 million adverse in ﬁrst half of 2018.
What we did do in 2017 was the commutation is actually in the second half of the year
because the second half of 2017 was impacted adversely. So, one (00:55:46) full year
versus full-year you probably see a commutation 2017 and a commutation in 2018, and it'll
be more like-for-like if that makes sense.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

On the...
(00:55:55)...
On the proﬁt share, proﬁt shares run around 1.5% to 2% of turnover. We're not sure how
some of those payments are accounted for equivalent payments in other insurance and
whether they are included in the expense ratio. Clearly, there's transparency, and if
people want to take that cost and spread it across pro rata, they got the information to do
that.
In terms of price comparison, price comparison has been an important adjunct to our
core insurance business over the years helping us grow the opportunity in the UK initially
and subsequently abroad. And also, helping us have a deeper insight into the way the
consumer was behaving. And we value that over and above the P&L impact. Having said
that, it isn't as core as the businesses insurance and some of the diversiﬁcations into other
insurance lines and lending. And if people are – we – as Henry used to say, everything's
for sale apart from this wife. And I
I supposed I led my life through that.
Dhruv?

Page 20 of 22



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-08-15

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}

FINAL

Good morning. Dhruv Gahlaut, HSBC. Three questions. First, on the investment portfolio
as in – should we expect any changes from your – in the next 12 months? Secondly, you've
grown strongly in the motor segment. Has the risk changed materially and how should we
think of that for the second half?
And lastly, in terms of Compare.com, losses have been broadly ﬂat but could you say how
the revenues have done, as in have you seen, the peaks are done, revenues are done,
could you just draw some line there? Thanks.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Investment assets, you've got the breakdown at the back of the pack. It looks basically the
same as it did six months ago. I think we always look for options to try and not (00:58:03)
but I think there's still returns. And we continue to do that. I wouldn't expect radical
change.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

In the motor book, no signiﬁcant change.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

And in Compare, marginally up on the top line because we're not chasing the volume
buying loss-making businesses. We're saving our powder a bit until we've got what we
expect to be in prudent panel (00:58:25) later in the year or early next year, depending
on how quick (00:58:29) takes.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Sorry, I couldn't help it. What time do we need to stop (00:58:40)? We need to stop now.

Q - Philip Ross

{BIO 20618440 <GO>}

Okay. I'll make it very quick....

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

You got one question.

Q - Philip Ross

{BIO 20618440 <GO>}

Phi Ross from Berenberg. On UK household insurance, you mentioned the expense ratio
come down around 5 percentage points partly due to eﬃciencies. I wonder if there's any
speciﬁcs on that or whether it's driven partly by growth, partly by distribution as well?

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

No. It's a continuation of improvement. The bigger we get, the easier it takes to be more
eﬃcient.

Page 21 of 22



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2018-08-15

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

FINAL

So, there's one more. I promised one and then we're going to stop. I'm sorry about that.
Thank you. Good morning. (00:59:17). Just one point of clariﬁcation. You made it clear
that you're not going to look at excess capital return until you get the results from the PRA
back. So, that means even if we have a change of the Ogden rate and you have some
visibility that was potentially at H1 2019, there still will not be in excess capital turn until we
get the (00:59:39) from the PRA?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

The hypothetical situation you get in Ogden rate change which results in more capital.
Then it's likely we wouldn't hold on to that capital. But I wouldn't say that we were
radically below where we currently are until we get into (00:59:56) model currently. Does
that make sense?

Q - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Lovely.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Thank you for coming and see you in six months.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 22 of 22

