Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2018-10-24

Q3 2018 Earnings Call - Second
Company Participants
FINAL

Kjetil Ramberg Krøkje, Head-Investor Relations
Lars Aasulv Løddesøl, Group Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Odd Arild Grefstad, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Trond Finn Eriksen, Head of Economic Capital Management

Other Participants
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Matti Ahokas, Analyst
Peter D. Eliot, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Good afternoon, and welcome to Storebrand Analyst Conference Call. My name is Anna, I
will be your coordinator for today's conference. During this call, you will be on listening
only. However, in the end of this presentation, you will have the opportunity to ask
questions. I will now hand you over to Head of Investor Relations, Kjetil Krøkje, to begin
the call. Thank you.

Kjetil Ramberg Krøkje
Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to Storebrand's third
quarter 2018 conference call. My name is Kjetil Ramberg Krøkje, and I'm Head of Investor
Relations at Storebrand. Together with me, I have group CEO, Odd Arild Grefstad; CFO,
Lars Aa. Løddesøl; and Head of Economic Capital, Trond Finn Eriksen.
In the presentation today, Odd Arild will give an update on the developments in Q3. CFO,
Lars Løddesøl, will give an overview of the ﬁnancial developments and dig into some of
the more technical elements in the quarter. The slides will be similar to the analyst
presentation released this morning and are available on our webpage. After the
presentation, the operator will open up for questions. To be able to ask questions, you will
need to dial into the conference call. I will now leave the work to Storebrand's CEO, Odd
Arild Grefstad, who will start the presentation on slide 2.

Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Thanks, Kjetil. A warm welcome to our third quarter presentation, which happens to be on
the same day as the United Nations Day. The United Nations' 17 Sustainability (sic)
Page 1 of 10



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2018-10-24

FINAL

[Sustainable] (01:45) Development Goals provide a clear direction as to what future
society we wants to move towards. Reaching its goals will demand massive investments in
the years to come.
In Storebrand, we ﬁrmly believe that there is good money in sustainable investments.
That's why we invest in the companies that best meet these criterias and are best
positioned to create value going forward. Storebrand Global Solution is an investment
fund that exclusively invests in companies contributing to the UN Sustainability (sic)
[Sustainable] (02:23) Development Goals. The ﬁrm has performed well and manages
NOK 2.6 billion to date.
Then let's move to slide number 3 and the highlights from our third quarter. It is with
great satisfaction that I can announce a result of NOK 853 million and an operating proﬁt
of NOK 685 million. This is a 15% increase from the corresponding period last year and in
the year-to-date results of NOK 2.6 billion. The result is primarily driven by solid growth in
savings, combined with strong risk and insurance results and low operating costs. The
underlying solvency margin is strengthened with 3 percentage points in the quarter to
166%. Including transitional rules to traditional rules, the solvency margin is 169%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Following our improved capitalization and earnings generation, we were also pleased to
see a rating upgrade of Storebrand Life to A minus in the third quarter.
Then let's move to slide 4. At our Capital Markets Day in May, we introduced this picture
to illustrate our strategy. This is a continuation of our strategy for the last ﬁve years. But
(04:02) to reﬂect that we now have a strong balance sheet and are positioned for capital
released from the back-book in the coming years.
Growth within occupational pension and private savings drives the growth within asset
management. In addition, asset management growth is strengthened by winning external
mandates based on our good performance and administration and our position as a
leading asset manager on sustainability.
With that, let's move to slide 5. With our strategy in mind, let me start by addressing our
guaranteed back-book and its largest product paid up policies. It is a fact (04:47) that the
regulation in place today for managing paid up policies only (04:52) leads to loan risktaking and long returns of these culture of contracts.
On behalf of the Ministry of Finance, our working group recently proposed a set of
changes to these regulations in our report that partly explores several possible regulatory
improvements. We are very pleased with the proposal allowing for individual proﬁtability
per contract and the proposal allowing for more ﬂexibility in the buﬀers to cover negative
returns. This may enable higher pensions per contracts already under payment and
increased risk capacity for some contracts. These are good proposals by the working
group, but our stance is that there are good reasons to go even further in the regulatory
senses (05:46) to ensure better pensions for all policyholders.

Page 2 of 10



FINAL

Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2018-10-24

Let's move to slide 6. We see that the strong growth in the Savings segment continues.
Our core product, Unit Linked, which includes occupational deﬁned contribution pension
in both Norway and Sweden, grew by 18% compared to the third quarter in 2017. We also
see good returns in these segments relative to our competitors and sales are good. Asset
under management continues to grow by 16% since the third quarter last year. Growth
within insurance continues to be low, but the proﬁtability is very good. Steps have been
taken to increase sales going forward. Our bank has had a positive development with 11%
volume growth in retail loans during the past year. These loans have been booked under
life insurance balance sheet.
Moving to slide 7, the pace of the excess (06:57) development in Skagen is good. Skagen
are launching an extended version of their equity savings account platform ASK, with the
widest health oﬀering in the Norwegian market, with a total of 600 funds. The oﬀer is
strengthened by recommending our shortlist of 20 to 30 funds selected by our awardwinning selection chief. With this, Skagen is perhaps providing the strongest and most
customer-friendly ASK platform in the market.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to slide 8, one of the best ﬁrms in this platform is our very own Storebrand
Multifactor, our factor ﬁrm that systematically tracks for well-known documented factors.
The ﬁrm's asset under management has grown to over NOK 20 billion and had shown
(07:51) to a yearly outperformance of 1.3%. In 2017, Morningstar named it the best
Norwegian global equity ﬁrm.
And ﬁnally, slide 9. Our digitalization is continuing with undiminished strength. A good
example of this is the newly launched chatbot in SPP Gajda. Gajda is a chatbot that
provides businesses with a tool to communicate pension in a charming and engaging
manner to the employees. Recently, the Swedish Pensions Authority awarded Gajda with
the award for the most innovative solution for providing information on pension.
And with that, I give the the word to Lars

Lars Aasulv Løddesøl
Thank you, Arild (08:43). Starting on page 10, key ﬁgures. The group result of NOK 853
million and operating result of NOK 685 million reﬂects a good quarter for Storebrand.
The results includes two items that reduced the reported costs by a total of NOK 40
million. The ﬁrst item is linked to reversed performance dynamics (00:09:07) caused by
weak relative performance in some of our largest funds.
I do have to point out, however, that the fourth quarter looks far better so far, and the ﬁnal
performance fees to the group and to the portfolio managers would be concluded at year
end. The other item that reduced the costs in the quarter is the disruption compensation –
distribution compensation that reduced the costs within P&C Insurance. This is a one-oﬀ
item. The two elements are classiﬁed as special items and sum up to NOK 40 million. The
ﬁnancial items and risk results life are good and are supported by satisfactory returns in
the company portfolios and a good risk result from paid up policies.

Page 3 of 10



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2018-10-24

FINAL

Earnings per share are down primarily as a consequence of higher tax charges in the
quarter. I will revert to this in a moment. Solvency has been further strengthened and we
have continued to be the ﬁrst to be able to handle potential market volatility.
Moving over to page 11, three main factors explain the development in the solvency ratio
in Q3. Every year in the third quarter, we have a true (10:17) revision of our assumptions,
both operational, ﬁnancial and actuarial. There are a number of smaller assumption
changes that sums up to the negative 1.4 percentage point.
The main contributor to the change is a downward revision of the assumptions for paid up
policies to convert to any policies with investment charges. Second, interest rates of
approximately or increased interest rates of approximately 15 basis points in Norway and
Sweden is a main contributor behind the 3.2 percentage point increase from market
movements, decreasing the value of liabilities more than the value of the assets. In
addition, strong equity markets have increased the buﬀer capital.
And third, the results for the third quarter have been good and contributes with another
2.8 percentage points to the solvency position before deduction of 50% of the result to
future dividends. So that means 1.4% in the table (11:19).

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving over to the following page, the most signiﬁcant change for the last quarter is that
we no longer have any eﬀect from the transitional rules on technical provisions. This is
due to increased interest rates and decreased value of liabilities in the Solvency II balance
sheet. It is important to remember that if interest rates were to go lower again, Storebrand
will automatically turn into the transitional arrangement for technical provisions.
Hence, the solvency position, including transitionals for the interest rate sensitivity, on a
50 basis points interest rate drop, is largely unchanged. For all other sensitivities reported
here, we do not expect suﬃciently large eﬀects to trigger the transitional arrangement for
technical provisions again. The sensitivities are more or less of the same magnitude as
reported last quarter.
And then over to page 13. The growth in fee and administration income was 5.8% year-todate, adjusted for the acquisition of Skagen and currency movements. As you're well
aware, the Guaranteed Products are in long-term runoﬀ. Therefore, the growth in the
actively sold products must make up both for margin pressure and rental (12:37) products.
The growth in actively sold products from the premises was 9.3% year-to-date on a
comparable basis.
There were somewhat lower trading revenues from asset management in the third
quarter, partly explaining the ﬂattish development in revenues between the second
quarter and the third quarter. We expect these revenues to pick up towards the end of the
year.
The insurance results are still good with a combined ratio of 81%. We see overall low
tranche and some runoﬀ gains, primarily from improvements in Disability.

Page 4 of 10



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2018-10-24

FINAL

I mentioned of the key ﬁgures that we have reversal of cost amounting to NOK 40 million
in the quarter. Furthermore, the third quarter has seasonally lower costs due to the
summer and lower marketing. Nevertheless, we still see strong underlying cost control at
(13:33) delivery on our ambitious cost targets.
The ﬁnance items and risk result life are strong. This is lifted by an unusually strong
Disability result from paid up policies at NOK 91 million in the quarter. Going forward, we
expect the contribution from paid up policy risk result to be in the order of NOK 50
million per quarter, up from NOK 0.00 historically.
For the third quarter, we have a calculated tax charge of 30%. Year-to-date, the tax charge
is estimated at 21% in line with our previous guidance. The higher tax rate in the third
quarter is caused by periodic eﬀects and technical factors. We continue to expect the tax
rate around 20%. The taxes are non-payable due to large tax loss carry forwards.
And with that, I conclude my part of the presentation and give the ﬂoor back to you, Kjetil.

Kjetil Ramberg Krøkje
Thank you. The operator will now open it up for our Q&A, please.

Q&A

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Thank you. And we do have one question that's coming through already, and that's from
Peter Eliot from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please, go ahead. Your line is now open.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thanks very much. I have three questions, please, if I may. First one is on insurance. You
commented that the result beneﬁted from some runoﬀ gains. Just wondering if you can
quantify those and say where they came from? And the second thing was on solvency
sensitivities, I mean, as you say they are not very diﬀerent quarter-on-quarter but
compared to last quarter, they do seem less symmetric, and the upside in the with ratio
has disappeared, especially on the sort of interest rate sensitivity. So, I mean, if I look at
that sensitivity and the upside on the with seems to disappear, whereas the without now
4.9 points (15:37) drop from 6 points. Just wondering if you could explain what was
happening there?
And maybe thirdly, I was interested in Gajda and your comments there as well. Is that
chatbot now sort of fully up and running? And I'm just wondering whether you can share
with us any sort of ﬁnancial implications? I mean, it's probably maybe too small and too
early, but any comments would be useful. Thank you.

A - Lars Aasulv Løddesøl
Page 5 of 10



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2018-10-24

FINAL

Okay. Let me start with insurance. On the runoﬀ gains, we typically don't give you an exact
number of this, because this is a number of diﬀerent product lines and we have certain
runoﬀ gains and we also have certain runoﬀ losses in other lines. But, as I said broadly, the
development in Disability has been positive and when we have a positive development in
Disability, you have three basic eﬀects.
You have one eﬀect that the number of disabled person in the quarter is less than you
expected previously, so you have a gain from that. Secondly, when you have an
improvement in the economy like we have in Norway now, people that were disabled in
the past that are getting well again and get back into the workforce, you can release some
of the reserves set aside for their disability, that's called reactivation. And thirdly, when
you look forward, you expect somewhat lesser disability and put aside less reserve for the
future, because you see this positive trend. So, these three elements give a positive
impact in the quarter and in the year-to-date, but it's diﬃcult to quantify exactly what is
unusual and what is the normal variation.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Trond Finn Eriksen

{BIO 17132188 <GO>}

Hi, Peter. When it comes to the sensitivities, I think, yeah, most of the sensitivities, with the
exception of interest rates going down, it's more or less the same level as the previous
quarters. What we have seen is that the sensitivities to interest rates without transitional
rules have changed a bit over time. The reason this quarter is somewhat technical and are
attached to risk margin. I'm not going in details on that. The other element is what Lars
had said was assumption change that we have had a revision of how many that are
converting from paid up policies to paid up policies with investment choice. And taking
that assumption down, that gives us somewhat deduction (18:19) sensitive to the interest
rates going down again.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Okay. And talking about Gajda, I think most importantly with Gajda is that we chose that
expertise (18:31) when it comes to the transition in the market. And we can also see that, as
we'd have an eﬀect in the Swedish market, whereas the key on gaining market share is
very strong growth in the sales and transfer balances compared to last year.
Saying that, Gajda in itself is now taken up by, very short time by more than 15 (18:58)
customers, and there is – well, some more payments for using this because it's employer
that shows this to the employees, so they are using this as a tool of making pension being
more transparent. But I don't think we will expect to see these numbers coming very
much through in the results. That's more about the total competition in the market,
whereas to be a really (19:25-19:30).

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thank you, Odd. Could I come back quickly just on the solvency? I mean I guess, I mean,
it's being commented before on calls that we've seen a bit of a trend of negative
Page 6 of 10



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2018-10-24

modeling and it features sensitivities as well, just wondering are you able to give us any
numbers about what your assumptions are on the conversion of the paid ups?

A - Trond Finn Eriksen

{BIO 17132188 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah, the assumption also revised downwards from 1% of the reserves annually to 0.5
percentage point or 0.5 percentage annually in conversion.

A - Lars Aasulv Løddesøl
Just remember, Peter, that we had the revision on all the diﬀerent assumptions in the
model, so this was but one of them. So we can hardly go through all of the diﬀerent
assumptions and models, but this was the most important one in making the diﬀerence in
this quarter.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Sure. Okay, thank you very much.

Operator
The next questions come from Matti Ahokas from Danske Bank. Please, go ahead. Your
line is now open.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

Yes, good afternoon. Two questions, please. Firstly, on the cost side the nominal ﬂat cost
target towards 2020, should we assume this would be kind of the cost in the diﬀerent
business segments would be at the same levels or how will this move, in your opinion,
towards 2020? Are we going to see cost increases in some segments and decreases in
others? And then the other question is regarding Lars mentioned that Q4 looks better.
The markets have been super turbulent in Q4. So, I was bit wondering and how come that
looks better and, also, as an outsider, is there any way of kind of tracking some of the
funds? How could we kind of assume that if you can – if you will be able to book the proﬁt,
proﬁt share in the fourth quarter, what are the sensitivities there? Thanks.

A - Lars Aasulv Løddesøl
I'll start quickly on the cost side. We guided on roughly 950 a quarter as nominally ﬂat
cost for the group, that is excluding any lags, lag settlements (00:21:50) from proﬁt
sharing if there is a superior return in Skagen or in the management that needs some
bonuses. And then, when it comes to – on a segment base level, there it's not on a
segment level. We will probably still see costs in the Guaranteed business go down over
time and somewhat more cost can be allocated to other areas.
I think it's important to just like emphasize that having ﬂexibility in cost allocation and
redistribution of resources in a company like ours, and any other company as well, is a key
competitive factor. I mean if you want to stay competitive, you need to develop with the
market and you need to reallocate resources to where you have proﬁtability and growth

Page 7 of 10



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2018-10-24

FINAL

or where you want great growth. So, it's very important to say that this is not static, but we
work within a total limitation set by the objectives set out at the Capital Markets Day.
Second, on performance in the fourth quarter, I did not say that the fourth quarter markets
are such fruit bearer (22:58), because you certainly interpret them (22:59). I said that
performance in the main funds looks better so far in the fourth quarter. And if you go into
Skagen funds (00:23:08), you can follow the performance on each one of the funds on a
daily basis, both on absolute terms and relative terms, and that will give you an indication
as to the development.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

So, basically you're saying, Lars, that the Skagen fund, the absolute performance has
been great, but the relative performance has been better in Q4?

A - Lars Aasulv Løddesøl
That's correct.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Next question comes from Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan. Please, go ahead. Your line is
now open.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah. Hi, good afternoon. Just one question on Skagen again, I mean, you mentioned that
fourth quarter relative performance looks okay and in the ﬁrst three quarters, I think you
mentioned outperformance of 1.5% or something. So, I mean all together, how should we
think about the fee revenue that – additional fee revenue that you'd be booking at one go
in fourth quarter? So, any thoughts on that would be great.
And secondly, if I look at your capital generation, it used to be around, say, 1.5% in past
net of dividend and in this quarter it was 1.4%. So, how much of this is just rounding error
and how much of that is some drop quarter-on-quarter?

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Well, maybe I should start on Skagen. I think, ﬁrst of all, last year you saw that Skagen had
a performance quite closer to the real premium basis and that gave – I believe it's given
the result of around NOK 200 million in the last quarter. This year it's been
underperformance in the main incomes (25:03) so far, and a quite signiﬁcant
underperformance in the third quarter, leading to a situation where we reduced the cost
for the PMs in the third quarter. And if we have to close the group cap at third quarter,
that would be a total of NOK 53 million in performance fees. So, that gives you so much

Page 8 of 10



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2018-10-24

FINAL

range here. While I must say bad quarter when it comes – or bad news so far when it
comes to performance, a NOK 50 million in performance fee will be good.
And then you have the range up to, well, quite a normal situation than when you have a
performance like (00:25:46) indexes, and you'll have NOK 200 million of cut cost (25:49)
if you can really perform as we intend to do out far (25:55). On top of that, going forward,
you will have absolutely also an uplift from that level. It's not what we expect for the
portfolio.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

On solvency generation, we have said that we expect to create 10 percentage points from
operational earnings each year before dividends. With 1.4% after dividends, we're a little
bit higher than that level with approximately 12 percentage points run rate a year. So, I
guess we are broadly in line with the guidance given.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay. Perfect. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, there's nobody to queue at the moment. Thank you. There is no
further questions coming through, so we'll hand the call back to you. Thank you.

A - Odd Arild Grefstad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

We just want to say, thank you for everyone for joining the call and also, please feel free to
reach out to us if you have any further questions. So, with that, we would like to wish all a
nice afternoon. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you for joining today's conference. You may now replace your handsets to end this
call. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
Page 9 of 10



Company Name: Storebrand ASA
Company Ticker: STB NO Equity
Date: 2018-10-24

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 10 of 10

