Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

Q4 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Giulio Terzariol, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Oliver Bäte, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Oliver Schmidt, Head-Investor Relations

Other Participants
Andrew J. Ritchie, Analyst
Andy Hughes, Analyst
Farooq Hanif, Analyst
James A. Shuck, Analyst
Michael Huttner, Analyst
Nick Holmes, Analyst
Paul De'Ath, Analyst
Peter D. Eliot, Analyst
Vinit Malhotra, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

William Hawkins, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Allianz Conference Call on the Financial Results
2017. For your information, this conference is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to your host today, Mr. Oliver Schmidt, Head
of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

Thank you, Tiﬀany. Yeah. Good afternoon from my side as well and welcome to our
conference call. As you know, we have two presenters today. Oliver will kick it oﬀ and
share his assessment of our result, and after that, Giulio will explain the numbers in detail.
We intend to keep it brief and to close the call after 90 minutes. Therefore, without any
further ado, I hand over directly to Oliver.

Oliver Bäte

Page 1 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

FINAL

Yeah. Good afternoon, everybody. Thank you for joining on a Friday afternoon. Oliver told
me to be quick and crisp. So since you have all the slides in front of you, I'll try to hit the
highlights. I'll start on page A2 with the overall numbers that we've had and I'd like to
highlight a few of them. You are all aware that we are still battling declining interest rates
in our investment portfolios that we had to deal with, probably the strongest NatCat year
in our history as an industry and regulation.
What I think some people haven't had on their mind, or at least not in the spreadsheets,
was the development of the U.S. dollar which weakens signiﬁcantly as you will see later in
a number of ways that is aﬀecting us not just in 2017 but also again in 2018. So, please
bear that in mind.
We have worked very hard to put our capital and our investors' capital productive use,
and the market has nicely rewarded us for that. Thank you very much. Capitalization is,
with 229%, very strong and we are therefore in the position to increase dividend per share
to €8. That is 5% up and in line with what we've been telling you since November of 2015,
that we want to grow earnings and dividends per share by 5% on a CAGR basis.

Bloomberg Transcript

And I think, again, a few people didn't have on their mind that we're sticking to our 50%
payout ratio. But given the fact that by the AGM, we will have bought enough shares to go
to 8% and still stick to the 50% payout ratio.
We are in the process of executing the second share buyback, the €2 billion over the ﬁrst
quarter, and hope to be done by April. This program will be executed. I think there were
some concerns that M&A or so would disturb that, that we may stop the buyback. We will
not stop the buyback and fully execute it. And that's why it's consistent with the €8
dividend per share proposal to the supervisory board, who's supporting it and then to the
AGM.
Now, just a quick – a few – a quick look at the highlights, A3. We are very proud of our
colleagues that they have weathered the NatCat season very strongly. We've turned
around the LatAm business after ﬁve years, and the results are very good and, by the way,
continuously to grow better.
And we are now the third-largest P&C insurer in the United Kingdom with a very
innovative joint venture that we have formed with LV, strengthening our direct business in
the group and particularly strengthening our focus on client. LV is the brand with the
highest customer loyalty in the United Kingdom. There's a lot that we can learn for our
customer satisfaction journey.
On the Life and Health side, really resounding success. We are close to achieving our
target for 2018 already. In 2017, the value of new business is up 30%, and the new
business margin is 3.4% despite, again, as I said, the decline in the eﬀective earned rates.
Asset Management had more than €150 billion third-party net ﬂows. Our AUMs have
reached the highest ever level, and that is despite the exchange rate eﬀect that was

Page 2 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

FINAL

exceeding €100 billion negative and cost income ratio has improved by 1.5 times, so really
outstanding results.
Let's look at A4, that gives you a little bit overview of what the industry losses were €100
billion when you just take four ones we've mentioned here and the Allianz sharing that
was negligibly small even the largest one in terms of our market share, 1.7%. That's
actually partially due, I think, to some of the reminiscence that we still have from the old
Fireman's Fund portfolio. The rest has been far below our market share and I can only
congratulate the colleagues for good underwriting here.

Bloomberg Transcript

Page A5 gives you a view in which we've deliberately taken 2013 as a starting point
because this was when we really launched the program and that accelerated in 2015. At
that time, we still had more than half of our new business production in traditional
product with signiﬁcant long-term guarantees on the interest rate side – not just Tom
Wilson, who doesn't like them, I don't like them either. So we've got to work and now we
have 76% of our new business production and the products that we'd like to be in. Again,
targets for this year, it's 80%, I'm very comfortable that our colleagues will achieve that.
And more importantly, we have translated that into higher new business values, 30%
above the 2016 level, which was already more than 25% up from prior year.
Now, on Asset Management, a fantastic story. Thank you both colleagues in PIMCO and in
AGI. A6 gives you the picture, it looks really beautiful like we had designed it for this
chart. You have sort of the last time negative ﬂows in the second quarter of 2016, and we
have broken the waterline (00:05:47) in the third quarter of 2016 already and then
consistently had very strong ﬂows. Again, we will talk about it a little later. Also the ﬁrst
two months of 2018 are very positive.
In line with that is the development of the three-year outperformance versus benchmarks,
and again, congratulations, 91% outperformance is a spectacular number. And with the
ﬂows obviously and the eﬃciency programs that we had launched, you'll also see the
result in improving margin. I think we're one of the few places in our industry where you
actually not just have very strong ﬂows. I would bet that in the active management arena
you will hardly ﬁnd any other company with a strong level of ﬂows, but also really driving
productivity up.
Now, that leads me to page A7, capital. We have had that in over the last two years. And
we have the aim to return over this year more than €5.4 billion in cash that makes since in
2013, €23 billion in cash returned to our shareholders. That's dividend plus share
buybacks and includes obviously our dividend and the program that we have running.
While at the same time, our Solvency has improved consistently. And that's also no small
feat because we did not know how the implementation and introduction of Solvency II in
2016 would work. We had a number of additional challenges, whether that's the volatility
adjusted changes and other things that are constantly going against our Solvency. But I
can only tell you that our colleagues have worked very hard, and the Solvency is strong.

Page 3 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

FINAL

Now, it has to be strong and has to remain strong, and I'd like to mention that because we
have a very cautious outlook. Everybody is back partying because equity markets are
stabilizing. We have to be very cautious for the outlook because, as central banks have to
normalize policies as interest rates in the U.S. have to go up to balance inﬂation, there will
be disruptions. We said that in the last few weeks, and therefore, and therefore we are
remaining in the cautious side and protecting our balance sheet.
Now, we're not just using our money for buybacks, page A8, it shows you that we do
something else with it. Most of that is bolt-on, whether that's buying of the Euler
minorities or investing in the joint venture we have with LV and a couple of other things
that we've done last year.

Bloomberg Transcript

We'd also like to reiterate the point that it's not just about investing, it's also about
disinvesting or divesting and we have ﬁnally sold OLB. We got a portfolio in Allianz
Taiwan out at least in terms of agreeing with the buyer and we exited the General
Insurance business in Korea.
So overall, we have invested about €3 billion for external growth. And just to say that we
are in the business of growing our business not shrinking it to that, therefore we'd like to
invest more in our core business. However, the prerequisites, ladies and gentlemen, are
that we earn a decent return on these investments and the continuous questions that we
get, why are you not buying anything larger is not for that the fact that we're not looking,
but given the very high valuations in equity markets, any acquisition at a larger scale
needs to absolutely make strategic sense, but as important it is, it needs to make sense for
our shareholders. When you look at the buyback, we know that it's an implicit sort of cost
of capital of 9%. So we need to really compare an acquisition with the impact of a
buyback. And we are doing that just be rest assured. We will not waste our shareholders'
money.
Now, when you go to A9, the delivery are against our targets has been very consistent
through all the years that you see on this page. And by the way, the €300 million
overachievement for 2017 is understated. If you take the FX eﬀect into account, it would
have been €300 million larger and that's despite the fact that the euro swap rate for 10
years is still at a very low point. So, we have been able to drive proﬁts up with very low
volatility in an environment that was far from being benign.
Because we have been able to do that, and please turn to A10 now, we believe we are
going to get to our targets as we have said. We have said we want an ROE of 13%; now
you say, well, it's only 11.8% for the year. This is a very sensitive number to very small
changes particularly due to the fact that capital moves around in the accounting terms
aﬀects us. For example, one of them, it was 12.2% adjusted for the OLB disposal, and we
are pretty conﬁdent that we are going to or very close to the 13% which is an outstanding
number given the fact that our cost of equity has been reduced to 9%.
The second thing is earnings per share growth. We said we would like to have a 5%
CAGR. We are very conﬁdent to get to this number as we are for dividends per share.

Page 4 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

FINAL

There's another 5% that we have to deliver in 2018, and again, we are highly conﬁdent
that we are going to deliver that.
Now, what is the outlook? What are we working on? I think some of you may be interested
in what are we working on. We have, by and large, completed our turnaround, our
colleagues in AGCS are still working hard on the integration of Fireman's Fund that will
take until about 2020 to get to the right proﬁtability levels. But, by and large, in the P&C
portfolio, we're done with turnarounds. The 94% combined ratio, Giulio will talk about it,
is very much in reach because the attritional loss ratio is really improving NatCat and large
losses.
So what are we having to do going forward? We have a transformation job to do now. We
have worked on digital innovation in the last two-and-a-half years. What becomes crystalclear is that digital is not a sideway or something extra, it has to be introduced into the
core business. And we now need to dramatically simplify our products, processes, and
business models and take the technology to achieve much more simple product and
services for our clients and have to be more reliable. And that's why we're looking at
customer centricity as the number one priority in our Renewal Agenda.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the Life and Health side, the business shift change is proceeding as expected. We are
continuously working on the in-force management. But given our level of new business
proﬁtability, we would like to grow further. 2017 was the year where we again grew in Life,
not just new business value, but also revenues, and that we would like to continue now
that we are working in the right race car, and we would like to accelerate for the future.
Asset Management, the PIMCO turnaround is complete. Allianz GI cost/income ratio has
further improved, so again, here, the story is around continued proﬁtable growth. And a
lot of people are saying, yeah, with wobbly markets, can you do that? We believe actually
that active asset management will prove in a crisis, or not prove, but we believe Allianz
will prove that it's better to be having an active management partner.
And that's particularly true for ﬁxed income because the worst you can do is buy a passive
product when interest rates rise because the only thing you do then is lock in a loss. And
so we believe it's a huge opportunity for PIMCO to show its diﬀerentiation.
Now, on capital, let me reiterate. I think we have optimized capital and cash generation.
We have a very attractive dividend policy. At the current level, it's about 5% dividend
yield. Just think about that, and I think that the markets have not really internalized
Allianz's ability and willingness to continuously grow its dividend.
Now, people may say, in a rising interest rate environment, is that really attractive? It's
highly attractive because I tell you it's not so clear how and when interest rates will rise
and whether they will actually compensate for the proper increase in inﬂation, while in
Allianz, you get that baked in.
So very attractive investment, and we'll make sure that whatever we do, whether that's
organic or inorganic, we make our cost of capital, we make the appropriate spreads to
Page 5 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

grow the value of the company. So, Oliver, is that – was that quick enough?

Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

FINAL

That was perfect. Thank you.

Oliver Bäte
Very good. Then I'll hand over to Giulio, and we are ready for your questions thereafter.

Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Perfect. Thank you, Oliver, and good afternoon to everybody. I will go ﬁrst through the
fourth quarter results and then speak more in details about the results for the full year
2017. If you go to page B3, you can see the key indicators for our fourth quarter.
We had a good fourth quarter performance, although some of the minus signs on this
slide might not give that impression. But I'd like to give you some perspective. When you
take the operating proﬁt of €2.8 billion, you annualize €2.8 billion, you get to more than
€11 billion of operating proﬁt, which is above the midpoint of the outlook that we had for
2017.

Bloomberg Transcript

Also there were two eﬀects which are aﬀecting the comparison to the prior period. First of
all, the FX development has been in our disfavor, and this has impacted our operating
proﬁt compared to the last year by €100 million.
And also, if you remember, in the ﬁrst quarter 2017 we did a restatement for Allianz Life.
That restatement caused in the fourth quarter of 2016 a positive one-time eﬀect of €140
million. So if you adjust for these two eﬀects, you can also see that the performance in the
fourth quarter 2017 is very much in line with the performance of 2016.
Also when you look at the operational KPIs, you can see that they are improving. This is
clear for the new business margin. This applies to the cost income ratio. But even the
combined ratio is improving, you'll see on this slide a deterioration of 50 basis points. The
reality is if you adjust the combined ratio for the impact of natural catastrophe, there is an
improvement of 1%.
Finally, on the shareholders' net income, we have the impact coming from the disposal of
OLB and also we have the impacts coming from the tax reform in the United States. So all
in all, when you look at the performance of our fourth quarter and you adjust for some
special eﬀects, this is again a picture of resilience and good performance.
Moving to page B5, we see here the main KPIs for the full year 2017. I'd like to highlight
that we were able to grow our revenue by 5% which was driven by Life/Health and Asset
Management. On the operating proﬁt, you can see that we were able to close the year in

Page 6 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

FINAL

the upper half of the range. And this is by the natural catastrophe that has impacted the
industry in 2017. So that's a very good result.
Also if you look at a comparison between 2017 and 2016, we had a negative impact due to
currency translation of €140 million. So when you look at the product of this operating
proﬁt in 2017 is very high. On the shareholder net income, you see a reduction of 2%. This
is predominantly driven by restructuring expenses. I'm going to come back later on this
topic.
On the EPS, you can see they are generally ﬂat. And if we adjust the EPS number for the
numbers of shares that we have at the end of the year, instead of using average, the EPS is
€16.5, and this will also explain our dividend per shares of €8 which has increased by 5%
compared to the level that we had last year.
Moving to page B7, we can see the development of our Solvency ratio. It has improved by
11 percentage points. I'm going to come back on the Solvency ratio development in the
slide. On the shareholder equity, you can see there was a drop of €1.5 billion. This is all
driven by the impact out of the ﬁxed rate.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the sensitivity, they are relatively unchanged compared to the sensitivities you saw in
the third quarter except for the sensitivity to enough movement on the interest rates
which went down from plus 8% to plus 2%, but in general, the picture is consistent with
the sensitivities that you saw in the third quarter.
Moving to page B9, we can see here the development of their own fund and also the
capital requirements. When we look at the main drivers, we had several changes in the
models, and these are explaining 9 percentage points of the improvement in Solvency
ratio. The main change was due to the introduction of negative interest rates. The
business evolution, if you take out taxes and dividend, has contributed about 16
percentage points to the improvement of the Solvency ratio.
Then the market impact has been very positive. We had a situation last year where interest
rates in Europe went up. The spread had been narrowing. The markets were, in general,
favorable. So, all kinds of things have moved in the right direction. This explains why we
got also some positive impact from the market development.
Under the section, Capital Management, you'll see the impact from share buybacks,
dividend accrual, and also the impact of the acquisitions like increasing the stake in Euler
Hermes, the acquisition of the LV that we completed at the end of 2017. And ﬁnally, tax
and other is simply the taxes and plus we had some transferability restriction (00:20:55)
which apply to these calculation.
Some indication for the future. So our Solvency ratio is clearly very high, 229%. We are
expecting a couple of negative impacts in the ﬁrst quarter. One is coming from changing
the way we are treating the deduction and aggregation for Allianz Life. This is going to
impact us by 3 percentage point. Also, we have the change in the UFR. This is going to
impact us by 1 percentage point.
Page 7 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

FINAL

And then also, we are anticipating that, somehow during the year, we are going to get an
impact out of the tax reform in the United States, and we think this impact might be about
3 percentage points. So, I like you to keep this in mind as you draw your consideration
about our Solvency level.
If we go to page B11, we go now into the discussion of our Property/Casualty segment.
You can see a growth rate of 2.3% and in general you can see also that most of our
companies have been able to post a positive growth rate, there are just a couple of
exceptions, but in general we have a good picture in the same sort of growth that we
have been able to achieve.
Even more important is the outlook for 2018 and right now we think that the rate changes
we're going to see moving into 2018 that will be either stable or positive so this is
fundamentally a benign outlook as we go into 2018.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to page B13, you can see the development of the operating proﬁt by drivers and
also you can see the combined ratio development. The combined ratio has deteriorated
by 90 basis points. This is, however, driven by the impacts or the natural catastrophe.
Indeed, if you do a calculation where you adjust the combined ratio for the natural
catastrophe and also for the run-oﬀs, so if you go to a sort of excellent year combined
ratio adjusted for catastrophe, you can see that there was an improvement of 40 basis
points compared to the prior period.
We always do our normalization of the combined ratio where we adjust the combined
ratio for the diﬀerential within the actual cat losses and our average expectation. We
adjust the combined ratio for actual run-oﬀ to what we think is a mid or long-term
expectation and also we adjust the combined ratio for the impact of weather related and
large losses.
When we do this normalization, our combined ratio has improved compared to the prior
period and it is slightly north of 94.5%. So now the question is how we go from 94% –
95%-plus to 94%. 30 basis points will come from the expense ratio. We are very
committed to reduce our expense ratio from 28.7% to 28.4%, and the other 30 basis
points that we need to gather will come from underwriting discipline. And as I was talking
before, also the environment seems to be rather benign. So, we are conﬁdent that we're
going to get to the 94% combined ratio in 2018.
Moving to page B15, this is more for your eyes. You can see here the operating proﬁt
development of the diﬀerent company and also the combined ratio. In general, you'll see
that the majority of the companies had a positive performance. There are a couple of
exceptions like Germany or AGCS in that case, these two companies have been aﬀected
by natural catastrophe. And also, in the case of Germany weather-related losses; in the
case of AGCS, there were some large losses more than at least expect in our plan. But
overall, I think it is a strong picture.
You should keep in mind there are not many companies in the insurance industry
Property/Casualty that have had these kind of results. And despite 2007 having been
Page 8 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

FINAL

costliest year for the insurance industry in cat losses, we were able to keep the
performance of the segments within the target range. So I believe this is a strong
achievement for our Property/Casualty segment.
Going to page B17, you can see the development of the investment results which has
been relatively ﬂat, if you want. So there was just a decrease of about €65 million. What
happened here? Clearly, we are still suﬀering from the decrease in interest rates. But on
the other side, our investment income on equity has partially compensated for that. So
the development that you see in 2017 has been relatively benign and, indeed, a little bit
above of our expectation.
Now, we can go into the Life/Health segment. In the Life business, our production went
up about 4%. This is something diﬀerent compared to what we saw in 2016. In 2016, as we
were trying to change the business mix, our production went down compared to the level
of 2016. Now, you can see that we are capable to change our mix and also to get growth
into the system. When you combine this growth with an improvement in margin of 70
basis points, the result is that the new business value is going up by 30%.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the quality of the business, as you know, we have a target to achieve 80% of
production in capital-light products. This is a target for 2018. We are now 76%. Last year,
we were at 72%. So, you can see there is an improvement, and we are conﬁdent that by
2018, we are going to get to our target of 80%.
Moving to page B21, you'll see the operating proﬁt for the Life segment. That's €4.4 billion
operating proﬁt, which is record proﬁt for the Life segment and also above the target
range. When you look at the waterfall by proﬁt sources, you see a lot of movements.
In the case of the loadings and fees, this is driven by Asia and also by production of unitlinks. The investment margin, which is negative by about €400 million compared to the
2016 level is driven entirely by the United States where we had the impact of the
restatement that I was mentioning before. There was about €120 million.
And then we had also a combination of unlocking and hedging eﬃciency, and this is a
swing between 2016 and 2017. In 2016, the hedging eﬃciency and the unlocking were
positive. In 2017, they had been on the other side. So, when you combine, you see a little
bit of a swing, which is however partially compensated in other proﬁt sources like in the
technical margin, you see there is an improvement of over €200 million. Allianz Life is
contributing €180 million of those €220 million. So, there is a little bit also of geography
going on.
Bottom line is that we have achieved an operating proﬁt, €4.4 billion. I believe, a few years
ago, nobody would have believed that the Life segment could contribute this kind of
performance.
Moving to page B23, you see again the picture of our value of new business margin,
operating proﬁt by the diﬀerent companies. When you look at value of new business, you
see that there are just the plus signs. So, that's not only a good growth at the group level.
Page 9 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

FINAL

But basically all entities are contributing to the growth in value of new business. I'd like
also to highlight Asia which is now contributing to our value of new business in a
signiﬁcant way. And after Germany and U.S.A, Asia is our third largest contributor to our
value of new business.
Just one word on the U.S.A., since we talked so much about Allianz Life in the previous
slides. When you look at the operating proﬁt in 2017, it's pretty much in line with the 2016
operating proﬁt. Indeed, if you put the numbers in U.S. dollar, it's basically almost ﬂat. So
all the geography and now is that you saw on the waterfall in reality the performance of
the company has been extremely good also in 2017.
And with that, I would move to page B25, where you can see that the investment margin
is strong, at 97 basis points. There is a reduction of 10 basis points compared to the level
that we had in 2016. This is, however, not unexpected, and indeed, we had this
conversation several times in the last quarter. We always tend to normalize our proﬁt a
little bit below the level that we usually see in the quarters. And also for next year, our
guidance will be that investment margin should be between 90 basis points and 95 basis
points. So this is our working hypothesis when we look at our numbers for the Life
segment.

Bloomberg Transcript

And now, we come to the Asset Management segment on page B27. 2017 has been
exceptional for our Asset Management segment. We had €150 billion of inﬂows. And
clearly, PIMCO, as you know, did the heavy lifting. But I'd like also to point out that the AGI
was able to change the direction compared to 2016. In 2016, the ﬂows in AGI were
negative. And in 2017, you can see positive ﬂows of AGI.
One thing that I like you to keep in mind is when you look at the FX impact, you'll see
€120 billion of assets which are aﬀected, if you wonder, because of the exchange rate. So
this is something that we need to keep in mind. However, despite this big impact, we
have been able in 2017 to grow our third-party assets under management.
Moving to page B29, you can see that the development or the revenue follows basically
the development of the assets under management. So you can see an internal growth
rate of about 8%. What is important for us in this slide is to look at the fee margin. When
you look at PIMCO, the fee margin is relatively consistent with the level of 2016.
When you look at AGI, you see there is a deterioration of 2.4 basis points, but of this 2.4
basis point, 2 basis points are due to technical factors, and just 0.4 basis point is
deterioration. What is important, we look at this metric on a quarterly basis, as you know,
and in the last three quarters, this metric has been stable. So we don't see that there is a
continuous drop of the fee margin, but at least, in the course of the last two or three
quarters, we saw stability in this KPI.
At page B31, you can see the power of the operating leverage that you have in the Asset
Management segment. Clearly, when revenue are growing, the expense ratio is reducing,
this creates a situation in which the operating proﬁt is growing more than the growth of
the revenue. Indeed, growth in operating proﬁt has been double-digits. So very good
Page 10 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

performance from the Asset Management segment, and as you see, they were able to
grow at 10.6% despite the impact of €50 million coming from exchange rate.

FINAL

At page B33, on the Corporate segment, I'd just like to highlight that all sub-segments
have contributed to the positive deviation.
And so, we can move now to page 35 where you can see the reconciliation between the
operating proﬁt and the shareholder net income. As usual, you can see a lot of movement
in this view. I'd like to draw your attention to the restructuring charges that went up by
€300 million to €450 million of business. Of this restructuring charges, one-third applies
to our Allianz Technology business and the rest applies to the P&C business. This also
explains why we are conﬁdent about our ability to achieve the 28.4% expense ratio in
2018. We have already taken measure that should support the achievement of that target.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the tax rates, as you see, despite the impact of the tax reform, the tax rate was slightly
better than what we had last year and in general, was not so far away from what could be
our expectation. Moving forward, we expect the tax rate to be, if you look at the notes,
26% to 28%, I will say 28% is a very conservative estimate. So I would say my expectation
for the tax rate in 2017 is more between 26% and 27%. That should be somehow where
our tax rate is going to eventually land.
At page B37, we can speak about the outlook. As you see, we have an outlook of €10.6
billion to €11.6 billion with a midpoint of the range of €11.1 billion. Now, the €11.1 billion is
€300 million over the guidance that we gave last year. And what is also important to
notice is when you look at the guidance of 2017 and then you look at the guidance we are
giving now for 2018, this thing in the FX rate is about €300 million.
So, at the end of the day, when you look on a constant FX basis, you can say that we are
giving a guidance for 2018 which is €600 million above the level that we gave for 2017. So
this is a massive improvement in the level of guidance that we are providing when you
adjust for the FX rate.
When you look at the diﬀerent segments, we expect to get to €5.4 billion in
Property/Casualty. The underlying combined ratio is obviously 94%. On the Life/Health
side, we expect to be at €4.2 billion. As I was mentioning before, this is below the €4.4
billion level of 2017. But here, we are considering for a normalization of our investment
margin. And in the case of Asset Management, the €2.4 billion, which is in line with the
level that you are seeing for 2017, is driven by the FX eﬀect.
On a constant basis, we would expect the Asset Management business to grow highsingle digit, but clearly the depreciation of the U.S. dollar compared to the euro is
somehow oﬀsetting this operational improvement. So this is the way we determine our
€11.1 billion outlook for 2018.
And now moving to page B38, we have here the scorecards for our Renewal Agenda, and
you can see how we are doing now compared to our targets for 2018. We are conﬁdent
that we're going to get to our 5% earnings per share growth.
Page 11 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

FINAL

And also we are conﬁdent that we're going to get at least close to the 13% ROE. Why I'm
saying that? When you look at the net income that we need to get to a 5% EPS growth, we
need in 2018 about €7.3 billion of net income. In 2017, our net income was €6.8 billion.
And if you consider that we had some special eﬀects in 2017, if you consider that we have
a higher participation in Euler Hermes, and also if you consider the swing in the tax rate
because of the United States, then I think it's relatively easy to make a plausibility check of
our ability to achieve the 5% EPS growth and also to get close to our ROE of 13%. The
other KPIs, I think I have already covered, at least with respect to the ﬁnancial KPIs.
And with that, I will just open up to Q&A.

Q&A
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our ﬁrst question from James Shuck with Citi.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi. Good afternoon, everybody, and thank you for taking my questions. I had three
questions for you this afternoon, please. Firstly, the capital generation, Solvency II capital
generation. It seems like you're upping the guidance slightly from 8 to 10 points net of
dividend. That's what you previously guided to and I think you're saying about 10 points
now, which presumably is explained by the tax situation.
Could you just kind of give some insight into the – how you expect the SCR to evolve
going forward? I think you mentioned that the Life capital requirements are oﬀset by the
Life capital release. So it should we be thinking that the SCR is actually going to be ﬂat
going forward and at what stage does the Life capital release kind of run oﬀ and then you
start to get increase in the requirements from the Life side in particular?
Second question, more general question on capital allocation within the group. But I
understand that you when you are kind of assessing projects and choosing to invest
capital in the group, you sort of – you have a hurdle rate of about 15% return on capital on
P&C and the other 3% EBITDA margin on the Life side. Could you just kind of explain a
little bit of how that works when you're trying to grow and innovate – innovation (40:18)
and invest because obviously, you don't always get 15% ROE to begin within year one?
And then ﬁnally just a quick one on the restructuring charges, €450 million. I don't
remember that really being ﬂagged and it's sort of occurring below the line as opposed
to above the line. Could you just give an indication of the outlook there and whether that
number's actually turned up bigger than you expected? Thank you very much.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Page 12 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

FINAL

Okay. So I can start with the question about the guidance that will give me about a
generation of capital on an organic basis. Yes, we moved the guidance up a little bit
compared to what we were saying just maybe a few quarters ago. And the reason why we
move the guidance is not because we have a diﬀerent expectation on the own fund
generation, but it is because we see that business evolution tends to be, indeed,
favorable. And that's because of the issue you mentioned, we see that we get a capital
release coming out of the Life segment.
So, from that point of view, moving forward, we would expect to see the same picture also
in 2018 and also at least for the next year. It's diﬃcult for us to say exactly when this is
going to change, but our expectations right now will be to see these developments also
in the future.
I just put a caveat. These models are very complicated, and sometimes they might not
always give the intuitive answer. But fundamentally, based on what we see now, we would
expect to see a negative, which means positive, from an economic point of view, business
evolution also in the following years.

Bloomberg Transcript

The other question was on the capital allocation. So what we do when we speak about
capital allocation, I'd like to go back to the topic that Oliver raised before. We are going
to – we are looking somehow what are the possibilities that we had to invest capital and
then we look at what is the cost of equity or cost of capital or the opportunity we're
looking into.
And usually we try also to achieve a spread clearly above the cost of equity, and this is
how we are determining capital allocation. And clearly, we had diﬀerent cost of equity
dependent on the segment, but also diﬀerent cost of equity dependent on what is the
proﬁle or the opportunity we are looking into. So this is the way we are allocating capital.
And then ﬁnal question was about the restructuring charges. We had, overall, €450
million restructuring charges. I think your question was whether this was unexpected. No,
because clearly we are controlling how much restructuring we want to do. So this was not
a surprise to us. And the second point is what is the expectation for, let's say, 2018. I
would say that if you do a sort of average between 2017 and 2016, you might get close to
what the expectation could be for this year.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Thank you, Giulio. Can I get – just as a quick follow-up in terms of the capital allocation
within the group, my question hasn't so much to do with kind of M&A startings (00:43:51).
It is more to do with how the individual business units are competing for capital within the
group and the actual internal hurdle rates that you want them to achieve.
So I thought that in Property and Casualty, the capital – there was a hurdle rate of about
15%; and in Life, you need to make a new business margin of 3%. But please contradict
me if I'm wrong, but if that's the case, it does sort of have implications for how you
allocate capital based on growth and innovation?

Page 13 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah. Okay. I mean, okay, on this one, okay, in the case of Life, we had a 3% business
margin and also we have a clear statement we want always to be at 10% ROE. In the case
of P&C, we are now speaking of 15% ROE. You might remember maybe 15% RoRC which
is a little bit of a diﬀerent metric.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

But if I translate this into ROE, I would say that on the P&C segment, we – deﬁnitely we
expect also to have at least 10% ROE. The situation is we are doing more than 10% ROE
on the P&C segment. And by the way, also on the Life segment, the ROE in 2017 was 12%.
So we have a target where every company should be at least at 10%, but we shouldn't
forget that the ROE of the segment is 12%, and this is an ROE without any leverage. So
when you put leverage into the equation, we are speaking of a 14% ROE in the Life
segment.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

A - Oliver Bäte

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah.

Operator
We'll go next to Peter Eliot with Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thank you very much. I have three questions, please. The ﬁrst one was on M&A. I know
you can't comment on market rumors, and thank you very much for the comments you've
already given, Oliver.
Could you also conﬁrm that you are still only really looking at friendly deals? And within
that, could you also give us a bit of color on your strategy for asset gathering in Italy,
especially in light of the 8% ROE that the Life segment showed there?
The second one is the Solvency modeling changes. Can you explain what led to the –
exactly what led to the 10-point increase that we saw in Q4? And also what caused the
sensitivity to interest rate increases to fall? Because the plus 50 basis points went from 8
points in Q3 to 2 points for the full year.
And ﬁnally, on the outlook, sorry if I missed it, but I was a little bit surprised that the
Corporate and consolidation showed you're going to a bigger loss in 2017. Sorry, if I
Page 14 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

missed that comment, but could you explain why that's the case? Thank you very much.

FINAL

A - Oliver Bäte
Yeah. Thank you for the question. I'll start with M&A. Yes, absolutely, we do only friendly
deals because otherwise you destroy value. I can hardly imagine one – maybe there is one
– that one would do unfriendly, but practically I have never seen it in our industry, and
certainly Allianz would not want to do that.
And then, on the background, asset gathering in Italy, we're very happy. There were some
rumors that we would do something with the asset gathering strategy. No, in Italy, we're
super happy. We are growing very fast both on the Life side, and with Allianz Bank, by the
way, I would like to mention their outstanding performance in the last year.
What we are now trying to do in the Life side in Italy, grow our risk business. So while the
ROE is very high, but you also have at the other side is what is the net number of earnings.
I think sort of the absolute amount of earnings can increase in terms of given the strong
distribution power we have in Italy. So, we're building a risk product strategy now at the
moment that is in full swing. We have plans to grow on the health side. So we believe it's
a fantastic franchise and we're just starting.
And with that, I'll hand over to Giulio for the Solvency and the Corporate segment
question.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yeah. I'll talk about the impact from the model changes, as I said before, this was 9%, that
was primarily driven by the change in interest rates with the introduction of negative
interest rate, and of the 9 percentage points, 6 percentage points is coming from the
introduction of the negative interest rate. On this 6 percentage point, we need to go and
see that at the end of 2016, we had put a sort of buﬀer because we were not able to
model the negative interest rate into our Solvency II calculation. This buﬀer was 2%. So in
reality then at the end of calculation showed up to be favorable, but the real swing will be
focused at this point.
The question remains anyway why in introduction negative interest rate might be a
positive rather than a negative? The point is that when we were using the old model
which didn't allow interest rate to go negative, then the calibration of the scenarios
around central estimate gets really counterintuitive. And so we were exposed to an up
shock in interest rates of about 12 percentage point after one year, just to simplify the
story.
Clearly, this is not something intuitive, and clearly, as we have introduced a new
calibration, now we get better quality of scenarios. What I'd like all you to keep in mind,
when we speak of Solvency II, we are speaking of a model which is trying to capture what
can happen with a probability of 0.4%.

Page 15 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

FINAL

So, clearly, when you run all this scenario, you might get sometimes two very
counterintuitive results, and the new model is now producing a scenario which are, if you
want, more consistent with what one could expect. So from that point of view, if you want,
it's an improvement of the entire model, and this is not just about introducing negative
interest rate.
The consequence also we introduced in this model is that we have more complexity, and
you'll see this reﬂected in the sensitivity. So the sensitivity are now diﬀerent. This is, at the
end of the day, driven by the same reason, diﬀerent scenario, diﬀerent calibration, and
this is what the model is telling us that we have more complexity in our Solvency II
calculation.
Then you had a question about the outlook for Corporate. You missed the comment
because I didn't make the comment, but it's a clear point. So, indeed, if you look at the
comments about the segment, we had said there that in 2017 and also in 2016 and 2015,
in the last three years, we had a positive impact of €150 million, and we always disclose
that, by the way, in the ﬁrst quarter.
And this impact is going away starting 2018, and this impact is due to a cost allocation
scheme between the holding and the German companies, and because of the
policyholder participation, this was creating a positive contribution to our operating proﬁt.
So this is going away and this explains why our outlook for the Corporate segment is less
compared to what we had in 2017.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

That's great. Very clever one. Thank you very much.

Operator
So the next is Mike Huttner with JPMorgan.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Thank you very much, and brilliant results. And I have three questions. One is on the – my
colleagues asked me not to ask that question, but I couldn't make sense of it. This is the
phrase you used, or I saw in Bloomberg, too many share buybacks leads to greed. If you
could, I don't know, any comment would be helpful.
On more detailed questions, when you look at deals, what are kind of funding constraints
you look at? I noticed the leverage is really pretty high. So if you were – if I were to – I'm
not on your company, but if I were to run the company, I'd love to – and if I were looking
at a really attractive deal, I would actually also consider rights issues and that be the
question.
And then the last one is on U.S. tax. So you mentioned there's negative impact of 3%,
which I guess works out about €1 billion in available capital. What does that do to the
internal cash ﬂow? Does it mean you have to put capital cash into the U.S. or you
Page 16 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

suddenly get a shortfall of dividends for two years and how does that impact your – how
you look at dividends and buybacks and things? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Okay. On the three questions you asked, Michael, I get one and two. But I'll answer the
question. (00:52:53) then we can answer the other two. On the funding constraints for
M&A, I will say it depends how you deﬁne funding constraints. If you deﬁne funding
constraints in the sense of just utilizing cash and debts, this depends on the size of the
acquisition. If you assume that we have the ability to raise equity, then I will say the
funding constraints are not really the end, unless we get extremely creative.
But if you refer to cash and debt, I will not give you a number, but I will say we have
deﬁnitely the opportunity to do an acquisition which is, let's say, higher than putting
together Euler Hermes and LV, just to give you an idea. And the other two questions,
really you need to tell me because I didn't get it.

A - Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

Sorry, Mike. We didn't get the last question. Could you please repeat that?

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yeah, the ﬁrst and the last.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

The ﬁrst one was about the Bloomberg citation. Too many share buybacks leads to greed.
I didn't understand what that could imply.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Too many share buybacks leads to greed.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Share buybacks leads to greed. That's what it says on Bloomberg, yeah. And then the
second one was in the U.S. cash ﬂow. So you've got a note that Solvency will be reduced
because of U.S. tax changes. That means you need more capital. That's about €1 billion.
And I just wondered what does that do to cash ﬂow and how you look internally at
dividends and buybacks. Thank you.

A - Oliver Bäte
Michael, could you also on the ﬁrst question say who was quoted, so we know who should
answer on Bloomberg on what?

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

I have no idea. It just says it's in inverted sign. So Allianz is – I'll cite, line 52, according to
Bloomberg News, Allianz's beta, too many share buybacks leads to greed. I mean, that's
Page 17 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

the citation.

A - Oliver Bäte
Ah, so it's me.

FINAL

A - Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Oliver Bäte
So from this morning. So my English was so bad, it got lost in translation. No. I think what
the message is that one has to be very careful which instrument is used. It depends always
on where the share price trading, what is the right mechanism. You can also always think
about dividend increases. So we are not hooked on one particular mechanism. I think
that's very important.

Bloomberg Transcript

Second, you obviously have cases in this industry and others where management stops
thinking really about investing capital in its own business to innovate and grow and rather
focuses on just repatriating capital return. So what we are having as a framework is very
simple to say we want to invest the capital that our shareholders have entrusted with the
best returns that we can achieve for them, and therefore, the buyback or other
mechanisms, capital repatriation always the benchmark. But what we would like to do,
obviously, is that we would like to invest it into the core business and grow it.
So the quotation was in the sense of we would like, over time to grow the business
organically and inorganically and therefore not – people should not continuously pencil-in
billions and billions of share buybacks over the next few years. There might be other
mechanisms to invest the capital properly, and we will always look out for your interest.
But the key thing is we would like to grow this business proﬁtably in a way to grow jobs,
customer satisfaction and shareholder value. We do not have the intention to put Allianz
into either mental or practical run-oﬀ. Is that a proper answer?

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

That is a very nice answer. Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yeah. And then, on the question of the cash ﬂow or the impact, or the change in capital
because of the tax reform, we need to distinguish what happens at our level and what
might happen at Allianz Life level. So we assume that ASE capital is going to go up. In the
case of the Solvency II calculation, we are taking this number. We are multiplying the ASE
requirement by 1.5 (00:56:58). And then also, we are deducting 50% – starting Q1, we are
going to deduct 50% of this number from the own fund. So this is going to happen
automatically.

Page 18 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

FINAL

In the case of the United States, what counts is going to be the reaction of the rating
agency to this change in regulations. So if the rating agencies are going to adjust their
threshold level, in reality, nothing's going to happen from the point of view of the ability
of Allianz Life to pay dividend to Allianz SE. In the case the rating agencies are not going
to just the threshold or they are not going to adjust completely the threshold, this would
have an impact on the distribution dividend to Allianz SE.
We are running clearly some scenario. I would tell you that there might be a situation
where for the next two years, we are going to get instead of, let's say, €400 million to
€500 million dividend, we are going maybe to get €250 million dividend. And that would
be maybe a possibility. But again, it might be that Allianz Life is going to be able to
continue to pay dividend in the same amount as before in the case the rating agencies
are going to give full credit for the change in tax rates.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Brilliant. Thank you very much.

Operator
We'll go next to Farooq Hanif with Credit Suisse. Please go ahead. Again, caller, your line
is open.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Sorry. Is the question from Farooq now, or you were about to say something?

A - Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

No, we're waiting for the question. Go ahead.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Okay. Sorry about that. Yeah. Okay. You mentioned in-force management of the Life
business during your introductory speech. Now, the low-hanging fruit has probably been
addressed into the ALM and Solvency II. What kind of things are you looking at or how
material could that be?
Secondly, Allianz Partners continues to grow at really strong rate. So I think 13% to 14% in
the fourth quarter. I mean it's soon going to become your second largest business at this
rate in the next two, three years. Is that what you wanted to be? And you mentioned travel
insurance, is that the real reason why it's growing?
And the last question I had was just a bit more detail on AGCS and pricing. So it turns sort
of neutral to positive in your – in 2017. Is it going to be materially positive, let's say, 2% to
3% in 2018? Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Page 19 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

FINAL

So maybe starting from the Allianz Partners, we don't expect them to become our biggest
business in the next four or ﬁve years, but we still expect to see growth in Allianz Partners,
and growth is coming deﬁnitely from the travel business, but we see also growth in some
part of our international Health business and also we see some growth in a so-called
business – it's called NEXtCARE. So there are a few growth engines in Allianz Partners.
These growth engines should make sure that there is enough diversiﬁcation for them to
continue to grow. But clearly, the expectation is not necessarily that they are going to
grow forever. But we still have also that's (01:00:34) more important expectation that
they're going to grow the proﬁt. So we really see this company in a positive trajectory for
the next two, three years. And then it's hard for us to make any prediction beyond that.
On AGCS and pricing, we see that there is and you heard deﬁnitely also from others that
there is some positive development on the pricing side.

Bloomberg Transcript

If you are then referring to the quality of the business that we have because the combined
ratio has been disappointing and that's not just because of Cat losses, but we had also
some large losses. What we do to make sure that the quality of the business is the right
one, every time we get large losses, we have a sort of large review and this is the way you
can determine whether the large losses you are getting are because of bad luck or if you
are getting large losses because you have some issues in your underwriting capabilities.
The outcome out of these large losses review is that we believe is more due to bad luck.
So we are kind of conﬁdent about the ability of AGCS to underwrite properly.
And also, if you ask me what will be a driver of improvement for next year, in our
combined ratio, we'll deﬁnitely assume that unless there are other signiﬁcant Cat losses,
AGCS is going to our improvement in 2018 versus 2017.
Then, there was another question in-force management. Okay, what are the next steps?
On the Life side, I would say it's a point where we are comfortable with the quality of the
new business. So, that's really about getting the organic growth like we got in 2017. So, we
have capital to do this kind of organic growth consistently and the quality of business we
see also in the future and there is no reason why we shouldn't be able to do that. I think
this is the best way to grow a proﬁtable book of business. And as you'll remember, we
have shown the calculation about what is the translation or the value of New Business due
to operating proﬁt. So as long as we are capable to increase that value of New Business,
eventually this is going to translate also in a long-term growth in operating proﬁt. So if you
ask me, it's about doing the right thing in a consistent manner also in the future years.

A - Oliver Bäte
Maybe I can add there's quite a few areas that we would like to further work on. For
example, we've said in the past, we would like to grow the risk part of the insurance side.
So, there's more to be done. We believe that health insurance is a very diﬃcult business,
but a strong growth opportunity for Allianz, in particular in the emerging markets, so
that's what we're working on.

Page 20 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

FINAL

So we are at the beginning of the right journey, not at the end of it. And actually, we have
retooled the ship in order to now full go steam. So we need to look for distribution
opportunities and innovation. And it's a great place to be in because a lot of people
haven't even started to retune their machine and therefore, I, at least, personally am very
happy.
Now the last thing is there is a lot in that I think people do not understand the fantasy
behind that. It's the intersection between Life Insurance and Asset Management. We
always look at these segments diﬀerently. But when you look at institutional solutions,
many international companies, many pension funds use an integrated solution set from
Allianz to solve their needs. It can be a CPA here. It can be the support of a pension fund
there. It can be a life insurance solution.
And people underestimate what the power of the combination is. In many markets,
particularly in Europe, we're already succeeding. In the U.S., you know PIMCO is a strong
provider for Allianz Life for North America. So as you see pressure on margins, you can
withstand this pressure much better if you have both the life and the fund proﬁt inside of
the product rather than if you are just to wrap up like on the Life side or you just need
substitute (01:04:51) fund provider. So we really believe in the power of the combination
and I think it's nowhere yet to be seen in our valuation.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much.

Operator
Go next to William Hawkins with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Hello. Thank you very much. On slide B21, could you just give us a bit more color about
the outlook for the four key segments of the life operating proﬁt? So when you're talking
about a €200 million net decline this year, can you just sort of help me understand how
that's being driven by the four segments? And then once we get to that baseline, are we
assuming that the three kind of growth segments then start growing aggressively and is
just guaranteed savings is falling gently or could we be more nuanced about the mediumterm outlook for those four segments? Thanks.
And then very brieﬂy, the Asset Management ﬂows – I'm sorry if you've already said this
early this morning, but where are we on the Asset Management ﬂows year-to-date
please? Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Okay. Coming back for the last question, year-to-date, we are at PIMCO at about $20
billion. Now coming to your question about page 21 and if I understood it right is about
how we see the operating proﬁt by segment to develop over time, also considering the
compression or the reduction in investment margin. I would say that – would expect that
Page 21 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

FINAL

reduction to come through the guaranteed savings in annuity. The capital-eﬃcient
(01:06:33), we should see growth there also because the German product slowly, slowly is
going to kick in with some growth. So this is the area where you should see high
operating proﬁt. On the unit-linked, we got without guarantees also because we are
growing that block and protection. And hence, I would like to see more growth there, but
for the time being, we are still ﬁnding the right recipe, but that's deﬁnitely a strategic
target.
So as I look into the near future, I will say guarantee service and annuity, it is rather the
area where we are going to see a moderation. In the capital-eﬃcient product, we should
see growth kicking in. Same for unit-linked and protection. I think we need to wait before
we see some – really this number moving a little bit higher.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Great. So particularly in capital-eﬃcient products, my assumption was that the U.S. could
be continuing to fade if for no other reason than the FX impact next year, but you're
saying that should be oﬀset by Germany.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Sorry. I was not considering for the FX impact. Clearly, when you put FX into
consideration, then this might somehow dampen ﬁrst the growth. But FX are moving, so
I'm looking more at a growth in operating proﬁt from an organic point of view. But yes,
you are right. Once you put FX into the picture, you might not see that growth translated
in euro in 2018.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

That's great. Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

That's a fair comment, yes.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Welcome.

Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from Paul De'Ath with RBC Capital. Please go
ahead.

Q - Paul De'Ath
Page 22 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

FINAL

Hi there. A couple of questions, please. Firstly, just going back on the M&A topic, but kind
of from the other side, you've obviously made a few disposals so far. I just wondered if
there's anything else in the portfolio that you're currently looking at as non-core and
whether you'd be looking to really small capital by selling a few more things.
And then the second question was on the P&C business and the normalization that you'd
do on the combined ratio. So, I mean, you quote in the slide about potentially using a 10year average. Is that what you're thinking about when you're doing the normalization or is
there another number that you would use there?
And linked to that, on slide – where is it? – B38, I just wanted to clarify the target for the
combined ratio is 94%. Is that a normalized combined and if so, why is the 2017 number
not a normalized number next to it? Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Okay. I go maybe ﬁrst. Okay, let's talk about the combined ratio. Yes, the 94% is kind of
normalized in the sense of if we are going to have massive Cat losses next year, then it
would be diﬃcult to do the 94% or on the other side, if we're going to add in our Cat
losses, we would expect to be better than the 94%. So that's a normalized view. On how
we derive the normalized combined ratio, I can tell you how we do the exercise. You have
almost all pieces of the puzzle, but you don't have all pieces of the puzzle. When you go
to page 14, Oliver and the Investor Relations guys have given you the 10-year average of
2.1%. So we adjust the actual Cat losses against a 10-year average, then you get also the
average runoﬀ. That's also something that we put into the normalization. The only piece
of information that you don't have is the amount of weather-related losses and large
losses. And the only reason why we're not sharing that information with you is because
the quality of these numbers is a little bit more discretionary. So we don't like to give out
numbers where you might agree or disagree whether the number is exactly that number
or a diﬀerent number.
But my point is in a situation like 2017 where you have signiﬁcant natural catastrophe
activities, you can imagine there is, overall, a weather-related system which is going to
create more weather-related losses that maybe they don't make to the level of a Cat loss,
but they are still signiﬁcant.
That's the reason that if you do the normalization just based on the numbers that you got
from Oliver, you get to 95.2%. But then, you can deﬁnitely assume that the level of
weather-related losses in 2017 was higher than what would be a long-term average and
also the large losses, we had a little bit of a deviation. So, that's the reason why it's very
easy then to go from 95.2% to a number which is signiﬁcantly below the 95.2%.

A - Oliver Bäte
Very good. Nick, Oliver here. In addition to your question on what is to sell and not to
core, I give you sort of action number (01:11:40) and a little bit of a facetious answer. I call,
let's start with the facetious answer is I think it's really, really intelligent of CEOs to go in
and say, ha, you are core business, you are non-core business. By the way, the best thing

Page 23 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

FINAL

is to say you are other business, yeah? So, people in these businesses, particularly those
that are non-core, they feel really great when the CEO gets that.
So, what we are not doing, we are not doing that. What we are looking at is, very simple
economic term, so let's get more serious is where are we deploying capital
inappropriately because we are not earning a proper return? Then, we try to turn it
around as we've done it in the case of Latin America. And only if we ﬁnd that we do not
have the management capabilities to proﬁtably grow a business like it was in the case of
Korea because regulation and the environment is not conducive to us applying our
management skills, then we sell it, but then we do sell it. Sometimes we, by the way, don't
sell. We close it down. Remember when we started to build a direct insurance business in
the United Kingdom ﬁve years ago, we tried hard, we failed, we closed it. It cost us a lot of
money, more than €200 million. And then we found a much better solution with a joint
venture with LV that we believe is going to be much more successful.
So there are various ways on how to react. But we have very clear hurdle rates that our
business have to meet and if they don't meet them on a consistent basis and we can't see
improvement in trajectory and performance, then we sell them. And I would be pretty
foolish if I would go now and here's the three businesses that we are looking at and we
may sell tomorrow. You will see it when it's closed or sold. Sorry for the (01:13:39) answer.

Q - Paul De'Ath

Bloomberg Transcript

That's ﬁne. Thanks.

A - Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

Thank you, Paul.

Operator
We'll go next to Nick Holmes with Société Générale. Please go ahead.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Hi, guys. Thanks very much. I just wanted to ask about your variable annuity book just
because it's growing so rapidly, I think you've gone from number nine to number six.
Really two questions, one is, is now the right time to grow when the S&P 500 may be near
its peak, I mean, who knows? But – and secondly, how conﬁdent are you that the hedging
really will protect you if we get a more serious correction? Thank you.

A - Oliver Bäte
Thank you, Nick. Maybe we should change the way we present the numbers because
what we are referring as VA is a hybrid VA, and this has nothing to do from a risk proﬁle
with the VA business. In reality from a risk proﬁle is more like a ﬁxed index annuity just
because of the way the product has been created from a regulatory point of view for
standard deﬁnition of variable annuity. But think of that product as a ﬁxed index annuity
product and indeed, it's even better than a ﬁxed index annuity product because it's a

Page 24 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

short duration product, so there is deﬁnitely less risk even compared to ﬁxed index
annuity product.

FINAL

So from that point of view, yes, I would say it's deﬁnitely a business that we want to grow. I
think that we should either change the deﬁnition or at least you should keep in mind
when you see growth in the – in Allianz Life, this means growth of the hybrid VA and the
growth of traditional VA.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Great. Thanks very much for clarifying that. Just very quickly though as a follow-up, I mean
you are de-emphasizing general accounts. You are focusing more on risk and health. How
does your strategy in America ﬁt with that? Because I mean it's still a general account
product right? I mean it's a ﬁxed guarantee product.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

We're not really emphasizing general account because the hybrid VA, the majority of the
asset, they go not the general accounts, but some of the assets have to go into a variable
account and that's the reason why, because of that, it gets classiﬁed in a diﬀerent way and
also because fundamentally, the customer might lose some money in a hybrid VA, which
is not the case in the ﬁxed index annuity VA.
But fundamentally, the majority of the assets are going into the general account. With
respect to protection, (01:16:13) protection in the United States, this is something which is
maybe not a core expertise, to be perfectly blunt, of Allianz Life. But we're always looking
at possibility to grow our Life business and indeed 2017 has been relatively successful. So
that's what we tried to do.
To be completely realistic, the bulk of the business is ﬁxed index annuity and there are
good growth prospects in ﬁxed index annuity. So even if we are capable to grow our Life
Block a little bit more, this is still going to be, compared to the big block, now the most
relevant part of the business of Allianz Life.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Okay. Great. Thank you very much for clarifying.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

You're welcome.

A - Oliver Bäte
Maybe Oliver can follow up with you on the risk proﬁle. It's really attractive from a risk and
a hedging standpoint. Actually, he's nodding very quickly because we've been for a long
time thinking about innovation to give the clients the variability of the outcomes and the
upside, but making sure we have all the hedging under control. And I think it's a very nice
innovation for you to look at.

Page 25 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

A - Oliver Schmidt

{BIO 2473131 <GO>}

Sure Nick, I'd be glad to do that of course.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Oliver. Yeah.

Operator
We'll go next to Vinit Malhotra with Mediobanca.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Yes. Good afternoon. Thank you very much. So just three questions, one on each
segment, please. Just on the Asset Management, Oliver, it looks like the momentum is
quite strong, I mean, this is one of the highest net ﬂows in maybe ever or a very long time,
at least.

Bloomberg Transcript

So how far do you think are we from attaining part of the 2012-2013 kind of pre-glory
operating proﬁt base? Because I know the outlook, it's still capped at €2.7 billion. But if
volatility plays to your strength and ﬂows remain at where they are, then is there a reason
to not be more bullish on Asset Management? That's the ﬁrst question.
Second question is more on slight details on the Life side. I noticed in the capital-eﬃcient
products in fourth quarter, there's a bit of operating proﬁt pressure from unlocking of
assumptions. Are these market volatility or are these mortality or some other kind of
assumptions? Could you just clarify? And in the same line, I know, Giulio, you mentioned
that VA is actually hybrid VA. But in the past, you also said that your traditional VA of €30
billion liability beneﬁt from low vol in the market and volatility is quite unpredictable at the
moment. Are there any risks there?
And just last very quick clariﬁcation, P&C. After all the normalizations, how should we
think of the full-year 2017 versus 2016? Sorry I missed that. Is it ﬂattish or slightly better
versus 2016? Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

So, okay. Maybe I can start with the question on the capital-eﬃcient products and the
unlocking. The unlocking is risk-take (01:19:50) unlocking. So, we are looking at all
assumptions. So, we're looking at annuitization assumption rates, mortality, morbidity.
At the end of the day, as I said before, there was a swing between 2017 and 2016, in the
sense of when you look at the delta loss, relatively signiﬁcant. But keep in mind, it was a
positive unlocking in 2016 and a negative unlocking in 2017. The primary reason, anyway,
for the negative unlocking in 2017 was an adjustment to the end rate. But again, this is a
very normal process. And when you look at the performance of Allianz Life for 2017, it's
been very good.

Page 26 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

FINAL

Your question about VA should do good in an environment where there is low volatility.
That's sure. That's also the reason why Allianz Life had a very good performance in 2017.
You see the low volatility reﬂected in the guaranteed savings in annuity numbers on page
21.
Now you say why the number is not going up more. Remember that in 2016, we had this
restatement and so we got this one-time proﬁt. So, in reality, if you adjust the 2016
number for the restatement, you will see a growth of €130 million in that bucket, and that
growth will be driven by Allianz Life and speciﬁcally by the VA business of Allianz Life.
And the other questions, I think you need to – Asset Management operating proﬁt, okay.
When we look at the Asset Management operating proﬁt and the question was about, ﬁrst
of all, our outlook for 2018. As I was trying to explain before, we expect, on a constant FX
basis, to get to a high single-digit growth in proﬁts for 2018 and maybe even a little bit
conservative on this view. The point is the FX is going against us and that's the reason for
the 2018 outlook.
As I look at the projection for 2013 (sic) [2018] (01:22:07), in order to get to a level of €3
billion, I would say if you put back the U.S. dollar to a level of €111 million, then this will
give us automatically €100 million more proﬁt and so that then, I would say it would take
us most likely, I would say, three or to four years before we get there. So it's not
something that we're going to achieve in the next two years, but I would say three or four
years we might get there.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Oliver Bäte
Can I add to Giulio? I think we're having a very important debate and for those of you that
sort of look beyond the year longer term, what you can basically see is that we are very
cautious because of 2018 expected volatility: politics, normalization of QE interest rate
going up, markets being able to correct.
Second, there is a lot of leverage in the system, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say
that a lot of investments, for example, in Asia have been done on a leveraged basis. If we
get a market correction that is more material, then a lot of money can ﬂow out of the
system and aﬀect us, right?
So we just have a view that the markets are overheated and we would not ﬁnd it to be
prudent, nor professional, to just now support artiﬁcial growth in earnings that we know
because of what happened to the U.S. dollar are for 2018 going to be less than what we
normally would expect.
Now, on the other hand, when you look at the underlying trends that should really drive
valuation, what are the ﬂows in Asset Management and the margins relative to the
competition? What is the new business value growth? What are the new business value
margins?

Page 27 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

FINAL

First-time growth again. When you look at the underlying dimensions in P&C relative to
the market, NatCat losses versus industry, clear that we are going to improve productivity,
that we are going to get to the 94%, that we are going to get close to the 13% ROE.
All KPIs are going in the right direction. So if you were to look a little bit beyond the
professional and prudent outlook that we have, Allianz is ﬁring all cylinders. And when I
buy stock, I buy on fundamentals. I don't buy based on the spreadsheet. And that's not a
criticism, but I think we shouldn't miss the forest for the tree here.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

All right. Thank you very much.

Operator
We'll go next to Andy Hughes with Macquarie. Please go ahead.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, guys. I've got three questions. The ﬁrst one, if I could, is about the 9% cost of capital
on big acquisitions. I might be able to help you out here because I ﬂick on Bloomberg
and I look at the rumored target (01:24:55) trading at 11 times 2019 earnings which, as we
know, is a 9% cost of capital. So maybe you can clarify – pre-synergies, maybe you can
clarify exactly what you meant by, hard to achieve the 9% return?
The second question is about the decision to maintain the prospective bonus at 3.7% for
next year because the bit I'm struggling with is the new business margins are positive for
this contract on an MCEV basis, which clearly assumes a very diﬀerent bonus pattern to
what you're actually paying. So should I ignore the MCEV numbers? Maybe you could tell
me what bonus is implied in the MCEV number, please.
And the third question is about dividends and holding company. So on slide B40, I think
you mentioned about attitude to return capital and increase dividends. I can see that
Allianz has increased the senior debt in the group by €2 billion during the year. Are you
actually looking to use senior debt to fund the buyback or, in this case, has it been used
for Euler Hermes and other stuﬀ? And would you additional – add on additional senior
debt? Could you comment about how the cash ﬂow position of that holding company
currently stands? Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Okay. So maybe starting from the last question, I will not give you the number of our cash
at the holding level, but I can tell you that the level of cash at the holding level has
increased in 2017 compared to the beginning of 2016. And when I say it has increased, I
don't mean by €100 million, but speaking of numbers above the €1 billion level, just to
give you a sense of what we're speaking.

Page 28 of 34



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

And also as you know, we have a so-called strategic liquidity reserve of €5 billion. We are
way above the €5 billion strategic liquidity reserve. In the sense of the question whether
we are raising senior debt to fund buybacks, no, in reality, we have a switch. But I just want
to give you an idea about internal ﬁnance and senior debt. So in reality, it has nothing to
do with raising debt to fund senior – share buybacks. That's in reality more about creating,
if you want, even more ﬁnancial ﬂexibility in the future because it's a good moment to get
senior debt into the books. So that's something that you should consider also how the
internal funding might move.
The other question on the product in Germany and whether the MCEV reﬂects what we
are doing, yes, you need to think about the fact that in Germany, you need to apply
portfolio view. So clearly, if we were doing things like (01:27:41) without having a portfolio
view, which is the way the German system works, then you will get a very diﬀerent math.
But in the case of Germany, we have a proﬁle view. So as long as you are adding business
and in general, you have a yield, which is going to be above the guarantee level, you're
going to get proﬁt on a marginal basis by adding business. So think about the fact that it's
not a product-by-product, generation-by-generation business, but it is about a bigger
swimming pool and this makes a big diﬀerence. And the ﬁrst question – I really didn't get
about the 9% cost of equity. But yes, I didn't get the question. Sorry, I didn't get the – I
could not really understand you a little bit acoustically.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

All right. Sorry. So assuming a little (01:28:27) less than 11 times P/E on Bloomberg for
consensus forecast, if you buy at the current share price, you will get a 9% return...

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

...assuming that growth.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yes. If we buy something at 9% that's implied, yes, then you add the synergies, right? So,
and then, in reality, one could look this way in theory, just theoretically. You should always
imply that when you buy something on the market, you buy at a cost of equity of that
thing; otherwise, something will be wrong.
And then usually you create synergies and then you split the synergies maybe half in half
and this would create extra value for the shareholders of the target company, for the
shareholders of the acquiring company, so that could be a logic to apply.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Yeah. I was just a bit confused because you said it was hard to ﬁnd something with a 9%
cost of capital. And yet you were looking at (01:29:23) which is less than 9% cost of capital

Page 29 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

on consensus forecasts and you would have your synergies on top as well. What – am I
getting something wrong here or...?

FINAL

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

We are not speaking about any speciﬁc companies. This is a general conversation. Dow,
as I said before, if you believe any way in the market price that is, then you should imply
the cost of capital in this market price. We might also argue that market prices of some
companies might be overvalued. In that case, the implied cost of equity will be lower than
the 9%.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks so much.

A - Oliver Bäte
All right. We have time for one last question, please.

Operator
We'll take our ﬁnal question from Andrew Ritchie with Autonomous. Please go ahead, sir.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Oh, hi there. I'm honored to get the last question. Three very short ones. There's reports
(01:30:25) several times about interest rates. You think interest rates will rise, albeit in a
volatile fashion. I guess I'm trying to understand how I think about the beneﬁts to the
insurance business.
I can make my own mind up on PIMCO if interest rates rise. It looks like you've eﬀectively
neutralized the Solvency II position. And I guess for IFRS earnings, there's no beneﬁt until
the reinvestment rate matches the portfolio yield. Am I wrong?

A - Oliver Bäte
Yes.

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Am I missing something? Are there more management actions you can take to reposition
for higher rates? And also I'm just checking there's no negatives, for example, hedging
costs versus swaptions, et cetera, that would start to impact if rates rise. So, just how you
think about the beneﬁts to the insurance business should rates rise given all the data I can
see.
The second very quick question is, I'm afraid it's about the debt. What is the binding
constraint on debt? It's clearly not the Solvency II bucket. You have tons of room there. Is it
Moody's? Is it the headline IFRS gearing number? What is the headline constraint?

Page 30 of 34



Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

And the ﬁnal very quick question, the 13% ROE has been a fairly long-term target. What
was the tax rate assumption in that 13%?

A - Oliver Bäte

FINAL

Tax rate assumption.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Oliver Bäte
Okay. Coming maybe from the question about how we view interest rates and the impact
on our insurance operation, on the P&C side, before we go into the Life segment, we
would expect that increased interest rates are going to have a positive impact. If you think
about how much investment income we had a few years ago and how much investment
income we have right now in the P&C business, we are speaking of a diﬀerence, I believe,
of €300 million, €400 million easily. So clearly, we would expect this to reverse.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the Life side, on the In-Force business, I will say you wouldn't see maybe a signiﬁcant
amount of proﬁt more. But at the end of the day, I would say there is always some – what
you're projecting is low interest rate forever, you might get into some situation where you
might assume there is a little bit more stress into the balance sheet. So higher interest
rates are deﬁnitely always beneﬁcial from the point of view and also the new business
value would most likely be positively aﬀected. So, in general, if you ask me, higher interest
rates are rather positive obviously for our P&C segment as opposed...

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

(01:33:07) in the Solvency II, I mean, obviously, you're showing limited move for 50 bps,
but I guess for the convexity, above 50 bps is a more material impact. Is that how you
think about it?

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yeah. You say if you move the interest rates even higher, what happens to the sensitivity of
the Solvency II, that's the question?

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Yes.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

I would say if we move the sensitivity even higher, you will get most likely a sensitivity
which is not as good as the plus 2%, might be potentially even lower because of
convexity. But that will be driven by the ACR. So I wouldn't say that calculation, which is an
instantaneous shock as a proxy for what can happen to our proﬁt because there is a
diﬀerence by running an instantaneous shock as opposed to have a sort of gradually
increasing interest rates. You get to a diﬀerent answer.
Page 31 of 34



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

And then the question about the 13% ROE, what was the tax rate included in the 13%
ROE? I'm sure it was more than 27% that we mentioned before. But if your question goes,
okay, but you are making the 13% ROE just because of the tax rate, we need to consider
that a lot of things have changed between 2015 and now. And just to give you an idea.
Think about the equity market run and there is deﬁnitely more capital that we have in our
books compared to what we assume a few years ago and also think about Korea, which
had a negative net asset value. So these are all things that clearly also have to be
considered when you look at the ROE of 13% to what is bringing us there.
On this topic, I like to be very clear that this is coming back to the point that Oliver was
making before. You had to look at the development of our operational KPIs. So if we are
delivering on the 94% combined ratio, if we are delivering on the new business margin
above 3%, if you are delivering on the mix, if you are delivering on the cost to income
ratio of PIMCO, by deﬁnition, I would say all the things that we could control have been
implemented and executed against and these would support the fact that we've been
able to drive to that 13% outcome. And then clearly you have plus and minuses and this
might put us a little bit ahead or below the 13% ROE.

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay. Finally on debt constraints, what's the...

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Are you talking of senior debt because if you're talking of subordinated debt, you might...

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Well, total debt leverage or I guess how do you look at it? I mean...

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Yeah. I would say eventually the ﬁrst constraint to come into the equation will be the
Moody's or S&P's leverage ratio, the calculation is slightly diﬀerent, but they are not
giving complete diﬀerent answers. So, yeah, the constraint coming to play wouldn't be
Solvency II. The ﬁrst constraint coming to play will come from the leverage ratio. But we
are not close to the constraint, so that manages the ﬁrst constraint that would come into
the equation. Yes.

A - Oliver Bäte
So, we have lots of room on various dimensions and we're – but we are always cautious on
our ﬁnancing structure as you know. We have sort of – when you run the S&P and other
models, we are sort of at the upper end, we would say, of our current rating scheme and
we'd like – again, we believe the world is going to be a little more diﬃcult than other
people think given that the markets are steaming ahead. We are nearing strong economic
numbers. But that's camouﬂaging a very diﬃcult trend. Let me repeat that at the end and
thank you very much for your interest.

Page 32 of 34



FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

The governments are still dramatically overleveraged and that leverage issue has not
been solved. When you believe that the current growth numbers will address the issue,
they won't. With what the U.S. has done, it's great to invest in infrastructure. But their
leverage and their debt ratio is already very strong. It's my personal opinion that the U.S.
dollar might be weaker than everybody thinks not because people are talking it down,
but because people are worried about the credit rating of the United States and
sustainability of the ﬁnancing, that would be something to really worry about in the long
run.
We have had a lot of progress in Europe. We now hopefully have a government in
Germany. Well, we have elections in Italy and who knows what's happening there. We
have a lot of problems in the Middle East every day. So this is a very diﬃcult place and we
are part – a very large animal in a very diﬃcult environment. So we are planning very
conservatively that might disappoint a little bit of the enthusiasts, but those that are longterm investors should really cherish that.
And with that, I'll say thank you to the shareholders and thank you for the support from
my side. And I'll hand it over to Giulio for the closing.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Okay. I'll just say thank you for listening to the conference call and for your questions, and
I guess we are going to see most of you...

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Oliver Bäte
Some of you....

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

...some of you on the road show in the next day. So I'm looking forward to get to know
you in person.

A - Oliver Bäte
All right. Thanks from my side as well. Goodbye to everybody and we wish you a very nice
weekend. Thank you.

A - Giulio Terzariol

{BIO 17125489 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
This will conclude today's call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.

Page 33 of 34



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Allianz SE
Company Ticker: ALV GR Equity
Date: 2018-02-16

Page 34 of 34

