Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-10-09

SOMPO Holdings Inc Sompo International Business
Strategy Presentation

FINAL

Company Participants
Junichi Tanaka, Overseas Insurance Business Owner, Managing Executive Officer &
Director
Masahiro Hamada, Group CSO, Group CIO, Managing Executive Officer & Director
Michael James McGuire , CFO

Presentation
Masahiro Hamada

{BIO 20083917 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hello, everyone. My name is Hamada from Sompo Holdings. And I am delighted to see so
many of you here today for our meeting. In the past two years or so, we have been
talking about the Japanese P&C business, Life Insurance business, overseas business and
nursing care business and have been doing IR activities for each of these different fields.
And as part of that effort, about 1.5 years ago, we have integrated with Sompo
International and we have some senior management people from Sompo International to
talk to you directly about the overseas operations.
Sompo International, or the former Endurance, until 1.5 years ago, it was a listed company
in the North America market and the gentlemen we have here today, CFO Mr. Mike
McGuire and also Greg, both of them professionals also in the field of IR and they were
looking forward to this meeting today. And so in that sense, we are looking forward to
having some active discussion and Q&A session with you.
Before we get into the topic of the overseas operations, I'd like to just briefly touch upon
the current situation in our Japanese operations. Last weekend, Typhoon #25 deviated
towards the Sea of Japan and, therefore, the damage was minor. However, in the past
one year or so, last year, we were hit with the U.S. hurricanes. This year, in the domestic
market, we are seeing series of Japanese natural catastrophes.
In the middle of August, where we announced our First Quarter earnings, we had talked
about -- where as of the end of June, we did not really have any natural catastrophes. But
as of the mid-August, we had the Northern Osaka earthquake, we had Typhoon #7 and 12
and also we had the torrential rain in the western part of Japan, which had brought some
significant damage to Hiroshima and other western part of Japan. So we had a series of
large events so far. And we did announce that the net incurred loss after recovery from
reinsurance would be about JPY 38 billion on net basis, that is the loss amount. However,
afterwards, we had discovered in hindsight that, that was only the beginning because
afterwards, we were also hit with a series of Typhoon #20, the earthquake in Hokkaido
and, ultimately, there came the Typhoon #21 and 24.

Page 1 of 15



FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-10-09

Especially -- well, first of all, I'd like to extend my condolences to the disaster-stricken
clients in those respective areas. It is often said that Typhoon #21 and 24, they are
typhoon with wind damage. And that is detrimental to insurance companies because
when it's a rain damage, there is breaking of the dike, there is landslide, et cetera. Those
particular areas will be reported on the news and it leaves a large impact to the viewers.
However, the actual damage, it's sometimes contained to those particular areas, whereas
if it's a typhoon with wind damage, the damage is even bigger. The level of the damage
may be minor, just some damage on the roof, et cetera. But then the area of the damage
becomes bigger. And therefore, Typhoon #21 and 24, to be honest, we are seeing some
serious losses in terms of the claims payment for the insurance companies.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of the size, the number it's still being estimated internally and I will not be able to
tell you that today. But this is on estimation basis, for 21 and 24, the expected number of
the claims is 300,000. And this is equivalent to the number of claims we have received at
the time of Great East Japan Earthquake. It's -- there is some recovery from reinsurance
because we have some conservative reinsurance schemes in place. We also have the
catastrophic loss reserve and also the reversal of the loss reserve under the Japanese
GAAP. So the impact to the profit and loss will be contained or mitigated. However, this
will be a year with large natural catastrophe impact.
Going forward, hypothetically, if the source of the shareholder return, which is the
consolidated adjusted profit, does receive some impact, we have to start thinking about
what we do. At least in my mind, I have to start my exercise on those scenarios going
forward. On the other hand, we have some capital buffer, the ESR is coming to the upper
threshold, while it is quite difficult to seek after large M&A deals looking at them in a
market situation. So as a possibility, for example, total payout of above 50% and other
methods different from our usual years must become our choice and we have started
some discussions internally over those choices. In any case, we are talking about those as
well as our goal towards 2020. If you wait until next month, on the 26th, we will be making
the IR announcement and we will talk as much as we can at that earnings meeting next
month.
So main dish for today is the overseas business. And so at this point, I'd like to hand over
my microphone over to Mr. Tanaka who is in charge of the overseas business.

Junichi Tanaka

{BIO 18839536 <GO>}

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Tanaka who is in charge of overseas
business. And thank you so much for introduction. I am serving as a director of Sompo
International Holdings, too. So from that perspective, from my position, let me touch upon
the progress that we have been making after the acquisition and for details. Since we
have speakers from the United States, please address questions about the details to
speakers from the United States from SI.
As you know, in March 2017, we bought the former Endurance. And from day 1, we have
changed the name from Endurance to Sompo International. And we are trying to really
promote this name in the market. And the name, Sompo International, is well recognized
in the market now. And because of the efforts of the management team, normally, when
Page 2 of 15



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-10-09

FINAL

we do M&A, we do key persons in general in other cases. But for our case, we were able
to retain the key persons in the management team of Sompo International. And we have
been making a very good progress on the Post-Merger Integration, PMI. And in December
last year, we have integrated operation in the United States. In May this year, we have
completed the integration of our European operation.
And with regards to the exit of the U.K. from EU. So-called Brexit, we have moved our
office to Luxembourg, Sompo International Insurance Europe, SIIE. We have established
that company in Luxembourg to prepare ourselves for Brexit and SIIE has started its
operation already in September. So in that regard, in developed markets, we have almost
completed establishment or reorganization of the global platform in the commercial
market. On the business side, we have started the global clearance system where we
manage the customers' information centrally -- or uniformly and we have introduced this
clearance system in each entity. Now we can manage the customers' information
uniformly.
And one of the strength of Sompo International is the crop insurance. We've been trying
to promote and grow the crop insurance in the world. In November last year, we have
started Agri Sompo, which is a platform for agriculture crop insurance. And we are trying
to grow the crop insurance business in the world.

Bloomberg Transcript

And from the beginning of this year, by leveraging the strength of Sompo International, as
for the specialty product lines, we have started SomPro, which is again a platform for the
specialty lines to make it a driver for the growth of the company for the future.
Going forward, by leveraging licenses of Sompo, we'd like to utilize know-hows and
excellent experience of SI on the platforms that I have just talked about. And now, stage is
set for the significant growth in the future. Furthermore, we think there is a room for us to
better utilize the resources in the whole group. So in February this year, we have invited all
CEOs of overseas group companies to Japan and we had a discussion in the retail area. I
have just talked about the commercial area. But also in the retail segment, we decided to
establish a platform in Sompo International to leverage know-hows of each entity and
experience in the retail segment in each entity and by adding new (desktop) technologies.
Also in the retail segment, we'd like to really use this platform to grow our business
globally. By the end of 2020, we are planning to integrate our overseas service theories
to Sompo International Holdings in the retail segment too.
About the recent financial results, you are going to hear more details later on. But last
year, large hurricanes hit the United States and last year was a year with many natural
catastrophes. So we thought the market would harden this year. But at the moment,
market hasn't been hardening as much as we expected. So we are struggling a little bit at
the moment. But even in this environment, Sompo International is outperforming
compared to the market and they have been a leader trying to lead the hardening trend
in the market. And for the numbers that we have a shortage because of less hardening,
we'd like to do more bolt-on M&As or by hiring underwriters to achieve their plan.

Page 3 of 15



FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-10-09

And as for the natural catastrophes, last year was a big year for large natural
catastrophes. But this year, at the beginning of the year, we had forest fire or mountain
fire in California. And most recently, Hurricane Florence hit the United States. But the
damage from those is lighter, less than we anticipated. Today, unfortunately, Mr.
Chairman, CEO could not come to this event because of his business reasons. But for my
insurance, we have speakers who have experience for more than 10 years in Endurance;
and Mr. Mike McGuire and we have Mr. Greg Schroeter who is in charge -- who was in
charge of IR in Endurance era. So they're going to speak in front of you today. Thank you.
So much.

Michael James McGuire

{BIO 15329889 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. (foreign language). I will give my presentation in English. So please bear with
me. But I would like to introduce myself. I am Mike McGuire, I am the Chief Financial
Officer of Sompo International. Sompo International has been rebranded from the former
Endurance companies that Sompo Holdings acquired in 2017. I have been the Chief
Financial Officer of Endurance, now Sompo International, since 2006 and have been with
the company since almost the beginning of the company's life in early 2003. Endurance
as a business was formed very late in 2001.
So let me set the stage for what we are trying to accomplish within Sompo International.
The reason that Sompo Holdings was attracted to Endurance as a business was a desire
to grow and expand its overseas business and the profit contribution from overseas
businesses. Comparing 2010, the profit contribution of Sompo Group was largely
domestic, Japanese, P&C, life and very little from overseas insurance businesses. The
purchase of Endurance accelerated the diversification of Sompo Holdings. As you can see
in the middle chart here, 27% of the profitability of Sompo Group came from overseas
businesses. Our desire though within the Sompo Group is to push our overseas
businesses to be a much larger contributor to the overall profitability of Sompo Holdings.
So in the near future, trying to get the profitability from overseas businesses, i.e. Sompo
International to 40% of the overall total for the group. That is an ambitious target. But one
that we think with the partnership that we have with Sompo Holdings, with the quality of
the teams and the people that we have within Sompo International, we think we can
achieve that.
So let me provide a quick overview of Sompo International. Right now, Sompo
International has about $5.4 billion of gross written premiums in its portfolio. And that is a
12-month view as of the end of March 2018. We have about $5 billion of tangible
shareholders' equity and we are in at 12 different countries throughout the world. Sompo
International is a Bermuda-based holding company. The Executive Management Group of
Sompo International resides and works in Bermuda. But we travel a lot. We spend time
throughout these countries. We have substantial operations in Bermuda, our home office.
But we also have very substantial operations throughout the globe. The United States is a
core specialty focus for Sompo International. The majority of our people within Sompo
International are in the United States. But as Tanaka-san said, we have substantial
operations in Europe, we've built out a Luxembourg-based insurance business and we
have branch operations throughout Europe that give us great Continental European
access. We enjoy very strong ratings from Standard & Poor's, A.M. Best and Moody's. We
have A+ financial strength ratings that has been achieved in a very short period of time.
Page 4 of 15



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-10-09

FINAL

It's only been 18 months since Endurance was acquired by Sompo Holdings. And within a
very short period of time, A.M. Best and Standard & Poor's increased the ratings of
Sompo International to match the group ratings. And that is an important statement from
the rating agencies because it reflects the quality of the integration and the post-merger
integration that we have accomplished within Sompo International.
From day 1 of being acquired by Sompo Holdings, Endurance was rebranded to Sompo
International. It was very important for us as a management group to fully embrace
becoming part of the Sompo family. And so the Sompo Holdings and the Sompo
International brand was an important first step for us. And if you would have visited our
offices in Bermuda and throughout the United States two days after the acquisition
closed, you would see all of our logos and all of the branding of Sompo International
throughout our offices. That is remarkable first step for us and it's been very quick and
very fast since then in terms of integration activity.

Bloomberg Transcript

Just a quick highlight of the management group of Sompo International. John Charman is
our Chairman and CEO. John has been a leading CEO in the insurance and reinsurance
businesses for 40 plus years. He brings exceptional depth, quality and underwriting
expertise to the leadership function of Sompo International and we have built a very, very
strong leadership team within the former Endurance company, now Sompo International.
Every single member of the Executive Management Group of Endurance remains in their
positions within Sompo International. You can see them up here. Jack Kuhn, our CEO of
our Insurance Business as well as our Global Chief Underwriting Officer, joined us in 2013 - actually 2012; Stephen Young, the Chief Executive Officer of our Reinsurance Business,
was one of the first employees of Endurance going back to early 2002.
The rest of the management team has been around for quite some time. John Del Col,
our General Counsel, joined the company within months of when I joined in 2003. Nigel
Frudd is one of our newer members within Sompo International. But he is an executive
officer of Sompo Holdings and was a leading force in Sompo Holdings acquiring
Endurance. He is now on the Executive Management Group of Sompo International. Chris
Gallagher is our Chief Risk Officer and Chief Actuary. He's been with us for about three
years. He joined us from AXIS Capital and brings a wealth of experience in global specialty
P&C insurance and reinsurance, actuarial and risk. Brian Goshen, our Chief Administrative
Officer, we like to say he takes on all the jobs that no one else wants to do, human
resources, information technology, facilities, real estate and every other project that
needs somebody to look after. But Brian is a true HR executive. He's been doing HR
leadership and management for 20 plus years.
Takashi Kurumisawa is also one of our newer members of the Sompo International
management team, joined us from Sompo Group. He is our COO of our European
business and came from SJNKI and has had a number of positions in the Sompo Group
and its overseas businesses prior to joining the Sompo International team. And last but
hopefully not least, I've been, as I said, with Endurance, now Sompo International, for a
little over 15 years. So I've seen every element of history in the company of Endurance,
now Sompo International. And the company today is unrecognizable to what it was when I
first joined, when there was less than 100 employees and less than $1 billion of premium.
So we've made a lot of progress in the last 15 years.
Page 5 of 15



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-10-09

Tanaka-san mentioned the retail business. One of the goals of Sompo Holdings and
Sompo International is to consolidate and leverage the global overseas businesses within
Sompo International. So we've created a new retail platform within Sompo International
that will operate under the governance and oversight of the Sompo International board.
John Charman is the Chair and CEO of the Retail Executive Group. And we have a wide
variety of executives that have joined the SI Retail business from the existing businesses
of Sompo's overseas business. Many of this business have yet to be integrated into
Sompo International. But plans are already in place to integrate Brazil, Turkey, Southeast
Asia businesses into the Sompo International family over the next year or 2.
So what does Sompo International look like today? We are a business that has over 1,600
employees in 12 different countries. You can see from the map that a substantial portion
of our employees in operations are in the United States, that is our core area of specialty.
The United States is among the largest specialty P&C markets in the world, among the
most profitable and one that we have a very, very strong foothold and position in. We are
headquartered in Bermuda, you can see the tiny dot in the Atlantic Ocean. But that is our
core headquarters as well as the head of some of our specialty reinsurance and insurance
businesses that are underwritten in Bermuda.
Then throughout Europe and the United Kingdom, we have substantial presence in the
European markets. We have a Lloyd's business, we have a non-Lloyd's London business
and we've just launched a Luxembourg-based insurance operation that really gives us a
new foothold in Europe as well as the ability to respond to the implications of Brexit with
the U.K. leaving the European Union. It allows us to continue to offer our products
throughout Europe with a seamless transition once the U.K. exits the European Union,
whenever that will be.
So we've set out a very strong ambition for Sompo International to be a significant
contributor to the profitability of the Sompo Group. There's a couple of things that we're
focused on to try and achieve that objective. Expanding geographically and into additional
lines of business in the specialty insurance segment is a key focus for us. We have a very
strong track record within Sompo International of growing and expanding our businesses.
We've hired substantial numbers of underwriting talent that bring business. We have
invested in significant amounts in technology and infrastructure that allow us to enter new
markets and we've expanded significantly in new products in a variety of markets. I've
listed in the bullet points a number of the achievements that we've already accomplished.
Tanaka-san mentioned the launching of Agri Sompo, a global agriculture platform that
allows us to offer agriculture insurance and reinsurance on a global basis, leveraging now
the global platform that Sompo Holdings has spent years and years building. We have the
underwriting and product capabilities and expertise to help build that business and
leveraging the Sompo Holdings infrastructure and licenses is a huge advantage for us. We
did, as part of our Agri Sompo initiative, we acquired a very small company called A&A in
Italy, which controls a substantial portion of the Italian crop insurance market. That is a nice
addition to our global agriculture insurance business and our global agriculture reinsurance
business.

Page 6 of 15



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-10-09

In June of this year, we also completed the acquisition of a U.S.-based surety insurance
operation. Lexon Surety Group was the largest independently run surety operation before
it was acquired by Sompo International and we just completed that acquisition and we've
already integrated that business into our U.S. insurance business. I already mentioned the
launch of our European Luxembourg-based insurance company. And that is providing it a
very good vehicle for us to expand in Continental Europe as well as provide a Brexit
solution for our existing clients. Then also, Tanaka-san mentioned this as well, we've
launched another global product called SomPro, which brings together the professional
liability classes of business, both insurance and reinsurance, together on a global basis.
Professional liability, directors and officers insurance, employers -- employment practices
liability and other professional services liability coverage is a growing area in the global
P&C markets. We have a unique expertise, both insurance and reinsurance. And we're
now bringing these businesses together to expand globally.
The second pillar to our ability to achieve the overseas insurance growth is growing
Sompo's overseas business by integrating Sompo International's underwriting expertise
and know-how throughout the Sompo Group. Tanaka-san also mentioned, as we did
launch very soon after the acquisition of Endurance, we did launch a global clearing
system, which allows all of our underwriters to see global risks as they enter the Sompo
Group so that we know who is underwriting the business, where it's being offered. And
that we can implement a standardized and disciplined pricing and risk management
across the portfolios regardless of where the risk or submission comes into the company.
This is an enormous advantage for us, because it allows us to combat the brokers and the
outsiders who tend to try and send business into the company in many different places to
try and get the lowest price. Because we clear everything in one clearance system, we're
able to prevent that from happening and make sure that we have a consistent and stable
view of pricing and that we have a consistent view with our clients and brokers.
I did mention the upgrade that we achieved in our financial strength ratings. That has
been a significant driver of improved relevance to our clients. It's allowed us to grow and
expand line sizes on existing business, it has also allowed us to expand into new areas
where our previously lower ratings precluded us from participating in. We also were an
instrumental part of the Sompo Group achieving an overall improvement in Standard &
Poor's evaluation of the Sompo Group's Enterprise Risk Management. Enterprise Risk
Management is a critical skill for any insurance company and one that Standard & Poor's
values very highly when they apply ratings criteria. And the fact that we were able to very
quickly share knowledge, share expertise and work together on the risk management of
the Sompo International companies within Sompo Holdings, Standard & Poor's was able to
see that and, as a result, upgraded their ERM assessment of Sompo Holdings overall to
strong. That was quite an achievement in a very short period of time for the Sompo
Group. And as Tanaka-san also mentioned, we've already completed the integrations of
Sompo America into the Sompo International business as well as Sompo Europe. And
plans are already in place to bring in Brazil, Turkey, Indonesia and other companies
throughout Asia into the Sompo International network of companies.
Now lastly, focusing on building an integrated global platform that leverages both our
existing commercial P&C business as well as the new retail business. The personal lines
focus of the retail businesses that Sompo Holdings enjoys overseas will add nice

Page 7 of 15



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-10-09

FINAL

diversification to the earnings profile of the Sompo Group and Sompo International. And
we're also able to now leverage those balance sheets, those licenses that exist in those
countries to import the Sompo International product suite. So Agri Sompo, SomPro, other
forms of specialty insurance coverage that we have the expertise in, we are able to push
those expertise and those lines into the existing businesses in a controlled fashion. So it
allows us to push additional growth into those businesses with our existing expertise.
And so I know it's very small print to see here. But what we're trying to do is take the
existing P&C business of Sompo International, which was about $4.7 billion premiums in
2017, excluding what was in Sompo America to almost $11 billion over the next three years.
A big portion of that is the retail business of approximately $3 billion. But you can see in
the gray circle, substantial growth expectation within our existing commercial P&C
businesses.

Bloomberg Transcript

So what will the Sompo International platform look like in 2020? A lot of coloring in, in the
map. But that really reflects integrating fully the overseas businesses and operations
within the Sompo Group and the Sompo International, as well as the continued expansion
of the product suite within Sompo International in the U.S. and Continental Europe as well
as Southeast Asia. So this is a big undertaking and it substantially expands the operations
of Sompo International. But we're doing so in a way that leverages the skills of Sompo
Holdings, leverages the existing capabilities, the client relationships but also allows us to
introduce product and underwriting expertise within Sompo International into the global
businesses of Sompo Holdings.
So one of the topics of interesting discussion is mergers and acquisitions. We came -when I say we, the Sompo International company, came into Sompo Holdings through
mergers and acquisitions. We have a very long history in mergers and acquisitions within
the Sompo International Group. We were formed as a company, as a startup, in 2001. But
very quickly set about growing and expanding the Endurance business through targeted
and disciplined mergers and acquisitions. Our crop insurance business was acquired, our
catastrophe reinsurance business was acquired, our U.S. reinsurance business was
bolstered through acquisition, we purchased Lexon Surety Group. There's a number of
other smaller transactions that we've been able to do over time that has built Sompo
International into what it is today. And as we look ahead, for us to achieve the ambitions of
the Sompo Group overall for its overseas businesses, we need to think about mergers
and acquisitions as a part -- as an important part of that strategy. But it's important for us
that we highlight some of our criteria. The deep M&A expertise is something that is quite
important for assessing what to buy, where to buy and how to buy.
The M&A activities of Sompo International are completely and fully integrated with Sompo
Holdings. We are not a rogue state, we are not off doing our own thing without close
coordination, cooperation and collaboration with Sompo Holdings Group. We do expect to
play a leading role in M&A, given that the expansion of Sompo Holdings is going to be
very much focused on overseas business. But it is in close coordination with the leadership
within Sompo Holdings. But some core principles for us within M&A are, I think, important
takeaways for investors to understand what it is that we're trying to accomplish. Mergers
and acquisitions have to enhance the business profile, the diversification and the
profitability of the Sompo Holdings Group. Those are -- they sound very simple as core
Page 8 of 15



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-10-09

FINAL

principles. But you would be surprised at the number of mergers and acquisitions that
take place in our industry that ignore those core principles. We will not. That will not be
part of our M&A strategy to ignore that.
It is important that any merger or acquisition cannot have any negative impact to the
group's reputation as a leading client service provider globally. It cannot negatively impact
the credit ratings of the group, the risk profile or the tax position. Those are all core
considerations for us as we think about mergers and acquisitions. We are a disciplined
buyer. I think it was reflected in the disciplined approach that Sompo Holdings took to its
acquisition of Endurance as well as the decision taken by Sompo Holdings to actually exit a
business recently acquired in Canopius. That highlights a very strong discipline that I think
is quite unique amongst the peer companies of Sompo Holdings. But we expect to
maintain very strong discipline about what to pay. The numbers have to work. As the
financial officer of Sompo International, it is very important that the return characteristics,
the contribution to earnings and the pricing valuation make sense. Having that strong
guidance and that strong focus is an important part of M&A.

Bloomberg Transcript

Due diligence is a core requirement for us. We will not do M&A without doing substantial
due diligence on any target company out there. Some companies may be purchased
without due diligence, those will not be companies that Sompo International will buy. We
may lose out on some business. But in mergers and acquisitions, it is as important the
deals that you don't do as the ones that you actually complete. And having a very focused
due diligence exercise is of paramount importance for us.
Along with that, we have to control the acquisition process. We will not be led around by
investment bankers, pitching the companies that are up for sale, we will use outside
advisers to help and assist. But we will not be driven to do transactions because of
outside advice. We will do it based on our own internal capabilities. And where we need
expertise, we will go out and get it. But we will not hand over control of the M&A process.
We think we bring a great deal of creativity to the process, both in terms of transaction
structuring, expertise, tax expertise and those can often be critical valuation synergies
that come out of transactions. So if you can think strategically about optimizing a tax
position, the legal entity structure or other elements of a transaction to help make a
transaction truly drive value for the organization.
Integration is of paramount importance for us as a group. I think if you look at how Sompo
Holdings acquired and fully integrated Endurance into the Sompo Group, that is a very
good example of the right way to approach mergers and acquisitions, focusing on the
culture integration, making sure that there is good fit, that there is shared principle,
shared core values. Those are extremely important. And we need to make sure that we
maintain the level of governance and oversight on any businesses that we acquire.
And so the long story short on this, we're very picky. We -- it's been 18 months since the
Endurance Group was acquired by Sompo Holdings and I know there was a lot of
questions and activity about what's next. Well we don't know yet. But we're always
looking, we're always on the hunt. But the one takeaway I would suggest you leave with is
that we will maintain our discipline and pricing valuation and strategic fit.

Page 9 of 15



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-10-09

So let me jump into our business segment activities. As a business within our commercial
P&C activities, we're split insurance and reinsurance. About 63% of the Sompo
International business is insurance and 37% is reinsurance. And these are very summarized
-- this is a summarized view of the Sompo International portfolio. But even at that
summarized level, what you see here is a very good diverse mix of products across
insurance and reinsurance. We have large operations of scale in each of these areas and
as I'll get into it in a few minutes, we have very strong expertise at a management level as
well as at a detailed product line level to truly build and leverage a global franchise.
So getting into our insurance business, I mentioned Jack Kuhn, the CEO of our insurance
business, he's been an instrumental driver of the buildout of our insurance business since
he joined us at the end of 2012. He has built an exceptional leadership team across the
businesses of our insurance activities. I'll just go through a few of them. Our Global Risk
Solutions business, Michael Chang, the CEO of our Global Risk Solutions business, joined
us only a couple of years ago. But that has been a significant driver of growth for our
insurance business. We started a few years ago with really no premiums in that business
and it's now pushing towards $300 million of premium and growing. And that's just in a
couple of years' time.
Our London market and European insurance business is led by Graham Evans. Graham
joined us about five years ago when our London-based insurance business was 0. That is
now a business that is close to $1 billion of well-underwritten diversified business. We have
a Lloyd's business, we have a non-Lloyd's business and we have a Continental Europeanbased business as well. And that has been a very strong growth avenue for us. Even
though it's competitive, it's been an area where we've been able to attract industryleading underwriting capabilities within that market and it's helping to drive that very
strong growth, in spite of the competition that exists in those markets.
Our U.S. Insurance business is led by a gentleman named Christopher Sparro. He joined
us a couple of years ago from AIG and he's really helped drive that continued discipline in
our underwriting and helped improve the execution of the U.S. Insurance markets overall.
And you can see that we can hardly fit the number of products on the page here because
we have such a wealth of product capabilities and underwriting talent that drives this
business.
Our Bermuda Insurance business is our smallest business. It's probably less than $200
million of gross written premium. But it is the business, if you're familiar with their
Bermuda insurance market, it tends to be high limits, high access kinds of policies, both
property and liability. It's where capacity is needed in the global markets. It's not as laborintensive as some of the smaller retail-oriented businesses. But it is an important driver of
the global insurance and reinsurance markets. But that is where we write a lot of cyber
liability, we have a strong health care liability, professional liability practice.
Then last but surely not least, ARMtech, which is our U.S. crop insurance business, under
the leadership of Michael Smith. Michael Smith is one of the founders of ARMtech as a
business. This is a business that Endurance acquired in 2007. And I think it speaks volumes
about how we acquire and integrate businesses, the fact that we bought a business and
the founder of that business is still here 11 years later.
Page 10 of 15



FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-10-09

So getting into some of the details. You can see in the bar chart, our insurance business
has enjoyed substantial growth over the last five years. You can see, we started at the
end of 2012 with just under $1.5 billion of gross written premium and that is now almost $3
billion as of the end of 2017. And still growing. You can see the big areas of growth for us
is in our U.S. specialty insurance business. When Jack Kuhn joined us, the Endurance Group
of Companies really did not have a large U.S. Insurance business outside of our crop
insurance business. And that was a core strategic focus for our insurance business starting
in 2012, was the buildout of our product, our underwriting and our technical capabilities.
And you can see the result of that investment and buildout is substantial growth. And
we've now built a very well-diversified portfolio of products within our U.S. Insurance
business.

Bloomberg Transcript

You can see I won't read through all the details on the right-hand side. But you can see
the depth of products within that U.S. Insurance business. Our agricultural insurance
business has been very stable. It hasn't enjoyed much growth over the last several years.
But that's been a function of the maturity of the U.S. crop insurance market and the fact
that commodity prices have actually come down over the last several years. Commodity
price drives the underlying exposure base and premium revenue. But this is a business
where we enjoy a market-leading presence and it's been an enormous driver of
diversification and profitability for our insurance business overall. And it's one of the truly
unique specialties within the Sompo International Group.
The U.S. crop insurance business is part of the U.S. government's Federal Crop Insurance
Program and although we have to deal with the U.S. government, which isn't always a fun
task, we do enjoy some benefits for participating in that program. We have expense
reimbursements, very strong risk protection provided by the government for our portfolio.
And it's a very unique tough-to-enter business. But one that we have a very strong
foothold in.
I talked already about ever Bermuda insurance business. You can see it's been relatively
flat in a relatively small part of the portfolio. But an important differentiator for our
Bermuda business.
Our international insurance business has seen very substantial growth. You can see, at the
end of 2013, we didn't have any international insurance business out of London. And that's
gone from 0 to about $600 million of international insurance business and that's pushing
towards $1 billion over the next several years. Very strong growth. But we've done so by
investing in people and investing in infrastructure to build that business. We're not putting
out cheap prices to get the business. We're getting it by the underwriting expertise
across all these businesses and that's been a key differentiator for our business growth.
Now lastly, the Global Risk Solutions business has been an area where -- we just launched
that business about 2.5 years ago. So starting from 0. And that's already up to $230
million of premium in 2017, probably gets to an excess of $300 million this year alone. And
that has very strong growth potential for us, particularly as we integrate the Japanese
interest abroad, large risk business into that platform provides a very unique growth
opportunity for us.

Page 11 of 15



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-10-09

FINAL

Moving to our reinsurance business. Stephen Young, as I mentioned, has been with the
Endurance Group of Companies for about 16 years, leads our global reinsurance business
and has established a very strong leadership team across products. The reinsurance
business is a smaller part of our portfolio. But we do have a diverse portfolio of
catastrophe, property, specialty and professional liability risks within the reinsurance
portfolio.
If you look at the details, you can see, it's been a little flatter in terms of the growth that
we've been able to achieve in reinsurance. The reinsurance markets, over the last five
years, have been much more competitive and we have resisted the urge to grow by
giving away price and giving away margin. And so our growth rates have been achieved
largely because of the acquisitions that we've been able to accomplish and some of the
new teams that we've been able to bring on board over the last several years. But we've
been very cautious in managing the underwriting cycle within our reinsurance business
because the competitive dynamic is quite strong and we want to make sure that we're
always protecting the bottom line of the company within our -- within how we take the
reinsurance risks.

Bloomberg Transcript

Catastrophe is certainly an important topic. Obviously, the Japanese market has
experienced -- is experiencing this year very substantial catastrophe losses. But we have a
very strong expertise in providing catastrophe reinsurance protection. But also managing
that net exposure to the business. And even though last year was a tough year for our
predominantly U.S.-based reinsurance business, we performed quite well relative to our
peer companies even though we have an industry-leading catastrophe reinsurance
platform.
Our property reinsurance business has been one that has not grown much and one that
we've been very cautious about given the competitive dynamics in the market. But where
I think we've seen some interesting opportunity is in our casualty reinsurance operation.
Within casualty, we have things like automobile liability, reinsurance protection, access in
primary casualty reinsurance and a variety of other specialty casualty covers. We're
actually seeing some interesting pricing improvements within the casualty reinsurance
market that's giving us some opportunity as we look forward.
But the area of strongest growth recently has been in our specialty business. These are
very unique specialty areas. I've listed them out here, things like agriculture, aviation,
space, marine and energy, mortgage or financial reinsurance, trade credit and surety, very
unique lines of business that require very specific underwriting expertise. And we've been
able to attract and retain key leaders in those businesses. And that's allowed us to grow
those businesses and help further diversify our portfolio.
So very quickly, I know I'm running a little bit long on time. But I will provide a little bit of
context for the financial results of Sompo International. I know a lot of this is public and you
would've seen it. So I won't dwell on the details. But you can see that the premium and
equity levels of Sompo International have almost doubled over the last five years. You
may wonder how we can achieve such substantial growth in a market that's been
relatively competitive. The key differentiator for us has been our focused investment on
attracting industry-leading talent in our underwriting businesses and retaining the talent
Page 12 of 15



FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-10-09

that drives the business. That has been a key differentiator for us. We have focused very
strongly on unique specialty areas of the U.S. and global P&C markets that have barriers
to entry that we do have some competitive advantage and fighting off some of the
competitive pressures. We've been very successful at integrating acquisitions. We
acquired a business called Montpelier Reinsurance a few years ago. And as I mentioned
earlier, we've acquired a number of businesses in our lifetime as a company that has all
bolstered our growth. And the team dynamic has been very strong. The integrated
approach to running the business, the collegial environment that we have within the
leadership and management of our company has really helped accelerate the growth of
our business.

Bloomberg Transcript

We do expect to continue growing our business. We continue to invest, we're hiring
people every day and people are attracted to Sompo International. Particularly now that
Endurance has been acquired by Sompo Holdings, we are a very attractive employer. We
offer a very stable and prosperous future for our employees. We also offer to technical
and detailed underwriters a proper home. Many qualified underwriters have been
disenfranchised by their companies and want to find a place like Sompo International
where we really value the high-quality underwriting that they have and the client
relationships that they're able to deliver. That's been a very attractive proposition for
industry-leading talent to come to Sompo International, the fact that we now enjoy the
group credit ratings of Sompo Holdings that has accelerated our ability to hire and retain
industry-leading underwriting talent.
So I'll skip over the financial highlights very briefly. But I think this is all public information
that you would have seen. But the First Quarter is usually our lowest earned premium
quarter. Our business is somewhat seasonal, particularly our U.S. crop insurance business.
Most of the premiums are not earned until the second, third and Fourth Quarters of our
financial year. And so the First Quarter is usually our slowest in terms of earning of
business. It's usually our largest from a gross written premium point of view. But the
premium earnings don't usually come in until later on in the year. But we had a reasonable
First Quarter. We do target combined ratios in the low to mid-90s. And we did achieve a
mid-90s combined ratio in our First Quarter. And we did achieve very strong organic
growth in the gross written premium profile of the company.
So the last piece that I'll talk about in terms of our financial results is the asset portfolio of
Sompo International. And I know this page is a little bit busy. So I'll try and summarize it for
you. But Sompo International, the balance sheet of Sompo International has about $9
billion of invested assets and there's about another $1 billion of cash that is in operating
non-investment accounts. And so I'll talk just about the invested assets that we have. The
vast majority of our portfolio is represented by -- the outer red ring of this chart is U.S.
dollar, investment grade, fixed income securities. Obviously, as an insurance and
reinsurance company, we need to have assets available to pay claims and credit quality
and financial security is very important for us. And so the vast majority of those assets are
an investment grade, liquid, fixed income securities.
We are enjoying the benefits of a rising interest rate environment in the United States. We
expect that to continue over the next year with continued raises of the fed funds rate by
the Federal Reserve into next year. And so we're now starting to see that come through.
Page 13 of 15



Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-10-09

FINAL

You can see that we've seen a steady increase in our investment yield. And if you think
about close to $10 billion of cash and invested assets, having that put to work in a rising
interest rate environment is a very strong prospect for earnings growth and stability and
lower volatility of earnings over the next several years.
Outside of the fixed income portfolio, we have a diversified portfolio of specialty and
other assets. Less than 5% of our assets are in non-U. S. dollar investments. You can see in
the upper left orange portion is the foreign currency balances are non-U. S. dollar
balances in our portfolio. But we've invested very strongly in the diversified portfolio of
higher-yielding equities, alternative investments, bank loans and other credit strategies.
That gives us the benefit of increased earnings potential. But we've done so in a way that
is balanced and diversified across asset classes. And that gives us a portfolio that has very
good ability to participate in economic upcycles. But also gives us the protection of
relatively short duration fixed income portfolio.

Bloomberg Transcript

So I've covered the First Quarter results in some detail already. So I won't dwell on these
comments. I'll leave these for you to read if you haven't already. But in the interest of
allowing some time for questions and answers, I would like to just conclude on a few
points. I hope it's apparent, based on the discussion that we've had today, that the
Sompo International platform is a very strong foundation for the buildout of Sompo
Holdings overseas business expansion. We have the right underwriting talent, the right
leadership group, the right support from Sompo Holdings and the global businesses that
Sompo owns to drive this business forward. We have a very diversified portfolio of
business and expect to continue to grow and expand the diversified portfolio of the
Sompo Group.
The financial strength that we have within Sompo International, more broadly within
Sompo Holdings, is a competitive advantage for us. We're now fully deploying all of the
capital that we have. But we have very strong and stable balance sheets that give us very
strong advantage when we talk to our clients, when they think about financial security and
us as a counterparty to pay their claims over the long term. That's a huge advantage for
us.
The integration activities that we continue to undertake with Sompo Holdings and
throughout the global network is a competitive advantage. There's very few businesses in
our industry that have tried to create a truly global integrated view of underwriting P&C
and retail businesses globally. We have the opportunity within Sompo to be truly
differentiated amongst its peers.
Then lastly, as I've mentioned, we do expect Sompo International to be a key driver of
profit and growth expansion over the next several years. So with that, I'll turn it back to
Kuroda-san.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of

Page 14 of 15



any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Sompo H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8630 JP Equity
Date: 2018-10-09

Page 15 of 15

