Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2018-05-04

Q1 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Jay S. Bullock, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President
Mark E. Watson III, Chief Executive Officer, President and Director
Mark H. Rose , Chief Investment Officer & Senior Vice President
Susan Spivak Bernstein, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations

Other Participants
Jeff Schmitt, Analyst
Meyer Shields , Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning, and welcome to the Argo Group First Quarter 2018 Earnings Conference
Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. After today's presentation, there will be an
opportunity to ask questions. Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Susan Spivak Bernstein. Please go ahead.

Susan Spivak Bernstein

{BIO 1514699 <GO>}

Thank you and good morning. Welcome to Argo Group's conference call for the first
quarter of 2018. Last night, we issued a press release on earnings, which is available on
the Investors section of our website at www.argolimited.com.
With me on the call today is Mark Watson, Chief Executive Officer; Jay Bullock, Chief
Financial Officer; and Mark Rose, Chief Investment Officer. We're pleased to review the
company's results for the quarter, as well as provide you with management's perspective
on the business. As the operator mentioned, this conference call is being recorded. And
following management's opening remarks you will receive instructions on how to queue
to ask questions.
As a result of this conference call, Argo Group management may make comments that
reflect their intentions, beliefs, and expectations for the future. Such forward-looking
statements are qualified by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future
expectations generally and may materially differ from actual future results involving any
one or more of such statements. Argo Group undertakes no obligation to publicly update
forward-looking statements as a result of events or developments subsequent to this call.

Page 1 of 10



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2018-05-04

For a more detailed discussion of such risks and uncertainties, please see Argo Group's
filings with the SEC.

FINAL

With that, I'll turn the call over to Mark Watson, Chief Executive Officer of Argo Group.
Mark?

Mark E. Watson III

{BIO 1463509 <GO>}

Good morning and welcome to our call today. This year is off to a good start
demonstrating the balanced approach to growth and profit from both our international
and U.S. operations, continued strong contribution from net investment income and our
investments in digital.
Last night, we reported adjusted operating earnings of a $1.05 per share, a 67% increase
from the $0.62 per share we reported in the first quarter of 2017.

Bloomberg Transcript

Both underwriting income and investment income were up in the quarter as we benefited
from the disciplined growth in our underwriting business and the resulting increased level
of invested assets. Net income and EPS were down year-over-year due to the adoption of
new accounting standards requiring us to reflect changes in the value of our investment
portfolio through the income statement. Historically, we only reported that change directly
to shareholders, equity on the balance sheet. When you exclude the impact of this
accounting change to compare with last year's ROE, the result is an 11.2% return on equity
and against an 8.1% result for the first quarter of 2017.
Underwriting results are benefiting from our investments in talent as we continue hiring
very good people into our company, risk management using thoughtful capital allocation
and an enhanced capital structure to improve our capital efficiency, better working with
our partners and third-party capital providers to augment our underwriting business to
ultimately maximize our return on capital, and our digital platform, which I'll discuss in
more depth shortly.
First a few words about our operations. In the U.S., gross premiums were up 11.3% in the
first quarter of 2018 driven by growth in liability, professional and specialty lines, partially
offset by lower property premium. We continue in some cases to reduce our property
exposures as we seek the optimum distribution of exposures across our businesses and
platform. A small decline in underwriting income in the first quarter reflected this year's
higher catastrophe activity than a year ago related to winter storms in the Northeast and a
smaller contribution from favorable prior year development than last year.
That said, in several of our core growth business units such as professional lines and
surety, we saw strong increases in underwriting income compared to 2017. From a core
margin perspective, the ex-cat accident year loss ratio was 58.3%, up slightly from the
first quarter of 2017, which was 57.6%. U.S. business continues to perform well and the
modest increase in the loss ratio was a function of the few non-catastrophe related
property losses beyond what we would typically expect in a quarter and small shifts in the
business mix, mainly in increase in our casualty business.
Page 2 of 10



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2018-05-04

FINAL

Moving on to our international operations, results in our international business improved
substantially this quarter compared to 2017, as initiatives to grow the business, while at
the same time improving the underwriting results become more apparent. The results
also reflect the full quarter's results for Ariel Re compared with only two months in 2017,
keeping in mind that January is the biggest month of the quarter for our reinsurance
business.
Gross premiums written were up 28.1% in the first quarter of 2018, compared to the same
period in 2017, again with January being the largest month for Ariel Re. The timing of the
close as mentioned above is reflected in this year's numbers. Across the broader
international business segment, Property, Liability, and Professional lines all grew
compared to the prior year's first quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

From a profitability standpoint, the ex-CAT accident year loss ratio improved to 53.8%,
compared to 54.7% in the prior quarter. The year-over-year improvement again is a
reflection of the full quarter's inclusion of the results for Ariel Re. The calendar year loss
ratio for the international segment showed substantial improvement and benefited from
a return to reporting positive reserve development as well as from the absence of
catastrophe losses in the first quarter.
Just a couple of words about the rating environment, everyone has heard a bit already on
the environment, and I would say that our company is showing good signs of rate
improvement. Having said that, while it's across the board it's limited to single digits.
We're still seeing more rate increase and loss affected business. But as we talked about
on last quarter's call, it isn't quite as exaggerated as people were expecting in the fall of
last year. Having said that, given our financial results for the quarter, I'm pleased with how
our portfolio looks right now.
Let me go on to capital management. Our number one priority remains deploying our
capital into the businesses where we see attractive returns and we've been doing that as
evidenced by the growth in certain core businesses, such as casualty, professional lines
and surety. We also continued to return capital as we deem appropriate.
During the first quarter we repurchased $18.6 million of our stock or just over 300,000
shares. In February 2018, our board declared a 15% stock dividend and paid a cash
dividend of $0.27 per share. Just as a reminder, in the past seven years our cash dividend
has more than doubled. Between stock buyback and dividends paid, we have repatriated
over $600 million of capital since the program began in 2010.
I would like to now turn the call over to Mark Rose for a minute, our Chief Investment
Officer to talk about our investment portfolio and outlook for 2018. Following his
commentary, I'll provide an update on the changes we've made in technology and the
progress in our digital platform. Mark?

Mark H. Rose

{BIO 1557365 <GO>}

Page 3 of 10



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2018-05-04

FINAL

Thanks Mark and good morning everyone. The first quarter portfolio total return was a
negative 0.35% or down versus first quarter 2017 which was up 1.5%. In the first quarter,
the global financial markets, including both bonds and stocks, became reacquainted with
volatility. Leading the disruption was the two-year treasury and similarly LIBOR which rose
in yield from 1.88% to 2.27% or an increase of 20% in the quarter. The U.S. 10 year, which
people are more familiar with, was up nearly 50 bps during the quarter, or 50 basis points
during the quarter to nearly 3%, but by the end of the quarter settled around 2.75%.
If you step back and observe what's been going on in the markets for the past two years,
three-month LIBOR has gone from approximately 0.6%, or 60 basis points to nearly 2.4%
that's a 4 times increase. Borrowing costs have risen for all companies. During the quarter,
treasury volatility had its impact on all major credit markets, which were down in the first
quarter except for bank loans and floating rate bonds in general.

Bloomberg Transcript

For Argo, our core bond portfolio was down only 0.2% due to our short duration, which is
around 2.3 years when we included cash and our exposure to non-dollar assets. Our risk
portfolio, which has driven total return for the past two years was down 0.6% in Q1. Our
equity portfolio was the biggest detractor this quarter, but it was offset by bank loans,
special situations credit, private equity and hedge funds.
Our reported net investment income was $36 million for the first quarter of 2018, up $5.5
million versus a year ago and $1 million versus the fourth quarter of 2017. Net investment
income largely benefited from a larger asset base and higher yields in comparison to
prior periods. For example, one benefit from the jump in LIBOR is that we're able to
source over 3% yields in AAA floating rate asset back in CLO debt securities. This is up
over 1% from the prior year.
As mentioned earlier for this quarter, we began the accounting for the change in market
value of our equities through realized gains and losses. For Q1 2018, we experienced
negative $15.7 million in total realized losses, of which we had negative $31 million that was
due to market value changes and equities.
With that, I'll turn the call back over Mark.

Mark E. Watson III

{BIO 1463509 <GO>}

Thanks Mark. Two years ago, Argo made the strategic decision to outsource application
and infrastructure support. In making this decision we realized that managing servers and
IT infrastructure did not offer a strategic advantage to the company. By using strategic
partners that were experts in these services, we would get a higher quality results for a
lower cost. As of today, all of our business application is supported by an offshore partner
and we've migrated all of our U.S. infrastructure on to a private cloud with state-of-the-art
technology. One could say that we have drastically moved away from the flinstonian
approach that many larger companies have taken with their back office. By the end of the
year, we will have our international applications transitioned into this new model as well.

Page 4 of 10



FINAL

Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2018-05-04

Many of our competitors have leveraged and outsourced model for insurance company
and are doing more with application support. We've gone a step beyond that trend by
utilizing an outsource partner to host and manage the infrastructure services. Using this
strategy, we can further invest in business growth in 2018. In fact this year we will nearly
double the number of projects that we're working on, adding new business capability,
while improving the level of service available to the organization. I should also add that an
added benefit to this model is the ability to quickly scale. By using our partner network we
can easily add infrastructure and resource capacity without large upfront costs as we grow
our business.
On to digital, if you remember on last quarter's call I talked in depth about our digital
initiatives. In the first quarter of 2018, we continued to make progress towards our goal of
using technology to reshape our business. Our efforts to digitize the business are starting
to bear fruit for our distribution partners, policyholders and employees, and here are just
a few highlights for the quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have an application that provides quick quotes and that handles 100% of all quoting
for one key line of business within our casualty portfolio. We grew that towards as of the
first quarter 18% of the quotes coming in are submitted were done so directly by brokers.
Of those submissions, nearly 80% had automated quotes that our underwriters never had
to touch and these aren't tiny policies either. On average, the quota is around $25,000
and we've seen quotes in the hundreds of thousands of dollars as well.
Our broker partners are now repeatedly using the system as they realized that better
customer experience they can provide by getting a quote in minutes. We are achieving
this through artificial intelligence coupled with a simpler digital user experience, which
reduces the questions that that was previously required by 70% from a traditional form.
We're now leveraging this quick portability into another application for a portion of our
management liability business. In this case, we expect a 100% of the quoting to be
automated and you'll be hearing more about our quick quote platform later this year as
we deploy more lines of business with our partners. Our ability to quickly bring simple
automated insurance products to market using a test and learning philosophy is a
differentiator in the marketplace we believe.
Our broker portal continues to show growth in partnering customer engagement, roughly
35% of all new business for one of our business units which is Argo Insurance uses this
next generation of self-service tool. Brokers and insurers appreciated simple user
interface and they tell us it's unique in the marketplace, but we're not stopping there, we
will expand this portal to other lines of business and continue adding new features based
on customer and partner needs going forward.
Finally, we continue to be active investing in technology startups to both fill the need in
the market and can strategically help our core businesses. We've been an active player in
the cyber arena for many years and in the first quarter of 2018, we made an investment in
a startup that provides cyber prevention, mitigation and insurance for small businesses,

Page 5 of 10



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2018-05-04

FINAL

which is a high growth segment due to the continued increase of phishing and
Ransomware attacks.
We are active and we'll continue to broaden our portfolio of cyber partners and
investments in other segments of the market as well. So in summary, the progress we're
making on our digital initiative is changing how we transfer risk as we utilize powerful
technology and tools. I've also talked earlier and in the last quarter about how we
transferred risk to our changing capital structure as well. Our strategy focuses on
automation of both existing and new lines of business as well as leveraging advanced
data and algorithms to provide insights for the underwriting process. I'm happy to discuss
this more during our Q&A.
And with that, I'll turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer, Jay to discuss the financial
results in greater detail. Jay?

Jay S. Bullock

{BIO 3644311 <GO>}

Thanks, Mark and good morning, everyone. I'll make a few comments and then open it up
to questions. Following reporting of the last two quarters of 2017 that required a lot of
explanation to get the true underlying trends of the business, 2018 has not only started
off on a positive note, it's a lot simpler to explain, which will allow me to be brief.

Bloomberg Transcript

There was the one accounting change that has been mentioned related to the change in
the value of our equity portfolio, but that's more about where the result shows up than
anything else. The change had no effect on book value.
While Mark commented on the positive growth trends in both the U.S. and the
International segments, it's worth pointing out that a large portion of the growth in gross
written premium for the International segment was driven by the inclusion of the month of
January for the (00:18:10). That said, without the impact of that in the numbers, growth in
the segment was still over 15% as we saw growth in parts of our Bermuda-based business
as well as some of our growth initiatives in Europe.
Starting with the International segment, the slight reduction in net written and earned
reflects the accounting for certain outwards reinsurance contracts in the first quarter as
well as a planned reduction in the participation on certain of our voice-based businesses.
Moving to loss trends in the quarter, the underlying core loss ratio for the group was
essentially flat quarter-over-quarter. Catastrophe losses while modest, increased slightly
over last year and this quarter's prior accident year movement was a relatively small, but
positive result following last year's result, which included the impact of the Oregon rate
change along with activity on one prior catastrophe of that. All in pretty straightforward,
pretty consistent and pretty good.
Moving on to the expense ratio, we showed year-to-year improvement in the first quarter
of 2018 with the expense ratio to 38.6% versus 40.5% in 2017. Even excluding one-time
items from the 2017 first quarter, the expense ratio showed improvement and we expect
Page 6 of 10



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2018-05-04

FINAL

that trend to continue as our investments in people and technology continue to enable
growth. The only thing I noticed back for making more improvement was a slight increase
in acquisition expense related to small shifts in the business mix.
For the first quarter the income tax expense was $200,000 and that translated into
effective tax rate of nil. That was largely the result of a tax impact on the negative mark to
the equity portfolio, which resulted in a tax benefit that largely offset the tax on earnings
in taxable jurisdictions.
Post the tax reform in the U.S. and certain changes we've made to our tax structure we
continue to believe that our effective tax rate will be approximately 20%. We continue to
monitor this closely and if results suggest otherwise, we'll communicate that changed
assumption in the future.
Finally, of note on the balance sheet, while Mark Rose covered the investment
performance and we discussed the mark on the equity portfolio, we saw a similar decline
in value, $38 million with regard to the fixed income portfolio. That decline was
significantly mitigated by the short duration we've kept in the portfolio for some time in
anticipation of a rising rate environment.
Operator, that concludes our prepared remarks and we're now ready to take questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q&A
Operator
We will now begin the question-and-answer session. The first question will come from Jeff
Schmitt of William Blair. Please go ahead.

Q - Jeff Schmitt

{BIO 19747235 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning, everyone.

A - Mark E. Watson III

{BIO 1463509 <GO>}

Good morning.

Q - Jeff Schmitt

{BIO 19747235 <GO>}

Could you discuss the London property book? Are losses still elevated there and where
do you stand on that repositioning?

A - Mark E. Watson III

{BIO 1463509 <GO>}

We started repositioning the portfolio a year ago. So we're pretty close to being through
the end of that. I'm not sure what you mean by elevated, but as both Jay and I talked
about earlier this morning, and as we released in our financial results, the property – the
expected losses for the quarter were, well, they were in line with our expectations. We
Page 7 of 10



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2018-05-04

did not have negative development as we did a year ago, in fact actually we had slight
positive development in our loss reserves.

FINAL

I think the bigger issue is not our portfolio going forward, it's just market pricing. There is
still plenty of capacity in the marketplace, and I think that perhaps there is a better use for
our capital and our property exposure that's just sitting in the London market.

Q - Jeff Schmitt

{BIO 19747235 <GO>}

Okay. And then on the digital investment front, obviously you provided a lot of detail there
which was interesting, something that jumped out at me, did you say the questions that
was down 70% in some cases, was that to write a quote?

A - Mark E. Watson III

{BIO 1463509 <GO>}

Yeah. So to just say it simplistically, if we add – if we – if on a policy form we asked 10
questions before, now we're only asking three.

Q - Jeff Schmitt

{BIO 19747235 <GO>}

All right.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark E. Watson III

{BIO 1463509 <GO>}

Maybe that's a little too simple because we do ask more than three questions, but
actually we have another policy form for a small professional liability cover where we
actually only ask five questions, and one of them is what's your name? So we are figuring
out how to use third-party data, and on some of the smaller account business where
we're underwriting on a portfolio basis, we're finding that actually we don't need quite as
much information as the market dictates.

Q - Jeff Schmitt

{BIO 19747235 <GO>}

Okay. Okay. And then, what are you seeing in terms of submission growth and the time
that it takes to write a policy? I mean, how much does that improve? I know you've talked
about in the past, but...

A - Mark E. Watson III

{BIO 1463509 <GO>}

Yeah. So it depends on line – it depends on line of business. But we're seeing submission
activity grow anywhere from 30% to 50%. But as I've said before, we're not trying to
generate more submission activity, although that's nice. What we're really trying to do is
be more effective with the submissions that come in the door, so that we can be more
responsive to the brokers and agents that we're already transacting with. And so that I
would say that it's hard to measure responsiveness, but if I had to, I would say that we're
probably 30% to 50% more responsive today than we were a year ago.

Q - Jeff Schmitt

{BIO 19747235 <GO>}

Okay. Okay, great. Thank you.

Page 8 of 10



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2018-05-04

Operator
The next question is from Meyer Shields of KBW. Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

Thanks. Good morning. Two brief questions. First, I was hoping you could dig in a little bit
more into the gross written premium decline in property year-over-year. I guess I would
have expected more of an uptick given the increases that we saw?

A - Mark H. Rose

{BIO 1557365 <GO>}

Well actually, no. I mean look, is property an important part of our portfolio? Yes, it is. But
with market pricing where it is and I'm talking in general, I think we're happy with the
amount of risk that we've got on the books. The decline is – the decline in top line is
intentional. I mean, it's not a substantial number. And if you look at how much the
company grew in total, we've just had – we've seen better opportunities in other lines of
business. Again property is an important part of the company, including in London. That
won't change. But right now we're seeing more growth opportunities in other places.
Having said that, our property business, outside the U.S. did grow in the quarter yearover-year.

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It's okay. No. That's helpful. Thank you. Second question and I don't know if it's too early at
this point in time, but is the profile of the business that you're getting or that you're
quoting on quick quote, is that materially different from your current imports book?

A - Mark H. Rose

{BIO 1557365 <GO>}

No. It's not. And I forgot what the – I didn't mean to call it quick quote, it's just my point
was to say, you can get a quick quote. I don't actually remember what we call it. It's
another name. But it's the same business that we already have on the books which is why
I was making the point in the remarks earlier this morning that the digital teams focus has
primarily been on digitizing the business that we already have. We have plenty of
opportunities for new business to come in the door. But we make a strategic decision, a
year and a half ago that we should really focus on digitizing what we already have first and
then leverage that. And so that's the plan we have been executing against.

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

Okay. Understood. Thanks so much.

Operator
There are no additional questions at this time. This concludes our question-and-answer
session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Mark Watson for closing remarks.

A - Mark E. Watson III

{BIO 1463509 <GO>}

Page 9 of 10



Company N ame: Argo Group I nternational H oldings L td
Company Ticker: ARGO US Equity
Date: 2018-05-04

FINAL

Thank you operator. I'd like to thank everyone for being on the call today. As Jay said,
things were going well for the quarter and there's not a lot of movement for us to talk
about. We look forward to talking to you again at the end of the second quarter, and I
think that'll give us a chance to have good visibility not only on the end of – on the
remainder of 2018, but we look forward to talking about 2019 a bit as well, and give you
an update on the progress and the evolution of our company.
Thank you again for being with us and we'll talk to you in August.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You
may now disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 10 of 10

