Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

Y 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein, CFO
Michael Holliday-Williams, MD of Personal Lines and Executive Director
Paul Robert Geddes, CEO and Executive Director
Penelope Jane James, Executive Director
Steven Maddock, COO

Other Participants
Alan Devlin, Director
Andreas Evert Cornelis de Groot van Embden, Financials Analyst
Andrew John Crean, Managing Partner, Insurance
Arjan Van Veen, Executive Director & Equity Research Analyst of Insurance
David Bracewell, Research Analyst
Dhruv Gahlaut, Analyst
Greig N. Paterson, MD, SVP and U.K. Analyst
James Austin Shuck, Director

Bloomberg Transcript

Kamran Hossain, Analyst
Ravi Tanna, Equity Analyst
Unidentiﬁed Participant, Analyst
Wajahat Rizvi, Research Analyst

Presentation
Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

(technical diﬃculty)
for joining us here at Goldman Sachs for our full year results presentation, going into the
detail behind the headline results we announced a few weeks ago. And a bit of a break
from my usual format as I'm joined not only by our outgoing but also our incoming CFOs.
Today marks John's 22nd and ﬁnal sets of results and what a set of results to borrow from.
I'm also delighted to welcome Penny James, our new CFO, as of Thursday. And Penny will
be sharing some of her thoughts with you later. And as ever, other members of my team
are here in the audience.
So without further ado, let's kick oﬀ as ever with the highlights. 2017 is the ﬁfth successive
year that we've delivered a strong ﬁnancial performance. Our clear strategy and
determination to make insurance much easier and better value for our customers have
Page 1 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

been the driving force behind these results. And 2017 was a great year for the group. We
grew premiums by 3.6%. And within that, our own brands were up 9.3% versus 2016 with
great results and largely driven by another excellent year for our Direct Line brand. Our
continued focus on improving eﬃciency, combined with growth in direct own brands,
meant we improved both the underlying expense ratio and the commission ratio.
Operating proﬁt from ongoing operations was GBP 611 million. Combined ratio was a very
strong at 91.8%. And RoTE came in at 21.7%.
This excellent set of results and strong capital generation means we are today proposing
a ﬁnal dividend of 13.6p and a special dividend of 15p. Finally, our high-quality balance
sheet is reﬂected in our solvency capital ratio of 162% even after those dividends.
I'm going to come back later in the presentation to tell you more about the initiatives
we're going to be taking to deliver our medium-term targets and, in particular, our
technology plan to support them.
So now for the ﬁnal time, let me hand over to John.

Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Paul. Good morning, everyone. Let me give you an overview of the main features
of the results as ever with more detail in the prelim.
As Paul said, this is an excellent set of results and the highest annual proﬁt we've reported
in our 5-year history as a listed company. We grew premiums again in 2017, up 3.6% with a
particularly strong results in Motor. Ongoing operating proﬁt of GBP 610.9 million was
GBP 207 million higher than prior year, which, of course, was impacted by Ogden. At the
proﬁt before tax level, we delivered GBP 539 million versus GBP 353 million in 2016,
including a net positive GBP 33 million contribution from runoﬀ and restructuring.
Finance costs were GBP 66 million higher due to a one-oﬀ charge relating to the
successful debt reﬁnancing action we took at the end of 2017. The combined ratio was
91.8%, nearly 6 points better than 2016 reported and in line with 2016 pre-Ogden. And
weather-adjusted combined operating ratio was towards the lower end of the target
range.
Moving down to operating proﬁt by segment. Motor and Commercial, which were
impacted by Ogden in 2016, delivered signiﬁcantly better results. This helped oﬀset lower
prior year in claims inﬂation in Home. Rescue and other personal lines proﬁt was pretty
ﬂat.
Turning to premiums on Slide 6. The strong momentum across our own brand during
2017 enabled us to deliver overall premium growth of 3.6%. This growth was
predominantly driven by Motor, shown here in the dark blue; while our volume growth
combined with strong pricing, Motor premiums were 8.5% ahead of prior year. Home
premiums were down around 4% due to partner business (though the picture here) is
looking up. And we'll talk about that later.

Page 2 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

We continue to grow Rescue premiums, shown in green. This was mainly due to our
(inaudible) brand, Green Flag. Finally, Commercial, where premiums were pretty ﬂat. It
was such a strong year for Direct Line for Business, which grew premiums by 12% in 2017,
helping to oﬀset pressure in NIG, which was down 3%.
On the (inaudible) the overall premium growth was driven by direct own brands, with
Motor, Green Flag and Direct Line for Business all reporting double-digit growth. And
Home was also ahead of prior year.
Looking at policy count. In this chart, we've highlighted our direct own brand, which
continued to grow momentum and another year of strong growth overall, especially in
our disruptive brands, Green Flag and Direct Line for Business, which were up 10% and
8%, respectively. Motor grew policy count by 5.6%, which showed our unique proposition
cutting through. Home grew a little as well, up 2%, which is a good result in a very
competitive market.

Bloomberg Transcript

Elsewhere in the group, in the broker channel, NIG policy count was ﬂat due to distinct
pricing. The reduction in Motor and Home partner volume continued in '17. With our
recent work with RBS/NatWest, it's showing positive growth sign. Other personal lines
policies were broadly ﬂat as growth in Rescue linked was oﬀset by Rescue partners and
Travel.
Looking at expense and commission ratios on Slide 10, starting with the expense ratio,
which is in dark blue. Growing premium has provided for the leverage to improve the
underlying expense ratio in 2017. The reported expense ratio of 25.3% was ﬂat versus
prior year. But if you exclude the impairment charge in both years, the underlying ratio
was 0.5 point better and in line with our ambition to reduce the ratio at the time. We
incurred an impairment charge on IT of GBP 56.9 million. Our total cost base, excluding
that, increased by around GBP 28 million in 2017. This was mainly due to higher levies and
to our higher premiums. Flat staﬀ and marketing costs, alongside growing premiums,
show we've been getting eﬃciency improvements.
The commission ratio, shown in light blue, was 9.1% in 2017 and 2.4 points better than the
prior year. About half of this improvement reﬂects changes to business mix and new
partnership arrangements. And the other half relates primarily to diﬀerences in weather,
the escape of water in prior year as we've automatically ﬂow through to partners via the
commission line. Overall, we are pleased with the ratio improvement we delivered in 2017
and are conﬁdent that we can deliver on our ambition to lower these ratios over time.
Moving on to the loss ratio. The headline loss ratio improved by 3.5 points to 57.4%,
mainly due to movements in prior year reserve releases. As for the current year loss ratio,
which excludes weather, this is stable. At a segmental level, Motor delivered a strong
improvement in current year ratio, which was oﬀset by higher ratios in Home and
Commercial. Prior year releases remained signiﬁcant at GBP 392 million or 12.4% of
earned premiums. This was lower than recent years although higher than 2016, which was
impacted by the Ogden rate change.

Page 3 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

Home weather was benign again in the second half, taking the total for the year to GBP 13
million against the budget of GBP 65 million. And note that the weather load for Home
for 2018 is GBP 55 million, reﬂecting lower volumes as Nationwide runs oﬀ; and the
Commercial weather load for 2018 is GBP 20 million.
Overall, we've improved our cost and commission ratios while holding our attritional loss
ratio steady. So successfully delivered what we set out to do, mainly to improve current
year proﬁtability. We expect this trend of improving the contribution from current year to
continue over time. Over time, the balance between current year and prior year will shift
within our 93% to 95% medium-term combined operating ratio target. The point where
this will balance and reach its maturity is several years away.
Looking quickly at operating proﬁt. Here, you can see total ongoing operating proﬁt
increased by GBP 207 million to GBP 611 million due to signiﬁcant increases in Motor and
Commercial, which were impacted by Ogden in 2016. Motor recouped GBP 49 million of
this Ogden cost in the ﬁrst half of 2017. The contribution from the non-Motor businesses
was GBP 247 million. That's 40% proﬁt in 2017, showing the beneﬁt for our diversiﬁed
strategy. Commercial performed well and, again, contributed strongly to the group.
Rescue has been a solid performer with strong potential we can realize.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's look in a bit more detail at each of the segments, starting with Motor. Motor pricing
was very strong in 2017, albeit stronger in the ﬁrst half than the second half. Our prices,
which exclude IPT, were up 9.5% over the year, ahead of the ABI ﬁgures. As we said at the
half year, the reduction in risk mix reﬂects the way we deploy the Ogden price change as
we put through higher increases for younger drivers where the exposure is greater.
Strong EBITDA sales and high retention reported an overall increase in premiums of 8.5%.
And we grew policy count by 3.8%. Motor proﬁt was up GBP 215 million to GBP 364
million. And much of this movement is explained by the change to the Ogden rate, which
reduced Motor proﬁt by around GBP 150 million in 2016. The underwriting net result also
reﬂects a material improvement in the current year loss ratio as a result of strong trading.
We beneﬁted from 2 tailwinds in terms of current year performance. First, there was a
one-oﬀ beneﬁt from having ﬁxed our reinsurance costs ahead of the Ogden rate change.
Secondly, we had better claims experience than we expected. These 2 tailwinds,
combined with the strong pricing, enabled us to improve our margins. And this was
reﬂected in a 4.4 points improvement in the current year loss ratio. We think these
tailwinds, which will have beneﬁted a number of property insurers, may also explain why
pricing wasn't so strong in the second half of the year. At this point, we are reviewing -- we
are viewing the better-than-expected claims data in 2017 as one-oﬀ. We have not changed
our view of long-term claims inﬂation being 3% to 5% per annum.
Finally, at the end of December, we renewed our excess loss reinsurance at a somewhat
increased cost, reﬂecting a change in the Ogden discount rate. We renewed all layers. But
retained 10% of the ﬁrst risk layer. We were pleased with the overall outcome, which looks
better than some of the industry commentary we've read.

Page 4 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

Next to Home. Now at the half year, we highlighted a number of actions we've taken to
mitigate escape of water inﬂation. And we're pleased with the actions that helped return
this to more normal levels. We believe we were one of the ﬁrst to respond to Escape of
Water; we increased our own brand prices in 2017, particularly on new business in the ﬁrst
half. This contributed to an overall pricing increase of 2.6% across own brands. The shift
towards price comparison websites continued in 2017. And as we've written more volume
to this typically low premium channel, this led to an overall reduction in own brand
average premiums to 1.4%. When you take into account our pricing actions, IPT increases
and last year's premium disclosure, we're very pleased that in a market with more
customers shopping around, we're able to grow own brand policy count and premiums.
Moving to operating proﬁt. Home proﬁt was down GBP 38 million to GBP 129 million due
to lower prior year from the December 2015 storms. So we're up against a tough
comparator. The Escape of Water inﬂation also had an impact in the year. However, the
operating proﬁt overall was still above our normalized level as a result of another benign
weather year with only GBP 13 million of weather losses versus our budgeted level of GBP
65 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now to the other 2 businesses. Commercial delivered a very strong result, GBP 74 million
of operating proﬁt, which is the highest since group was listed. Excluding the impact of
Ogden in 2016, proﬁt was up 11%. And Commercial combined operating ratio was 93.4%,
which is similar to 2016 before the Ogden change. Commercial current year loss ratio was
up a bit in 2017. We interpreted the claims data cautiously at the year-end. And the
reserving, therefore, looks conservative. And weather was also benign in 2017.
Finally, Rescue and other personal lines proﬁt was broadly ﬂat with a combined proﬁt of
GBP 44 million. Within that, Rescue achieved a slightly better result, oﬀset by a reduction
in other personal lines.
Moving on to investment. Overall investment return rose a little to GBP 175.4 million in
2017. And that's due to very strong gains both on property and on credit. You can see that
the low U.K. interest rate environment continued to impact the group's net investment
income, down GBP 10 million to GBP 140.1 million after hedging. As a reminder, our
investment objective is to match the duration of our U.K. liabilities and protect the group's
capital. We diversiﬁed credit exposure away from the U.K. and then hedged to bring the
currency and interest rate elements back to sterling ﬂoating rate. So while high U.S.
interest rates on our U.S. portfolio helped top line investment income, currently low U.K.
rates are reﬂected in the higher hedging number and, therefore, lowering our investment
income.
The result of all this is a net income yield on a sterling ﬂoating rate basis of 2.1% in 2017.
And for 2018, we expect the trend to continue with a net investment yield after hedging
back to sterling ﬂoating rate should be again around 2.1%. Again, the performance of our
property portfolio has been very strong since the commencement of that portfolio in
2012. Given the current levels of the U.K. property market, we don't expect signiﬁcant
gains on property in 2018. Overall, therefore, we anticipate a total investment return in the
region of GBP 150 million in 2018.

Page 5 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

Now looking at how we get from headline ongoing operating proﬁt to proﬁt after tax on
Slide 17. The run-oﬀ segment continued to beneﬁt from positive prior year releases. And
there's a partial oﬀset by GBP 12 million of restructuring and other one-oﬀ costs. So
combined, these 2 items contributed GBP 32 million to the overall result.
Moving down to ﬁnance costs. These included a one-oﬀ charge of GBP 66.1 million, which
relates to the buyback of Tier 2 debt following the restricted Tier 1 issue. And that brings
us down to a proﬁt after tax of GBP 434 million, GBP 155 million higher than the prior year.
Now looking ahead, we are changing our guidance on the reporting of run-oﬀ and
restructuring. We've previously guided to run-oﬀ and restructuring broadly oﬀsetting one
another over the full year period 2015 to 2018. As at the end of 2017, the net result of
these 2 lines was actually a proﬁt of GBP 43 million. We've decided to stop reporting
these separately and to report a single -- simple, single operating proﬁt line. We will, of
course, highlight any material future one-oﬀs. And the simpliﬁcation has no impact on our
targets.
With regard to ﬁnance costs, these will reduce to approximately half the previous annual
charge of around GBP 40 million, with the restricted Tier 1 coupon of approximately GBP
15 million being reported in movement in equity.

Bloomberg Transcript

In a moment, I'll hand over to Penny, who's going to take you through our capital position
and also talk about the outlook for DLG. I believe our prospects are excellent and that
DLG is well placed to continue to produce great returns for shareholders. Here's a
summary of how things have turned out in the ﬁve years since we went public.
The ﬁrst couple of years, our priority was to put the fundamentals right, pricing claims and
cost eﬃciency. Over that period, we held our direct own brands policy count ﬂat. But we
came out of that period in 2015. That's the year we sold International. And have been
growing direct own brand customer numbers steadily since then. These have grown
around 5% in each of the last two years. Throughout our time as a listed company, we've
stayed focused on our combined operating ratio target, shopping that target frequently
and more recently extending it to the medium term. And we've managed capital
eﬀectively in order to translate that combined operating ratio and proﬁt to strong return
on tangible equity. All this has delivered great shareholder returns, as illustrated by the
chart at the bottom right-hand corner.
I'm conﬁdent DLG is well positioned to bring you great returns in the future as it's done in
the past. Thank you for your support, for -- and debate with me over the last ﬁve years and
in the next hour.
And now, I'm delighted to pass it back -- on to Penny.

Penelope Jane James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks, John. Firstly, I'd like to thank John for his extraordinary patience putting up with
all my questions and curiosity over the past few months. Many of you already know me.
Page 6 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

So I won't go through my background here. But if we haven't already met, please catch
me afterwards and make an acquaintance.
Now I've had some luxury of a lengthy handover period. Since November, I spent most of
my time visiting diﬀerent parts of the business. I've been everywhere, from the customerfacing areas to digital, from NIG to marketing, from partnerships to accident repair
centers. And in this time, I've observed many things about DLG that I think give us that
distinctive advantage. But there are 2 that I want to highlight to you.
First. And most important, is customer centricity. Whether in a call center talking to
customers or talking with a car mechanic or discussing strategy with the ex-CO, one thing
is clear and consistent from this organization. And that's the focus on the customer. You
can feel it in the direct line proposition, which is quite distinct. You can feel it in the
unscripted customer calls. And you can feel it in the sensitivity with which our call
handlers deal with our customers. Customer centricity is consciously part of the culture
here at DLG. And I believe it's what delivers the direct own brands growth that John's
been talking about.
Second is the depth of talent. Some of my new colleagues have been here for some years
and have been the driving force behind the success you've seen on the slide before this.
But others are much newer to the organization. And like myself, hopefully, bring fresh
thinking in the leading areas such as data, procurement, technology, Green Flag and so
on. But there's also plenty of opportunity for us to improve. I believe we can further
leverage these strengths and build our capabilities across all our channels. So I'm
enthusiastic about the direction we're going. And as always, further to go on costs and
eﬃciency.
Paul will talk in detail later about our view of where we stand and what we're doing. But in
summary, I believe there are some great diﬀerentiating strengths, an energized team and
lots to do. So I'm really excited about what lies ahead.
Now coming back to the numbers. Let's take a look at the balance sheet that I've
inherited. Here, we have our ﬁrst full year of operating under the Solvency II partial
internal model. And I'm very pleased to be presenting strong capital generation. It's
important to note the ﬁgures are still draft and won't be ﬁnalized until the regulatory
returns go in, in May.
Let's take -- looking at the slide, moving from left to right. We start the year with a surplus
above requirements of GBP 910 million. Despite the growth in the business during the
year, a couple of requirements actually reduced very slightly by around GBP 14 million.
There are lots of moving parts. But it's worth noting that whilst we're still growing, we're
also seeing a reduction in our net reserve. This reﬂects claims settling on all the years, the
new year's mainly being reinsured down to around the GBP 1 million level; and
recognition of the cautious approach to reserving the group has taken, evidenced by a
history of prior year positive development.

Page 7 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

Capital generation from our operating activities was GBP 487 million. Whilst there are
some diﬀerences between the basis and Solvency II (for us) that creates variations yearon-year, generation post CapEx should broadly reﬂect the (RFS) proﬁt over time, though
currently, we're in a period of higher capital investment. Capital expenditure was GBP 94
million and in line with our previous guidance of GBP 80 million to GBP 100 million per
year on average between 2017 and 2019. And that reﬂects the investment across the
business, which Paul will be discussing later.
Our successful debt reﬁnancing at the end of 2017 slightly strengthened the overall
position. And ﬁnally, we've announced dividends totaling GBP 486 million for the year,
which I'll now turn to.
The strong ﬁnancial performance and capital position have enabled the group to rebase
the regular dividend and recommend a special. The board's recommended a ﬁnal regular
dividend of 13.6p, an increase of 40p on last year and consistent with the guidance given
at half year. In addition, the board's declared a special dividend of 15p.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to solvency. At the half year, the group announced in normal circumstances, the
board expects to operate to the ratio of around the middle of the risk appetite range of
140% to 180%. After the ﬁnal and special dividends are taken into account, the group's
estimated solvency ratio was actually 162%. This guidance to the level of solvency in
normal conditions remains unchanged. But I would remind people that the nature of
capital modeling includes some inherent volatility. And therefore, people should
anticipate a small variation year-on-year even in normal circumstances.
Before I hand over to Paul, I'd like to close on outlook and targets. I inherit a strong and
well-managed balance sheet, a history of prudent reserving and the current underwriting
heavily de-risked through reinsurance. As you've heard, this is a business, which had
shown real momentum, disciplined underwriting and an ongoing focus on eﬃciency. This,
together with the investment across a range of initiatives gives me conﬁdence to reiterate
the medium-term targets. From a cost perspective, it's important the group maintains its
focus on progressive improvements and eﬃciency. So we plan to continue to reduce our
expense ratio and our commission ratio. Assuming current claims trends continue, we aim
to deliver a 93% to 95% combined ratio through the medium term. And as our
investments in business yield beneﬁts, we expect to see a further rebalancing of our
proﬁtability between prior year towards current year. This is a key focus area for me.
Having rephased the regular dividend by 40% in 2017, we now seek to grow the dividend
in line with the business.
And ﬁnally, on capital, we expect to be around the middle of 140% to 180% risk appetite
range in normal circumstances. Of course, we maintain an ambition in the long term to
achieve at least a 15% return on tangible equity. It's good to see that in striving to achieve
these objectives, the team remain absolutely committed to invest in the future of this
business. So that it's well-placed strategically and operationally for the changing
environment ahead.

Page 8 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

And with that, I'll hand over to Paul, to give you a real ﬂavor of what we're actually doing.

FINAL

Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Thank you, Penny and John. Penny, it's great to have you here. John, we'll come back to
you later. So as we've been through in 2017, we've delivered some great numbers. And
these numbers haven't been achieved by accident, they're results of concerted
management action on our priorities, which as we set out six months ago are: to maintain
revenue growth, to reduce our expense and commission ratios and to deliver
underwriting pricing excellence to fuel growth and good loss ratios. As you can see,
we've delivered across all 3. Our own brands have driven our revenues higher. We've
delivered good improvements to both our commission and underlying expense ratios.
And we've delivered that growth at good attritional loss ratios. All of which, combine to
grow our current year proﬁts by GBP 87 million, albeit, as John said, including someone
one-oﬀs.

Bloomberg Transcript

The key to this momentum, we continue to deliver initiatives to improve the business. And
to explain the next wave of initiatives we're investing in, let's look at our channel
strategies. So here's a chart, which we showed last year when I talked about returning our
direct business to growth, having spent the previous phase optimizing our business of
PCWs. This time, we've also included partnerships. We believe that our strength at all 3
channels is a major advantage for us at DLG. We start from a strong position, with leading
brands in the speciﬁc channels supported by group-wide excellence, at customer service,
great digital front ends and claims excellence.
Today, I'm going to set out our plans to push forward on all 3 channels at once. On Direct,
our most advantaged channel, we want to keep up the momentum, particularly pushing
hard into SME and Rescue. We also think we can do that in a way that's increasingly
eﬃcient for our customers and ourselves. On PCWs, which is where about 3/4 of Motor
policies and about 2/3 of Home policies are bought, our ambition is to have the best
capabilities. And when we have them, to grow in this channel. And partnerships, which
took a bit of a backseat to our own brand business during the early part of the plan. But
behind the scenes we've been investing in our digital capability such that today, not only
is our major home partnership returning to growth. But we're now in a position where
selectively we'll start to target and to win new partnerships.
Sitting behind these initiatives for all 3 channels is a uniﬁed group-wide data and
technology plan, which I'll update you on in a moment. Let's start by going deeper into all
of these channels starting with Direct. And as you know, we're really excited about our
Direct business. We've reestablished growth and still see lots of opportunity. And not just
in our core Motor and Home business. We're going to be instrumental in driving the
micro SME top -- the micro SME market to go direct and we want to shake up the direct
risky market and get a much bigger share of the value. So our objectives here are pretty
simple. First, a trust to continue to fuel our brand and customer advantages to maintain
that growth. The second is there are many ways we can improve our eﬃciency of how we
deal with customers. So let's talk through some of the initiatives we've got here.

Page 9 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

First, we're just launching 2 brand-new unique Direct Line propositions on Home and
Motor and are pretesting. So they may be our best yet. You may already have seen our
new fast response launch on Home on the TV over the weekend. Direct Line customers
are going to get these new propositions on top of the many unique propositions we've
already given them. And as you know, we have a fantastic new SME system, which we've
rolled out already to Bed & Breakfast owners and to Hair & Beauty traders. And we're
going to push forward signiﬁcantly on that rollout to get to 75% of our target market by
the end of this year.
Green Flag, as you know, we've put back into a single business unit under new
management. And they're developing an exciting new plan, which we'll share with you
soon.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to eﬃciency, we're going to enable customers to do more for themselves by self
service. And we see an opportunity in automated processes and increasingly straight
through processing. These things, we believe, customers will actually prefer or they won't
notice. But they're going to signiﬁcantly improve our eﬃciency in running the business.
Let's now move on to PCWs where, as you know, we have the best brand in Churchill and
a great price ﬁghting brand in Privilege. We've done a lot of work to be good on PCWs.
We're competent in pricing and fraud, which matter a lot in this area. And that's enabled
us to be competitive and to have a steady share at adequate margins. But our ambitions
are much greater. We're investing to have class-leading capabilities. And when we have
these, we want to grow this channel. So what do we need to do to achieve that? Well ﬁrst
of all, as part of our overall IT systems, we're investing in the latest-generation pricing
engine and with it, a series of application forward initiatives. We're also, in parallel,
developing an alternative pricing model using new maps to machine learning to come up
with a model, which is equally predictive. But importantly, non-correlated with our existing
pricing models. We're also steadily pushing out our quote footprint and have high
ambitions to keep Churchill in great face at the top of the preference for PCW brands.
Finally, partnerships, which we're going to split into 3. First, our Home partnerships. We
have some stability here, having secured the RBS and NatWest partnership. And our
objective is to grow that partnership and selectively, to acquire new ones. The work we've
been doing behind the scenes to knit our systems together with theirs to enhance the
journey for both customers and branch staﬀ is working very well. We signiﬁcantly
increased new business sales and thereby, stabilized the book. So here, we want to use
platform to add new partners.
For Rescue and travel, our ambition is a bit diﬀerent. These are businesses ﬁnely priced,
which we like to get because they can add useful scale. But the economics also need to
work for us. We have a bit more of a mixed picture here. We've recently extended our
travel partnership with Nationwide and won the RBS Rescue partnership. Our objective
here is to create a platform for growth. And our next initiative is the development of a
brand-new travel system.

Page 10 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

Now for Motor, where the role of partnerships is strategic and our objective is to be the
partner of choice for car manufacturers. Why? Well the current transformation of the
motor industry provides both risks and opportunities to insurers. We want to partner with
motor manufacturers to be in that value chain, working with them to create exciting new
propositions for customers. That's why we have introduced the relationship with Tesla and
our partnerships with Peugeot-CitroÃ«n. And today, I'm absolutely delighted to announce
that we've signed a letter of intent with Volkswagen to be their insurance partner in the
U.K. for their brand Audi, Fiat, Å koda, Volkswagen and Volkswagen Commercial for at
least ﬁve years. I hope you'll agree, overall, a really exciting ambitious sets of initiatives
across our 3 main channels.
But clearly, to deliver these requires us to have the technology to support them. So let's
take a look at where we are in technology, where we've been making real progress. Our
systems are resilient and stable. And we have excellent digital and mobile front ends
helping us to win in the marketplace today. Our mobile sales for Direct Line have doubled
in the past year, supported by class-leading loads times. We continue to improve our web
purchase journey with NPS scores up 3.3percentage points in the last year alone.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've also done a lot on claims where we're very mature in our running of Guidewire's
claim center. And we also have technology to allow customers to use mobile in the claims
process. And to be able to ﬁght claims fraud. And this has helped us to signiﬁcantly
increase our claims' NPS score up a further 2 points in the year. And detect signiﬁcantly
more fraud than the market average.
But we have more to do. We need to complete rolling out our self-service functionality
and our legacy systems are both expensive to run and lack agility and ﬂexible. So here,
our objectives are pretty clear. We want to support the channel strategies that I've just
outlined. First, by seeking the leading position on pricing and fraud capabilities. Second,
by giving us agility and ﬂexibility on products and propositions. Third, by progressing our
story of self-service, automation and straight-through processing. And ﬁnally, by enabling
us to add partners with agility and speed and giving them the functionalities they want.
At the same time, we have another big objective. We also see IT as a major lever in
delivering our expense ratio reduction. So our initiatives here are quite clear, we want to
complete the build of the latest-generation system to give us that functionality, which I'll
cover in a moment. Then we want to run these systems in a much more eﬃcient way.
We've already signiﬁcantly increased our procurement capability, achieving better deals
with fewer partners. We have a preference to rent rather than buy infrastructure. And
increasingly, our cloud usage. And we have a plan to reduce and ultimately
decommission our expensive mainframe.
So let me next go on to focus on the completion of those later-generation systems, which
unlocks both the functionality and the cost savings. A reminder of our approach here, we
have a preference to buy rather than to build and to select products proven in their
respective markets, avoiding a one-size-ﬁts-all model. This approach also enables us to
keep our systems up-to-date as we beneﬁt from ongoing releases and upgrades from our
partner suppliers. Finally, we will test rigorously and take a phased rollout approach to
manage risk.
Page 11 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

On our core personal lines business, the functionality, as I said, is good front end and
good on the claim side with Guidewire's claim center. What we're working on now is
completing the full implementation of the Guidewire insurance suite whilst implementing
the Towers Watson Radar Live pricing and underwriting engine, along with supporting
systems and infrastructure, which we will connect to a comprehensive set of external data.
This will help us deliver against all 4 of the objectives I set out in the previous chart.
Here, as you know, we have to rework the data architecture. But the new data architecture
is agreed, taken the impairment. And we're partnering with a systems integrator to
complete this deployment. We're building and testing our initial major release this year to
start rolling out next year.
Elsewhere, we talked about our SME system, which is going to be rolling out 75% target
trades this year. And in other personal lines, we're building a new travel system, which
we'll also roll out this year.
So a lot of progress on our underlying systems. We've done what we need to do to get us
back on track and we're very excited by the opportunities they'll bring. The systems we're
implementing will enable us to move forward on all the initiatives in our channels and
they underpin our medium-term target.

Bloomberg Transcript

So in summary, 2017 was a great year. We successfully delivered against our priorities,
helping us to deliver strong and highly cash generative earnings. The strong cash
generation has helped us both invest in the long term of the business. And at the same
time, deliver to shareholders today with total dividends of GBP 0.354 in 2017.
With that, let me go to questions.

Questions And Answers
A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

All right. Shall we go further this way? So Ravi?

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

It's Ravi Tanna, Goldman Sachs. Three questions, please. The ﬁrst one was just on your
investment income guidance. I know you've got a medium-term proﬁt growth target. But
obviously with today's guidance on the current stable underwriting and fading investment
income, at least in 2018, I was just wondering if you could talk to us how you're likely to
handle that and whether there's scope for de-risking on the investment portfolio at all.
The second one is on the SCR. Could you give us a sense as to whether this is likely to be
an ongoing tailwind that will help Solvency development? And if so, by how much each
year? Then, the third one was just on your comment around "footprint." Just curious to
know exactly what the parameters are there and to what extent you're looking to increase
your volumes and in what pockets of the market.

Page 12 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
I'm going to answer the ﬁrst one. Yes. Thanks, Ravi. So yes. So we've said -- we said proﬁt
guidance, we, of course, haven't given -- we don't give proﬁt growth guidance. We give
dividend growth guidance on our regular dividends, which we've said is 2% to 3%. And
we've sort of aligned that to the growth of the business covering individual lines.
Obviously, we want our costs to go, every company does. And today, we've got -- the
(inaudible) for that are fairly transparent. So we've said medium-term core target within
the range of 93% to 95%. We -- so far we've been delivering that and obviously, expect
that to continue. And we've talked about growth in the business and all the things we're
doing to get that growth. So we've got some of the parts to P&L going in the right
direction there, along with installments now, which tend to go -- to track what's
happening with volume generating. Then on the investment side, yes, the investment
income, we're saying, is going to be down year-on-year '17 to '18. Once it's got to that
point, I think the scope for it to grow a little bit with volume obviously depends then on
how much we distribute the dividend as to whether AUM actually grow or not, they have
always grown. Then, I think we are -- we'd be looking more to interest rate. I mean, in a
way, it's more a Penny question because you've got a nice dividend future than a mean
question. But I think based on where I've been talking with my colleagues on the
investment side, the upside on investment is probably more on U.K. interest rates than
any other individual driver. We're taking roughly the amount of risk we want to take. There
probably is some scope to take a bit more investment risk. We've not yet found a new
investment class that excites us in that sense. And so there could be some tactical move. I
don't expect anything major. But I think you want to keep your powder dry. Then -- but
interest -- U.K. interest rates, we could actually take a bit more risk on U.K. interest rates
because we're quite short, we've got a lot of cash. I don't think we'd see now as the
moment to do it. But that's a potential for improvement in interest rates and for us to take
a bit more of that risk at the yield curve, assuming it ever does improve in the U.K. That's
an upside. Do you want to...

A - Penelope Jane James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

No. I think we are grateful. I've been looking into U.K. interest rates at the moment here.
Shall I take SCR? SCR, early stage to give a deﬁnitive number. But directionally, if you look
at the way the reinsurance program changed in 2014, then I think you should expect those
reserves will continue to tick down over time. There are lots and lots of moving parts in an
SCR calculation. So it's volatile to a number of things. But those are the things being
equal, you'd expect to see, I think, some tick down over time, again, in the SCR, which
gives us an option around how we deploy that for growth and for the book.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Our quote footprint has kind of 2, 3 buckets here. So ﬁrst of all, our quotes for things
which we just don't do today, like, U.K. (inaudible). We don't do homes with pre-existing
subsidence. So here you need some genuinely new equities to learn because we haven't
written those before. We don't have much kinds of experience. So that's kind of -- there
are some initiatives to stop tracking some of those. Then there's kind of, within the
existing parameters, things which we don't quote for because we don't like the historic
performance. And again, we need to kind of continue to grow our expertise there. And so
those are both pushing out the quote footprint. It's not going to be a sudden single bang,
which takes us to a 100% quotability. I think the most important one, though, that we've
Page 13 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

said here under alternative pricing is not the quotes we return today at all, it's increasing
our competitive quote footprint. So today, as you know, we have single pricing model,
which means that either all our brands are pretty competitive or none of our brands are
competitive. So we've got a bunch of very, very clever people, using (EMA's) machine
learning to go oﬀ and use our fantastic claims data to model it in new ways. And so far the
experience is pretty encouraging that they can model at least as good loss ratio. But
importantly, non-correlating with our business. So we increase the number of customers
we can choose and we're working on how to deploy it. Now obviously, we need to
actually write some business to get some claims, check that, that claims experience comes
through in reality. But that's probably the most signiﬁcant in terms of the volume from
quote footprint versus the pushing out on the overall envelope. This expressive quote
footprint is important.
Right. Thank you. Yes. We go...

Q - Arjan Van Veen

{BIO 5197778 <GO>}

Arjan Van Veen, UBS. Thanks for the additional disclosure on the systems changes. Just
curious to see, is that when you're going to roll them out? Could you talk maybe a bit
about legacy systems and how quickly they kind of get turned oﬀ after the rollout? And a
question for Penny, you're on the board of another peer that's -- has much lower cost
ratio. So could you maybe indicate some areas where you think, it requires a little bit of
(FAT) on the expense side?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Very good. So yes, I mean, systems, it's going to be multiple years to fully be able to
switch oﬀ all legacy systems and mainframes. But that's not to say that as we reduce our
usage of mainframes, we won't be able to save some money. So it's not -- clearly, there is
a drop when you get rid of mainframe. But we'll be reducing our costs in the meantime.
And that's just one of the parts of us running our systems more eﬀectively. As I said, we've
got fantastic new procurement capability. We're really leveraging our scale. We probably
inherited a little bit of a bank-like approach to cost management on IT. And we now have
a very diﬀerent approach, which is really leveraging our scale, consolidating in fewer
partners, as I say, renting versus buying infrastructure. So we've got -- it's not the end of
the cost savings that comes through on IT. It's actually quite progressive. Steve's got a
great plan on that. Penny, (FAT)...

A - Penelope Jane James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Look, I think -- I don't want to comment on (Admiral) in particular. But what I said -acknowledge is there's a diﬀerent model here. So there are some costs that are incurred
in this business that are done so for good reasons. So the Direct play, the marketing costs
are diﬀerent, et cetera, et cetera. So I don't think we should necessarily compare the 2
head on. We need to be mindful of what that cost is generating. There are some areas
where the cost are higher than you would choose. I think property costs, we have some
legacy issues there. They're probably not going away in a hurry. IT, it's clearly an
overhead. I think we've got the right actions in place to address those and bring those
down. But it will take time to actually get to decommissioning, as Paul suggested. Then
there are some broader areas, where I think you can generally just continue to tighten. So
Page 14 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

I think Paul mentioned procurement, which is a great example where it feels as though
we've made it from not being top of the list to having quite a sophisticated approach to it
in the last year. So I think that one is not working. So yes. So I don't think you should look
at every cost line. There are some business trouble diﬀerences that are still a little ways to
go, I think.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yes. I think -- listen, I mean, I acknowledge, I think it's fantastic to have Penny around next
to the table. She does bring a -- bring the challenge on that area and there's not one we
need to. But it's -- investors say, having fresh blood and fresh energy on that, I think, is
really important. And as you know, we've got targets to continue to reduce our expense
ratio, which we're all behind. Good. The next -- James and Alan here.

Q - James Austin Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

James Shuck from Citi. I had 3 questions, please. Firstly, on the LTIPs. So the LTIPs, they
kind of -- pretty vested at around 17.5% -- of 20.5% return on tangible. You're probably
making 21.7%. There was a little bit of a headwind -- or a tailwind, I should I say, with low
weather. That might take oﬀ a little bit going forward. But I'd just love to see whether
incentive is to actually drive the RoE higher and why that's the appropriate level for the
LTIPs. That's the ﬁrst question. Secondly, just a nondiscretionary, really, on the reserving, if
I look at the mix between the IBNR and case reserves, there's a sharp drop in the IBNR in
2017. Would like to know what's explaining that, too. Partly opt in. But I would expect case
reserves to have fallen as well. Then thirdly, around the GDPR, just interested around this
right to be forgotten and what that might mean for things like no claims bonuses and the
like, particularly in Motor.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Good. So LTIPs, you'll have noticed, our (own cave) has stretched our RoTE targets by 250
basis points. So a new application that went further.

Q - James Austin Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Or -- well, part of the reason why that happened is because the gearing level's gone up a
little bit...

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yes. So -- but half of that increase is the debt, which is worth about 130 basis points. And
the rest is just further stretching within -- the RemCo has a job to do, as you rightly point
out, to stretch the targets just to keep the carrot suﬃciently the right distance from the
horse to make it motivating. And I think -- so that -- I think your observation explains why
they put 250 basis points on the target.

Q - James Austin Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Maybe to help you understand just a bit sort of why that is a stretch. Because if I look at
the RoTE in recent years, you're consistently making that kind of number. So it's sort of
you don't have to do anything. And then you get paid out fully on the oﬀsets.
Page 15 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yes. I think -- listen, I think, delivering 20.5% RoTE, I think, is a very good performance.
And I think to increase the targets in one go by 250 basis points, I think, is quite a change.
And I think they've done their job to make the target more stretching. Whilst I think (it's
harder) coming in, said, okay, we're putting some numbers in the mid 20s up. I think that
would have been -- send all sorts of inappropriate signals about the business and
prospects and all sorts of other things. But I think that they were mindful of the need to
make sure the targets were more consistent with consensus at the top end. And I think a
250 basis point increase, we think, is quite a move. You can always argue, I'm sure you
can give feedback that you want more. But management thinks it's quite a big increase.
IBNR?

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
(inaudible) Yes. Well ﬁrst of all, we haven't changed anything in how we reserve or in the
things we have. You're right, Ogden is the main reason why that has changed, as Ogden
and IBNR had moved into outstanding claims reserves once we did the case review, which
was earlier in the ﬁrst half of '17. The other thing, you might expect the ratio to -- of IBNR to
outstanding claims to reduce. As the old years, which had the very high deductible on the
insurance runoﬀ. So we're not surprised that there's some reduction in that ratio. But
there's nothing -- there's no underlying change in policy or reserving that should worry us.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Mike, on the GDPR? Just wait for the mic. We'll pause. Mike, mic.

A - Michael Holliday-Williams
Thanks. It is complicated and we will abide by the legislation. There's always been a right
to be forgotten. And so I think -- we think it's -- when you look at NCD, there's a legitimate
use for NCD as well. So we'll be using that as part of it. At the end of the day, GDPR is all
about collecting consensus of the right things. And that's what we'll be focused on, really.
So we don't think it's a -- this is a major issue, really, if that's what you were hinting at. That
make sense?

Q - James Austin Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Makes sense.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

No. Stuﬀ like convictions, I think we've got a more sensible outcome than some people
initially could be concerned about. Do you want to mention convictions?

A - Michael Holliday-Williams
Yes. See, I think the right to use convictions when you're waiting is one of our biggest
concerns in the insurance market. And again, that seems to have been expected, that we
can use that. And that would have been a concern because it's directly related to risk. But

Page 16 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

also, within insurance industry, we go to take oﬀ that conviction at the right moment. So
that's what we'll be making sure that we do as well.

FINAL

Q - James Austin Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

My (conﬁrm) would be that people are more inclined to claim for things like scratches and
things like that because then they can just -- have the right to be forgotten. And then they
get across and you (provide it).

A - Michael Holliday-Williams
No. No. No. That is not -- we share NCDs on a (Q) database and trying to make it easier to
share it around the industry. And so we'll be collecting consent to do that.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

That's right. Alan?

Q - Alan Devlin

{BIO 5936254 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Alan Devlin from Barclays. A couple of questions. First of all, wanted to get some more
color on your comments on claims inﬂation. And you had a favorable year this year. But
you're not -- you're giving a guidance of 3% to 5% going forward. Can you give some
more color of what's going on? Then just second on the reinsurance, taking 10% of the
ﬁrst (million-prime) there, not much more working there. Did you consider taking more of
that -- retaining more of that risk? Or would you consider it out in the future?

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yes. I mean, we've always said that having a balance sheet gives us the optionality to be
selective on the lower layers and to get -- use that to get a good price. And we think we
did use that. So 90% is pretty perfect for us in terms of the level of placement of that when
you get a CET1. And we think we got a good deal. Time will tell. You'll see our actual costs
at the half year. But we think it's a bit commercially sensitive to share that now. I think on
Motor claims, we are treating it as a business as usual. We'll resume in terms of 3% to 5%
inﬂation. There's some reasons to think of it -- well, we think that it might not. So yet more
benign reasons are Jackson and the MedCo initiatives may have had some impact, a
positive impact on small bodily injury. Those were a few years ago. So we may be seeing
some positives from that. Driver miles inﬂation is kind of pretty modest as a result of, we
think, the fuel price increase as a result of the Sterling's weakness. Car tech may be
helping. We're incentivizing people to have cars that automatically brake. Then also
weather. Weather is another reason it might be a one-oﬀ because we had some good
weather this year. So there's a mixture there of stuﬀ you could say, are they cyclical, really,
or are they structural? Obviously, going the other direction, cars are just getting much
more expensive to repair. And that trend continues. So I think for those of us that
(inaudible) and repair centers, you see a total loss of a car that's not that damaged
because of all the sensors in there, bags and stuﬀ that goes into it. So we think it's a safe
working assumption for 3 to 5. And we will continue to track it. Obviously, we have better
experience of that in 2017, which is why we booked 4.5% better attritional loss ratio in the
year. And of course, we had the beneﬁt of the reinsurance protection as well.

Page 17 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

Yes. (inaudible) Tom?

FINAL

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
(Tom Eivani) from Exane BNP Paribas. Just one follow-up on the LTIP question. The return
on tangible equity target obviously went up. But not in your targets for the market. We
attempted to increase them in line. Just joking. Wondered just in terms of the competitive
environment a number -- you're growing ahead of market, a number of your competitors
are talking about their ambitious growth plan. You seeing any signs, in particularly Motor,
of competition coming in? And in terms of pricing and margins. Then thirdly, on the
Rescue. One of your big competitors has been ﬂagging challenges, I guess, in that
market. What are your reﬂections on that? Is this actually a positive for you? Or is it just
something that makes you think again about your plans there?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

So RoTE targets. Let me tell you what our 15% is. What it isn't is a cap on our RoTE. We're
incentivize, maybe, not to change its full taste. But we're incentivized now to keep
pushing that up another 250 basis points. And it doesn't stop us delivering the returns.
What it is, it's a thing which we use in making decisions every day about initiatives and
growth. And I think we've been saying it (inaudible) an RoTE that would help us grow
(inaudible) which probably would make us a small business, we'll be a bit less proﬁtable.
So I think in that role, I think you can understand 15% target. We're supposed to get it
easier with the personal debt restructuring. In terms of competitive markets, I mean, I
think we're still calling the most of market rational to the extent of -- follow up, Mike, on
the detail. Basically, we're saying that market gave us some of the gains. And you can kind
of see it pretty much when the government announced the intentions to revise up in
September. That changed peoples' views of what that cost would be. Then it was
probably our very good claims experience. So I think that the markets are rational, albeit
prices are coming down. And I think, as we've always said, prices should come down in a
competitive market when (inaudible) come down. And I think that's good for all
stakeholders. I think the Home market is actually quite competitive. We -- again, not
calling it irrational. But more supply than demand in Home. It's an attractive-looking
market. So whilst we are positively seeing some pricing inﬂation, we don't think that's
quite suﬃcient to cover claims inﬂation. So that market, we're saying, is rational. But very
competitive. And that should season, I think, the view of how we see that particular market
developing going forward. We're not necessarily going to see returns at sort of previous
years. You probably start to see the '17 performance as kind of a new level that we'll work
from. Rescue. What I was going to say, I think we quite love the Rescue market. And we're
probably on the insurgent side. As we've said, we're doing pretty competitive advertising,
which I'm sure, if you haven't seen, you should, which is naming competitors. And I think
we quite like them. We quite like where that market's developing for us.

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
More to come there.

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Page 18 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

So it's Greig, KBW. Just 3 quick questions. One is Escape of Water. You've been a bit
cryptic on the timing of when these remedial actions will start to kick in on their own right.
I wonder if you could talk about that. Second point is you mentioned the commercial
attritional loss ratio ticked up. And you spoke about claims taken and you want to be
conservative. Are we seeing some negative trends there? I mean, that surprised me. You
want to talk about those trends you're seeing there? Then also, I see that the commercial
liability lines prior to the (inaudible) was quite high. I was wondering to what extent that is
sustainable or not, or if it's a one-oﬀ.

A - Michael Holliday-Williams
(inaudible). I mean. clearly, we talked about Escape of Water at the half year. And we kind
of indicated that we think that the inﬂation, we got a grip of the claims inﬂation there. Just
to remind that it wasn't just about putting prices up to cover Escape of Water. It's very
much underwriting and across the claims supply chain, where we've implemented
actions. I'll bend to say they have stabilized now. Whilst we won't recover all that inﬂation
of the past, we think there is stability in there now. And we call out -- it feeds into our view
that long term claims inﬂation is still at 3% to 5%. And we've got good grip of that
situation.

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Is that 3% to 5% in the Home as well?

A - Michael Holliday-Williams

Bloomberg Transcript

In Home as well. Yes.

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Absolutely. Just to it make easier for you, Greig. On Commercial, on the reserving at the
year-end, we don't think -- I don't think there are trends. And my Commercial colleagues
agree, we haven't seen any adverse trends in the claims data. But they were -- there are
often blips. And we've decided to treat those conservatively. We'll tell you if they develop
in trend. But we don't see that yet, certainly not calling that. Commercial general liability
has been a very strong performer for many years. And it's (inaudible) certainly, it's quite
long tail. And always has, (Jon) is nodding, very good runoﬀ from that portfolio. And I
think we all expect that to continue.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yes. Then we'll go to the other side of the room.

Q - David Bracewell

{BIO 16394801 <GO>}

It's David Bracewell here from Redburn. Two questions. One on the kind of change in the
mix in terms of moving to your own brand policies. My expectation is that has a higher
margin than maybe the partnership business. And therefore, I'm going to expect that we
hope to see some kind of improvement to the guidance on the combined ratio there as
you kind of continue that shift to own brand. So perhaps can you tell me why you haven't
changed the guidance there? Then the second question, a quick one, I think, on multiPage 19 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

pricing. Given the reinsurance yields you've had and the change in price, should we
expect you to be able to increase prices in 2018 to oﬀset that? Or did you kind of get that
in 2017 in terms of (prices)?

FINAL

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yes. So we were pricing with a view of what the reinsurance would be. And so we're
slightly to the right side of that in terms of what we're seeing. So we've already done that.
And brand mix, John??

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Yes. I mean, you're absolutely right. We're saying that we're going to see that move. And
we're seeing it already. And because -- partly because (inaudible) partners. Even on these
partners back into an NIG growth. And brands would like to upgrade them. And brands
have a -- they're on the same commission cost. They do have a distribution cost, a bit
diﬀerent. They can have a slightly worse loss ratio, particularly Home partners had a very
good loss ratio. There's a few moving parts. Bottom line is it's all kind of built into our
plan. So our plan, which of course shows the 93% to 95% with the expense ratio and
commission ratio coming down, it will build on this very trend you're looking to see. So I
can't say it's going to make it better than we've said. But it will underpin what we have
said, if that makes sense.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Great. We'll move to this side of the room.

Q - Andreas Evert Cornelis de Groot van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Andreas van Embden, Peel Hunt. Two questions, please. First of all, on moving to Radar
Live and your pricing model in Motor. What were you missing up to now in your pricing
agility? And where will this take you? Does this take you into intra-day pricing, for
example, across all your channels? And where do you think it's -- in which channel do you
think it's going to be most useful? And secondly, on Rescue as you grow that business.
Could you comment on whether you see any synergies between your insurance business,
particularly the Motor book and Rescue as you scale up?

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yes. I mean, listen, we talk here about Green Flag impound. But we also have a very
important business in linked. And linked is a big part of our plan as well. And all our
initiatives will support that channel and package accounts, which is the third channel. So
yes, in terms of cross-selling, that's kind of a feature of our plans. If you're asking about
whether we should have a Green Flag insurance -- most insurance plan, I think we've got
plenty of insurance plans on that in terms of Motor insurance. Was that -- sorry.

Q - Andreas Evert Cornelis de Groot van Embden

Page 20 of 28

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

How much are Motor policies, Direct Line Motor policies or others do you sell through
your partnerships in Rescue or Green Flag? And percentage of policies, are you selling -the funnel...

FINAL

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Well we don't -- the partnerships are separate. So the Rescue partnerships is separate
from the insurance partnerships.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Generally, if you split the book up, there's a lot of volume of policies that we do, as we've
said, for very low margin. But if you give us Rescue scales, which is really important, you
get more vans near more motorways and in more cities from that. So -- and then we've
got kind of the 2 businesses which are better on margin, which are the standalone and
then the linked. And I think we've talked mainly about the standalone business here. What
we're saying is that there's a very good linked business as well, which we are -- we have
good -- we have good levels of selling Rescue into our car insurance customers. We're
pretty -- quite mature at that. I think most -- more of the opportunity we see is the
standalone business. Again, sort of standalone types.

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein

Bloomberg Transcript

And that's the one with the highest margin. That's the piece of Rescue that has the highest
margin.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Pricing, you get lots of stuﬀ from Radar Live. So we get lots more external data. We get
more accuracy at modeling. We get faster deployment. Intra-day is a functionality which
we, at some stage, could choose to deploy. We need to work out the merits and demerits
of it. Intra-day, you're not learning much about claims. You're learning something about
how other people price in the market. So it gives us the full kit. What we switch on, leave it
to us. But we see a lot of value in the ﬁrst things I mentioned, which we're going to beneﬁt
from. And application fraud is another big (leverage) Steve?

A - Steven Maddock
(inaudible)

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yes. Sorry. The other thing is it's not much more eﬃcient to run. So at the moment, we
model separately from deploying, which is not only accurate -- I mean, accuracy and takes
in lag. But also is lots of work. So we're going to remove work from it. So it's really good.
Very excited about that.
Right. Yes. (inaudible).

Q - Wajahat Rizvi

{BIO 19928187 <GO>}
Page 21 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

Waj Rizvi from Deutsche Bank. I have 3 questions. First one on Home loss ratio. Can you
talk a little bit about the dynamics of attritional loss ratio? And like -- and from the change
in business mix? I seem to understand that there's some oﬀsets in reducing commission
ratios and higher attritional loss ratios, which is the dynamics of the 2. And the second
one would be on systems. So I think we talked that it will take some time for you to switch
oﬀ the mainframe. So it is fair to assume that expense ratio or expense beneﬁt would be a
bit back-end loaded from this technology? And ﬁnally, just a numbers question. So you're
changing runoﬀ, you're putting it in operating. The guidance of runoﬀ oﬀsetting
restructuring cost, is that still valid for the next few years?

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

You do 1 and 3. And I'll do (inaudible).

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Yes. And so on the last one, we're including it. There's nothing to report. By implication,
there shouldn't be too much to report. It's not going to make any diﬀerence, really. Not
much diﬀerence. We weren't expecting to make much diﬀerence. Obviously, there could
be changes. So if Ogden -- if the Ogden rate changes, we'll get a beneﬁt in runoﬀ as well
as a beneﬁt in Motor and Commercial. Maybe we'll -- we'll probably report that
separately.

A - Penelope Jane James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

If there's anything signiﬁcant, we'll report it...

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
The expectation is not going to be dramatic. That's why we -- on the Home loss ratio. And
the way maybe to think about this is if you take the 2017 core, which is actually just under
90%. And you probably need to add for weather, which is the main normalizing point. You
probably need to add 4 to 5 points. So that comes to about a normalized core of 94%,
95%. You got to think about the partners, they will take a bit of the diﬀerence in the
commission ratio when that happens. But you end up about 94%, 95%. Then looking
forward, you got a few moving parts on Home. So you've got nationwide premium
reduction, NEP reduction, over one year. So there won't be any '19. And then there will be
half a year basically in '18. And that's a reasonably large part of our NEP. On the other
hand, they do take quite a lot of commission. So the commission ratio is going to come
down, I expect, quite signiﬁcantly in 2018. And on the accident loss year on the attritional
loss ratio side, they have low attritional loss ratios relative to the rest of our business. And
there's a little bit of strain because of that. And -- but I think, overall, you probably going
to see -- we think there will be an improvement in core, in Home, normalized, because of
that commission ratio reduction, which is quite signiﬁcant. And that we're broadly
balanced in our view, broadly balanced to a reduction in premiums. There's a few moving
parts. But that should give you some more guidance to help, if that helps.
Do you want me to continue...

Page 22 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. I mean, basically, we've given a few clues to quite a lot of moving opportunities that
we have in IT costs. So across the basket of all those, we see opportunities kind of, yes,
the mainframe kind of usage comes down. Then you get a big saving at the end. But there
are other moving parts that Steve has got in plan to reduce. I think we'll give him some
ﬂavor of them in terms of procurement and -- Steve, do you want to (give it a try)?

A - Steven Maddock
I think Paul's right that there are -- yes. I mean, Paul's right. I mean, there's a number of
initiatives that -- and leaders that we're following here. I mean, Paul's reference, ﬁrst thing
we do is we go and strike better deals. That gets an immediate beneﬁt for us. As we, in
eﬀect, implement these new systems and we are, in eﬀect, replatforming most the frontend systems in the business, you'll get a gradual reduction in your mainframe usage over
time as you migrate to these new systems. That's, I think, an ongoing feature. You then get
to sort of ﬁnal decommissioning. That gives us another kick in terms of beneﬁt. And of
course, in parallel to that, any system that you're not addressing by replatforming, we're
reengineering to make the underlying net usage, reduce it, eliminate it or get a better
deal on it. So there's about 4 levers that we're pulling. And each of those has an impact
over the life of our plan.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Right. (inaudible).

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew John Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Andrew Crean with Autonomous. Three questions, if I can. Firstly, on Motor PCW, I think
your market share has been broadly ﬂat. And I think with this new pricing machine, you're
anticipating building market share there. Can you share with us some of your ambitions,
say, for this year in terms of policy downgrades from the pricing? Secondly, CapEx. Are
you still driving to GBP 80 million, to a GBP 100 million for this year? And I think you said
there's a bit of a bubble. Will that drop down from '19 onwards? Then ﬁnally on whiplash
and Ogden, can you say a little bit about what you anticipate, the legislative position is on
that? And if you don't get anything through parliament on Ogden, what happens?

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

I'll start with the last one. So on the government's national time table, introduced
legislation to get kind of 2 parts of whiplash in by next April. There's quite a lot of work to
be done by all parties to get that to happen. There's a lot of systems work to be done. So
-- and of course, they need to get it passed. But our planning assumption is that, that will
happen for next April. But there's some risks to that, I think, in terms of legislation and
then all the systems work needs to be done to enact it. Because there's quite a lot of
technical changes to make that work. And Steven -- I was going to say bore you at the
break. But he can tell you at the break with his MIB hat on about all the work that needs to
be done to make that happen. Now whether Ogden hitches along for the ride of the civil
liabilities bill or not is a debate. And so there are pros and cons to whether it does hitch
along for the ride. There's obviously dangers of it attaching. But it's up to the government
to get that done. They've said that, a quite and clear intention to get it done. And it's up
Page 23 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

to them. We're unclear on the legislative vehicle they're going to use to do it. And
obviously, what happens, it depends on what -- if it doesn't happen, it depends in why it
doesn't happen, whether it's just a timing thing. But of course, really what matters is that it
does eventually happen because we're talking about claims that we'll be settling in a few
years' time. So it's not month-critical to that extent. Clearly, if it fails for a speciﬁc reason, if
the government goes back on its commitment, that would be very diﬀerent to the
schedule we've timed. And of course, really, what matters is the reinsurance. Materially,
it's the reinsurance cost. So we've got -- the next real thing is next year's renegotiation of
the reinsurance contract. So we got pretty good protection this year. And of course, that
reinsurance contract was struck with some expectations, will be late-changing, not full.
Did I give you enough? Do you want to do -- I mean, PCWs. Listen, a lot of initiatives we
talked about are not this year. Will be -- so the alternative pricing will be -- we're aiming to
get some experience this year. But I think this is a medium life of the plan ambition that
we're setting out here on PCWs. There's a lot to it. And I think you should take it as quite a
big stake in the ground today that we're saying there's no reason we see we shouldn't be
leading-edge at PCWs. And we know what the deltas are. And we think that we have the
systems work and the initiatives set to close that application fraud pricing we've talked
about. And as I say, alternative pricing approach.

A - Penelope Jane James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

CapEx, I think we haven't given guidance for between -- beyond 2019. Clearly, we're still
going to be investing in the business here and there. I think we are in a bubble at the
moment. So we're in a bit of the upper end of that range. I think we'll stay at the upper
end of that range in the short term. But I don't think it means that we'll stop investing in
the business in 2019. I might peel back a bit then.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yes. Kamran?

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

It's Kamran Hossain from RBC. Just one big picture question. So you talked a lot about the
changed distribution model, how you're able to access all the 3 main channels. When you
think about partnerships, one of the Big 4 price comparison websites last week set out its
ambitions to partner with banking apps. So straight in via API into their apps, they can
oﬀer all sorts of services. Do you see any -- I mean, when you think about that change in
the market or the potential change in the market, is it a threat? Is it an opportunity? Does
it change the way the aﬃnity might work going forward? Because obviously a lot of the
big aﬃnity deals, especially on the Home side, are with banks. So any thoughts on the big
picture question?

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yes. I mean, generally, we've seen this leg of our strategic permit as giving us some
strategic optionality. And I think one of the things we want to do is if we're not a great
retailer, we'd certainly like to be the smart and eﬃcient manufacturer behind other great
retailers. We are -- I think that gives us some strategic optionality if our retail brands don't
win in the marketplace, which we hope they will, working with other people. We think all

Page 24 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

those people will need people like us to have our excellence at all the things, which we're
really great at. So -- and I think that's revealed on our approach on Motor, which other
people could view as a hostile trend. We're running straight towards it and saying, "Okay.
You motor manufacturers have a lot of assets, increasing a bunch of assets in terms of how
people will purchase or not, cars. And the data we'll get out of them. We want to partner
with you." And so I think there's risks and opportunities. I think that by mitigating the risks
as being partners, being overly reminded to partner with people that have diﬀerent
distribution models. Then I think banks clearly have a variety of partnership models in
mind. I think there are some real beneﬁts of how you partner with them. We've really
turned around our business at NatWest/RBS by really closely linking our systems in there
to make it really, really easy for their customers to get a great price from us. And that's
really working well. So I think that model has some advantages versus putting it into a
PCW. But I would say that. And of course, even PCWs, you're absolutely right. We write
about 40% of our business on PCW in Home. So we're in that channel, too. So I think it's
great to be up -- it's great to be across all the channels, I think net all of that, because I
don't think any of us can necessarily say the way the future is exactly going.
Yes.

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Dhruv Gahlaut, HSBC. Two questions. Firstly, on the runoﬀ book. Could you quantify all
the reserve, which is still tied there in the capital in that book? Secondly, just going back
to the RBS renewal on your partnership, would we expect to see any change there in
terms of numbers, et cetera?

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Yes. I mean, it's slightly a historic reference to the renewal. It's a couple of years back until
moving on to the next one at some stage. But (that's the nature of budget).

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}

(inaudible)

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

So Dhruv, that's quite mature in Home. Rescue is a more recent deal. And that's reﬂected
in our numbers. But there's no big change. Mike?

A - Michael Holliday-Williams
(inaudible) Yes. Sorry. We're in (pitch on trouble) with them. And as we say, things like
Travel and Rescue, it's really a volume -- we like to have the volume because it means you
can have more people that know more languages. But it's pretty ﬁne-margin stuﬀ. So we
kind of do take it or leave it a little bit. But Travel's the one with RBS accounting pitch,
having got Home and Rescue.

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Page 25 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

I think we're just...

A - Penelope Jane James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

It's probably a good answer.

FINAL

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Yes. I think the reserves are -- actually, it's in the prelim. It's about GBP 265 million in the
runoﬀ book. We hadn't published the capital number. And you'd expect it to use on our
capital in other parts because of the PPO nature of it. We haven't mentioned the number
(that maybe we'll get).

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Good. Last one. Last one.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

(inaudible) Let's see. So price comparison, you talked about the capability part of the
game. Isn't that mainly a cost game? And so my question is, how often do we come out
top on the business you quote and price, comparing Home and Motor? Second question
on partnerships, same thing. I mean, the capabilities. But are the partners basically just
giving the business to the lowest price, for the best price. And hence it's a winner's curse
if you win a partnership? And thirdly, on the price increases you and the market has done.
Has that led to increased switching rates in Home and Motor?

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Very good. So to deal with the last one ﬁrst. So retention's up a bit in Motor, down a little
bit in Home. But I mean, plus or minus 1% on both. But still Direct Line tracking levels,
mid-80s in retention. And people are shopping around. People shopping around, I think,
a bit more on Home, driven by their prior year disclosure premium. And again, that's
encouraging. We think that's the right thing to do. We've kept excellent retention rates.
But down just a little bit on Home, just up a little bit on Motor. Partnerships, we use the
word selective, because you're right, partnerships fall into 2 buckets: Commodity
partnerships, which generally goes to the wire. And there probably is winner's curse on it;
and then there's probably strategic partnerships, where people come to us. And they do
come to us and go, "We love what you're doing in Direct Line. We love your digital front
ends. We love your API links. We love your extra repair centers. We love your
propositions. We love your award-winning customer experience stuﬀ." So they come to
us. And then they're looking. People with brand tend to want to work with somebody that
understands about brands and giving time diﬀerentiation through a brand experience. So
those are the sorts of partnerships we want to win. We're happy to win some more
commodity ones, speciﬁcally where it gives us scale at Travel and Rescue. Then we're
happy to walk away from quite a lot of them as well. So the word selective is quite
important there. I think on PCWs, we keep a stable, quite big share of it. We're pretty
competitive. We win a lot every week. So we are pretty competitive. We quite actually can
benchmark. There's a couple of peers that this is what they do all the time, PCWs. And we
can quite speciﬁcally say, "Okay. Here's what they do, here's what we do. Here's how they
get a bit more competitive and still do it at good loss ratios. And we know what those
Page 26 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

deltas are. And we think we have the plans and the capabilities over the next couple of
years to close on that." Lots about application fraud. Some of it is having price models
speciﬁcally gated up for PCW customer rather than the direct customer because we tend
to have, as I said, one pricing model. So we have it in our sights. There's nothing I see in
our way. I think on pricing as well, you got to look at -- the marginal costs is what really
matters here. The cost of an extra policy, which increasing will be direct and self-service.
So actually, we should be -- we shouldn't be held back on the marginal cost basis. And we
should, again, beneﬁt from the group's brands because we have fantastic brands. And
brands still matter in PCWs, particularly in terms of better retention rates. And we beneﬁt
from the group's fantastic claims, fantastic accident repair centers. So we have a lot of
assets. And actually going from where we are now to where we want to be, these all -- this
is a small wins thing. We're pretty good to be winning so much business today to keep
that business stable.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
And application fraud, is it a major improvement you are going through?

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. We catch more fraud than anyone else at claims. That's a great place to capture,
better not catching it. We redeem -- rather not get any of it on the books. And so we know
where are the few things we want to do. So we're pushing forward progressively on that.
We're not bad at it. Without that, we wouldn't be after any business. But we have some
good initiatives there.
Right. Thank you very much. (We should just check) anyone on the phones?

Operator
(Operator Instructions) So at the moment, no questions coming through. So I'll hand back
over to you.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Thanks very much. Before I conclude here, we'll switch oﬀ the lines. But nothing huge to
announce now. But I thought we got to -- we just have one ﬁnal slide, which is just to say
to goodbye to John. Some pictures of John. The great beneﬁt, John and I is he's actually
getting older through the whole journey. (inaudible). So John...

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Let me practice my interview.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

(inaudible).
So John, a fantastic selection of non-work things to do. On John's behalf, we also
(inaudible)
Page 27 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2018-02-27

FINAL

to the fantastic board member Penelope's going to be absolutely a terriﬁc CFO. Fantastic
colleague. Fantastic friend. And if you think about where we've come from, your
questions reveal we -- lot of things there ought to do in the business. And Penny's still got
a lot of opportunities.
But I think John's done a cracking job here. He's been a fantastic colleague, been a
fantastic friend, been a fantastic CFO. And I'd just like to wish him all success in the future.
Could you join me?

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 28 of 28

