Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

Investor Day
Company Participants
FINAL

Alban de Mailly Nesle, Group CRO & Head-Group Insurance Oﬃce
Andrew Wallace-Barnett, Senior Vice President & Head-Investor Relations
Antimo Perretta, Chief Executive Oﬃcer-Europe
Gordon Timmins Watson, Chief Executive Oﬃcer-Asia
Greg Hendrick, Chief Exectuive Oﬃcer - AXA XL
Gérald Harlin, Group Deputy Chief Executive Oﬃcer & Group Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Jacques de Peretti, Chairman & Chief Executive Oﬃcer-AXA France
Thomas Buberl, Chief Executive Oﬃcer & Director

Other Participants
Andrew J. Crean, Analyst
Andrew Sinclair, Analyst
Farooq Hanif, Analyst
James A. Shuck, Analyst
Johnny Vo, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Jon M. Hocking, Analyst
Mauro Carli, Analyst
Michael Huttner, Analyst
Niccolo C. Dalla Palma, Analyst
Nicholas Holmes, Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst
Peter D. Eliot, Analyst
Ralph Hebgen, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

So, that was a – are we on for the webcast?
Good morning, everybody, and welcome to AXA's 2018 Investor Day. A warm welcome to
those of you here in the room in London and welcome to AXA XL's oﬃces here and a very
warm welcome also to those of you on the telephone or on the webcast. Very pleased to
have you here with us as well. Thomas Buberl, our Group CEO, will introduce the agenda
for the day in a few moments. Later in the morning, we will have a Q&A session and we'll
be happy to take questions from those of you on the phone or on the webcast. Please
Page 1 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

follow the instructions you've been given. As always, we'll give preference to the
questions coming from those of you here in the room. For your information, we'll be
taking a coﬀee break around 10:30, 10:45.

FINAL

And it's now my pleasure to welcome Thomas on stage.

Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you, Andrew. Good morning to all of you. I'm very pleased to be here with you at
the end of a year that has certainly been a very intense year with a lot of changes. I'm here
today with my entire management team of AXA but also the teams of XL and the teams of
AXA in Asia. This event today is certainly an event to exchange ideas, to answer your
question, but also to show you where we are in the process of achieving Ambition 2020.
As I said, this year was very intense. Many changes – many transformational changes. But
all of these changes have happened with a very clear guidance and with one mission of a
long-term vision of the insurance industry. We are dedicated to move from a Payer to a
Partner which means that we want to go beyond the payment of claims with our
customers.

Bloomberg Transcript

We believe that there is a very big opportunity of growth both in terms of new risks but
also in terms of services around the insurance coverage. In order to get there, an
alignment of interest, a further alignment of interest with our customers is important and
the second thing that is important is more touch points with the customers.
In June 2016, we have launched our Ambition 2020 with two pillars: Focus and transform.
Focus is very much around how can we improve the operational delivery of AXA.
Transform is about shifting the portfolio and moving from Payer-to-Partner. You have seen
a lot this year on the shift of the portfolio. The next phase will clearly focus on the shift
from Payer-to-Partner.
Payer-to-Partner means how can we help avoiding claims for our customers. How can we
make the claims event the exception of the interaction that we have and how can we really
help our customers to live a better life.
This does require a signiﬁcant cultural change as well at AXA. And as you can imagine,
this is a journey that is long. It's a journey that is not easy and certainly when I think back
about the year 2018 many things have happened but it was also a year full of learnings.
Where are we on this journey of focus and transform in the middle of the period between
2016 and 2020? We can clearly say that we have made very signiﬁcant progress and I'm
very happy with where we are. And thanks to the management committee of AXA, thanks
to the 130,000 employees that AXA has, we are today at a stage where we can look back
on a good development over those two years.
On the question around focus, which means how can we enhance the operational
delivery. Our goal has always been how can we do that in a balanced way? How can we,
on the one hand enhance the growth and at the same time also improve the proﬁts? If
Page 2 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

you look where we are, we can clearly see, one, that we have made a signiﬁcant move to
the growing preferred segments, health, protection, and commercial lines. These are
segments that grow more but also segments that bring us closer to the customers. If you
look at the performance on the health side, plus 7%, on the protection side in the APE,
plus 10%, on the commercial lines plus 2%.
Second big topic was the question how can we improve the operational performance?
And I'm very happy to tell you that this improvement of the operational performance is
not just one country or one line of business. It's across all geographies. It's across all lines
of business. And it is very much a result of the new organization that we have
implemented which is an organization of higher decentralization, a simpler organization
where we count on far more people than we did beforehand. All of this has happened on
a very strong and solid and robust balance sheet with a very high solvency of 195% and a
strong credit rating of AA-.

Bloomberg Transcript

And, which is not on the slide, but makes me very proud, we are this year for the 10th time
in a row the number one insurance brand in the world. On the transform side which is
very much about shifting the portfolio and moving from Payer-to-Partner, we've certainly
worked very hard on the shift element, shifting very much from ﬁnancial risks towards
technical risks. If you look the from ﬁnancial risks, what clearly comes to your mind is the
IPO of AXA Equitable Holdings is the secondary sale a couple of weeks ago but it's also
the transformation of the Swiss Group Life business and the disposal of AXA Life Europe
that we announced at the end of half-year this year. Towards technical risk, the highlight is
clearly the announcement of the XL transaction on the 5th of March and its closing on the
12th of December which gets us closer to the customer more in the area of growing risks
of sophisticated risks.
But we should also not forget, two days ago, we announced a very important transaction,
the 50% additional sale of the AXA Tianping that we all know is the largest insurer in
China, 100% of AXA Tianping which will set a very new base for a good future. Bringing us
closer to the customer, this was very much around new and digital partnerships. You've
seen the partnership with ING, you've seen the partnership with Uber and many more, but
also the launch of new services. Teleconsultation in quite a few countries, the purchase of
Maestro Health in the U.S. which will set a good base for the next phase. The next phase is
very much around how can we scale up the innovation we build, how can we make this
Payer-to-Partner a true reality for our customers.
All of these moves have signiﬁcantly changed AXA. You have known AXA for a long time
as a predominantly life and saving company. With all these changes, we will move
elsewhere. We will move to a more balanced portfolio. We will move to a higher growth
portfolio. But we'll foremost move to a business mix which is composed of technical risks,
50% P&C and 30% protection and health which is very diﬀerent to what you've seen in
the past. This also makes the fundamentals of AXA very diﬀerent ones. And the big
question that you had for quite a few months, what does it mean? How will you change
your capital management? Today is the day to talk about it.
We would like to announce three major changes. The ﬁrst one is an increased dividend
payout ratio to 50% to 60%, a new Solvency II target range, 170% to 220%, and an
Page 3 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

updated share buyback guidance. All of this will be eﬀective from the full year of 2018.

FINAL

Going forward, we have clear priorities and I would like to thank you again for the very
good dialogue we had in the last six months because it was good to hear where you
would see the priorities and they are very aligned with the priorities we have chosen
going forward.
The number one priority is clear, the deleveraging due to the fact that we have acquired
XL. The leverage has temporarily increased. We want to get back to 25% to 28%.
Second big priority is around the XL integration. By combining XL with AXA into AXA XL,
we will be the number one commercial line insurer in the world. It is now about bringing
those two companies together and leveraging one – each other's strengths.

Bloomberg Transcript

Third priority is clearly to continue the sell-down of AXA Equitable Holdings in the U.S. We
are roughly around 50% now. The journey will continue. Fourthly, and we'll talk about it
today as well, is the acceleration in Asia. We've got a very good footprint but we can
make more out of this footprint. And ﬁfthly, as I said to you earlier, we're now in the next
phase focused very much on how can we make Payer-to-Partner a reality, which is about
scaling up of the services of the innovation we have built around the insurance coverage.
All of this is part of Ambition 2020, and we are fully-committed to deliver Ambition 2020
and as you'll see later in some of the areas even go beyond the initial targets that we have
set ourselves.
Today's agenda is very much centered around three topics. The ﬁrst topic is Asia. We have
happily hired a very experienced leader, Gordon Watson, who will be on stage for the ﬁrst
time today for AXA, and he will talk about his vision of how is AXA positioned and where
is the potential, and the move of Tianping a couple of days ago is a very signiﬁcant ﬁrst
move.
The second topic will be around the topic that you have been dying to know more about
which is AXA XL. I'm very pleased that Greg Hendrick is for the ﬁrst time today on stage to
talk about AXA XL and answer later on all the questions that you might have.
And Gérald will come with a third topic, which is around capital management, since I
indicated that the character of AXA and its business mix has changed. We obviously now
are in the position of also evolving further our way we look at capital management, and
I'm very pleased that Gérald will be on stage later.
Let's start with Asia and certainly with a lovely picture that is very much linked to Gordon
Watson. Because Gordon you know very well is a very experienced guy in Asia and he has
been working for AIA for a long time. And so, when he came over to AXA, he said look,
AXA has got an excellent franchise. We need to make more out of it. And one topic was
very much around how can we increase the brand awareness and the fantastic sponsoring
with Liverpool F.C. is the ﬁrst step (12:23).

Page 4 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

Gordon, welcome on stage.

FINAL

Gordon Timmins Watson

{BIO 21377545 <GO>}

Thank you, Thomas. Good morning, everyone. Great to be here in London at the AXA XL
oﬃce. My name is Gordon Watson. I've been with AXA for 11 months now and I'm really
more excited now than I was when I started. When I started with AXA, the reason I joined,
great assets in Asia and of course, as Thomas referenced, an amazing global brand.
But to be frank, AXA in Asia has underperformed over the past few years. So, for me that
was the opportunity to take it to the next level. And I hope today I can share with you what
we've done and what we're doing. So, I'd like to talk about Asia itself and the massive
protection gap that is in Asia.
In Asia, the mortality not even including morbidity the mortality protection gap is €50
trillion and that's a real protection gap because in Asia there really isn't social security. So,
our job is to go out, see one customer one at a time and identify their own personal
protection gap and ﬁll that with insurance.

Bloomberg Transcript

Asia is growing. The last couple of years, 50% of the global growth in the world has come
from Asia. And that will continue to grow through 2025, 8% growth is what is predicted.
And by 2025, the gross written premium in Asia will be €2 trillion, and to put that in
context, that's two-thirds more than Europe.
So there is room for AXA to really be among the elite insurers in Asia and that is what we
are going to do. A lot of this will be fueled by the growth of the middle class. 90% of the
next 1 billion people who will enter the middle class will be based in Asia. That will create
700 million families that will need more insurance.
What I would like to do in this slide is show you, as Thomas mentioned, the footprint that
we already have in Asia and it's made up of companies of diﬀerent sizes. First of all, we
have two very large growth engines, Japan and Hong Kong.
And then we have the high potentials, China, which you saw the news on Monday night
and Thomas referred to, we will take 100% control of AXA Tianping subject to regulatory
approval, although as soon as the deal was signed, we do take control and we have the
interim CEO, Xavier, (15:31) is his Chinese name. He will take control and already has done.
So that's China. High potentials Southeast Asia. We have very strong positions in these
three countries. We have top ﬁve positions in all three of them and we also have amazing
partners. If you look at the partners that we have, they are top three – all three of them are
top three banks in their country. Take AXA Mandiri is number one and also last month in
Forbes Magazine was voted the 11th most popular company in the world to work for.
So that's our spread in Asia and our footprint. And what I'd like to do today is the story is
very simple and clear, focus on the key priorities. Number one would be doubling down
Page 5 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

in China particularly obviously with the purchase of AXA Tianping. So that's the largest
market, that's half of Asia, and it's also the fastest growing at 11% through 2025.

FINAL

Agency, agency I believe is an area at AXA we have not invested in the way we should
have. We need to grow quality agency distribution and we need to have an MDRT culture.
MDRT is Million Dollar Round Table and that is the gold standard for agents around the
world. And we will promote that culture.
Health, health is the fastest growing segment in Asia. It is the top of mind for most
consumers and we can do a lot there as we pivot towards health. We can sell through
riders to our existing client base and of course wellness propositions is something in our
payer-to-partner mode is what we're doing.

Bloomberg Transcript

The last thing is brand. Brand in Asia is extremely, extremely important. AXA 10 years in a
row number one global brand but it's still not felt the way it should be in Asia. In Asia,
some people call us AXA instead of AXA. I don't know if that's good or bad but they call
us AXA. We need to really be felt as part of the local fabric in Asia. So we've done a lot.
I'm really proud of what we've done locally in combining that globally with Jordan
Henderson and team who probably will win tonight. I'm not sure if that's a popular
statement but I do believe that's the case.
So these are the key priorities. And I'd like to just go through one by one in a bit more
depth. China, the largest, the fastest growing. I'm very excited, full control of AXA
Tianping. And this is the ﬁrst time that AXA really has full control, so really becoming a
business shaper rather than just a strategic investor. So with this, we'll be able to develop
a hub of talent and attract the best people.
But what we have here is something special. We are the largest foreign P&C insurer. We
have 3.5 million customers in China. We can reach the licenses that we already have,
almost 80% of the Chinese population and that 80% accounts for 87.3% of the GDP of
China. So basically, we can sell to almost everyone in China. And as we know, the middle
class is growing and it's not just in Shanghai and Beijing, it's the second tier and third tier
cities where we're very well represented.
Now for me, China, we're doing very well in the volume. We're number one. It's about
value creation in addition to volume. And by having control – the auto or the motor
insurance market is something where we can really start to segment in a more
sophisticated way. We can upgrade our technical expertise. We can do more in claims
management. We can do more in operational eﬃciencies, improve our loss ratios.
Health, we can sell health and we already do so health through AXA Tianping, but this is
something we really want to pivot to. So it's not just China, it's about the move towards
health. And if we look at the health market in China, China health market is growing 39%
CAGR over the last ﬁve years. So that's where the puck is going to and that's where we're
going to. We want to create an innovation hub. We already have one in Shanghai. Just as
an example, last year, 100 million Chinese people did a DNA test on themselves to better

Page 6 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

improve their health management. So they have a propensity towards health. So those are
the kind of things we're doing in AXA Tianping.
You know we have, on the life side, we have a relationship with the largest bank in the
world, ICBC. We have 27.5%. And the relationship with ICBC is going well. Xavier and
myself and Etienne, we put a lot of eﬀort into this. We have new leadership in that
organization. We have Chairman Ma, who is the obviously the chairman, Chairman Ma.
And we have the CEO, (21:31), who's an excellent woman. And what we did is we sat down
with them and said, listen, where do you want to take this company? We want to align our
strategy and so we've aligned our strategy towards more value creation, by more regular
premium and less single premium. Of course, we're still going to sell single premium, but
value creation is more of what we want to do.

Bloomberg Transcript

Agency within that organization, we have agents, we need to develop agents in a more
qualiﬁed way. We've started a distribution hub, which I'll talk about in the next slide to
really share best practices. The other area is high net worth in China and we're fortunate
that Chairman Ma actually used to run the private bank for ICBC. So, he has a lot of
experience in high net worth. And of course, we have the SPDB. We have a great
relationship with them and we'll continue to strengthen and deepen the relationship with
them. So, in China, you can see we're doubling down and very excited about what we can
do moving forward.
Agency is a second thing. Agency, we haven't invested the way that I would like to and
this is what we have to change and this is what we are changing. We need to focus, really
attack that middle class with a quality agency force. This will be diﬀerentiated with sales
tools and technology, of course. But rather than go through all three countries and give
you lots of facts, I want to take Philippines as a case study. In the Philippines, we have an
excellent CEO there called Rahul Hora. And Rahul Hora from day one he gets it, he knows
what we have to do. So, in the Philippines, the ﬁrst half of this year, APE is up 27%, and we
are ahead of the market, and we're ahead of our peers by quite a distance. So, we're
getting it right in the Philippines, and we want to take that model and transfer it.
The agency really is about two things. Agency is about the quality of the people that you
hire and the quality of the training that you give them. So, by doing that, I spoke of the
MDRT culture, Million Dollar Round Table. In the Philippines, we've increased year-todate, the number of MDRT-qualiﬁed agents by 73%. We've also increased the number of
active agents by 30%. But I always caution Rahul, we can't grow too fast because we can't
sacriﬁce the quality. The quality and value creation is of paramount importance. But we do
need to make them active. And if you look at this ratio here, 50%, 50% of agents sell at
least one policy a month. That is world class. That in an emerging market, to have over
50% of your agents producing, is the highest and – or one of the highest in the market.
But quality and one of the proof points for me is the number of ﬁnancial plans that we
have issued this year compared to last year, threefold. We've issued the number – three
times the number of ﬁnancial plans. For me, that shows quality. We're selling the right
way. And that really gets into the digital transformation and the quality of the sales tools
that we have. So we want to take what we're doing in the Philippines and Rahul was
executive sponsor of the Distribution Hub and we've hired Stephen Appleyard who used
Page 7 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

to be a CEO for some major companies in Thailand and Indonesia to run that Distribution
Hub and exchange best practices. So on MDRT, ﬁrst of all, with all the potential MDRT
qualiﬁers, 1,200, we took them to Macau. We invited some of my MC (25:58) colleagues
who are here to join that experience and really motivate them.
The president of MDRT attended that and they are – we're on course in those countries to
really dramatically increase the number of MDRTs. So we will take this model and we will
take it to Thailand which is already large with 15,000 agents and we will deploy that there.
Indonesia is more nascent so we can start and really develop in that mode MDRT culture.
We also have new CEOs in Indonesia and Thailand. I have Sally O'Hara who is here at the
moment. Sally, if you could stand up. Sally, although she doesn't look Thai, is ﬂuent in Thai
and has a very strong, strong distribution experience and formerly was the CEO of Chubb
before moving across just starting a couple of weeks ago. So agency and distribution
transformation is important for us.

Bloomberg Transcript

The third and this is what people are talking about. It's the pivot towards health and
wellbeing. And what I'd like to talk about here is not just about what we're going to do
but what we're actually doing today. So if we take Hong Kong. In Hong Kong, we'll set up
a new signature network, VIP access to the best doctors, to the best hospitals. The
signature network for the very ﬁrst time for those of you who know Hong Kong includes
the Sanatorium Hospital which has never been in an insurance network before and we
hired Dr. Yi-mien Koh who I think single-handedly did a great job in making that happen.
We have also done other things like the pledge. The pain point in health claims is the
length of time to get your money back. We do cashless transactions of course but we also
– for when we do reimbursement. We will pledge to pay claims within ﬁve days as long as
you submit through our app so that will help drive eﬃciency, more technology and
appealing to the younger family class.
In Japan, 11.4% of the GDP is spent on health. That's a serious issue in Japan and we're
doing well in health. And what I'd like to say about Japan, you saw that we're 29% up on
APE in Japan but I'd like to unpack that. We do have a (28:43) product which could stop
any time because that's tax incentivized. But when you do unpack it, health has grown by
9% and protection I think has grown by 15%.
So, when we talk about health and we talk about Japan, I really see we're doing well in
propriety distribution but not on the brokers. We don't have a natural market share so
that's an area we're really focusing, looking strategically in what we will do there. We also
have a relationship with Nestlé. Nestlé, we want to promote the brand, wellness, health.
Nestlé have 90,000 wellness ambassadors in the country and linking them with AXA and
having nutritional education et cetera, et cetera will increase the brand in Japan.
Then I mentioned China. We already have an innovation hub. We will hire starting
tomorrow actually. Dr. Shaden Marzouk, she's a neurosurgeon. She's from Cardinal
Health. She's worked in China. She's an MBA and she will head up health for Asia. So
we're starting to really invest and walk the talk.
Page 8 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

And the last point I'd like make in Health is the great partners that we already have. If we
take Mandiri, Mandiri, we've already penetrated 17% of their addressable client base, but
most of that is savings products. If we can start selling riders, selling health standalone, et
cetera, in addition to increasing that penetration rate, cross-sell, upsell, we'll also do that.
In Thailand, we have 11% penetration. So that will be a major focus to maximize the
partners that we have. So this is what we're doing in Health.
The next area and last area I said I was going to focus on was the brand. Brand in Asia is
extremely, extremely important. I'm very proud of what we've achieved in the last year. If
we look at where we were last year, we just get the results in a couple of weeks ago of the
share of voice and the Net Promoter Score that we did. So, this time last year, we were
number ﬁve in Hong Kong in share of voice. Two weeks ago, we've now gone up to
number two, and I think that's due to things like the player, the signature network. Also
Typhoon Mangkhut, we sent out 600,000 SMS's to clients who'd be potentially aﬀected
by this on what to do for the typhoon; and, of course, set up a task force to address their
claims to be paid quickly, et cetera, et cetera. So I'm very happy that we've now moved up
to number two. Net Promoter Score, we've moved up 15 points in the last year. Bain do
this. And if you ask Bain, 15 points is hugely signiﬁcant in terms of the move.
So, in terms of customer, I think we're moving in the right direction, but a lot to do. We
want our brand to be alive, high energy, wellness, health related to that. So you see a
couple of pictures here of the NBA. I mentioned Rahul in the Philippines. Rahul signed a
three-year exclusive deal with the NBA. So when NBA players visit Philippines, then we
have exclusive use. We can talk with them. They can represent. We send lots of tweets
with AXA logos, et cetera, et cetera. Steph Curry, who some of you may know is very
famous, he was there recently and we got a lot of publicity. But for some reason that I
don't understand, the Philippines actually prefer basketball to football or soccer. And as
Thomas alluded to, my friend here, Jordan Firmino (sic) [Jordan Henderson], Liverpool
are one of two teams in Asia that are way above any others. The other is not Glasgow
Rangers, unfortunately, but it should be. So even though I'm not a Liverpool fan, and I do
love Liverpool, and Liverpool have 402 million active followers in Asia. And even the ﬁrst
game that we sponsored, when we had the signs around the perimeter, it said AXA
number one brand 10 years in a row. It said it in Thai, only Sally could read that maybe. It
said it in Bahasa. It said it in Chinese. So it really felt closer to Asia, and 700 million people
around the world viewed that Man City game. And the last point in Liverpool is we
sponsor the men and women's teams.
In China, China I don't think have ever qualiﬁed for the World Cup yet. However, the
women's team in China actually were runners up in the World Cup. So it's not just
diversity. It's real. This is very important in China. So we sponsor both teams, and we're
very happy to do that. And Liverpool have been fantastic so far in our dealings with them.
But none of this, and this is probably the most important slide, can happen without the
people. And for me, I think that's the biggest progress or the largest step forward that
we've made, blending new people with the talent of AXA guys like Xavi (34:48), Rahul
Hora who I have mentioned. But bringing in new people, people with Asian long-term
experience, people with a proven track record of delivery. We've brought these people in.

Page 9 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

I've already mentioned Sally. We have a couple of others here today. If I could ask
Howard, if Howard could stand up. Howard is a bit of an icon in Asia for distribution.
Howard ran AIA's agency in Hong Kong. He has worked for Ping An. He's worked for
Manulife in China. He's done many things. We're very happy that Howard is now with
AXA, and he's just started doing a great job and has a lot of buzz about the place. Thank
you, Howard.
We also – I should introduce Xavi (35:38). I don't think you stood up. [Foreign Language]
(35:41) [ph] Xavi (35:47) as I said, is one of the most dynamic leaders I have worked with.
And Lyndon was the – he ran MetLife particularly in the ﬁnance and strategy side
throughout Asia. He's worked with AIG before. And Lyndon will be working very close
with me in the strategy and ﬁnance side.

Bloomberg Transcript

So these are the three people – the four people we have here today. But these people
and their skill sets are matched up to what I spoke about, distribution. Sally has a strong
distribution background; obviously, Howard. I mentioned Stephen Appleyard. We have
Handojo. Handojo will be the new CEO of AXA Mandiri. Handojo was a Regional
Distribution Head for Allianz. We have Dave Ng, who was a Group Chief Digital Oﬃcer for
one of the top companies in Asia.
I mentioned on the Health side, Shaden Marzouk. Dr. Shaden Marzouk, Dr. Yi Mien Koh,
bringing those people in. And also Rodney. Rodney is an actuary with a lot of marketing
experience. He's lived in Indonesia for ﬁve years, so he has real, proven track record in the
ﬁeld. We have Sally Wan who's just joined for strategy in Hong Kong, helping Etienne a
lot. And the Hong Kong results, I think you saw at the beginning, last year we were down
13%, we had some issues. We've done a lot particularly in the Life side and then
supplemented that with the Health side as we go forward; and, of course, agency
distribution. And last, the person I would mention is Peck-Yeow Gan. Peck will be the HR
Head for Asia, and Peck has worked for both Prudential and AIA.
So I think this team that we've assembled, there's a great buzz about this kind of – I would
call signature hires coming to work for AXA. Because traditionally, AXA in Asia was not the
best at recruiting local talent and talent with that strong Asian expertise, and that has
changed. So I'm very proud of the people that came over and the way that they blend in
with the existing excellent talent we have at AXA.
Now, for me, we have a multi-year journey ahead of us and the focus is clearly to increase
the way of earnings growth, but ﬁrst of all we need to bring in quality new business on a
sustainable platform. So, phase one, I think as Thomas referred to, is kind of a changing
engines while ﬂying. We need to hire the right people and start doing all those things,
pivot towards how the agency transformation as we start to grow the business to top line.
So, APE, you can see the range 6% to 8% in terms of APE growth, and then because the
focus is quality, the new business value growth will be higher, 8% to 12%. So that would be
until 2020, and then we start to get the results where the earnings rates starts to increase.

Page 10 of 53



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

So, as my old mentor used to say, doing the right thing the right way with the right
people, and you get the right results. So that's where we're going. So, to conclude, we –
while we need to be patient, we have a sense of urgency. We have a bias for action to get
things done. We have one of the best, if not the best, team we're assembling in Asia with
a proven track record to maximize our partners, to really focus in China both in AXA
Tianping where we have control for the ﬁrst time and, of course, a great partner, ICBC,
develop agency – quality agency with an MDRT culture that we haven't done as well as we
could have in the past, and that will be a key focus, pivot towards Health which is top of
people's mind and the fastest growing segment in Asia. And, of course, brand is also
important.
So, for us, our vision is to be the next insurer of choice to all our stakeholders, to our
customers, to distributors, to employees and, of course, to investors. So thank you very
much for listening today. My time is up. I would like to show you a little video as we move
forward to the rest of day. So, thank you. [Video Presentation] (40:52-00:42:27)

Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much, Gordon. Clear strategy, a lot of energy and dedication, and
certainly a great team of local talent.
We now come to the next topic, a topic you've been waiting for for a long time, XL. And I
would really like to welcome Greg Hendrick, the new kid on the block. You've only been
with us for a couple of months. It seems like years already. And the more we've had the
chance to work together, the more I am 100% convinced this was a marriage meant to be
a great combination where we can make both sides better and yield a stronger growth.
Thank you very much for being here, Greg, with your team. The ﬂoor is yours.

Greg Hendrick

{BIO 1649843 <GO>}

Thank you, Thomas. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to AXA XL's London
Headquarters. I'm really thrilled to have you all here. We have roughly 10 ﬂoors of this
building, hundreds of colleagues. And in fact, on ﬂoors one and two and six,
predominantly is the insurance and reinsurance underwriting leadership of much of the
operation here at AXA XL. So it's really great to have you here.
I want to start – before getting to the main – by the presentation, sharing with you the
vision that we have for AXA XL. And this is technically what we did at XL and blending it
with what we have experienced with our AXA colleagues over the last few months of
integration and then after the close, a much more rapid pace of work of bringing these
two ﬁrms together.
At XL, we used to say, we wanted to be the most admired insurer, right? As I met Thomas
and the rest of the management committee and other colleagues at AXA, the phrase,
Payer-to-Partner really resonated with me. And when you look into it, particularly on the
insurance side of AXA XL, we quite often provide services that help our clients manage
their risk better. On our property policy, we provide engineering either through GAPS, the

Page 11 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

legacy XL ﬁrm, or Matrix, the legacy AXA ﬁrm. On our cyber, on our product recall, on our
crisis management, on a number of other products, we embed within the policy, service
that is pre-lost to help prevent risks and post-lost to help them address the adversity that
comes with those unfortunate events.
So we feel very strongly that being the most admired partner resonates well with the AXA
XL team and with our clients and our brokers. And we want to do it with superior
customer service. We've talked about the AXA brand, AXA's dedication to customer
service. At XL, we have the same thing. We've won a number of awards, some of which I'll
touch on in a little while. We are recognized globally for great service. And it ﬁts well with
that ﬁrst AXA value of customer ﬁrst.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we want to be the most admired partner, we want to do a superior client service, and
we want to have the most innovative solutions for the most complex risks that our clients
face. To me, the whole hallmark of why people came to XL and why they will come to AXA
XL is what I call the halo eﬀect. When you work with your client and your broker, and you
address their most diﬃcult risks, there's a halo eﬀect around the rest of the ﬁrm. You get
more of the business from that client and broker. The client thinks of you more often
whether they have a complex risk or more simple risk, and we have been focused on this
relentlessly.
Innovation, we've been leading the Adviser (sic) [Advisen] Pacesetter Index in North
America, which is loosely an innovation index as it measures the number of new products
you release. Three years in a row, we've been the leading insurance carrier with the most
new products as a symbol of the dedication that we have to innovation. And the most
complex risks, we've done that over and over again whether its entering the cyber market,
whether its new energy, we do this on a regular basis. So that's our vision, the most
admired partner known for great client service and the innovative solutions to the most
complex risks that our clients face.
What are we focused on as a team? First, we're going to ﬁnish this integration work and
really unify and bring to life AXA XL. That's one of the core goals over the next few
months. The work is well on hand, and I'll touch on some of the – an update on some of
the synergies near the end.
We want to continue to relentlessly improve our portfolio, how do we perform better, how
do we do that in what has been a diﬃcult market. Although what I think now, we'll
transition into a more favorable market. And we want to grow proﬁtably. It's a proﬁtable
growth. It's not growth for growth's sake, it's to grow our proﬁtable segments of our book.
We want to continue to manage the volatility particularly around natural catastrophes.
And we believe when we pull those things together and execute on all of them, we'll
deliver the returns that our shareholders deserve.
So let me start with creating the global leader. Thomas touched on it, the number one
global P&C insurance company in the world. I think it's always good to ground everybody
in what that is exactly within AXA Group. It's made of two key components, roughly 50%
each. The ﬁrst is the existing strong franchise that AXA has with local entities, AXA France,

Page 12 of 53



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

AXA Germany, AXA Asia, as Gordon has pointed out, mainly focused on small
commercial business. And now, added to that is AXA XL. And just for a refresher to make
sure we're all saying the same thing, AXA XL is the combination of the old XL Group,
insurance and reinsurance focused on property and casualty, with AXA Corporate
Solutions, AXA's existing large corporate insurer; with AXA Art & Lifestyle, which
combined with our Fine Art & Specie oﬀering at XL to form AXA XL Art, will be the leading
art and high net worth underwriter in the world; and AXA Matrix, AXA's engineering
capabilities combined with GAPS, which is our engineering capabilities at XL. Those four
things come together to form AXA XL, largely focused on large corporate specialty
insurance and reinsurance.
We have a great brand with – Thomas reminded, on the 10th year in a row at AXA. We've
gotten great recognition as XL. And now, as AXA XL, we intend to put that forward. Risk
management has been strong at XL and will be even stronger and better as part of AXA
XL as we leverage the best of both worlds. And a very strong balance sheet, which I'm
proud to say just a couple of weeks ago was reinforced by S&P, giving AXA XL a AArating as a core strategic part of the AXA Group.

Bloomberg Transcript

Being large isn't the end all and be all. (48:53) There's a lot of beneﬁt in diversiﬁcation
from bringing these two pieces together. You can start with geographic. XL brings to the
AXA Group the U.S. and London presence that you're seeing in today. And that's
combined with AXA's strong presence in Europe, particularly. So we have great
geographic diversiﬁcation. We have size of customer diversiﬁcation as well. AXA mainly
focused on small commercial; XL, as I've said, more focused on the large corporate; so we
can now entertain any client from small of the smallest commercial to large of the largest
global clients, including global insurance companies in our reinsurance segment.
And we have a full product suite. XL brings particularly strength in specialty and
professional products that AXA has not in the (49:44) not written very much of. Likewise,
AXA has capabilities that XL has never had, employee beneﬁts, motor ﬂeet, and others.
So we can now sit down with that large range of customers anywhere in the world and talk
about any kind of P&C risks they have and do it from strength and credibility.
And in terms of the brand, I'm pleased to say XL and – going forward will be AXA XL, but
XL has won the J.D. Power in North America, the highest customer satisfaction for large
corporate insurers, the last two years. The third year is coming out, and I'm only led to
believe that so far the early indications from the survey look good on our prospects for
leading that table again for a third year in a row.
Let me go a little deeper now. What is AXA XL? We operate in three core segments:
Specialty, which I divide roughly in half, between specialty industries, so marine, aviation,
energy, and specialty niche, more of the ﬁne art, I touched on it a few moments ago,
political risk, crisis management, and other specialty products that are much more
focused on particular risks. There, we have a leading presence. We're leading underwriter
at Lloyd's. We're a leading underwriter in many of those businesses. And that's just under
30% of our overall book.

Page 13 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

The second segment is Property & Casualty insurance globally. So your traditional large
property, large casualty, and large professional insurance oﬀerings. Quite often, many of
our competitors take our professional business, so our 12% of our book overall is
professional, and combine that with a specialty book. So, if you did that, you would call us
in that context almost a 40% specialty insurance division. We align them together with the
P&C because we believe strongly that operating them together gives us the best chance
at cross-sell and how we can best achieve the most number of products per customer.
And then reinsurance, one of our core franchise. I'll touch on it more in a little bit. But it is
very global, covering P&C products around the world and able to achieve very fast,
nimble and agile results. I think the most important part as you look at these product
groupings is that no single product is more than 10%, and property catastrophe which
always gets a lot of attention is about 6% of our overall top line. It's a meaningful
important line to us, but this is a very well diversiﬁed, very well balanced portfolio.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me stop here and say a little bit about Lloyd's. I get a lot of questions, both internally
and externally, about Lloyd's and what's the plan for Lloyd's, what's the business plan for
Lloyd's. Lloyd's, for us, is a marketplace. It is an important one. It is how our brokers and
clients choose to access us at times. It is not a standalone business. We have a CEO. We
are compliant. It is – but it is very much run as part of each of these three segments. What
do I mean by that?
If you use Marine as an example, our hauling cargo underwriters at Lloyd's report into the
leader of Marine globally, Rob McAdams. But he also has oversight over what we do in
Europe, what we do in North America, what we do in Asia. Clients and brokers choose to
access us in diﬀerent ways, and in fact all three segments access us through the Lloyd's
platform. As the largest managing agent, as the second largest syndicate, we're very
committed to Lloyd's. It continues to be a very strong platform for us. We're working
closely with Lloyd's to try and improve the eﬃciency of the market overall to continue to
be part of the performance directive that's been much in the headlines lately, but it is not
a standalone business. It is a platform that we use to allow brokers and clients to access
us.
Of course, that's all great to have great distribution, diversiﬁcation, you have a broad set
of products, but you need talent, right, and we'll talk a little bit about the leadership and a
little bit about the talent more broadly.
I'm fortunate today to have in the room with us, I'll ask him to stand up, Neil Robertson.
Neil's got over 30 years of experience. I've known Neil since XL acquired the Brock Bates
syndicate in the late 1990s, and Neil leads our specialty insurance business, a long veteran
of the Lloyd's and specialty market. Jason Harris, who leads our Global P&C Insurance,
over 20 years of experience. We recruited Jason to join us in 2012, has been leading our
International P&C business and now the Global P&C business. Charles Cooper, again over
20 years of experience. I've worked with Charles for over a decade. He leads our Global
P&C Reinsurance business. And Steve Robb, who is our CFO of the division. Steve has
over 20 years of experience, and I've been fortunate to work with Steve as well over the
last decade.

Page 14 of 53



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

It's a very strong and experienced leadership team. In fact, the people, they're probably
always reluctant when I added it all up, but the people on that page have over 250 years
of experience in the industry. I mean, make no mistake, this is a very, very strong team.
And it's not just about, yes, there are a few former XL faces there, we also have AXA
members as well. We're looking forward to building on a strong risk management from
XL into AXA XL by Noel Richardson, who is our Chief Risk Oﬃcer. And we believe that
when we blend the best of both worlds, we'll get an even stronger risk management
proﬁle. And Matthieu Caillat, who is leaving a business-facing role to start – is now our
Chief Operating Oﬃcer, will bring a great business customer-broker focus to how we'll
get more eﬃcient in our operations.
But it isn't just about – as important as these leaders are, we believe strongly in the servant
leadership model, that we are here not to lead from a top-down command and control,
but we are here to empower our underwriters, our claims professionals, our actuaries.
And there's over 9,800 colleagues and over 1,700 underwriters in the AXA XL division.

Bloomberg Transcript

So I know occasionally from time to time, you'll see a headline, so-and-so has decided to
move on. I want you to rest assured that this is a very, very broad base of underwriting
talent that we have and it's very, very deep and rich at AXA XL. And in fact, just as a data
point to share before we move on, our attrition rate, so the percentage of people leaving,
for the year-to-date 2018 is lower than what it was year-to-date 2017. Our colleagues are
very much invested and eager and excited about the success that we'll be able to achieve
as AXA XL.
So, what are we going to do with all that talent and that great leadership with all those
gray hairs? We're going to do what we've always been doing, which is optimizing our
portfolio and continually improving our performance. We do it with underwriting actions,
we do it with pricing, we do it with analytics, and we do it with portfolio mix. We call this
the grind. The grind may not be sometimes, in English, the most exciting word, but we are
very passionate about it. The grind means you have dedication, you have plans, you
execute them, and you're determined to grind your way through an ever and better and
improving performing portfolio.
What do we do speciﬁcally? Underwriting actions. Every year, through our planning
process, hundreds of actions identiﬁed, tracked, and only giving credit for in our loss
ratios once they've been executed. It could be tiering around industry, around
geography, could be around distribution in geography, could be around distribution
source from broker, it could be client side, any of the normal things you would expect an
insurance management team to do.
Over the last three years, we have identiﬁed and executed on $125 million of underwriting
proﬁt improvement that I believe passionately has helped us ﬁght what has been a soft
market in many of our lines of business.
Pricing. 2018 has been a good year for pricing on the insurance side. We've gone from
3.5% in the ﬁrst quarter to 4% in second quarter, to 4.5% rate increase across our entire
portfolio in the third quarter, balancing out to roughly a 4% for the year, which happens

Page 15 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

coincidentally to match the 4% that we're also getting in reinsurance. That rating, that rate
of increase when measured against industry benchmarks like Willis Towers Watson CLIPS
or CIAB is 2 points better than what the industry is getting on the same size large
commercial risk, we think validating the competitive advantage that we have as AXA XL.
I'll come on to it a little bit, and we think this is only going to improve particularly in short
tail lines as we come out of 2018 and into 2019.
Analytics. You've read a lot about predictive modeling, a lot of diﬀerent players in the
market attempting to make it work. We believe we struck upon the right model, which is
about a $10 million a year investment in our strategic analytics team, combined with our
day-to-day actuaries and our pricing analytics, combined with our underwriting teams.
That model of belief and a buy-in from those combined groups makes that very eﬀective.
We've gotten to over $2 billion of our premium, has some kind of predictive pricing or
predictive risk selection model applied to it.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then the last, and usually the most important, is optimizing our mix. We need to grow
proﬁtably. There is always opportunity in the insurance and reinsurance market to ﬁnd
pockets of opportunity to grow. We also then – if we aren't making our return, we need to
ﬁnd sources of capital that will take that return that may be lower than our threshold,
particularly lately alternative capital around our catastrophe exposures, but it could be
other reinsurers as well. And if we can't make either those two work, if we can't ﬁnd
enough to grow proﬁtably, if we can't ﬁnd enough partners to move the risk to, then we
need to shrink the book. And over the last three years in our insurance segment, we've
reduced over $300 million of gross written premium that has not been meeting our return
hurdle, and if we couldn't ﬁnd a partner with, to try and move that risk onto.
I want to spend a little more time on growing proﬁtably because I think it helps to share
some of the successes we've had embedded within our business that sometimes get lost
in the overall noise of the industry results, three for the insurance side and then a
comment on the reinsurance segment.
In insurance, construction in North America, when we started in 2011, we had about $40
million of premium, not really a factor at all. We hired Gary Kaplan and he's built a team
over the last few years. He has taken that $40 million book and it's now a $650 million
annual gross written premium portfolio, producing a combined ratio of 85% or better. It
has been a very, very outstanding story. They had been focused on the large -- of the
largest construction contractors in North America. Generally speaking, the underlying
theme of why that works well is they are very, very risk management conscious. They are
very conscious of their brand, of their reputation, and they spend more money than any of
the mid-sized or smaller contractors on reducing the risk that they bring to their
employees and to their workplace.
Second example is International Casualty. We acquired the (01:00:42) international large
corporate casualty book back in 2000. And in that, the focus had been mainly on the very
large global corporates. Jenny Mauer (01:00:52) and a few other people have, over the
years, built a very proﬁtable book of middle market business so clients that are now just
starting to go multinational that maybe don't need the full global program capabilities
that AXA XL can oﬀer but want to have some more risk management and more ability to
Page 16 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

go global over time. We've grown that book about 11% per year at less than a 90%
combined ratio.
And the third and ﬁnal example in the Insurance segment is around that news that I
touched upon earlier, the importance of predictive modeling. In our Design Professional
book, which is our architects and engineer book, a book we've had a long time, bought
the Design Professional (sic) [Design Professionals] Insurance Company back in the late
90s. It's been one that, for a while, from 2008 to 2013, was shrinking about 4% a year and
was struggling on proﬁtability.

Bloomberg Transcript

Alex Blanco and his team, as the leader on the underwriting side, partnered with Kim
Holmes and her team, Strategic Analytics and partnered with our pricing actuaries and
our claims professionals to build a predictive model, not just to have it be built and stored
in a room somewhere that corporate runs once in a while but to be built and used actively
to manage the portfolio. And we've turned – Alex and his team has turned a minus 4% or
a 4% shrinkage rate, if you like, minus 4% growth rate into a 6% growth rate with a fourpoint improvement in the loss ratio. It's gone from being one of the books that we were
struggling with to one of the leading portfolios that we underwrite in terms of proﬁtability
and return.
And then if I shift to Reinsurance, we believe Reinsurance for us is in the sweet spot. And
what do I mean by the sweet spot? We believe that we don't need to be the largest player
but in fact, if you are the largest player in reinsurance, because of the limited number of
transactions relative to an insurance portfolio, you're very, very diﬃcult to outperform the
market index. But you need to be large enough to be credible, to be able to be viewed as
a market leader. Can you entertain any risk around the world? Can you entertain any line
of property and casualty?
And we can and so we believe we positioned ourselves in a growth story when we
brought XL and Catlin together in 2015. The Reinsurance portfolio was under $4 billion.
It's now $4.7 billion in 2017 and we have demonstrated on the right here with the
performance from the last ﬁve years of combined ratio. As reported, so Cats are in there,
(01:03:19), and this is just pure reported results. We've delivered results that are better at
an 87% combined ratio than most of the large competitors and only underperformed a
handful of the smaller niche players. We like that sweet spot. We like where we are in
Reinsurance.
Now that the acquisition is done, we have a lot of momentum and we want to focus on
growing in three core areas: things that were already started at XL that we'll continue at
AXA XL, things that will leverage the scale that AXA XL gets together, and then cross-sell
across the AXA Group.
In growth, in Insurance in the United States, we're about 3% of the large corporate in
Specialty marketplace whereas globally, we're about a 4% market share. We have been
growing North America faster than anywhere else in the operation, and we will continue
that and accelerate that as part of the AXA Group.

Page 17 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

And in Reinsurance, we want to continue to ﬁnd those areas either geographies or
products where we can diversify ourselves better. The team has built books around things
like exposure to U.S. homeowners, not necessarily Cat-driven all the time, which gets us
great diversiﬁcation because at AXA Group, we don't have that exposure anywhere else in
the institution. And one of the ones that I think will yield great returns as part of AXA
Group going forward is working deeply on closing the gap between insured loss and
economic loss.
We just had Hurricane Michael in the U.S. as you all know. Again, we'll see in one of the
most insured marketplaces in the world, only 50% of the loss in round numbers will
probably end up being insured of the total economic impact. And as you go away and
move into areas like in Gordon's role in Asia, that can drop to single digits and sometimes
even less than 1%. We are very passionate about closing that gap and we think when we
leverage the capabilities that AXA has around AXA pair of metrics or AXA microinsurance
combined with our reinsurance team, we can really do some great work here.

Bloomberg Transcript

We want to focus and enhance the skill that we have. Both the AXA and XL have had
leading capabilities and global programs but we also have a large book of follow-up
business where we're not the lead market. Together now, we have much greater scale and
much more emphasis to be able to bring to the marketplace and convert from follow to
lead lines, allowing you to dictate the engineering, allowing you to control the premium
ﬂows and be paid better as a leader than you are as a follower.
We want to develop underpenetrated areas. We're very much looking forward to working
with Gordon's team in Asia, particularly around building oﬀ of our strength of the hub in
Singapore and Hong Kong, and using Gordon and the team's footprint in areas like
Indonesia and Thailand where we've not been present as XL. So we believe there's a lot
of lift, likewise, in Mexico with I&M and Benoit's team. We see now the opportunity to
move from a single oﬃce in Mexico City to having access to hundreds of branches around
the country.
And we want to build new products that leverage the best of what AXA XL and the AXA
Group have to oﬀer. We can do that particularly if you look at in the U.S. and the small
commercial where AXA XL brings a great footprint in risk analysis, great leadership in that
space, combined with AXA's strong digital distribution capabilities in the small
commercial space we believe will yield great fruit over time.
And we've just recently announced a product in the U.S. around cyber where at AXA XL,
we're going to blend a full digital oﬀering with our cyber expertise and with access to
some of the preventative services that I mentioned at the top and just launched that in the
last month is the ﬁrst step of what will be a great journey, I believe, together.
And then to me, the third one and the heart of it and the real opportunity in front of us
most immediately is to cross-sell. AXA XL Specialty and Professional products in the
Insurance side now can have access to – access tied agents and access brokers -- small
brokers via each of the local entities and that gives us a whole new distribution source that
we haven't had access to before. Historically, we've been very dependent on kind of the

Page 18 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

top ﬁve to 10 brokers in each country. We now have a whole new source of risk to be able
to cross-sell into.

FINAL

Likewise, at AXA XL, we didn't have employee beneﬁts. We didn't have motor ﬂeet. We
didn't have a number of other products. We can now help our colleagues around AXA
Group cross-sell those products into our clients. We believe this will be one of the biggest
and most immediate lifts in terms of the revenue synergies that we see going forward.
Let's shift a little bit to managing volatility. Volatility comes in two forms to me: Nat Cat or
Natural Catastrophe, which I'll come to in a second and then attritional large loss ratio. So,
what we're sharing here is the legacy XL Catlin only from 2010 to 2017, accident year exCat results. So, it removes the impact of catastrophes and removes the impact of prior
year losses and it is the legacy XL Catlin, so from 2010 to 2015, it's XL standalone, and
then from 2015 to 2017, it reﬂects XL Catlin after we closed the transaction in May.

Bloomberg Transcript

When Neil and myself and another of our other colleagues and Jason, as he came along
kind of in 2012, when we inherited that leadership of the insurance business, we were
deﬁnitely out of performance levels that was not acceptable in the upper 60% loss ratio.
We got to work on that grind that I talked about earlier and we were able to improve the
results. It doesn't happen overnight. It takes a couple of years. We're able to improve that
results and then we were able to buy Catlin, bring that portfolio together, and maintain
that steady loss ratio across. This is across our group as Insurance and Reinsurance.
And so we've shown that we can grow proﬁtably in pieces and this, to me, demonstrates
that we can grow proﬁtably as well in the non-Cat space. But let's talk about Cat because
that is the other part of the volatility and the one that's gotten the most attention recently.
This is the chart of the total worldwide insured catastrophe losses from 1992. I started with
1992, which was Hurricane Andrew as many of you remember, in the U.S. It had been a
very quiet period before that and it really transformed the marketplace overall.
All the way to 2017, this is sourced from Munich Re. You could go to Swiss Re. You can go
to Aon. There's a number other industry sources that will have slightly diﬀerent numbers
as you go along, but the picture is the same. And then for 2018, we're estimating at least
$70 billion as we see it for 2018 of net Cat losses. That makes 2017 and 2018 together the
single largest two-year period in that history base. We'll be over $200 billion of insured
catastrophe losses. And if you think about it, it's really only in the last 14 months because
the meat of the activity started kind of in August of 2017. It has been a very active period,
all right?
And so we would point out, though, that as you look back over time, there are period -- it
doesn't always happen like 2017 and 2018. There are periods that you see, 2013, 2014,
2015, 2006, 2007, 2008 that we have very low activity for a period of time. We believe
that this has not changed, that variability of the result will continue.
And I'm sure you're very interested about 2018. In particular, we would know that Michael,
as you've talked about already, the wildﬁres that I've shared with you, the industry loss
here from RMS, it's $9 billion to $13 billion from them. It's just too early for us to be able to
Page 19 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

give you any kind of precise estimate yet for what the loss maybe the impact AXA XL. I will
share with you, though, that at XL in 2017, we had roughly a 2% market share of the
California wildﬁres last year.
Regardless of what the losses end up being, in total, there has been enough activity when
combined with the man-made loss activity as well experienced in the industry that we
clearly see an increasing of price increases in our short tail lines of business: Property
Insurance, Marine, aerospace and a number of our lines are seeing an acceleration and I
believe there will be a little bit more to come as we kind of sort out who wants to play
forward as alternative capital which I believe in passionately for the long haul in the near
term. Do they want to reset the price a little bit and do they want to try and make a little
more return after two diﬃcult years that they have experienced as well? But I do believe
regardless of the outcome of that conversation that we will continue to get rate going
forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

And we've been not just planning to go back to the better years. That's not a strategy.
Hope is not a strategy. We've been reducing our exposures over time. We started this as
XL at the end of 2017 when we realized the reaction in 2018 wasn't going to be a stronger
rate that that should generate rate and more proﬁt. We started reducing our exposures
and then we accelerated that activity as part of AXA Group.
So for the AXA – for the XL portfolio, our 200-year tail loss is down about 25% to 40%.
Our 20-year loss down about 15% to 20% and we'll continue to do that in 2019. I don't
have a precise prediction for you because to me and to the team – to my colleagues at
AXA Group, we're very much driven by the fact what will a proﬁt opportunity be which will
dictate exactly precisely how much risk we decide to take in 2019.
Wherever we decide, though, we continue to remain very committed to using alternative
capital. We have $1.5 billion of cap bonds, we have nearly $1 billion of collateralized
reinsurance and as you will have seen just a few weeks ago, we bought in the remainder
of New Ocean, our ILS manager, which will now be aligned with us and be focused solely
on how do we distribute AXA XL risk today and over time, AXA Group risk as well to the
ILS community directly from us to the investors.
Synergies. I'm very happy to report that we have increased our synergies from $400
million to $500 million. We've been hard at work since we announced this transaction
even in more rapid pace since we closed. We've been able to identify more cost savings
up from the $200 million to $300 million. We've been working closely with the AXA
Global REIT team. We believe we now have line of sight to that $100 million of savings in
ceded reinsurance. And then as I've talked about already on the growth side, we're very
excited to conﬁrm that we can deliver on the $100 million of revenue synergies as well
and are already starting to practice in small areas, for instance, cyber in Italy with some of
the AXA tied agents there to show that we can execute across this cross-sell strategy.
So when I pull it together, improvement on the synergies, keeping that grind, going to
improve the proﬁtability of our portfolio, a better rate environment, continued use to try
and match risk to the right source of capital, and what I haven't touched on, which is a

Page 20 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

shift in our investment portfolio where at AXA, we had been a very conservative, well
below the risk level of our peers and just moving that a bit to be more in line with the
overall AXA Group investment philosophy, we can achieve a 95% combined ratio by
2020, assuming about a 4% Natural Catastrophe load and produce about $1.4 billion of
underlying earnings in 2020 again, with normalized Cat.
We're well on the way to integration being completed and thrilled that we may be able
identify more synergies and more savings. We continue to grind that portfolio and make it
a more proﬁtable one for the levers I identiﬁed. We're going to continue to grow
proﬁtably in areas that we have been already and identify new ones together. We will
continue to manage our Cat volatility. In the end, when we execute on all of those, we
believe we will deliver a return that AXA shareholders should expect.
I want to thank you all very much for listening today. I had the pleasure of saying there is
now a half hour coﬀee break behind you. Please enjoy the coﬀee. We'll be back in here in
half an hour. Thank you.

Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So, welcome back after the break. I hope you had enough time for exchange and I heard
many questions already for the Q&A session. Thank you, Greg, for this wonderful and
passionate speech about XL; clear strategy, good team, and a very disciplined approach
to get to a very attractive number.
We are now coming to an old-timer of AXA, Gérald Harlin, who has the now ability and
power to put everything together. What will it be? The new capital management
approach. Gérald, the ﬂoor is yours.

Gérald Harlin
Thank you. Thank you, Thomas. So, I'm very happy to be with you and to update you and
our capital management policy. And going back to the proﬁle of our group on a pro
forma basis, that's a strong transformation, so assuming that we would exceed totally AXA
Equitable Holdings, including AXA XL. We are a majority P&C, health and protection
company. P&C will represent 50% of our earnings and the savings part is 14% only, which
is collectively small.
So, today, I want to highlight and to focus on six topics. The ﬁrst one is the earnings
volatility and the fact that it is controlled. There is earnings volatility but it is under control.
The second is the cash generation and the ﬂexibility that it will bring to us. Next is the
path to deleveraging. That's -- we updated you on our deleveraging plan already in
August, but we have a clear update to share with you. Next, is the robust balance sheet
and with strong Solvency II rates. Next is globally the new capital management policy and
the new guidelines, and last, the update on Ambition 2020.
Let's start with volatility. So you remember that in August, we highlighted the reduced Cat
cost deviation coming from and following our new reinsurance program. And it's
Page 21 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

interesting to analyze. At that time, we analyzed the negative side, but it's interesting to
analyze both sides. The positive and the negative deviation and starting ﬁrst with the lefthand side, which correspond to the severe years – more severe years. In one in 20 years,
we would add €0.5 billion of negative deviation from the average €0.5 billion
corresponding to one in 20 years. That's exactly same ﬁgures as one we shared with you
at the beginning of August.
This highlights all these framework, highlights the fact that we have strong beneﬁts from
our geographical diversiﬁcation. To make it simple, it means that the probability to have a
severe Cat in Europe and in the U.S. is quite low. So that's the beauty of this extremely
diversiﬁed model.
Next is the earnings volatility. As I said, there is earnings volatility coming from Cat events.
You can see here that in one in 10 years, it's plus 8% on the less severe years and under
more severe years, it's equivalent of minus 7% of underlying earnings per share; plus 8%,
minus 7%. Last is the proﬁtable asymmetry. That means that we have 54% probability to
be above the mean, and by deﬁnition, 46% probability to be below.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's have a look now at the recent transactions. First of all, the P-GAAP. We will
consolidate at the end of the year AXA XL and I wanted just to update you on the P-GAAP
that many times we discussed. The ﬁrst point is that there is no change to best estimate
claims reserves. We told you in March that we were satisﬁed with the level of reserves. It's
exactly the same and we didn't change our mind and we will have best estimate claims
reserves of €20 billion.
The P-GAAP accounting adjustment, I would say that in line with the practice, in line with
the IFRS practice, we will book what we call a risk margin net of DAC and Value of
Business Acquired and it will amount to €1 billion. As a matter of principle, it's exactly
same as in Solvency II. We call it in Solvency II market value margin but it's exactly same
concept. And you cannot expect any release in the short-term of this €1 billion. And next,
goodwill, that will amount to €7 billion. That's for the P-GAAP.
Now, moving to AXA Tianping. As explained by Gordon and as presented by Gordon, we
published it on Monday evening this week and it's important because we are very proud
to say that AXA will be the only foreign insurer to have a 100% control of top 20 P&C
insurance company in China. So, we will be as well the ﬁrst foreign P&C insuring in China.
So, the cash consideration is €580 million and subject to regulatory approval, we will – we
should ﬁnance part of it with capital reduction from AXA Tianping of €190 million.
Let's update you on the present AXA Equitable Holdings sell-downs. As explained by
Thomas, it was two weeks ago on November 20. We sold 11% – participation of 11% in AXA
Equitable Holdings. It was sold for €1 billion. It was 60 -- corresponding to 60 million
shares at $20.25. We – normally, we should beneﬁt from €0.2 billion corresponding to the
exercise of the greenshoe and we had – we beneﬁted from €0.5 billion i.e. 30 million
shares from AXA Equitable Holdings, 30 million shares buyback. In the end, from an
economic perspective, we will own 50% of AXA Equitable Holdings after all this

Page 22 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

transaction in May; ﬁrst the IPO, and in November, these additional disposals. We have
50% left.
For the future, we conﬁrm, as we said already and we announced it as you know in March,
that we will – it's our intention to fully dispose AXA Equitable Holdings over time, so to sell
the 50% that we still own in AXA Equitable Holdings. But for sure, the pace will depend
on many factors among which the share price, the environment and the market liquidity.
Today, and taking today's price -- today's stock price, the remaining 50% correspond to
€5 billion. Let's move to 2019, 2020 cash ﬂows.
So AXA before, and this is before, it's important, before AXA Equitable Holdings further
sell-downs, will accumulate €12 billion of cash in 2019 and 2020 mainly to fund dividend
and deleveraging. So starting ﬁrst with cash remittance, roughly speaking, we could say
around €5 billion per year. So on two years, 2019 and 2020, it's €10 billion, then plus €3
billion cash coming from the Swiss Group Life's transformation that we presented, it was
in August, plus the disposal of AXA Life Europe as a whole, €3 billion; €2 billion from the
Swiss transformation, €1 billion from AXA Life Europe.

Bloomberg Transcript

Holding cost minus €2 billion, then we have the sell-down that we achieved, that we did
two weeks ago, it's plus €2 billion. As a whole, it's €12 billion. So, again, this €12 billion it's
cash available -- accumulated cash available to fund dividend and deleveraging but it's
before AXA Equitable Holdings further sell-down.
So let's move now to our gearing ratio. And starting ﬁrst with 2018 and you can see that –
as you can see in line blue, at the end of June 2018, we had a debt gearing of 29%, and
we expect for full year 2018, at the end of 2018, to be at 32%. Let me go through the
diﬀerent blocks and elements because it's not quite obvious.
As far as the debt is concerned, the numerator. It means that we will beneﬁt from the – we
will increase the debt level by €4 billion corresponding to the debt consolidated from XL
because we consolidate in XL for the ﬁrst time in 2018. And -- but we will have a minus €2
billion corresponding to the debt that we will have repaid in the second half of 2018. And
I mentioned already, I could say already notiﬁed to bondholders as a whole, minus €2
billion and maybe you notice that we announced yesterday, €0.8 billion more coming
from XL.
Then on the shareholder of equity, there will be minus €1 billion that would be the impact
of the AXA Equitable sell-downs that we did in November, minus €1 billion. Then we had
minus €3 billion which is a goodwill impairment Group share and we decided that it was
better to impair the totality of the goodwill of corresponding to AXA Equitable Holdings
so long and as a consequence, it will ﬂow-through the net income for 2018. And as a
consequence, the value of the shares of AXA Equitable Holdings, the book value, will be
between $21 and $22.
Next, minus €1 billion which will be the net impact on minorities, plus €2 billion coming
from the increase of the minorities following the disposal that we did. And again, we will

Page 23 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

impair the goodwill of the minorities for €3 billion in the same amount. It's quite logical
because we are 50%.
So, as a whole, again, we move from 29% to 32%. I should mention as well that, two
points. First, it conﬁrms that there was no need to issue €1 billion more of sub debt. We
limited ourselves, if you remember, to €2 billion. And second, we should take into
consideration the fact that I'm expecting at the end of 2018 to have €1.5 billion of cash
corresponding roughly speaking to 1.5 percentage point of gearing ratio. So, assuming
that we would have used this available cash mostly coming from the disposal in
November, just in order to reduce our debt, we would – we wouldn't have been close to
30%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's focus now on our deleveraging plan. So, here, what you can see is the illustration
which is based on a full AXA Equitable Holdings disposal by 2020. So, the debt gearing
should come starting from 32% at the end of 2018, the ﬁgures that I just commented. We
would move to 28% in 2019, 25% in 2020. We could – you have on the right, the moving
part starting again with the debt, meaning that the debt, the numerator, will drop by €7
billion, €3 billion corresponding to the net debt that will be repaid and minus €4 billion
coming from the removal of AXA Equitable Holdings so long as we will – we would sell in
this scenario 100% of AXA Equitable Holdings. We will deconsolidate AXA Equitable
Holdings, meaning that the debt would disappear.
Under shareholders equity, the denominator, we would lose €5 billion of minorities, that's
exactly for the same reason. It's coming from the fact that we will then consolidate, in such
a case, AXA Equitable Holdings and we would have €6 billion of retained earnings,
roughly €3 billion per year of retained earnings during 2019 and 2020.
As a whole, we will have €14 billion of generated cash. Let me go through a bit more
detail. The €14 billion correspond to what? It correspond to the €12 billion that I just
commented on the previous slide plus €5 billion of sell-down because we assume here
that we would do a full sell-down minus €3 billion of debt. As a whole, €14 billion. And it
means that we would have – we will have €14 billion of generated cash that will remain
after deleveraging, assuming in such a case we would be at 25% to ﬁnance what? It would
be available for dividends, for cash buﬀer, M&A and share buyback.
Cash buﬀer, why? You remember, I'm sure, that in March when we presented our
ﬁnancing plan for AXA XL, we said at that time that we would use €3.5 billion of cash
buﬀer so we can assume that this cash buﬀer will be reconstituted. But it will, as you can
imagine and as you can make your own math, it will mean some cash available for M&A
and eventually share buyback.
Let's move now to Solvency II and update you on the expected impact. Even with
deleveraging of Solvency would improve between 10 points to 30 points. Why do I say
even with deleveraging? Because you have all in mind that we have a lot of sub-debt,
which means that deleveraging will naturally reduce the restricted part of Solvency II.

Page 24 of 53



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

So we will increase from plus 10 points, which will be the low end, to 30 points, which will
be the high end. And let's look through on the left on the various elements that make that
will be between 10 points and 30 points. Starting ﬁrst with something you are familiar
with, which is the operating return, net of dividend, from 5 points to 10 points per year, so
for two years, between 10 points and 20 points. Then, we have the diversiﬁcation beneﬁts.
You remember that the point that we already shared with you, we expect by 2020 to get
XL integrated in our internal model and the diversiﬁcation beneﬁts should amount to 5
points to 10 points accretion in our Solvency II ratio. Then, we have the further sell-down
between 0 points and 15 points between selling 0% to 50% of AXA Equitable Holdings.
Then, minus 5 points to minus 10 points from deleveraging. That's what I just explained,
Tier 2 debts mostly, Tier 1 and Tier 2. And M&A between 0 points and minus 5 points. Just
for you, 5 point corresponding roughly to €1.5 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, it means that the quality of our capital should improve on the next two years, as you
can see in the following slide, and in the following slide (01:32:55) and we can expect
unrestricted Tier 1 to be above 75%, which means that we'll be among the best ones, and
for two reasons. The ﬁrst reason is the debt repayments, and the second is the organic
sub-debt repayment, by deﬁnition, and the second is the organic capital generations.
Sensitivity to our Solvency II ratio now. This is an important slide because it explains why
we moved and why we decided to transform our group. Let's start on the left-hand side,
meaning that becoming more a P&C company, as I explained or as I presented it to you at
the beginning of my presentation, we will have plus 13 points that the pro forma required
capital, so that the denominator of the Solvency II ratio, plus 13 points on the P&C ratio –
from the P&C risk, minus 4 points on the life side and minus 10 points on the market and
credit risk. So again, it highlights the fact that we are much more diversiﬁed because the
P&C rate is diversifying a lot compared with the other type of rates.
And let's move now to the right part on this slide. We will have 20% to 30% reduction in
economic sensitivities from ﬁnancial shocks. It means that we will reduce of tail risks, and
this is important from a valuation point of view. Let's start with the 1 in 20 years ﬁnancial
shock, from a minus 30 percentage point sensitivity to a minus 31 percentage point. On
ﬁnancial crisis, that's 2008-2009, I'm sure you remember, from minus 61 points to minus
46 points. Then, the ﬁnancial crisis, 2011 ﬁnancial crisis, from minus 20 points to minus 14
points. And dotcom bust at the beginning of the century, minus 34 points to minus 24
points.
And in the meantime – and this is really what is extremely interesting – in the meantime, in
1 in 20 years, the natural events are the same. That means the downside from 1 in 20 years
natural events stays at minus 2 percentage points. Whereas, in 1 in 200 years natural
events, it moved from minus 5 points to minus 8 points. So, only a worsening of 3
percentage points. Whereas, we gain 20% to 30% from the ﬁnancial shocks. So that's
quite important, and again, it may be the most important slide that can highlight that to
explain our strategy.
Going forward, it means that our cash capacity will increase and this cash capacity allows
us to increase our payout ratio, from 45% to 55%, to 50% to 60%. So, you have all in mind
the fact that our historical cash remittance is at €5 billion. And we can say that on the
Page 25 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

medium term, we can expect to have XL integration increasing our cash remit – with a
cash remittance of circa €1 billion per year. And you remember that AXA Equitable
Holdings, over the last four years, was limited to €0.5 billion. Maybe you remember the
$600 million that many times we mentioned.
As a whole, it means that the normalized new cash remittance will be €5.5 billion. It means
more cash capacity, which allow us to increase the new payout tranche, from 45%, 55%, to
50% to 60%. And as a consequence, and you can see just in the middle, that the €1 billion
to €2 billion cash available at holding, we will have €1 billion to €2 billion. Depending on
the scenario, it will be €2 billion in a 50% payout, €1 billion in a 60% payout. And this
compare with the €1 billion of cash capacity that we previously announced, I'm sure that
you remember this, for our 2016 to 2020 plan. And at that time, we assumed the 50%
payout ratio. So as a conclusion, it means more cash capacity even increasing our payout
ratio.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's move to our target capital range now. The new payout ratio and, as well, combined
with the reduced Solvency II sensitivity, leads us to revise our target capital range, from
170% to 230%, to 170% to 220%. You can see just in the middle that we announced that
the share buyback will at least neutralize by at least – we mean that we could do share
buyback beyond the neutralization of dilution.
Let's move to the ROE now. And we increase our new ROE guidance, from 12% to 14%, to
14% to 16%, so for two reasons. First of all, because we did well, I could say, because we
have a consistent track record of improvement. Remember at the end of 2017, we were at
14.5%, above the threshold of 14%. For the ﬁrst half, we're at 15.6%. So, that's a good
reason, ﬁrst reason. The second is the mechanical positive impact from the decrease in
shareholders' equity, following the AXA Equitable Holdings sell-down and the goodwill
impairment. That's why we are now at between 14% and 16%.
Let me present our new update targets for our plans. That's the famous quadrant. And we
conﬁrm underlying earnings per share between 3% and 7% on a CAGR between 2015 and
2020. Adjusted return on equity have been updated, from 12% to 14%, to 14% to 16%. Our
free cash is €28 billion to €32 billion, and we can expect to be at the high end of this
range, and Solvency II ratio is revised to 70% (sic) [170%] to 220%.
As a conclusion now, I would say that, for sure, Nat Cat, natural catastrophe, brings
earnings volatility but it is under control, and we'll beneﬁt from the proﬁtable asymmetry,
with plus 8%/minus 7% underlying earnings per share in 1 in 10 years. Second, we have a
very strong generation – strong cash generation with ﬂexibility, €12 billion are expected in
2020, and as I explained, with upside coming from AXA Equitable Holdings sell-down.
We are deleveraging. We promised you that it was our priority. That's what we will do.
And we can expect a clear path for deleveraging. We'll be between 25% and 28% at the
end of 2020, and I would say, irrespective of AXA Equitable Holdings, since we
mentioned that we would be at 28% in case we wouldn't sell any further AXA Equitable
share. If we sell the totality, we'll be at 25%.

Page 26 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

Robust balance sheet, we can expect to increase our Solvency II ratio by 2020 between
plus 10 points and plus 30 points. Next, our new capital management policy, that will be
between 50% and 60% for the payout ratio and 170% to 220% for the Solvency II ratio
target range. And last, update on 2020, we revised adjusted ROE, return on equity,
guidance from 14% to 16%.

FINAL

I thank you very much.

Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Gérald, for this passionate ﬁnance speech, very clear on the capital
management. I'm sure you have accumulate many, many questions during this couple
hours of presentation. And I would now like to welcome Gordon, Greg and Gérald, the
three G's, to stage. So, who would like to start? Let's start in the front here. And the
microphone is coming.

Q&A

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Peter Eliot from Kepler Cheuvreux. The ﬁrst one was – and we've
seen the distribution of 1 in 20-year events, et cetera. Just wondering if you can tell us
where you expect to end up in this year, in particular, and if I sort of think back to our – the
Q3 conversation, my understanding was we have maybe sort of €200 million headroom
for the protection to kick in, we since have the Californian wildﬁres. I guess, based on last
year, maybe €300 million. I'm just wondering whether you can sort of give us any
guidance on whether we should expect the protection to be kicking in now, but more
generally, where we see ourselves on that spectrum grade.
Second question was I'm wondering if we could just have a bit more detail on the €1.4
billion from XL in terms of how that breaks down. I mean, ﬁrst of all, how much of that is
from old AXA businesses that are now going to be in the scope? Exactly what the driver of
the €0.1 billion cost synergies increases? I'll leave it there. Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Peter. So I suggest, Gérald, you take the ﬁrst question. What does
the distribution, 1 in 20 years, mean for 2018? And Greg, you take the second, to shed
some light on the €1.4 billion and the additional synergy. Gérald?

A - Gérald Harlin
Yes. To be precise, your question on the 1 in 200 years (01:43:49), what is it? It sounds that
– the global – (01:43:52)...

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

What it means for Q4 for this year.

Page 27 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

Q - Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

(01:43:53-01:43:58).

FINAL

A - Gérald Harlin
Okay. I could say that it's – for the time being, that the year is not ﬁnished, but we should
be cautious. And as explained by Greg, we cannot yet say what will be the ﬁnal cost of all
these events. But let me go through the global protection scheme that we have at the
group level. I would like to say that it's – ﬁrst of all, XL has experienced losses that were
less half than in 2017. Second, AXA XL has its own program and we have already some
protection we started to trigger.
Next is that, as we mentioned already, we have our own aggregate and AXA XL has its
own aggregate. And from what we believe today, we shouldn't be far from ﬁguring this
(01:44:54) this aggregate. Next, we could say that as far as AXA is concerned, because
now, we are in a single group, as far as AXA, we have a relatively benign cat environment
this year. And last but not least, but quite important, as I presented, again, in my second
slide, we have a global protection, which means that whatever happens, we can consider
that between 1 in 10 years and 1 in 20 years, we will be roughly within these. We won't
reach, we will be above, we won't be in the most remote probability. We will have – we
should have a cat deviation of 0.4 to 0.5. So, that means that that's what I can tell you for
the time being, and that's – but let's wait for the rest and let's wait to see what will be the
ﬁnal impact.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Greg, on the €1.4 billion, what part is old AXA and what is the €0.1 billion additional
synergy?

A - Greg Hendrick

{BIO 1649843 <GO>}

Let me start with the second part ﬁrst. The €0.1 billion is really when you sit down and
make an estimate, to begin with, you're working at a very high level information. You're
still a competitor. So, you're not really able to share a lot of deep analysis back and forth.
And so, the extra €100 million is really around over the last two to three months since the
close of transaction. We'll be able to get more granular about what's there to be saved.
Some of it is around what we've talked about historically, which is the absence of the need
for a publicly-traded company infrastructure at XL and identifying more pieces of that,
which we can pull on.
The other parts, I'm afraid I can't go into just – we're in the middle of a consultation
process in Europe, which is part of the – main part of the overlap and that'd be – we're
following that process to its conclusion, and it's inappropriate for me to say anything more
at this point.
On the €1.4 billion, I don't think about old XL or old AXA in that regard. This is AXA XL.
There's a lot of reasons for that. One is, as you – as we look at the levers that I think we're
going to be pulling on, particularly around the gross revenue synergies I talked to, they
may show up in AXA XL, they may show in local entities. It'll just depend on where we go.
Page 28 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

So, I don't think about things in the old world of XL and AXA. That is a combined plan
across the AXA XL family, which is those four pieces I talked about coming together.

FINAL

It's roughly speaking, if you look at the 95% combined ratio, it's going to be roughly 60%
underwriting, 40% investment income. But I just don't – we're putting the teams together.
There's no longer separate – there won't be, as we ﬁnish consultations, separate Fine Art
teams. Everything moves together and forms AXA XL.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Yes?

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

(01:47:41-01:48:00)

A - Greg Hendrick

{BIO 1649843 <GO>}

Yeah, I would say the uplift on the revenue synergies is about €100 million. Our cost is
about €300 million, so that's €400 million uplift from the combined scale, would be the
way I would think about it.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gérald Harlin
And you have also – if I may, we have also the asset side, that has been mentioned before,
because we – you know that as a single company, AXA XL was extremely cautious
because they were mostly invested in AA. And as you know, the group is mostly invested
in single A, meaning that in the end, where some uplift just for you to – we could say that
where, in the past, they were at 2.1% in term of – you could say it's 60% – more than 60%
of the asset in U.S. dollars. We can expect an uplift of 30 basis points, 40 basis points,
which is quite sizable.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Jon?

A - Gérald Harlin
And ACS, as far as just to complement, as far as AXA Corporate Solutions, AXA Corporate
Solutions is a company which, last year, has a contribution to earnings that was €50
million on top of my head, but it was a poor year. So normally speaking, AXA Corporate
Solutions and all the other entities like AXA XL was €20 million. So, let's say that it's
between €100 million and €200 million.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Jon Hocking (01:49:31)?

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Page 29 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

Thank you. Jon Hocking, Morgan Stanley. I've got three questions, please. Firstly, on the
buyback. I think it's fair to say that some buybacks haven't really been the AXA way
historically. Are you signaling here that you're happy with the sort of business
transformations in the footprint? And is there something mechanical about the buybacks?
If you sort of ahead above that 220% range, should we expect to see a recurrent
buyback? That's the ﬁrst question.
Second question for Gordon, on the Asian business, with your sort of agency comments,
you didn't mentioned Hong Kong with MDRT. Does that imply you're going to do some
recruitment of external agents?
And then, on the XL business, just looking at the sort of three buckets you categorized the
business in terms of specialty, P&C and reinsurance, how do you envisage that mix
changing over time? Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thanks, Jon. So I suggest, Gérald, the ﬁrst question for you on share buyback, then,
Gordon on Asia and Hong Kong, and Greg on the three buckets and the changes.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gérald Harlin
Let's be clear. What we said is that after these two years, I'm assuming that in the end, we
will sell 100% or the remaining 50% of AXA Equitable Holdings. So we will have €14 billion
of cash and €14 billion of cash in order to ﬁnance swap, to ﬁnance two years of dividend,
you can make your own math. And then, we have the residual part corresponding mostly
to the cash buﬀer. I mentioned to you €3.5 billion as a reference, but it's not a very precise
ﬁgure. And the rest will be used just in order to do some external growth – organic growth
of share buyback.
We cannot tell you yet what we will do. It will highly depend on the condition, the
opportunity. But what we want to mention is the fact that if, at that time, we can see those
that's in the best interest of our shareholders to do share buyback, we will do share
buyback. That's it. And we cannot announce ﬁrst what it will be, but it will be, without any
doubt, in order to optimize the value for our shareholders.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

And that if I may add to that, it's a relatively fundamental change, and you pointed out in
your question to previous looks on the share buyback. Gordon?

A - Gordon Timmins Watson

{BIO 21377545 <GO>}

Actually, thanks for the question in Hong Kong. I'm actually very happy with the
turnaround in Hong Kong. I think it was in the third slide, you could see that last year, our
APE was down 13%, and that has turned around, and year-to-date, it's 5%. So in the ﬁrst
quarter, we were ﬂat. The second quarter, we grew faster. In the third quarter, we grew
faster. So we have looked at our product portfolio to make sure we position the life

Page 30 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

product correctly with added innovative health, et cetera. And we have a whole new
proposition to attract agents to AXA.
We want to be the next insurer of choice. We want to be modern. We want to use that
global brand, et cetera. We brought my friend, Howard, in to do that because he's done
that before, and that is exactly what we're trying to do, is to attract new agents. But to be
honest, I don't like to attract from the industry. I prefer to go outside the industry or get
new people and grow organically in our culture, which would be that MDRT culture. So,
that's the plan for Hong Kong. And I think you can see, Etienne and the team have made
great progress from ﬂat in the ﬁrst quarter and slowly growing. So, Hong Kong is very
much on track in that regard.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Greg, on the buckets.

A - Greg Hendrick

{BIO 1649843 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Sure. I'll start by echoing what Gérald said. I don't know what the mix will be. I'm very
driven by the fact that the mix will chase where the proﬁt potential is the greatest.
However, if I answer your question, kind of what do I see today as the mix, I touched on
that diﬀerentiation between specialty industry and specialty niche. I would see specialty
niche growing if the proﬁt potential there is greater. I would see specialty industry,
depending upon where pricing goes, staying ﬂat or perhaps even shrinking.
In the P&C world, clearly, property, we are seeking to achieve more rate there. In the
absence of that, we would see that staying the same and growing in the professional and
casualty lines a bit. And within reinsurance, you would see the same kind of thing, kind of
a ﬂat view of short tail lines and a growing view of longer tail lines. Although there, in
reinsurance, the longer tail lines are still coming around and are still fairly more
challenged. So, you'd almost think of reinsurance as kind of a bucket that would move
along in a steady state. But if things change, if rates better, if we're able to ﬁnd some
niches that we think are proﬁtable and growing, too, that mix will change. I don't wake up
in the morning saying I have to have a third, a third, a third or anything like that. It really
move to where the opportunities are.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Farooq?

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi. Thanks very much. Farooq Hanif from Credit Suisse. Gordon, I'd like to go back to your
three-stage program. What's the message on underlying earnings? So, should we just
think of a bit of investments to create a better value business or we should just be
cautious about the growth? That's question one.
Question two is to go back to – on XL, just to go back on your comment on pricing versus
CLIPs and the market, it has been, as you say, 1% to 2% ahead. So, is that mix? It can't be
Page 31 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

because your property casualty weight – your property weight is lower, isn't it? So, what's
driving that? Question two.

FINAL

And then, question three is on the dividend payout ratio, just a trajectory. Because
obviously, you own AEH for a certain amount of time. So, how do we think about that 50%
to 60% range? Is that sort of lower to higher overtime? Thanks.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Let's go in that order, Gordon, Greg and Gérald.

A - Gordon Timmins Watson

{BIO 21377545 <GO>}

Yeah. Farooq, Asia is clearly a growth market. So, the initial focus is to grow quality new
business, focus on increasing the value of new business, not the margin or the volume but
the absolute NBV. That's what we wanted to do initially because that is how we will create
an increase in the rate of growth of the underlying earning s.
We're not a cash cow (01:56:05), countries like Thailand that's investing for growth. Of
course, there are more material countries like Japan, but that's what our focus will be, to
add quality new business which will lead to a higher growth in terms of earnings, and that
kind of growth rates that some of the other top companies in Asia get.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Greg.

A - Greg Hendrick

{BIO 1649843 <GO>}

So just for – I think there's – not 100, but there's at least 10 diﬀerent reasons of why we
could be outperforming. I believe very strongly that it's the power of the competitive
position that we have. Those awards that we win, whether it's J.D. Power, which I touched
on, or Gracechurch here in London as one of the best underwriters, or in European capital
awards as well, they are representation of the strong support that we get from brokers
and clients and I believe we are able to leverage that to a slightly better outcome.
If you dig a little bit deeper, we do – that is a comparative not to the entirety of those
benchmarks, but the large risk side. So, I don't think it's a mix of business in terms of risk
size. And then, we do compare it in the broad lines of property, casualty, workers' comp,
and not always are we staying 1 point or 2 points ahead, but by and large, that margin is
the same. So, I don't think it's the overall mix of business. I do believe it comes back to a
very strong competitive position.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

But you don't think you're underpricing before having you're catching up?

A - Greg Hendrick

{BIO 1649843 <GO>}

Page 32 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

No, no. That one I feel very strongly about. I didn't share it. It gets a little bit technical. But
since you asked, it gives me the opportunity to give you my favorite set of statistics. We
look very closely month over month over month, how is our submission count going. And
I'm pleased to say that we are getting more business.
The next thing you look at is the quote ratio. Of those submissions you get, how many do
our underwriters want to quote it, and that's been steadily increasing to a point now
where we quote about half our submissions.
And then the piece that it would demonstrate where, for a richer (01:57:49) point, would
be accurately, is if all of a sudden, my hit ratio is going up or if I had seen the hit ratio
going up, but we ﬁnd a decreasing hit ratio. So, we're getting more submissions to the
right submission but we're not winning – in fact, we're winning a lower share of our
business. So that, to me, is at a high level of pretty good proof point that we're not
chasing business and underpricing it. Otherwise, you see that hit ratio move up over time.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Gérald, the ratio.

A - Gérald Harlin

Bloomberg Transcript

To answer your question about the 50%, 60% (01:58:15), I would say that diﬀerent points.
First of all, we have an underlying earnings growth potential, the 3% to 7% that we have
reiterated. And what we said about the XL conﬁrms all of this.
Second, I would say that the XL business is, at 95%, is a very proﬁtable business. It creates
volatility. I insist of this. Yes, it creates some volatility, and I commented a lot on this, but
the global trend is quite good. When I – I'll give you an example. When you take the
property cat business in the U.S., it's well remunerate, I would say, the capital, including
using the 200 – 2 times, for example, the normal capital and our Solvency II framework.
Last but not least, the 50%, 60% on top will be a way for you to safeguard the fact that if
there is a bit more volatility, then we could have a more stable evolution of the dividend.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Let's move to the left or your right (01:59:22).

Q - Mauro Carli

{BIO 3700253 <GO>}

Mauro Carli, Bank Lombard Odier Geneva. I have two questions for Greg. The ﬁrst
question is regarding what is an expected run rate for prior year reserve releases for 2019
onwards?
And the second question is how do you intend to leverage the specialty insurance
platform to cross-sell product to AXA clients? And if your internal metrics for the crossselling ratio, if (01:59:49) to reach those metrics, those targets, are in your agenda.

Page 33 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

A - Greg Hendrick

{BIO 1649843 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. Well, I guess you don't need to. Sorry, on the ﬁrst one.
(02:00:03)

FINAL

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

PYD and then...

A - Greg Hendrick

{BIO 1649843 <GO>}

On PYD, sorry. The numbers I share with you don't include any PYD release or strength
(02:0:12). They're what I would call AXA (02:00:14). So they're neutral. So that is a
thorough process that we've gone through for years at XL Group, including our own
internal actuaries, our external actuaries, our external auditors. We are now building
ourselves into the AXA Group methodology. And so for purposes of that discussion,
there's no way PYD embedded in there.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the second piece on cross-sell, we're in the process and on the integration team is
building detailed plans country by country to ﬁgure out which specialty and professional
products will sell best in the country – in each country and how do we go about selling
those.
So we're going to be looking closely at how many submissions can we generate on each
of those lines of business, so you'll watch for ﬂow as I talked just a few moments ago and
you'll watch on the conversion rate of how many you can hit.
Those focus is very high on our agenda. Kelly Lyles is not here. She's – leads our Client
and Country Management. She's working closely with each of the senior management
teams in each of the geographies within the existing AXA Group. And it's not minutes, not
hours, it's days and days of work that we're going through to make sure we line that up
and it's very high on my agenda as well as my colleagues on the management committee.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Ralph?

Q - Ralph Hebgen

{BIO 6297020 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Ralph Hebgen from KBW. Three things. One is on the dividends.
On slide 48, you indicate that the new dividend potential would be between £3 billion
and £4 billion. So if I sort of remember the Ambition 2020 plan, where you indicated £16
billion over ﬁve years, would it be naïve for me to do an illustrative calculation and say, if
you had said at the time, then this would be about £15 billion to £20 billion range and
highlight the incremental dividend payment capacity, which you hope to harvest from the
deal. So that would be question number one.

Page 34 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

Number two is I believe for Greg on XL. Greg, you mentioned that your syndicate
presence at Lloyd's is basically incremental and enables you to access customers and
brokers in a diﬀerent way, is actually what you're saying is it basically incremental to the
legacy XL businesses, or is there a synergetic potential as well as to be present at Lloyd's
leading to the deliberation where your presence at Lloyd's is crucial to you or not?
And I think the ﬁnal thing is a philosophical question, I think, Thomas, your – I hope I'm
not simplifying this too much, but one key element in your strategy is the observation that
in the future P&C risks might migrate more from personal lines model towards
commercial model, certainly motor insurance.
Now, if you look at the Asian presence, you've just become one of the ﬁrst European
carriers to own 100% of the domestic Chinese company there. 90% of Tianping is
basically motor insurance and personal lines model there. So, how does that philosophy
chime with the overall strategy? Do you have diﬀerent philosophies for diﬀerent regions?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Very good. So I suggest that on the ﬁrst one, dividend, Gérald, you take it, capacity
question, second one on the Lloyd's, Greg, and I'll do the last one.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gérald Harlin
Okay. On your ﬁrst question about dividend capacity, remember that when we presented
in June 2016 our plan up to 2020, we said at that time that we could expect we have
maximum of €5 billion of cash available in the end after a payment of dividend that would
assume that 50% payout ratio. And you remember that it was (02:04:09). So, the best
case was €5 billion. So, best case, roughly €1 billion available for each year. Here, what I'm
presenting and what we present on page 48 is much more because in the end it means
that going forward, we could expect to have cash available between €1 billion and €2
billion, between 50 and 60. So, it means that in the end, the transformation that we
brought to this group through the acquisition of XL and the progressive disposal of AXA
Equitable Holdings will translate into more cash. You remember that it was one of your
question – of the questions from you when we presented in March the acquisition. This is
concerned. So – and if you look at the foreseeable future, 2019 to 2020, what I told you
starting from the €14 billion and you make, again, your own guess on the dividend, but
you will see that this – there is ample cash available, and that will be even north on €1.2
billion per year. Okay? I believe that's good.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Greg?

A - Greg Hendrick

{BIO 1649843 <GO>}

And on Lloyd's, so, to reiterate, it is one of – it is a very important marketplace to us and
one of the ways that clients and brokers access us. So, just to be clear on that, we have XL
Bermuda, where we write insurance and reinsurance. We have what we call XL XC
(02:05:38), which is the European insurance carrier. We have XL Re Bermuda. We have a
number of diﬀerent legal entities where our clients choose to access us and source our
Page 35 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

capacity. Lloyd's is one of them. That was the main thing they convey. It was a – it doesn't
stand alone by itself. I don't direct them to go oﬀ and work in isolation on their own
Lloyd's business plan. We build the business plans product by product.
Having said that, we are very committed to Lloyd's marketplace. We are the largest
managing agent. We bring that to the table with the acquisition of XL by AXA Group.
We're the second largest syndicate and one of the things that you observe is that each of
those three segments I talked about, specialty, insurance, P&C Insurance and Reinsurance
use Lloyd's as a mechanism.
Lloyd's has a marketplace and AXA XL's book as well does have a heavier concentration
of some of these lines of business that I've touched on that are more challenged as an
industry observation: property, marine, aerospace, energy, short tail lines of business.
There's a higher concentration in that business that trades at Lloyd's. And so I think for us
the push is not about revenue synergies there or it's mainly around improving proﬁtability
in those classes of business either through re-underwriting, either through working
closely with Lloyd's as we all seek to reduce the expense load that comes at transacting
business at Lloyd's or we continue to work on the overall proﬁtability of each block of
business. So there's not a synergy in there from being part of the AXA Group. It's
something that XL brings to the table that we're very proud of that we have, but that we're
very committed to improving the proﬁtability of each of those portfolios.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

On your third question, Ralph, we have three convictions and that is very much linked to
the strategy that we laid out. First one is we want to focus our growth on health,
protection, and commercial line. Why? Because we do believe that those are the areas
that are higher growing and those are the areas where we will have the most natural
customer context in order to serve the customer better. You've seen that all our growth
eﬀorts, both organic and inorganic have been going in that direction.
Second conviction that we have is that quite a few risks that are today personal lines risks
will move to the more commercial space to the more complex space. Again, take the
famous example of the car or you can even take your household insurance when you
think about water leakage and probably today, you have a very high frequency of claims.
If the mirror has been driven oﬀ if you have a small dent, tomorrow those small claims
would be all avoided by a more intelligent technology than the human brain and the
reactions that we have and the biggest risk will probably a cyber risk.
So it moves from a large frequency risk to a high-severity risk. And you see the same way
in the other direction, you will see that these complex solutions are also moving in the
private space.
So take for example the insurance of cyber for your home. This is a complex risk, a risk
where we can leverage the XL franchise. Take your solar panels. This is not a simple risk.
This is a complex risk, but we can tailor those products also for the retail space.

Page 36 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

Third conviction is about emerging markets and going back to your questions, if you want
to develop insurance in the emerging markets, you have to start somewhere. The most
logical product is always the energy product which is motor.
And so as Gordon has laid out to your speciﬁc question on China, yes, we have increased
our exposure to AXA Tianping, which is traditionally a motor insurance company with a
very clear view of; A, being very focused (02:09:20) in all the provinces, we want to stay
focused, but to leverage that franchise to build the health business, the short-term health
business because we see that there is the big potential in the Chinese markets.
If you look at the statistics in China, the average Chinese person need to wait 4 hours to
have a 10-minute consultation with a doctor in the public hospital network. I guess this is,
in terms of patients, not what the Chinese population want to go in long term, and
therefore having a solution for the private sector is where we want to grow and that's
exactly aligned with the overall strategy.
Oliver, we will have time for our questions, so I'll just do it from a perspective of the mic
location.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank. First question is with respect to the 3% to 7% per annum
reconﬁrmed earnings per share growth target, I think you said at the start of the AXA
Ambition program that you'd expect the growth rate to be accelerating towards the end
of the period, but you're not reﬂecting that in these targets. So I'm just wondering if you
want to comment on that.
Secondly, Thomas, you said at the start of the presentation that a lot of the mix shift had
largely been done. So if you're still spending €1 billion a year (02:10:41) on M&A, where
are you focusing that M&A now if it's no longer for mix change?
And then, Gordon, the Asia targets you've set, I assume they include Japan. Can you give
us a little bit more idea about the Asia ex-Japan targets (02:11:02)?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Gérald, you will take the ﬁrst question on the acceleration of 3% to 7%. Gordon, you do
the second one of Asia ex-Japan, and I'll do the last one on the mix and the remaining
M&A.

A - Gérald Harlin
Okay. You'll remember, Oliver, that when we presented this 3% to 7% years ago (02:11:23)
a bit more, we had some assumptions in term of interest rates, and we are more or less in
line with this outlook in term of interest rates. That means that we are not at all in a
situation where rates look at the (02:11:38) Europe. The rates are 35 basis points on the
bond – on the 10 years bond. We are slightly above 3.1% on the T-bond in the U.S., but we
are not there yet.
Page 37 of 53



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

Second point, FX, and this is the fact (02:11:57) this year, so that means that this year I can
tell you that either headwind coming from the FX rate of 2.5%, which is not negligible. So,
on the equity side, maybe slightly better but not fundamentally. I would say that there is –
you have also to take into account that the spreads are very low. And over the last weeks,
we had the recovery of these spreads, which is quite strong. Let's say if I take – no, if I take
the whole 2018, but it's mostly over the last few years, three months, sorry, it's plus 14
basis points in Europe on a single A name (02:12:41), and it's plus 30 basis points roughly
in the U.S., and this is an excellent news and – so for the future, but it's not in our books
today. You can make your own math. We are investing €60 billion per year. We have a
total assets of €600 billion. So, it takes a while. But this is a positive sign.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Gordon?

A - Gordon Timmins Watson

{BIO 21377545 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. One, it do include Japan. Asia is not heterogeneous and our companies are not. I
view, Japan is a region, Greater China and Southeast Asia. If we look at China, we've done
a very good job in AXA of creating volume in China on the life side, but not the value. So,
for me, the focus is much more balanced. That's why we sat down with Chairman Ma and
with Xiang (02:13:35) to really review of what we want to do. So, the focus will be there
much more on the value of new business to grow that. I mean, we still like volume but we
need to balance.
Whereas in Hong Kong actually, if you look at the results you saw last year, to answer the
question earlier, we've been down 13%. And I think in some ways, we had shrunk to
greatness because we had the highest margin in Hong Kong. But we had very low
volume. So, managing – Greg calls it the grind, so the grind is very important because
when you manage a business, you have to do more volume, sometimes more value, and
you need to – so in Hong Kong, we really need to get the volume up. We need to – that's
why we have Howard in in distribution as we create more value as we introduce more
health products, et cetera, et cetera.
In terms of Southeast Asia, I use the case study of the Philippines because clearly, the
Philippines is doing the best of the three companies in generating new business value.
The volume is good. The value is good. We can still improve that a lot. We're growing
faster than the market.
Thailand, our company in Thailand is 50% agency, 50% banca (02:14:59). I think most
people, for some reason, feel it's much more banca (02:15:02) than agency. We have
15,000 agents. Our GWP has grown about 12.6% year-to-date, which is actually above the
market. But there have been issues in Thailand on the bank side where the industry has
gone down, the APs (02:15:20) down about 7%. So, we are in line with that and we're halfhalf, but having been with problems in agency. So agency didn't suﬀer from that, but we
do have our product now approved. Our sales system for banca (02:15:32), which the ﬁrst
approved by the Bank of Thailand, so we're very happy with that, so we will start to be in a
better growth mode in the bank side.

Page 38 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

And in Indonesia, we have an amazing partner and frankly, I don't think we've done the
best job in the world of really tackling that and penetrating that with the products we want
to do. So obviously, Southeast Asia, we expect higher growth, focus on new business
value in China, and really do the grind in Hong Kong. Well, the grind (02:16:03)
everywhere, but speciﬁcally Hong Kong at this point in time.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Oliver, on the third question, I said that the heavy lifting of the readjustment (02:16:13) and
the shift of the portfolio is done. When you look what we've done is we have shifted from
being predominantly life and savings to being predominantly P&C, health and protection.
So to really move the portfolio in the direction of a technical margin, we are today with the
composition of the portfolio once all the operations have been carried out and in
particular the remaining half of AXA Equitable Holdings, we are happy with the mix.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have certain parts still in life business, in areas where we feel these are very interesting
markets. If you look, for example, in France, we are very strong in life, strong growth
ﬁgures. When we look into Asia, Gordon was talking about Japan and the other markets.
So from a mix perspective, we feel happy. Where I do believe, and that's what I indicated
in the next phase, we will really go more into the Payer-to-Partner area. There's two areas
where I believe we need to grow our footprint still. One is in the area of health. We have
some markets where we still need to increase our exposure. And the second piece is on
the services around the insurance coverage, and we have started telemedicine in Europe
with great success. We want to roll this out.
We have bought Maestro Health in the U.S. in the secondary market health population.
Health management, we want to grow this. And so on the Payer-to-Partner health, we are
already quite advanced. Where we also want to get deeper into that Payer-to-Partner is
obviously on the commercial line side when it comes to AXA XL (02:17:54) you mentioned
this news cyber product with a partner, we want to also grow in these areas, because our
aim with the portfolio is we are the number one commercial line insurer with AXA XL.
We are already today one of the leading international health insurers, but I believe we can
do a little more. Where we need to really push in the next phase is the services around the
insurance coverage in order to make this move from Payer-to-Partner even a bigger
reality.
I go to James because his hand must fall oﬀ.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Thank you. James Shuck from Citi. Three questions from my side please. Greg, ﬁrstly on
XL, you've given the 4% net cap budget, could you just give us some insight into what the
man-made large loss budget is, please, now you're running against that year-to-date?
Also within XL, you've mentioned about the rate increases running above the industry
data, could you just give an indication about how it's running up against your lost cost

Page 39 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

(02:19:06) inﬂation and with that 95% by 2020, you're actually improving, assuming
(02:19:12) underlying margin help from the pricing environment, please.

FINAL

Secondly, Gordon, just a small point that the – under Ambition 2020, there was actually a
net proﬁt underlying CAGR growth target, I think was 15% to 20%, from your slides that's
kind of absent, so just interested to know whether that's still valid, please.
And third point, Gérald, the points around the cash buﬀer at the holdco, so I appreciate
you've drawn up €3.5 billion from the operating units. You've indicated that you'd like to
replenish that. Could you just give a bit more insight, please, into the liquidity at the
holdco level because the €3.5 billion, I don't really know the starting point. I don't really
know how you want to manage that and what is the appropriate number. So when I think
about your cash remittances up to holdco after (02:20:05) dividend, it then gives me an
indication of how much that you want to run with. Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

All right. Greg, you want to start? Man-made lost budget and the rate increase versus the
loss inﬂation?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Greg Hendrick

{BIO 1649843 <GO>}

Sure. So on and man-made loss that was embedded in that exhibit I had around attritional
and man-made together, and we – they come together and we kind of look at them
together. If I separate out just on the short tail lines as AXA – as we said, sorry, still
translating sometimes. As AXA has said, in the third quarter the – no individual loss and
no aggregation of large losses was material to the AXA Group results.
On a year-to-date basis, we would say we are slightly ahead of (02:20:49) – slightly higher
than our normal average experience in man-made losses, but not in a material fashion.
So, they have come – as you've read about them in the industry. We don't talk about
individual insurers at XL and intend to continue that practice AXA XL. But in the
aggregate, they are slightly larger than what we would normally experience, but not in a
meaningful way.
On rate of over lost costs, a lot of that rate is in the short tail lines of business, which most
of them use exposure as a rating measure. And so, inﬂationary type increases in costs get
reﬂected in the exposure base, which translates right into the premium. And so a lot of
that rate is ahead on short tail lines. It's well ahead of a very low number on lost cost.
Casualties, it's more of a balance, although it's a wide variety of stories from line of
business to line of business.
In terms of rate point in there (02:21:40), we don't – to get to that €1.4 billion, we need
some rate, but it isn't an excessive amount of rate to get to that, that proﬁt margin I talked
about.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Page 40 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

Gordon, is the underlying earnings trajectory of Ambition 2020 still (02:21:54) for Asia?

FINAL

A - Gordon Timmins Watson

{BIO 21377545 <GO>}

Well, I think, clearly, Asia – the make-up of Asia has changed a lot. Japan, it's now
included in the question that you asked before, the growth rates in Japan are diﬀerent.
But I think most of the countries are tracking well, some are a bit behind. Overall, I look at
it including Japan, so I would say that things are tracking along, but I can't say exactly
based on – including other countries and other parts whether that will be exactly there or
not that (02:22:25) that will be close.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Gérald, on the cash buﬀer?

A - Gérald Harlin

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. On the cash buﬀer, I would say that, yes, I mentioned the €3.5 billion because it was
clearly said and highlighted when we the presented the acquisition and the ﬁnancing
plan. To answer your question, I would say that beyond this reconstitution (02:22:49), we
can live with €1 billion, €1.5 billion at the holding level in terms of excess cash. We are
extremely liquid. We have plenty of lines of credit, and we don't need more. I would say
that – and I mentioned it many times, it's a pure holding company and that's a big
diﬀerence with some of our peers, where the – an insurance company which is at the same
time a holding company, so that's why we have to make the diﬀerence and to give some
more detail on the cash we manage.
But honestly, absolutely relaxed with €1 billion to €1.5 billion, which is what we'll have at
the end of year, and (02:23:30) period. So that's – in other words, what does it mean? It
means that the €14 billion that I highlighted, the €3.5 billion is ﬁne, so we don't need more
if you want, in order to reconstitute an additional buﬀer.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

So is that €1 billion to €1.5 billion (02:23:47)?

A - Gérald Harlin
We start – when you have a starting point at €1 billion to €1.5 billion, you add €14 billion
(02:23:55). And in the end, you will have still the €1.1 billion – or €1.1 billion to €1.5 billion
on top of the diﬀerent use that I highlighted for the users is €14 billion corresponding to
the dividend, corresponding to reconstituting the buﬀer, corresponding to the external
organic growth of share buyback.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Let's move over there. Niccolo, I think. (02:24:22)

Q - Nicholas Holmes

{BIO 21515144 <GO>}

Nick Holmes at SocGen. Two questions, please.
Page 41 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Oh, I'm sorry. There's a big diﬀerence between Nick and Niccolo, but it's ﬁne.

FINAL

Q - Nicholas Holmes

{BIO 21515144 <GO>}

I misheard. A couple of questions. First, Thomas, just on the timing of the AEH (02:24:41)
disposal, just – I mean, clearly, it's very diﬃcult to be precise and exact about this, but
wanted to ask, would you be disappointed if a full disposal was not achieved by the end
of 2019?
And then second question for Gordon, looking at Tianping and its growth in P&C and
motor insurance in particular, just wondered if you could give us more color about the
control mechanisms you have for underwriting quality. And the reason I asked is that in
other emerging markets like Turkey, I think was a conspicuous example where not just
AXA, but many foreign companies found it diﬃcult to adopt to the underwriting
environment, I just wondered if you could share with us your thoughts about underwriting
quality control in China. Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Gordon, do you want to start? The big diﬀerence between Turkey and China is that they
have no Chinese presence will reduce (02:25:45) the Motor TPL rates by 30%.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gordon Timmins Watson

{BIO 21377545 <GO>}

Yeah. I think what's going on (02:25:55) in China is we now have 100% control. Before we
never appointed the CEO of our company in China. Now, we have the CEO in the room,
Xavi. So Xavi (02:26:09) will have control of underwriting and when I gave my
presentation, I spoke about more sophistication going after the segments that we want to
be in.
So I think when the detariﬃcation, which I believe is a word, and the detariﬃcation of
China that will give us much more opportunities to play where we want to play. We have
3.5 million customers at the moment. Most of them are in the middle class, so we can start
selling, upsell, cross-sell, as Thomas spoke about health, health innovation, et cetera,
Payer-to-Partner, value-added services. So for me, I think what we're doing will strengthen
the underwriting and the governance and do the business that we want to do in China.
And as I said, we have access to almost 80% of the Chinese population. And we have 25
branches and 3.5 million customers. So for me, I think it's an opportunity to go from just
volume to really start creating that value, and of course a lot of that starts with
underwriting control.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

So on your ﬁrst question, Nick, am I disappointed, yes or no, if we haven't sold everything
by the end of 2019. No, I will not be disappointed because we are now in a situation
where we are halfway. You've seen Gérald has presented that the remaining exposure is
roughly 50%, and we have the clear willingness of selling down to zero. But we have
clearly said, we want to be opportunistic about when and how we do it. And this when
Page 42 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

and how is very much dependent on a couple of things. One is what is the liquidity of the
stock? Obviously, the liquidity of the stock is today much higher than it was at the 10th of
May when we did the IPO.
Second question for me is, what is the overall market environment in the U.S. You have
seen that it has gotten a little bit rougher in the last couple of weeks, so we have to
monitor that closely. And then thirdly and this is the most important piece for me, we have
a very strong management team in place. We have a strong company, and this
management team has got a very clear plan on how to increase the return on equity of
AXA Equitable Holdings.
And therefore, the timing that is – seems to be ideal is to ﬁnd the right point where those
plans are well reﬂected in the expectation of the share price and where the management
team is far enough down the road, we'll also have the track record of having
implemented. So, those are some criteria that we will take but again, there's no pressure. I
think that Gérald has made more than clear that the cash generation capacity that we
have does not rely on these additional $5 billion of AXA Equitable Holdings. I cannot say
it diﬀerently. I would certainly be very glad if we could implement this divestiture as
quickly as possible.
Niccolo?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Niccolo C. Dalla Palma

{BIO 16052945 <GO>}

Niccolo Dalla Palma from Exane BNP. My questions are all on the €1.4 billion from AXA XL.
Could you just clarify if they – do they include the re-risking (02:29:26) of the asset
portfolio that you mentioned earlier, Gérald? Do they include the New Ocean buyout of
the minorities? And do they include also the reduction of debt (02:29:35) costs related to
AXA XL? I mean, at 0.8 (02:29:40) you said by the end of the year will come from AXA XL,
and I suppose a large part of the €3 billion as well, is that included in the €1.4 billion?
Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Gérald, since this is very ﬁnance related you share that answer with Greg.

A - Gérald Harlin
Okay. So you start?
(02:29:57)

A - Greg Hendrick

{BIO 1649843 <GO>}

So I'll start. And so, I'll say the ﬁrst and the third, yes, are included in the €1.4 billion of –
absolutely. As I said, it was a posture that we took at XL. It no longer applies as (02:30:10)
part of the AXA Group about being very conservative on the investment side. We're just
coming into line with other peers and into line with the AXA Group Investment Philosophy
(02:30:18).
Page 43 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

A - Gérald Harlin
Yes. And what I could complement is that you can make your own mass that it's quite
(02:30:22) consistent with the 95%. It's in line with – which was presented before, 95%.
This includes, of course, all the synergies and the synergy – we can expect that the
synergies will signiﬁcantly decrease the expense ratio. So that's mostly to all EZ net
(02:30:44), yes, but it's quite a strong performance that we expect there because at the
same time, you remember that there were a lot of questions when we made this
acquisition. It's compared with what? It's compared with €12 billion of acquisition price.
Remember that we will normally obtain (02:31:14) €1.5 billion to €2 billion. Just at the time,
we'll be (02:31:19) integrating our internal model, but we have also and that was a
previous question. We have also to take into account the fact that we have AXA Corporate
Solutions and we have AXA Art. So, roughly speaking, you can keep in mind €12 billion.
So, €12 billion with €1.4 billion it's a quite nice ROE – ambitious ROE.

A - Greg Hendrick

{BIO 1649843 <GO>}

And on New Ocean, just very quickly, there's – the current run rate of assets, which is
nearing €1 billion is embedded in the plan. We have not projected into that number any
of the signiﬁcant growth we think will take place. But as we raise more funds in
conjunction with the AXA Group and as we apply more risks to that, that portfolio, but it
shouldn't be a driver. It shouldn't be a major driver.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Johnny?

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you. It's Johnny Vo from Goldman Sachs. Just a few questions. Just to
Gordon, just in terms of – it looks like there's signiﬁcant investment you're going to make
in the Asian region. So how much of your own balance sheet capacity do you have
(02:32:22), and how did you ﬁnance the (02:32:24) of the joint venture partner? Did you
use your own balance sheet or is that from group?
Just the second question is in terms of synergies from internal reinsurance vehicle of AXA.
How much of the synergies are embedded in your numbers (02:32:38) €1.4 billion? And in
terms of the internal reinsurance vehicle, again, materializing diversiﬁcation beneﬁt, is the
diversiﬁcation beneﬁt going to be passed to the entity lowering the capital requirements
in XL and therefore give you pricing power against your competitors? Thanks.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you, Johnny, for those two questions. I suggest Gordon you do the ﬁrst one again
in pair with Gérald. And since the second one is very focused on the reinsurance and the
reallocation, Alban de Mailly Nesle, our Chief Risk Oﬃcer is in the ﬁrst row, and he's
happy to take that question.

A - Greg Hendrick

{BIO 1649843 <GO>}

Page 44 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

On inorganic side, most of that will be funded from the region. I will be – talking to my
friend, Gérald – I do want to do more on brand. I do want to do more on distribution of
growing the distribution faster and having better training academies. So, we're still having
the discussion as to how much the vast majority will be funded from the region on the
Tianping, then I think Gérald can probably answer that.

A - Gérald Harlin
Yes. About Tianping and the Tianping ﬁnancing, as we said, it's €580 million investment. I
reasonably hope that in the end, the regulator will accept that we'll use the excess cash
that we have inside the company. So, it means that it will be €0.4 billion of net investment.
And like we said that for the next and for the next plan, we will have a few hundred
millions of investment over the next ﬁve years, but we don't speak from their huge needs
in order to grow and to develop this business.

Bloomberg Transcript

I would like just to add one point. You remember that many times about the remittance
ratio, we said that we should be between 75 to 85 (02:34:45). It's still true. And I would
say that – and it was true in the past, meaning that Asia – remittance is much lower than
France and Europe. So, big contributor (02:34:58) to the remittance are France and
Europe. But we can expect going forward that it will progressively improve mainly coming
from Japan ﬁrst and also from Hong Kong because we expect that Hong Kong being
more and more, I would say, a much more mature country that we will – will get it. So, we
can expect to make it sure that we will self-ﬁnance the local growth and that we could
expect that the remittance progressively could slightly improve. But we don't rely too
much on this because it's mostly Europe and France.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Alban, on the reinsurance.

A - Alban de Mailly Nesle

{BIO 20387796 <GO>}

So good morning, Johnny. The answer to your two questions is in fact the same. So yes,
we have mechanism as you know, at group level to get the reinsurance synergies, but we
redistribute those synergies to the entities. So yes, it's included in the amount of earnings
that you've seen and yes, that allows AXA XL in particular to have better reinsurance and
protection pricing for its own protection – yeah, protection costs.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Let's move to the middle, Andrew.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

It's Andrew Crean, Autonomous. Three questions. In Asia, you still got JVs in quite a lot of
your countries, in China, Thailand, Philippines, and Indonesia. To get control, would you
want to buy these at the same way as you bought out Tianping, or have to pay more to
continue the relationships? Is that going to be a substantial cost?

Page 45 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

Secondly, are you happy to talk at all about in the round how much the company might
get from selling some of the 26 countries' portfolio, which you've sort of put into high
cash (02:37:00) or private equity-style initiative?

FINAL

And thirdly, the €1.4 billion target for XL, what does that imply in terms of return on
capital?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

So let's start with Asia and the other JVs. And, Andrew, in order to buy something, you
always need two sides, one that is selling and one that wants to buy.

A - Gordon Timmins Watson

{BIO 21377545 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. Andrew, thank you for the question. I think that you go country by country because
it's not one Asia. We look – take Thailand. Thailand, 50% agency, 50% bancassurance. We
have a joint venture, 50/50 with Krung Thai Bank. So, we are very happy with that. They
have a great brand. We're developing agency. We have access to their customers. In fact,
if we just take the three banks in Southeast Asia, they have 35 million customers between
them, their captive customers because they're all top three players. So, we got in Mandiri.
Mandiri, we have an equity joint venture with the same situation. We do have a small
agency, 100%-owned agency company, so that's a bit diﬀerent from what we have in
Thailand and what we have in the Philippines.
The Philippines, again, we own 45% of it. The Philippines, we have a great partner there.
And you heard the story this morning of how well we're doing in agency in addition to get
into Metrobank and PSBank. So, we have very happy relationships with them. In fact, I
think we can do a much better job in penetrating Mandiri, for example. So for me, that is
all opportunities, so that's certainly not something that we're looking at at the moment.
In China with ICBC, we have 27.5% share. There are lots of regulations in China. I
mentioned we have a very much improved relationship with Chairman Ma with Xiang
(02:38:55), et cetera, and we're developing agency within that joint venture as well. So,
we're always looking at optionality in China, no question, and other places, but we're very
happy with the partners that we have.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

The second question, Greg, you take the one on the return on equity or capital for the
€1.4 billion.

A - Greg Hendrick

{BIO 1649843 <GO>}

And (02:39:20) in case I get something wrong. But so to start with, I'd say the exact
amount of capital is clearly still a work in progress. It will rely somewhat upon how exactly
we achieve and in what way the mechanism around reinsurance. It's also around what
Gérald touched on in his comments around coming into line, bringing the old XL into the
AXA Group economic capital model and how all those play out and you saw Gérald had a

Page 46 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

range of those as well. But as Gérald just said, if you use roughly €12 billion as the proxy,
you'd be in that 12% kind of return on equity basis.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

FINAL

(02:40:00)

A - Gérald Harlin
As I said, the acquisition price. But in term of return, we shouldn't be fundamentally
diﬀerent at these levels. We can follow up with you. As we said, we are working on the
economic capital. Just as a matter of comparison, Andrew, I could say that if you take the
U.S. property cap which is more or less well priced. Also, we are still expecting to have the
rate increase. Today, we have a combined ratio on top of my heads to be between 90%,
91%, and it remunerates capital at 12% because we have a lot of capital due to the volatility
we just discussed this morning.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Your third question was on the 26 countries and how did these 26 countries come about.
What we showed last November was a segmentation of our countries where we said we
have 10 large countries that make 80% of the group's proﬁt. We have six countries that
are high potential where we really want to extend our position. One we zoomed on today
is China. And then we have 26 other countries that we need to treat diﬀerently. We did
not say that we want to sell them all, and I want to stress that again. We have sold some of
them. The aim is and was to reduce the complexity of the group in a way that we would
separate those 26 and manage them in a very diﬀerent way to how we manage France, to
how we manage Japan, to how we manage XL, diﬀerent way in a way that we look at it in
a more private equity mode.
So we put these countries together in one portfolio under the leadership of Benoit
Claveranne. These countries are managed with a deﬁned cost of overhead, and those
countries do not follow an overall logic of the AXA Group they look at what is the local
opportunity and how can we beneﬁt from it. And there, you see for example that when we
think about how do we address the health growth in Colombia, it's very diﬀerent to how
we address the health markets in Nigeria. When we talk about Brazil, there's again very
diﬀerent challenges to Turkey.
And so each country needs its separate treatment, and being more agile, being very
aligned when it comes to the question about regulation, audit risk and control, but being
very agile when it comes to the local condition, that's what we have achieved, that's what
is working well, and we like this model and want to continue this model.
I can't see with the light. Yes, sorry...

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Michael Huttner from JPMorgan.

Page 47 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Sorry, Michael. Sorry, I can't see because the light was so bad.

FINAL

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

No, no, no, no, thank you for this opportunity. I have two questions. The one is on volatility
and the other one is I wondered if you could ask one of your money machines, France, to
say a few words? Because to me it's the underlying power of the group at the moment.
And on the volatility, I think, Greg, you said that you are reviewing at the moment the risk
appetite or the reinsurance or whatever. But I'm not sure if that's included in Gérald's
slides on the plus 8%, minus 7%. In other words, if you reduce the volatility because
people like me don't like it very much, would that change a slide or is that already
included in that slide that you presented, Gérald? And could we reach the point where
the volatility from nat CATs and things become so – it's so full of noise that we will have to
wait till the 31st of December at midnight to have a rough idea of what your dividend will
be because it's a payout and it clearly aﬀects the earnings. So basically I'd like for you to
have less volatility.

Bloomberg Transcript

And on France, I just wondered if you just could ask your France CEO to say a few words.
To me, that's the hidden power of the group with sort of this extraordinary growth
numbers, 8% to 5% in 9 months. Wonderful – I'm assuming fantastic combined ratios
because clearly there have been nat CATs, so you haven't mentioned anything in that
region. And to gain an understanding of how much more France can produce in terms of
proﬁtable growth that would be really pleasant. The reason I asked that question
particularly is your France CEO kind of alluded that the reserve strength has actually gone
up, so that's another kind of earnings lever.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Very good. Gérald, I think you should take the ﬁrst question because the volatility has very
much drifted into – is that in the €1.4 billion? What does that mean for dividend? And then
Mr. Money Machine, as you called him, Jacques de Peretti. Jacques comes from Corsica.
They are a strong people, but they are very humble. He will talk about France and the
great successes afterwards.

A - Gérald Harlin
Yes. Let's be clear. So what we said is that we are starting from 3% average cost of Cat Nat.
It's roughly speaking, 4% for AXA XL, it's 2% for the rest of the group. If you have a
question about the 2%, this is 2% all-in. That means that it's Natural Catastrophes plus
Natural Events, everything is included. Going back to the volatility, which is a big
question. We said plus 8% in 1 in 10 and minus 7% in 1 in 10. That's inherent volatility and it
goes back to the previous question that was question from Andrew. And you're right, that
means that we have to pay and we have to remunerate the volatilities that is generated by
this business.
We have two ways to look at it. We looked at it through the purchase price which was
roughly speaking €12 billion. We can look at it on a diﬀerent way which is the economic
capital, and we can expect that the economic capital which we are just ﬁnalizing this
Page 48 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

calculation and these ﬁgures should be at 200% which is our guideline, I would say,
something like €10 billion. So long as we have – that's always the point of volatility. The
volatility should be adequately priced, and that's why it's so important to beneﬁt from this
price increase. I hope I'm clear, but it's really a ratio. When you have volatility, you have
higher capital and you have to remunerate your capital. That's it. And that's always the
way we have been calculating and pricing our products and that's exactly the way we'll do
it tomorrow and the way it was done by XL, just people joining this group.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Jacques, the hidden power of France.

A - Jacques de Peretti

{BIO 18970697 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much for the question. I think that we have taken advantage in France of
deﬁnitely a very dense footprint on the territory, deﬁnitely. We have taken advantage also
of the expertise of our team. This team is now, let's say, a seasoned team and know very
well the market. We have taken also the opportunity of the brand. The brand in France,
and it's not the case for Gordon till now, but the AXA brand in France represent really
something, a trust and also a large notoriety.
And also, we are taking advantage also of what is going on, let's say, on the business
climate, France, thanks to the change that occurred a few months ago, have taken, let's
say, new orientation in the labor organization on the (02:48:26). Now on retirement, for
example, there won't be any obstacle to raise our business on the zero deductible
(02:48:36) in health. That's also a large opportunity to increase our premium. And when
you are a leader in health, when you are a leader on retirement, let's say that these new
regulations also open new territories for us.
So which is new is that we are recover a large growth and we posted a 9% growth on the
ﬁrst – 8% growth I think on the ﬁrst semester. And we are also growing, let's say, the
underlying earning. But there is a real cash machine which is not France, which is Europe.
Because if you see at the ﬁrst semester, excluding France, they posted an even higher
increase of the underlying earning with 10%. So I am jealous of my colleague.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Now you have invited Antimo to speak. He has to say something.

A - Antimo Perretta

{BIO 18246589 <GO>}

Thank you, Jacques. So what I can say about Europe, we are very focused on our
preferred segments that we want to grow and have seen in this number that we have
published that we grow in commercial line, we grow in full (02:49:52) protection. We are
doing really a hard job in all the savings, general accounts topics. You have mentioned
Switzerland that we have moved our balance sheet from a poor general account product
to a separate account. So we are really doing a lot in the ﬁeld that we can really have the
pace and the speed to grow in our targets that we have ﬁxed.

Page 49 of 53



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

So what I can say, all the entities in Europe has done a really good job about underlying
earnings. And we see that we have a potential that we can really do more when we
leverage best practice around the diﬀerent countries. And we are still some challenge,
but on the end I think to ﬁx clearly what are the preferred segments that we want to grow
and we will also put a lot of attention on retail business because it's important for the
payer (02:50:51) that just Thomas had explained to have more introduction, but it can
leverage this portfolio into diﬀerent entities to grow in health, to grow in all the other
products. So long story short, I think the potential even in Europe, not only in Asia, we
have the potential to grow and we have the potential to do – to continue to deliver great
results.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you, Antimo. Let's go here. I think it's Andy, if I'm not mistaken.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks. Yes, indeed it's Andy Sinclair from BofA Merrill Lynch. Three for me if that's okay.
Firstly, Gordon, you said that your ﬁrst priority is to double up in China. Do you now think
you've got the raw materials you need now that you've done the Tianping acquisition in
terms of raw materials and stakes, or do you think there's any more to be done there?
Secondly was on XL and the reserves methodology. Is the reserve methodology now
standardized across the group? Can we say that there'll be no further adjustments as XL
moves to the AXA methodology? And third and ﬁnally, was just on the solvency range. I
just wondered if you could tell us a bit more about how you came to that range. It still
feels pretty wide even though it's been tightened up a little bit given the limited volatility
of the solvency ratio. Thanks.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thanks, Andy. So let's start with Gordon, China and AXA Tianping. Afterwards, we go to
Alban again on the reserves and the standardization of the method. And then, Gérald, if
you could comment is 170% to 220% still too wide. Gordon?

A - Gordon Timmins Watson

{BIO 21377545 <GO>}

So Andy, clearly, you can't understand my accent. I said double down not double up, but
maybe double up is better. Yeah, so we're doubling down and doubling up speciﬁcally in
AXA Tianping, getting control. We have Zavi (02:52:46) as interim CEO. We'll be building
a team. We've hired Shaden Marzouk for Asia Health to leverage the health, so we're
better underwriting, more segmentation and et cetera, taking advantage of that.
On the life side, clearly we have – as I said, we have 27.5% control. So that's not real
control, that's inﬂuence and we're creating a much better partnership, I think, than we had
in the past with the ICBC, with the new leaders. So that's why we sat down and we
aligned. We're doing our best to inﬂuence as much as possible. It's the biggest bank of
the world so they have massive reach. And we will continue to do our best to inﬂuence
and work and really create value, go more to regular premium.

Page 50 of 53



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

And we do have some tailwinds, the BCRC (sic) [CBRC] the regulator in China is very
much on our sight in terms of creating more regular premium business and single
premium business. So on the Tianping side, we have control. We'll build the team. We will
retain the people we want to retain. We've already taken care of that. [ph] Zavi (02:53:59)
will be doing a road show throughout the 25 branches. ICBC will continue to inﬂuence
heavily to create value, build that agency force that we haven't really done before. And of
course, we have the asset management company which is doing very well indeed and we
want to strengthen and deepen our relationship with SPDB.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Alban, on the – while you get the mic, maybe, Gérald, you can do in the meantime the
Solvency II range.

A - Gérald Harlin

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Indeed, to answer your question about don't you have a too wide range. I believe
that, ﬁrst of all, why did we move down from 230% to 220%? Just because, as I explained,
the volatility is lower. Remember the slide that I presented saying that we would have
dropped in the global volatility by 20% to 30%. So that means that the probability for us
to have blips that would push our solvency above between 220% and 230% is lower,
which means – that's the reason why we lowered it to 220%. At the same time, it's the
interest of our shareholders to have a relatively wide range, because imagine what it
would mean if we would reduce the range, meaning that it would be a stop and go, and
we believe that it's the interest of our shareholders to have a consistent policy. Last but
not least, I could say that my understanding of what our peers are doing is not restricted
for reducing the range.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Alban?

A - Alban de Mailly Nesle

{BIO 20387796 <GO>}

So on reserves ﬁrst, you've seen that with what Gérald said on the pickup (02:55:52) we
reviewed for a third time the reserve. We have done that before the acquisition, just after
the acquisition, and then a third time for the pickup (02:56:00), and there was no
adjustments to the assessment that we have done the ﬁrst two times. Then on the
methodology, I think XL has a very strong reserving methodology. Just to give you a few
things on the way to proceed, it's extremely granular. I think it's 1,200 lines that they
review, 1,200 triangles, and they do that at least twice a year. That's extremely granular. I
don't think we should oppose the XL methodology and the AXA methodology which we
also have twice a year around reviews of reserves, and that's very similar. Where it's
diﬀerent, it's the nature of the business where it's low frequency, high severity compared
to the AXA business. And therefore, the angle that you take to analyze the losses and the
reserves is diﬀerent because you need to be extremely accurate on a case-by-case basis.
But in terms of methodology, one thing we should say that we're going to move to the
AXA methodology because the XL one is already extremely strong.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}
Page 51 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

FINAL

Very good. I'm afraid we have to come to an end. This clock is already giving me the
indication that we are far over time. I would like to thank you for your questions. I'm sorry
we couldn't get to the questions on the telephone but I hope that the participants on the
telephone and the webcast has been inspired as well by the questions in the room.
If I summarize, you have seen that we are on a journey fully in line with Ambition 2020.
We have changed AXA from being predominantly life and savings to being
predominantly P&C. You have seen that the delivery of Ambition 2020 focus and
transform is well underway, and I hope you have also seen today that with the three
pieces that we have shown you on AXA Asia that there is a renewed leadership with
Gordon. We're extremely happy to have Gordon with all his team which represents a
much higher local expertise than we ever had going backwards. The focus is very clear on
distribution and health, and we have a very strong ambition on growth starting with
China, and in particular in China because it's the second biggest insurance market of this
world.

Bloomberg Transcript

On XL, you have seen that the leadership is strong, the leadership is very experienced.
The integration is well underway. We are taking a very disciplined underwriting approach
where we balance well proﬁtability and growth, and where we have put out with the €1.4
billion and 95% combined ratio, a very clear and ambitious earning target for AXA XL.
On the side of the capital management, you have seen that we have a higher cash
ﬂexibility going forward due to the diﬀerent business mix, that we focus very much on this
core priority of deleveraging and that the path to that is very clear. All of this continuously
built on a strong and resilient balance sheet which is even less now volatile to the
earnings volatility given the shift of the portfolio. And I hope you have seen that the new
capital management policy is a very attractive one. So we now have to enter into the next
phase which is very much around continuing the execution.
We have all the tools we need. We have completely shifted the company. We have a great
management team and many, many talents in the company. We are working a lot on the
cultural change of the company towards more growth, towards more agility, and I'm very
certain that with that starting point, with the dynamic, with the great teams, we will also
master the second half of Ambition 2020.
Thank you very much for being here today. Thank you very much for the teams for the
great contribution, and I hope to see you soon. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed

Page 52 of 53



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2018-11-28

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 53 of 53

