Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-08

Q2 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Paul W. Feeney, Chief Executive Officer & Director
Timothy James William Tookey, Chief Financial Officer & Independent Non-Executive
Director

Other Participants
Adam Uddin, Analyst
Andrew Sinclair, Analyst
Arnaud Giblat, Analyst
David L. McCann, Analyst
Gregory Simpson, Analyst
Gurjit S. Kambo, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Paul W. Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Welcome to our first results presentation as a listed company. We've deliberately started
a bit early this morning. We know that one of our competitors is reporting a little bit later,
and we wanted to make sure that those of you who cover them as well as us are able to
make both presentations.
Now, we've shared a lot with you over the last few months, and so this session is going to
be quite focused. I'm going to review the highlights. Tim will then take us through the
financials. And then I'll be back to summarize and take questions. We'll aim to be done by
about 9:30.
It's been a busy first six months, with the highlight being, of course, our listing on the
London and Johannesburg Stock Exchanges. Before I get into the detail, I do want to
formally record my thanks to all those who worked incredibly hard over a two-year period
to complete our listing six months ahead of the original deadline. As well as getting our
listing over the line, our focus has been on delivering good results, which is exactly what
we've done.
Despite a more challenging environment for flows, we are pleased with net client cash
flow, excluding Quilter Life Assurance of £3 billion, and we saw a strong growth in
integrated flows, which increased to £2.8 billion. I'll drill down on these in more detail in a
moment.

Page 1 of 18



FINAL

Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-08

We're also really pleased with good profit growth in this period. Adjusted profit was up
16% to £110 million and EPS was up 25% to £0.055. Our Platform Transformation
Programme remains on track, on time and on budget. I'll say more about this later too. We
completed the sale of our Single Strategy business just after listing. And we are delighted
to announce that the board has decided to pay a special interim dividend of £0.12 per
share, returning all of the surplus proceeds around £220 million to our shareholders, so a
busy but very good six months and we're very much where we expected to be at this
stage.
Now let's look at flows in more detail. Let's start by looking at flows from a longer-term
perspective. Last year was a record year for flows across the industry and for us also.
While the first quarter this year was strong, the second quarter has been somewhat
slower. Along with our peers in 2017, we benefited from a positive market backdrop as
well as good volumes from transfer activity.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now the graph here shows, while actual quarterly flows can be quite variable, we have
consistently delivered growth in both, benign and more challenging markets. What we do
need to recognize is that not all flows are equal. What's really important for us in terms of
driving revenue and profit is of course integrated flows. And as you can see, these were
up strongly year-on-year. Also while we have not seen industry data for Q2 yet, in Q1 we
took market share relative to our advised platform competitors. And that's something that
we're obviously pleased about.
A few words on DB to DC pensions. We think that the trend here is a structural shift that
will continue to underpin flows for many years to come, but it's clear that the regulatory
and operational mechanics of these transfers is still evolving and so a more measured
market is a good thing. This is too important an issue not to get right for customers.
Let's look at the flow numbers in detail. As I said earlier, excluding Quilter Life Assurance,
our net client cash flow was £3 billion. As a proportion of opening AuMA, this was 6% on
an annualized basis, and so ahead of our 5% target.
Overall, we've seen excellent growth in net client cash flow for the Advice and Wealth
Management segment at £2.3 billion. This is up 10% from the £2.1 billion seen in the first
half of 2017, principally reflecting strong flows for Quilter Investors into Cirilium, but a
slower Q2 for Quilter Cheviot.
The Wealth Platforms segment contributed net client cash flow of £1.2 billion versus £2
billion in the first half of 2017. However, this masks (00:04:49) another strong
performance from Quilter Wealth Solutions, our UK Platform, which matched the record
flows of last year. But the slow start to the year in Quilter International that we indicated in
Q1 has continued in Q2. And with the run down in the institutional book, outflows in Quilter
Life Assurance business were as planned.
As you know, we add together these flows, where we have more than one touch point.
That's why we call them integrated flows and then more valuable to us in terms of
generating margin and revenue as the result for the half year here are (00:05:29) clearly
Page 2 of 18



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-08

showing. So, the most important number to me on this slide is the 17% in the bottomright-hand-corner. That's the increase in integrated flows. These were up from £2.4 billion
in 2017 to £2.8 billion in 2018.

FINAL

As we know, Quilter Financial Planning plays a key role here, generating £1.4 billion or 78%
of Quilter Investors' net flows, £117 million or 20% of Quilter Cheviot's net flows, and £0.6
billion or 29% of Quilter Wealth Solutions' net flows.
Direct flows onto our platforms and into our overall propositions also are an important
source of new business generation for us. During the period, we attracted non-integrated
net client cash flow totaling £1.7 billion, so a solid outturn for flows in an environment that
has had pockets of challenge.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me now turn to the two business segments. Back at our Showcase presentations, we
said that the Advice and Wealth Management segment would be the growth engine for
our business and we certainly saw that come through in the first half. We've continued to
grow the numbers of Restricted Financial Planners in Quilter Financial Planning and Quilter
Private Client Advisers, and have recruited new Investment Managers in Quilter Cheviot.
An increase in assets under management of £1.5 billion or 9% within Quilter Investors
since the year end and this has led to revenue up 22% to £181 million.
During the last 12 months, we've been investing in the Quilter Cheviot investment team,
and investment management head count has increased by 9 over the year to reach 168 at
the end of June. However, I want to be balanced in my comments. Since listing, we have
had 12 resignations, which indicate that Investment Manager head count will fall back in the
short-term to around the level of a year ago. As this is a people business, we would not
be surprised if these departures led to higher than trend outflows in QC in 12 to 18
months' time.
Of course, client support plans are in place just as you'd expect. Beyond this, we've
actually been really pleased with both, staff retention and the small increase in the level of
asset retention in QC, which reached 92% in the first half.
Finally for this slide, I wanted to highlight the improved productivity per advisor within
Quilter Financial Planning, which is up to £1.8 million from £1.6 million a year ago. This is of
course something we remain focused on as a key leading indicator of performance.
We have continued to deliver good medium- and long-term investment performance for
our clients. All of our discretionary and multi-asset funds are performing well against
customer targets and have met the relevant target outcome. Within Quilter Investors, we
remain pleased with medium- and long-term performance, especially in the Cirilium
range. Short-term performance in certain portfolios has been held back somewhat by a
range of factors, but investment performance over the long-term remains a top priority.
Now turning to Wealth Platforms. This is obviously the more established part of our
portfolio and we were really pleased with the overall outcome here. At a segment level,

Page 3 of 18



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-08

FINAL

revenue growth was up 3% and costs were down by a similar amount, which delivered
positive operating leverage and good profit growth as you'll hear from Tim later.
Let me walk you through each of the businesses. First, we saw flat revenues in Quilter
International, obviously not where we want to be, but not surprising given the slow outturn
that I mentioned earlier. So, why flat? We've taken Quilter International through a major
transformation. Over the past two years, it has withdrawn from 84 markets, placed
renewed emphasis on best practice and it's been targeting higher quality new business.
This has put the business in a stronger position for long-term success and positioned it
well for the inevitable regulatory change that is coming in overseas markets, just as being
the case in the UK. However, it will take a bit of time to get back to be firing on all
cylinders.
Secondly, we saw a decline in revenues as the book runs off in Quilter Life Assurance.
Again, completely in line with our expectations. Overall, that business has delivered flat
profits as we look to manage the cost profile in line with revenues. We're making good
progress in delivering mediation for customers, who fall within the terms of the FCA's
thematic review and believe that our £69 million provision remains sufficient. Although,
this is obviously subject to the conclusions that the FCA eventually reach from their review.

Bloomberg Transcript

But most importantly, the jewel in the crown. You can see the strong revenue growth
momentum in our UK Platform business, Quilter Wealth Solutions. Here, we've delivered
revenue growth of 10% off the back of annualized assets under administration growth of
8%. And, of course, that growth has been achieved on our existing legacy platform. There
really is a huge opportunity to be even better once the new platform is up and running.
UK Platforms are obviously a hot topic right now with competitors either having recently
listed or announcing plans to list. Let me be clear, we think the key attributes for success
in the platform space are scale. We are the second largest advisor (00:11:43) platform in
the country. Service, we consistently win awards for best-in-class performances here and
good technology. We're in a decent position now and it's about to get a whole lot better.
We don't think that there will be a big market for platform consolidation, at least not at
the multiples that potential sellers would like to see. So, ultimately, weaker platforms are
likely to wither on the vine. Our scale, client and advisor proposition, combined with our
new platform technology, will ensure we have all the attributes that we need to be a
winner in this market segment as our current profit growth trajectory is already
demonstrating.
So, where are we with the Platform Transformation Programme, I'm pleased to confirm
that we remain on track, on time and on budget with this critical program. We're making
great progress. All the core code for the system has now been written and delivered to
us by FNZ. There was excellent progress in code validation, which will continue throughout
the summer. Integration and user acceptance testing are progressing well and we've
already executed thousands of test scripts to identify possible software defects with
these being quickly fixed by FNZ. Our teams are working very well together.

Page 4 of 18



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-08

FINAL

We anticipate, as we said, a soft launch either later this year or early in 2019. And again, as
previously stated, this will be on a limited basis and is expected to be followed by a
controlled migration of a portion of our existing book and this will determine the pace of
the migration for the rest of the book. We're also taking note of other industry migrations
and ensuring that relevant lessons are incorporated into our plans. We are focused on
ensuring wholly uninterrupted financial advisor and customer service throughout the
transition period.
Right. As you can see, the business is evolving very much in line with our expectations. I'll
come back in a few minutes to talk about my focus and Quilter's growth drivers. But for
now, let me hand over to Tim to take us through the numbers in a bit more detail. Tim?

Timothy James William Tookey
Great. Thanks very much, Paul. So, let's get into the numbers. I want to review our
business from a top-down perspective, look at the key trends within each of the
segments, share a bit of color on revenues, margins and cost trends, and give some
further information on the balance sheet and capital.

Bloomberg Transcript

I've provided here a quick snapshot overview of how Quilter works, starting top-left and
working our way forward. Net client cash flow drives Assets under
Management/Administration, which drives revenue which comes with costs that leads to
profit and after-tax EPS. So, how has the business performed?
Well, as you heard from Paul, headline NCCF is down, but we think our outturn is pretty
solid. Within this, flows into Advice and Wealth Management were up and they remained
consistently good in Wealth Solutions, a solid result for NCCF and also a solid outturn for
AuMA growth, which was up 2% from year-end against a more challenging market
backdrop.
So, top-right, revenues are up 11% on a fairly stable margin, which I'll come back to in a
minute and slowing cost growth up 10% despite the headwinds of listing and separation
activities we've spoken about before. So, positive jaws leading to an operating margin of
29%. All this generated 16% profit growth to give £110 million of adjusted profit for the half
year. Now, this drove 25% growth in earnings per share to £0.055, helped by a lower than
expected tax charge.
Now, I do expect a broadly similar tax rate for the second half of this year, with this more
likely to be at a normalized rate thereafter. So, a good set of maiden results, I hope you
all agree, and one which delivers in line with/or slightly ahead of guidance albeit this is
simply a half year checkpoint. Overall, though, the benefits of the business model and the
investments in previous years are working alongside a disciplined approach to costs to
drive profits forward.
Right, let's dig a little deeper, and let's start with Advice and Wealth Management. As Paul
said, at a segmented level, this is the primary engine of future profit growth, and that's
what you can see here. Profit growth of 47% to £47 million, I like those kind of numbers.
Page 5 of 18



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-08

FINAL

Now, that's obviously an excellent result, but before you extrapolate that into the future, I
also wanted to highlight that the year-on-year comparison is being slightly boosted by a
lower-than-expected FSCS levy.
As a result of the year-end alignment between the FCA and the PRA, the charge for this
year for all industry players is only a nine-month charge. So, for us, this came in at £11
million when we were expecting £3 million to £4 million more than that. We'll be back with
the full 12-month charge next year. So, this is a one-off benefit.
We're pleased with the modest improvement in revenue margins. Quilter Investors has
benefited from continued flows into higher margin products. Now, here's good
investment performance has continued to make these attractive funds for advisors and
their clients. While this has been a clear positive, we think the overall margin within Quilter
Investors will trend down due to mix considerations over the next 12 to 18 months. We
therefore expect the normalized level of margin to plateau at a (00:17:47) modestly lower
level than where we're currently at. All of this is absolutely aligned with the overall Quilter
level revenue margin guidance we gave at the time of listing, which remains unchanged.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, the other thing that I did want to call out, which is something we regard as a
particular success is that within the other revenue line, in the Quilter Financial Planning, we
include advice fees. And these are up 17% year-on-year, much higher than the rate of
growth in RFPs. Now that shows how much the value of advice is recognized by individual
customers, together with the benefits of increased productivity and asset retention.
The growth in costs in this segment is a function of the investment we continue to make.
Now, obviously carers (00:18:32) was only there for a month in the first half of last year
and so were seeing the full impact from that. (00:18:37) continued expansion of Private
Client Advisers, which saw nine business acquisitions in the second half of 2017 and the
first half of 2018.
We've also seen the impact of building out our standalone business in Quilter Investors,
and that process has reasonably advanced. We started the year with a head count of 45
in that business and we're now up to 79. We expect to reach steady state at around 100
people by 2019. However, revenue growth of 22% and cost growth of 16% is the sort of
dynamic that we do like to see and now (00:19:14) that is not forward-looking guidance.
Moving on to Wealth Platforms, where the year-on-year growth and profits of 12% is a
great outturn, even though we had a slight benefit from timing around costs with about
£4 million of delayed technology spend falling in the second half of this year. As you can
see, costs were well-controlled in Wealth Platforms, where if you adjust for the £4 million
timing difference, costs were broadly flat with revenues up 3%, again, delivering positive
operating leverage to drive the bottom line results.
12% profit growth is a very pleasing outturn. But as you know, this includes the drag from
Quilter Life Assurance, which is roughly a quarter of Group profits. Quilter Life Assurance
profits were flat, which in itself is a great result for a runoff business, but it does also

Page 6 of 18



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-08

FINAL

mean that the profit growth as a go-forward businesses within this segment is around 19%
year-on-year, despite the lackluster performance of Quilter International.
Now, this slide provides the bridge between NCCF generation and market movements to
give the closing AuMA. And what was a more challenging backdrop for flows, as you can
see the benefit of our diversified model, which still delivered £3 billion of net flows in the
first half. Also note that market investment performance did not contribute any benefit in
this half. We also highlight revenue margins at the (00:20:41) top line of the chart, the
biggest driver of change here is mix.
I've said at our Capital Markets showcased in April that I expected revenue margins to
slow in the near-term and become increasingly stable. Actually, we've seen a small
improvement in revenue margin by 1-basis point to 57 bps. Now, this is primarily due to
mix effects. I just mentioned the benefits of fund choices by advisors and customers
within Quilter Investors, but we've also seen mix deliver margin stability in Quilter Cheviot.
We would not necessarily expect these mix benefits to be sustained. And so at the Quilter
level, we continue to expect to see a slowing of the rate of decline in revenue margins,
which will then become increasingly stable.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning now to the cost picture. Now, the chart here walks you through what has changed
in terms of our cost base compared to a year ago.
We have the additional costs associated with the LTIP, and other variable stock costs to
accommodate this year. Standalone Managed Separation costs are now fully embedded
at the guided level, adding around £14 million on a full year basis to our cost base. And,
obviously, we've added to the business the (00:21:58) acquisition came in late in the first
half of last year, and we've also had several bolt-on acquisitions within PCA business over
the last 12 months.
So, this takes us to £275 million of costs for the half year. And as we think about the
remainder of the year, bear in mind what we said about the FSCS levy, the timing of some
of the cost within Wealth Platforms, and the ongoing build out of costs within Quilter
Investors.
Let me talk to the operating margin for a second. And like Paul, my comments are
designed to be balanced. At the headline level, we can see that the operating margin was
29% in the first half, obviously, a great outturn of flat to where we were for the 2017 full
year. When we spoke back in the spring, I said that we expected some attrition in the
operating margin from last year's 29% before we go back to the 30% target by 2020.
Now, I think the result for this half is broadly consistent with that and I want to explain why.
Well, two things come to mind. First, as I said earlier, like all industry players, we had a bit
of a windfall in this half from the FSCS levy coming in at about £3 million to £4 million less
than expected when we gave a guidance at Showcase. That's equivalent to about 1% on
the operating margin.

Page 7 of 18



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-08

FINAL

Secondly, as I also highlighted earlier, the Wealth Platforms' result is somewhat flatted by
the timing on certain costs by about £4 million as well. So, adjusting for these two items,
the 29% same for this half would on a sort of a like-for-like basis really are being 27%,
which is where I had expected it to be.
A few final words on cash and capital. As you can see the Solvency II position after
provision for the special interim dividend is 195% on a pro forma basis, a very strong
position. The big movements from the 171% we discussed at Showcase are, of course, the
completion of the sale of Single Strategy sale and the special interim dividend.
Now, one of the things we're often asked about during the IPO roadshows was about
holding company cash, and therefore we've provided details here. Following the sale of
the Single Strategy business and the various capital movements that occurred both,
externally and between ourselves and our former parent in the run up to listing, we're left
with a closing cash balance of £587 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, I'll be the first to acknowledge that this is a lot of (00:24:34) cash to have around.
But it is before we pay the special interim dividend, obviously, and that will reduce it by
just around £220 million. And, of course, as I said at Showcase, we're holding cash on the
balance sheet to fund the remainder of the PTP costs, the UK Platform Transformation
Programme, as well as having a contingency for any unexpected costs that may come out
of the FCA's thematic review, including the ability to pay any potential fine against which,
as you know, no provision has been made.
In addition, we're giving ourselves capacity to fund any initial costs associated with our
optimization program. And of course, we need to have sufficient resources for the kind of
severe market stress that underpins a prospectus (00:25:18) working capital statement.
So, we know we're in a conservative position. And whilst I accept that, I don't apologize
for it. Conservatism is what you would expect from a newly-listed company with a few key
areas to conclude and resolve.
And with that, let me hand you back to Paul.

Paul W. Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Thanks, Tim. So, some clear messages there, which highlight that these are a good set of
results. The business is very much where we wanted and expected it would be at this
stage. We've always been clear with investors that while we think that Quilter's story is a
good one, it isn't a finished one. We still have a lot to do.
This slide sets out what we think the key achievements of the first half were and what are
our main priorities for the rest of the year. I'm not going to summarize them all, so let me
emphasize that our near-term agenda is focused on four key priorities. First we need to
implement our new platform and execute a successful migration for existing clients.

Page 8 of 18



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-08

FINAL

Second, I want to ensure that we continue to invest in growth by recruiting and building
our base of Restricted Financial Planners and Investment Managers. Third, we want to
ensure that we optimize our business, so that we deliver faster revenue growth than
expand – expense (00:26:50) growth. And I look forward to updating you on our plans
here with our full year results in March 2019.
And finally, delivering the right outcomes for our customers is still our guiding principle.
Giving good advice, delivering good investment performance and ensuring excellent
customer service are things that we will never compromise on.
So, in conclusion, let's recap on what we've done. We've delivered good growth in
integrated flows and solid net client cash flow. We have delivered record profits, which
grew by 16% and with EPS of 25%. We've listed the business. We have completed the sale
of our Single Strategy business. We've repaid £300 million of debt and we've declared a
special interim dividend, which gives all of the surplus proceeds arising from selling the
Single Strategy business back to shareholders. It's been a busy half year and a good one.
We remain confident of meeting the guidance that we set out in our prospectus to the
market.
Now, let's open up the questions. Who's first? Andy?

Q&A

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Thanks. It's Andy Sinclair from BoFA Merrill Lynch. Three as usual for me. Firstly, on the
number of Restricted Financial Planners. That's up to 1,590 at the end of the period. Just
wondering if you can give us thoughts on H2 growth – and growth outlook there if still
strong recruitment.
Secondly, just on the institutional pensions' outflows. Just wondering if you could let us
know how much is going in H1, what your expectations are still for the run up (00:28:44)
for that. And thirdly, just on DB to DC transfers. I think you said previously about a third of
pensions' growth flows. Is it still around that level for H1? Thanks.

A - Paul W. Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks, Andy. Three questions there. 1,590 Restricted Financial Planners at the half
year, up about 2% since beginning of the year. Decent showing. Not as good as I'd like it
to be quite frankly. And we know that we (00:29:11) need to get moving on that for the
second half. So I'm not going to give you a number, but I can tell you that we're very
focused on it. Institutional pensions, if you look at we were...

A - Timothy James William Tookey
I know the answer.

A - Paul W. Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}
Page 9 of 18



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-08

You know the answer? Go on then...

A - Timothy James William Tookey

FINAL

You want me to know the answer.

A - Paul W. Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Well, I know then.

A - Timothy James William Tookey
You know the answer...

A - Paul W. Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

What do you think it is? What do you think?

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

(00:29:26)

A - Timothy James William Tookey
(00:29:29) at the end of the half.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul W. Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

So, if you look at what we had six months ago, what we have now, you'll figure that would
be a pretty simple sum. Thanks.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

DB to DC was about 25% of our platform flows.

A - Timothy James William Tookey
Gross. Gross flow.

A - Paul W. Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

The gross flow – our platform gross flows, yeah. Push it down a little bit on the same time
last year, which is kind of what we'd expect. And this, Andy, as we all know, the industry
and the regulator, we've got our training wheels on, okay? This is going to be a
generational shift, and we need to make sure that it happens safely within the right, safe,
secured framework. So, whether that means paying to Cheviot (00:30:12) what happens
to contingent charging and qualification, we're all trying to put that framework in place. So,
I would expect this to ebb and flow a bit over the next year or two.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

(00:30:24). Thank you.
Page 10 of 18



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-08

A - Paul W. Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Okay. Please.

FINAL

Q - Adam Uddin

{BIO 20403377 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Adam Uddin from Goldman Sachs. Just three questions from me
please. The first was just on the operating margins. So, as you mentioned, it was
impacted by a couple of one-offs in the first half. So, how might it develop for the full
year?
And the second was on the UK Platform business. So, Quilter Wealth Solutions I think had
net flows for Q2 standalone appeared perhaps a little bit more below trend than your
other divisions, and I was wondering if there were any key drivers behind this. And then
finally just on your advisor business and do you expect to grow it more by acquisitions or
by organic means going forward? Thanks.

A - Timothy James William Tookey
Do you want to take the first one? I'll take the (00:31:05)

A - Paul W. Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Yeah. Sure.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Timothy James William Tookey
So, we've been very transparent, Adam, and I wanted to be transparent to the market
this morning on a couple of things that have impacted margin in the first half, because I
don't want people getting too carried away. I'd actually expected margin to come in a
couple of points lower than it has. Part of the reasons is a timing difference. So, clearly,
you need to think about that in your full year. I'd also encourage you to think about some
of the comments I made around cost in the context of costs in there.
But overall, we're very focused on the profitability of the business. We clearly got good
momentum that we're continuing to enjoy in the business. We're very focused on driving
that up and I stand by the guidance that we're going to get to 30% pre-optimization by
2020, the operating margin level. If we can get there sooner, that'd be great, but I'm not
guiding to that, because I can't see it yet and that's why I wanted to just call out a couple
of points in the half year margins, so people understood how I felt about the result.
Okay. UK Platform, we did £2.1 billion of net client cash flow in the first half of the year,
which is same as last year and last year was an absolute record year for the industry as
well as us. So, we've seen other competitors come in substantially lower. So, we're very
pleased with that. We did see a softer Q2 than Q1. But again, I think that we're seeing that
across the industry, where – I don't think that is an issue regarding our business.
Our job is to grow our business and to beat the competition. And from what I'm seeing so
far. I think we're doing pretty well there, one of the reasons for this slight slowdown

Page 11 of 18



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-08

FINAL

probably a bit less DB to DC. We've seen four (00:32:44) regulatory papers and there's
(00:32:45) many months on this issue. As I say the industry is taking a breath to make sure
we've got the framework right.
In terms of the advisory. Yeah. Certainly, we expect to grow our advisory – our advisor
business through organic growth recruitment, through acquisitions and you're seeing
we're still making relatively small acquisitions, but in the – particularly (00:33:05) in the
Private Client space, and the growth of our Financial Adviser School and all of those levers
are available to us, and we expect to be pulling all of them.

Q - Adam Uddin

{BIO 20403377 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

A - Timothy James William Tookey
Okay.

Q - Gregory Simpson

{BIO 18850594 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi. Good morning. It's Greg Simpson from Exane. Just three questions. The first was on
you mentioned advisor tenure helping productivity in the period. Could you give any guide
as to what the average kind of tenure is it at the moment and where you find productivity
kind of peaks, so. And, therefore, where you see the £1.8 million productivity at the
moment evolving?
Second question was on the Investment Manager resignations. Could you talk about the
reasons for that and any quantum you could give us on the AUM (00:33:54), potentially
associated with those Managers? And then just finally on the tax rate, 8% is kind of the
guidance for the full year. You mentioned a normalization. What is that normalized tax rate
and how quickly do we converge to that? Thank you.
Okay. I believe (00:34:14)

A - Timothy James William Tookey
(00:34:16)

A - Paul W. Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Why don't you (00:34:16) that one?

A - Timothy James William Tookey
Yeah. Okay. I thought you were going to take that. So the effective tax rate for this half I
think will be replicated for the full year. We're still going through the finalization of the
quite complex sort of unraveling of some of the tax aspects of the separation from the
parent, and some of the co-promotion, some the costs associated with that. So, that's
giving us access to some tax losses slightly earlier perhaps than I had anticipated. I can't

Page 12 of 18



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-08

FINAL

see those into the future, which is why I think it's safer to guide that I think we will get back
to what I will call the normalized rates back for next year and beyond.
And if I go back to sort of prospectus peak (00:34:59), where we were guiding on the tax
rate, then you would have – most people interpret what we said in there to be around
sort of 13%, 14%, 15%, low-mid-teens-percent for the company as a whole. So that would
be the right kind of space for you to be thinking about. But if I do have an update to give
on that, then it would be at the time of the March results.

A - Paul W. Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Okay. In terms of advisor tenure and productivity, Greg. And we're very pleased with the
fact that we've seen advisor productivity pick up to £1.8 million per advisor from £1.6
million. Don't forget, this is net. We look at net flow for our advisors, not gross flow. Some
of our competitors look at gross. If you look at over the last few years, it's gone from like
£0.6 million to £0.9 million to £1.6 million to £1.8 million. So, it's still increasing, but you're
probably seeing the tail of the growth slowing a bit.

Bloomberg Transcript

And what is the main reason for it? Tenure. It's simply that as advisors have longer time
with us, they're getting more used to our products, to our services. Not surprisingly, those
advisors who have been with us three years plus are our most productive advisors. Those
who have been with us six months and below are our least productive advisors. So, as we
bring in more advisors on, you will see ebb and flow a bit. So, I don't have actual number
for you, but I'm pleased with the trend.
IM resignations. Yes. (00:36:20). As I say, we've had 12 resignations, some more senior
IMs, some more junior IMs, and that's out of a total population of 160 IMs in Quilter
Cheviot. We just had a major event, which is a listing of our (00:36:33) business. It doesn't
happen every month. Few advisors have decided to move on. We're recruiting at the
same time. So, I'm not going to go into actual numbers of portfolios and sizes, but 168, 12
have left, and we intend to continue to be aggressive recruit back.
And again, we have strong customer retention plans in place. We're unlikely to see any
issues of 12, 18 months, but we've just – we're being conservative and being a
conservative company, we want to let the market know there could be some impact
(00:37:12) 18 months down the line on the QC side. But by that time, we expect QC to
have built up its our investment management base again. Okay. Gurjit?

Q - Gurjit S. Kambo

{BIO 6300383 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning. Gurjit Kambo, JPMorgan. Just a couple of questions. Firstly, do you
charge any exit fees on your platform? Obviously, that's one of the things the FCA talked
about in its platform market study. Secondly, just on client cash, and how do you deal with
that in terms of paying out clients or do you charge anything clients holding cash? And
then finally, just in terms of the Quilter Life Assurance business, the other revenue sort of
dipped year-on-year. Is that just a function of the book running off or is there anything else
in there?

Page 13 of 18



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-08

A - Paul W. Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Okay. Tim, I know that. (00:37:54) You take the third one?

A - Timothy James William Tookey

FINAL

(00:37:55) third one I didn't hear, because I was thinking about the answer to the second
one.

A - Paul W. Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Okay. The Quilter Life Assurance, other revenue just running off, is that just...

A - Timothy James William Tookey
Oh, no. We had some particular claims in the protection – some of the protection
products. Now, you've finally look at narrative halfway down at the right-hand-side of the
page. I'll get you the page number. I'll give it to you afterwards.

A - Paul W. Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Yeah. Okay. So, Gurjit on the first one, exit fees in our platform, no. We don't charge any
exit fees in our platform. Holding client cash on our platform and charges that – we're very
fortunate not to be able to do that. So, our new platform will be able to do that, but at
present -platform does not hold cash on the platform...

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Gurjit S. Kambo

{BIO 6300383 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Paul W. Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

...so not an issue for us.
Please, gentleman here.

Q - David L. McCann

{BIO 15885639 <GO>}

Good morning. Dave McCann from Numis. Just in terms of the change in net flows Q2 on
Q1 almost slowdown perhaps you talked around (00:38:50) in the context I think of the
Wealth Solutions business, the DB to DC slowing. But it looks like across the business
Quilter Investors, Quilter Cheviot also saw similar trend and that looks to be both, the
gross inflows slowing down, but also implicitly the gross outflow is ticking (00:39:05) up.
So, maybe if you could provide a bit more color by division on what's caused people to
put money – less money and take a bit more out? Thanks.

A - Paul W. Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

I think we're just – I think markets do ebb and flow a bit. I mean, we have seen across the
industry. If you look closely, our industry competitors who've announced, that Q2 has been

Page 14 of 18



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-08

FINAL

a bit softer. We've seen as I say a couple of things for us it's been three specific things.
One has been DB to DC, which has been a bit slower for the reasons I mentioned.
Secondly has been Quilter International, where we've seen a much slower start to this half
and that's continued in from Q1 to Q2. And then the other one we've seen a slightly
slower Q2 in Quilter Cheviot. So, last year, in the first half, Quilter Cheviot did £600 million
net flow. This half year, it did £500 million net flow, £300 million in the first quarter, £200
million in the second quarter. Quilter Investors had (00:40:06) very strong start to the
year, even in Q2, but it was a bit lower than the first. So, I think we're just seeing that
across the industry at the moment.
So, all we can do, and as I said before, my job is to grow the business and beat the
competition. And markets will ebb and flow, and sentiment will ebb and flow. We don't
manage the business specifically on a quarterly basis. Clearly, we look at things on a daily
– weekly basis. But we manage it over – for a long term sustainable growth business. So,
quarters will ebb and flow. Quarters won't always – the market won't always go up like that
in terms of flows and sentiment. We'll compete in the market that we find ourselves.

A - Timothy James William Tookey

Bloomberg Transcript

I think if you look at progress over the last year as well, Quilter Investors' assets were up
30% on 12 months ago. Quilter Wealth Solutions, UK Platform assets are up 14% on a year
ago. Quilter Cheviot are up 7%, hitting a record high of assets. So, don't cane us for
transparency without recognizing the strong progress made with everything else going on
the business the time of separation and a listing. We're being very transparent and very
balanced in our comments, so.

A - Paul W. Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Please, again.
Okay. Yes. (00:41:27) color there. Maybe just a follow-up on that. I mean, did you see a
kind of weakening over the quarter and also – I guess, have things changed, I guess, since
period end? Have you seen any signs of improvement since the period end in terms of
the, I guess, client sentiment flow picture?
I mean, Q3 starts with July, August. So, we've seen summer months and we've seen
somewhat. But quite frankly, we've seen what we kind of would expect in July and August,
which is a somewhat slower period than we would expect in other parts of the year. So,
mainly as July we've seen that, but nothing that we wouldn't really expect. Please, Arnaud.

Q - Arnaud Giblat

{BIO 15145619 <GO>}

Hi. It's Arnaud Giblat from Exane. Two questions, please. First on the cash flow conversion,
I think it's in the low 80%. Could you help us – give a bit more color there in terms of
providing a bridge as to how you go from 100% earnings to 80-odd-percent cash flow
conversion for this half ? And my second question is on the integrated flows. So, close to
100% of flows are integrated. What is the fee margin on the new business coming in?

Page 15 of 18



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-08

A - Timothy James William Tookey
So, if I kick off.

A - Paul W. Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah.

A - Timothy James William Tookey
So, on the cash conversion. Cash conversion for the first half was 83%. That's consistent
with the conversion last year. The biggest delta between the two is the capital, the net
capital movements around the difference between businesses running off and the new
business that we're writing. So, that's absolutely consistent with what we saw during last
year. So, I'm quite comfortable with that.

Bloomberg Transcript

I will be probably talking more about cash conversion on an annual basis. It's not
something that I'd necessarily focus on – at interim periods. That's why this time I've given
more information on the cash at the holding company level, which is clearly an important
factor of the strength of the balance sheet and shows a key part of the composition of
the strength of the solvency ratio as well.
As far as NCCF is concerned, remember that integrated NCCF is the aggregate of the
flows at each time that we can earn a fee or take a margin on those flows. So, if I have the
same pound that flows through the business and touches the smaller ones, I will add
them together into integrated flows. So, it wouldn't be uncommon for integrated flows to
be greater than the whole events this year (00:44:11), because obviously that's before we
eliminate the double count. You'll see a line called eliminations on that table, which is
there for a reason, but it does give you an idea of the importance.
But don't let that let you think that flows that aren't integrated, where we only actually
earned one element that they aren't important to us as well, because they are and they
are significant parts of the business as well and make a very valuable contribution to the
return that we get.
The overall revenue margin, obviously, is a blend of what we're getting on flows and what
we're getting on the stock. I don't have that split. It's not really how I tend to focus on it.
There are some areas where I am seeing flows of higher margin products out. Classic
example of that is the Heritage book. Okay.
So, that's the legacy product tended to be at higher margin, where we are seeing flows
out. You may count on me, Arnaud, by saying, yes, but the Heritage margin is higher; and I
will say yes, that's because of the institutional life book that's been running off, which is at
very low single-digit basis points revenue margin, and that's information we gave in
Showcase in November last year.
So, bizarrely, as that runs off, it makes diddly-doo (00:45:18) impact on income. But in a
margin sense, you sort of see Heritage go up, and you think why. And that's, so there's a
Page 16 of 18



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-08

huge plain mix (00:45:28), very pleased with Quilter Cheviot, flat margin half-on-half.
That's the first time we've seen mix actually benefit margin stability in there.

FINAL

With the new flows into Quilter Investors, now there we've seen clients with their advisors
select higher revenue income for us funds (00:45:47), but also ones that are given
superior investment performance.
If you look at the chart that Paul had, look at that 10-, look at the 5-year investment
performance of the multi-asset funds, and Cirilium is a large part of that, then that's a very
important part of us delivering to customers. We're enjoying a high revenue margin on
that. The customers are enjoying a superior investment return. That's a win-win. The
shareholders win, customers win. So that's where actually revenue flows in the half have
actually benefited us on the revenue margin side and income. Does that give you enough
color?

Q - Arnaud Giblat

{BIO 15145619 <GO>}

Sure. Thanks.

A - Timothy James William Tookey
Thank you. Sorry. That's probably your answer (00:46:25).

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul W. Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

That's okay (00:46:25). Any more questions? Okay. We have some from the webcast, I
think.

A - Timothy James William Tookey
There's two questions from the webcast. Michael Christelis at UBS is asking about the
Heritage costs, where he estimates them being down 14% year-on-year and asking about
the sustainability of that in the long-term for the business. And then, secondly, a question
from Ed Houghton at Bernstein asking about Quilter Investors' one year performance and
whether that's impacting the flows into the business.

A - Paul W. Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Okay. Heritage cost down 14% year-on-year. So quickly (00:47:08) . But basically, I think
Steve Levin who runs the UK Platform for us and the Heritage business has done a great
job of being able to ensure we manage cost between the Heritage business and the UK
Platform, which has enabled us, therefore, as our UK Platform is going like a train, enabled
us to service that business with the support we need, human support we need whilst also
taking cost out of Heritage book. But do you want to...

A - Timothy James William Tookey
Yeah. I'd agree. I mean, clearly, that's something we've done very well in the past. It's
something we're very focused on for the future, because as the Heritage book does

Page 17 of 18



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2018-08-08

decline, we need to have a look very, very carefully at that cost base and we'll redeploy it
where we can and try and minimize the impact that we have on the business from it.

FINAL

A - Paul W. Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Yeah. One-year performance, yeah, and we're focused on it. We've seen the number of
our – a few of our portfolio, particularly in Q1 more than Q2 miss a beat a little bit overly
cautious and – but quite frankly, they're multi-asset business. It doesn't take an awful lot –
it's not like a Single Strat business, where the difference between Q1 or Q4 can be 20
percentage points. Here, it can be a matter of basis points that can take you above or
below our peer group benchmark line. So, we've seen a little bit of softening there. We're
completely focused on it. We managed the business for long-term performance.
Also, this is really important, about how we run our multi-asset solutions business, it's a
solutions business. We're trying to hit actual custom outcomes from what customers are
looking for from our investment solutions and we've done all of that. All of our investment
solutions, multi-asset solutions, are all meeting their customer outcomes. Yes, a little bit
softer mainly in Q1 in this respect, completely focused on it, and we'll address it. Is it
affecting – is that affecting flows? No. That is not affecting flows.
Okay. Great. Well, thank you very much for joining us in our maiden set of results. We're
very pleased with them. We hope that you will be. And see you in – see you at the full year
in March...

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Timothy James William Tookey
...if not before.

A - Paul W. Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

We'll be on the road a bit before then obviously. So, we'll see you and your clients before
then. Thanks very much, everybody.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 18 of 18

