Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-15

Legal & General Group PLC at Deutsche Bank Virtual
Investor Conference

FINAL

Company Participants
Stuart Jeffrey Davies , Group CFO & Director

Other Participants
Zafar Aziz , Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Zaf ar Aziz

{BIO 16099027 <GO>}

Hello. Welcome to the Deutsche Bank Depositary Receipts Virtual Investor Conference,
dbVIC. My name is Zafar Aziz from the depositary receipts team at Deutsche Bank. I'm
pleased to announce our next presentation will be from Legal & General Group from the
U.K. Before I introduce our speaker, a few points to note. During the presentation, please
submit questions in the Ask a Question box along the bottom of your screen. There is no
need to wait until the end of the presentation to type in your questions. Please remember
that after the presentation and the Q&A session lasting around 30 minutes in total, don't
log out. You'd automatically be transferred to Legal & General booth. We can continue the
conversation via the chat screen and access additional investor material. On a final note,
all of today's presentation will be recorded and can be accessed by the Deutsche Bank
website, adr.db.com.
At this point, I'm very pleased to welcome Jeff Davies, Chief Financial Officer from Legal
& General. Over to you, Jeff.

Stuart Jeffrey Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Thanks a lot. Good afternoon, everyone. We'll run through the presentation. Thanks for
taking the time for joining. Obviously, we can't ignore what's going on in the news at the
moment. And I think we're definitely into buying opportunity territory today. So hopefully, I
will explain why that is the case in the next 30 minutes. So yes, thank you very much for
joining. We'll run through a little bit of how we're positioned and also a little bit of update
on the activity we've had and leave you with some of the figures around the half year,
how that's looking and repeating some of the stuff of the outlook going forward and
hopefully then we can have some good questions.
So we have the usual forward-looking statements that came up and then the overall
picture is what we show here on the first slide. I think we are -- I'll never like to say we're
uniquely placed. But we're extremely well-placed and our values and what we stand for

Page 1 of 8



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-15

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

come through in what we're trying to achieve and you have that down the left-hand side.
It is genuinely true throughout our business that we are not only looking to create value
for shareholders. But we are looking to do things that improve customer lives and build a
better society, whilst therefore making money along the way for our shareholders and you
see that in the number of areas that we focus on.
We've tried to -- as you move across the slide, we've tried to simplify the business. We
think of our business as reasonably simple though obviously, there's many complex angles
to it and varying forms of regulation. But we've simplified it down from the divisions into
the areas that we operate, the investor management being the simplest in the middle
because it is just the asset manager. The insurance at the bottom there, which is our life
term book generally and the hyphen contents. Then at the top, the one that's really been
making the news this year and is driving a large portion of our profits, the annuity
business, which also combines to create or deliver capital which we can use for investing
in our LGC division as really we just invest our shareholder capital to optimize returns. The
big advantage we have there is that we have very long-term liabilities, which are illiquid by
nature and they therefore need long-term capital sitting alongside that. We can be very
patient investors both on equity where we need to be. And also in the long-term debt in
which we have been able to create and generate that gives us a competitive advantage
in that market. And we'll go through some of those individually as we go through. But all of
that we add together to deliver our ambition that we've put out in the market, which
remains the same, which is to deliver the 10% EPS growth or in line with what we've done
in the previous five years, which was that sort of magnitude out to 2020.
And so move on, why is that -- why do we think that growth is there, why do we think it's
achievable? Well we have that on the next slide, which is the growth drivers. Our strategy
is very much aligned with the macro growth drivers that we see in the economy and these
continue on a global level and are not really influenced by bumps in the road if you like.
Things like age and demographics are a fact and we are -- we show on the right-hand
side where our businesses are aligned with it and things like age and demographics take
many forms. We've all seen the pension schemes that are now running off. That is leading
to defined benefit pension schemes looking to buy out. We're at record levels for that.
We'll have more on that later. And we've seen record amounts of activity this year in both
the U.K. and the U.S. And at the same time, we're looking to invest alongside that age and
demographic, where we move into later living and provision of accommodation, lifetime
mortgages as people look to access the equity in their house and the changes we're
seeing around there. So we will look further out around broader ecosystems and what
that means.
Then in Investment Management, you get overlap in a number of these areas, both
welfare reform and age and demographics and the DC market. And what does that
mean? You've got the 401(k), for example, in the U.S. where these are now coming up to
end of accumulation and people are starting to think about the accumulation. What does
that mean? And the big growth in DC market in the U.K. And you can see the other drivers
which align very naturally with what we're looking to do. So creating real assets. There is,
as you all know, a lot of demand for infrastructure, for housing. These are factual. The
question is, how do we optimize the margin delivered from this, do it in an efficient way
and where do we have competitive advantages. All really starting from our brand, our

Page 2 of 8



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-15

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

access to capital, our access to partnerships and applying that and the fact that we can
bring both equity and debt to work on these arrangements.
The final one and probably worth highlighting is the technical innovation because we can
only deliver all of this if we continue to be extremely efficient and in our retail markets
such as the DC market and the term insurance market where we have to deliver hundreds
of thousands of applications, transaction policies in each year. Those need to be driving
ever lower unit costs through technology and of course, the digital front-end that
customers expect as part of their interaction. And we're even seeing that now when we
pitch for DC business, the corporates are expecting a far higher level of interaction for
their employees with a pension provider and the ability to switch between funds, to get
information. And of course, that plays perfectly to us. We want to be looking at a
paperless world where we can deliver statements electronically. We get to interact. And
you'll have seen maybe in our Capital Markets Day around LGIM asset manager, where we
showed an example of a video that we used with one of our biggest DC clients that are
individually tailored videos which lead to them -- advice or guidance around optimizing
their pension part and their contributions from their employee and where they are looking
-- what it would look like at maturity for them. And so we're looking to constantly invest in
that side of the business as well and then have add-ons. It would disrupt this such as
salary, finance and what could we do around the workplace and how they interact as well
with employees as well as the employer, given the breadth we have across all of our
businesses. We probably have relations with every single corporate just about in the U.K.
of a meaningful size, for example.
So we should move on, otherwise, I'm going to talk through the whole thing before we
get to questions. So this goes back to something we showed at the half year. It's a
coincidence, quite a nice coincidence that all 3 of these metrics have grown by 10% over
that period. There was nothing funny going on with that. But that shows that we have
been constantly delivering over this period. And these time frames are not chosen for any
particular reason. They sort of go back to a financial crisis and show the development of
the dividend over the period and, in particular, around the earnings, et cetera, obviously
relate very closely to the period of the year as being in that role as well. And so we
continue to have this as an ambition. We are committed to that and feel there are a huge
amount of growth opportunities across our business to continue to deliver this. And in our
core markets around annuities, et cetera, we obviously see a huge demand that can
continue to show growth.
The only other thing probably to bring out on that slide is the slightly dotted bars in 2017,
which represent the longevity release. We also have benefited of course from the tax
changes that were brought in by Mr. Trump. And to some extent, we've normalized for
those. We tried to exclude the longevity release from what we are claiming as our core
metrics, otherwise, we'll already have achieved our target for 2020. It's, however,
obviously, a very nice buffer to have in terms of earnings. We've talked about a number in
the GBP 350 million to GBP 400 million type range for this coming year. Then we look
forward to other tables that are still saying there is potentially more to come there. As I
said, it's very nice to have as an insurance. But we don't claim that as part of our core
earnings per share. But it does mean that we are free to use that to invest in the
business, invest in capital strain or invest in smaller acquisitions as we wish on top of the

Page 3 of 8



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-15

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

earnings growth that we're delivering. The other one to remind people of is that we have
over 400 million of accounting profits that also come in 2018 at the point that the court
process is completed around the sale of our Mature Savings business. And that will also
then lead to cash being moved up from our insurance entity to group. So there's a cash
and accounting profit that will also flow through. Again, we won't be claiming as part of
our core earnings per share.
Just moving to the next slide was a bit of an update on the numbers. I mean, you'll all
have seen this from the half year. Then relating it to where is the growth, what's the
drivers in the second half, the great thing in the half year and what we continue to see is
nice operating profit growth across our businesses. You can see the 5%, 8%-plus growth,
of course, in Legal & General Capital, the influence of the CALA acquisition is coming
through there, which is an increase on the previous period and we continue to see good
activity in the housing business. We are in a very strong position to defend the margin, if
you like, within that -- in a slightly different setup to your more or traditional house builder
in that we are long-term capital not reliant on short-term working capital. We can invest in
land on an opportunistic basis, et cetera. And we will continue to do that. Whilst we're on
Legal & General Capital, we also see huge opportunities in the, what we're now starting
to call more feature cities around the urban regeneration, combining clean energy
strategies, mobility strategies with Later Living and built to rent and the requirement for
these accommodations in city center, which is allowing us to offer a real sort of
multipurpose solutions, a bit like IKEA. I was talking about it in the FT yesterday is
something we're working very closely with councils, universities on this and we have good
examples but we would love to do this in 10 more cities across the U.K. And we have a
number of these that are in progress and continue to do that. Obviously, the big one at
the top, we're now at sort of record pipeline levels. We have a slide on this both for the
annuity business, we'll come onto that. Lifetime mortgage market continues to move
forward strongly. We're confident in that and the individual annuity market of continued to
increase either market share or the total size of market. And we are well placed to
continue to be good investments for the annuity business and individual annuities. We are
increasingly improving the offering around enhanced annuities and looking to create more
partnerships where we are taking more share of back books from other maturing
business, et cetera.
The asset management business, there are big global trends here. We've acknowledge -we see the DB index business running off in the U.K. but are seeing increases in the DC
market. U.S. as it's highlighted here, a big growth driver. U.S. LDI fixed income continues to
see excellent inflows and we see the positive trends continue in there. Then the U.K., U.S.
DC is really a strong performer for us. So even in the short term of '18, '19, we see that
continuing to drive a lot of flows for us. And obviously that will counter some of the natural
DB runoff over time as pension schemes mature, many of which we will capture in our
pension risk transfer business, of course. And we continue to see upticks in our insurance
business. So U.K. and U.S. premiums are growing and continue to grow. We monitor
closely U.S. mortality experience. But overall, we've seen good growth in both of those
businesses given that we're at #1, #2 in our chosen markets there and we've seen
excellent turnaround in our group protection business.

Page 4 of 8



FINAL

Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-15

So we'll just move on, make sure I can get to the number of questions that are coming in.
So this is the overview around the annuity business. And so we've already completed -well, at this point, this was year-to-date more than let's call it GBP 8.5 billion of pension
buyout transactions. The U.K. has gone extremely well. We, of course, have the recordbreaking 4 -- GBP 4.4 billion, GBP 4.5 billion with British Airways. And these are
transactions where we believe we have a real competitive advantage, whether these are
through long-term relationships or complexity or our rating covenant or simply our
operational and certainty of execution. So we will continue to look for those. But equally,
we'll operate across the whole piece around the smaller transactions and the GBP 1
billion-type level. Even having completed these, there was a GBP 4.4 billion, a GBP 2.4
billion. We have an extremely strong pipeline and this gives some breakdown of when
we've been talking about numbers where we left and we're still actively quoting of the
order of GBP 25 billion, have a good line of sight to Q1 next year and what may be
executing there, whilst at the same time being on. Overall for our annuity business,
potential to go over the 10 billion for one year in our annuity business, which is
phenomenal compared to where we were 4, five years ago.

Bloomberg Transcript

And one of the questions that comes up is well, the assets, et cetera, what does that do
to the balance sheet? We generally have the assets required to write that business. We're
not anticipating any particular reporting strain if you like in our figures as a result of that.
Then we have opportunity to optimize it going forward as we source other assets. And
we feel well placed to source the assets required for the business in 2019.
So the big growth drivers, one of the questions was what is the growth drivers for '19?
Clearly, a big growth driver is the continued level of activity in the U.K. PRT market, where
we are market leader. What will be very interesting on that is where pricing lands. We
were very comfortable with the deals we've completed this year. It would be the case. But
on our own value metric and based on our feedback in the market, we believe we -- the
deals we completed in the second half were advantageous pricing compared to the ones
we turned down in the first half and it will be instantly where that lands. It may be that
companies are still aggressive in the First Quarter looking to get some deals done and we
will continue to be measured and disciplined and if the pricing is not where we want it to
be we will not participate in the market and we will save up our assets and our execution
for later in the year to get the margins that we require. So we'll continue to be disciplined
on that but see huge potential.
And as I say, I already have line of sight to significant pipeline throughout 2019 and have
tasked the team to continue to create the assets required to dealing with those. Of
course, if we don't think the pricing is there, we will simply apply those assets to the back
book and actually make more overall accounting profit because we won't be giving any of
the spread away to our customers and we are very happy to do that for a period of time
if we don't agree with the pricing in the market. So great position and also some good
deals done in the U.S. We continue to look to build that market. We would love to write
more in the U.S. and as I say continue to push in there and optimize it and look to source
more efficient assets that allow us to compete even more in that market, grow our
balance sheet. And we'll continue again in a measured way in the U.S. but we'd like to
start participating in the bigger transactions there.

Page 5 of 8



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-15

Just one slide that we like to show because it's very relevant in a world where people
worry about credit and Brexit and everything else. In particular, people say, what are these
direct investments, what are these illiquid. And there's some misconception around this.
These are a sample of our top 10, 11 direct investments that are back in our annuity
portfolio. And it's important to realize that the quality of these, they are many, many -- tax
authority build in revenue and customs. This is actually now a bigger number and you add
that with a couple that we have that are backed by the Secretary of State and it's well
over 1 billion of government exposure we have. And no matter what you think about the
government currently and what's going on, the tax authorities tend to pay their bills. And
our real exposure there is HMRC being able to speak and be able to afford their rent on
an ongoing basis and they tend to do that. So we feel very comfortable with that. Things
like an Amazon distribution warehouse, we've rotated away from retail and into where we
think the future is, even if in the case of an Amazon default, we would, in that case, end
up with a highly technologically full distribution warehouse which will be a very attractive
proposition for others that are in that market and you see they transport for London BBC.
These are very strong counterparties with the double trigger of not only if they -- should
they fail only then do we look at the property. So it is not that we are exposed to a huge
amount of U.K. property exposure and property evaluation on our balance sheet. The vast
majority of these are really about the counterparty that is simply paying us the lease and
we have very little to no value for the property held in our balance sheet. And those -there is no expectation that we would ever get hold of those properties. The expectation
is that rentals are renewed or they simply go back to the underlying leaseholder.
So just before we get to some questions, the last slide I think is just a recap of where we
were in the half year. We continue to feel extremely well placed, operating profit
continues to grow over GBP 1 billion there. Earnings per share continues to grow. We have
over GDP 4 billion of cash which also leaves us feeling we are very defensively placed. It's
very important at this point in time whatever you think about global macro or Brexit or
anything else, we want to be very well placed to capitalize on this whether that's buying
land cheap or entering into financing agreements or simply transacting around PRT, which
is what we did in the last financial crisis, which allowed us to improve dramatically. And we
continue to provide strong return on equity and our solvency coverage ratio improves all
of the time. And one of the things we've -- that will have improved as interest rates
increase, we have other drivers that are within that. But we do a large number of stress
tests around many multitude of Brexit scenarios and Jeremy Corbyn governments and
everything else, feel very well placed in our balance sheet and what that looks like in the
different scenarios and would love the flexibility around management actions. So we'd just
answer some questions. And we're just going to flick through some.
Let's have a look. We got -- our first question here is what is the #1 priority for
management team -- said new management team. I guess it's relatively new, though
Nigel has been here a long time and some others have moved around. I mean, it's always
hard to pin down to #1 priority. One answer to that is the opposite of what's your #1 risk.
Our #1 priority, I would say, is focused execution. And so it's almost as I say the opposite
of our biggest risk would be management stretch, lack of focus. So we ensure that we are
investing wisely. We're looking at the most material opportunities. But it isn't the case of a
single opportunity because it does vary by divisions. If you think really big picture what's
going to drive our value is ensuring that we are disciplined in our pricing in the pension
buyout market and that we are continuing to source the correct assets with the right
Page 6 of 8



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-15

risk/reward profile for that. The advantage we have there and the competitive advantage
is the interaction of the annuity business, the asset manager and LGC being able to
create those assets and look more broadly ourselves. But there isn't a single one because
the DC market is also huge opportunity and investing wisely in technology around that is
also another very large driver. But I think more and more what we are seeing and
management are aligned around this is the new exec team is around collaboration across
the business. There's are a lot more interaction between the various businesses because
of the nature of the offerings that are out there now, single workplace offerings, the
overlap between group provision, SalaryFinance, DC pensions, for example. And starting
to develop more how those would look in an ecosystem. And so that really is the priority
is continue to improve that collaboration across the business which is something we've
always stood for.
Let's see if we can find another question. There's a few sort of Brexit-related. One I can
guess as much as any of you why are we down so much when the FTSE is down. Well
obviously the FTSE 100 as we've known has all sorts of random correlations that are
normally quite strong with sterling. And obviously, with the sterling weakening today, we
can see why the FTSE 100 has gone in one direction. Whereas probably us, Barclays and
others, though we are seen as a bit more of a U.K.-specific play we wouldn't benefit so
much from sterling though we actually do in our balance sheet. As sterling falls, our
balance sheet NIMS do improve a little. So I suspect that's why we are down in
comparison to the overall FTSE being much more reliant on the FTSE 250. But of course -and then the question is around best worst-case scenario in Brexit negotiations. Yes, I
mean, I would say we've done lots of balance sheet work on this and earnings and
resilience. I mean, in terms of where could it go, well, I mean, you all know yourselves. I
mean, I think, even today, our central case and a number of the banks' central case is that
we will get through. There are enough conflicting priorities of all the different politicians
and enough fear of what may happen that eventually this will get through with some sort
of solution. So we do put a reasonably low probability on a worst-case scenario of a no
deal dropout. Though, even in that scenario, we're pretty positive in terms of our own
outlook. People will continue to buy our pension schemes and continue to put their money
in their DC pension. And we don't expect to see wide-scale corporate bond defaults as a
result, which is really that thing that would economically harm us. And so we're not too
concerned about that. I mean, it's the tail risk of a tail risk of a Corbyn government and
extremes impact on the sovereign downgrade and capital controls that would play out
over a medium term that we would plan differently for. But even within those, a lot of
those are in line with our Affordable Housing development for example and also within
that, we're not particularly exposed to sterling downgrades. We've looked at our portfolio
and it wouldn't necessarily flow through. And things like the HMRC debt, we hold very little
capital against that as you had seen the government debt. And you don't hold capital
against your own government debt.
There's a nice one here, possibly needs to be last one. Can you speak to the growth
trends in the U.S. of your businesses? Yes, sure. We have 3 different businesses. We have
the term life business, where we're #2 in the broker market. That one, we are already a
significant player. And difficult to grow beyond the sort of 5% type level from that pure
business. But we do see a lot of opportunity to grow more direct, put more technology
through there and also improve efficiency on there. So we would look to potentially
increase a bit of market share and then look for more direct business through partners, et
Page 7 of 8



FINAL

Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-11-15

cetera. So we continue to grow there and some of the areas that are closely related to
that Protection business. The U.S. pension annuity business -- buyout business, we see
very large opportunities. The market is over -- is basically the same size as the U.K. You're
talking over $20 billion market this year and we -- the demand is increasing all the time.
There are a number of players. But not that many that compete in larger transactions. So
as I say, we want to get more involved in the 500 million, billion-type transactions. We
have some technology in place to do that, making use of our balance sheet and then we
need to source the assets and we're growing -- continue to grow our Real Asset
capability and look for partners that can provide those assets in the U.S. that we see
significant growth opportunity there from where we are at the moment. And that brings
us to LGIMA, which the asset manager we've talked about DB pensions, both private and
public, were $190 billion and 350 clients, which is a tiny number in the U.S. They've done
extremely well. But that means there's just a long way to go. We have now strong track
record on active fixed income and we're seeing a lot of flows into that. And obviously, the
LDI continues to grow in the U.S. market and we're investing in teams as well as looking at
acquisitions around real assets, whether that's real estate, equity, debt and infrastructure
equity and debt. And that then has knock-on implications for our annuity business, which
means we can then be more efficient, create more profit in that and compete more in
that market. So that would be a big growth driver in the U.S. and we don't see that slowing
at any time.

Bloomberg Transcript

So thank you very much. We've got through a few of your questions. Hopefully that was
interesting, useful. Obviously, IR are always here. Feel free to fire a question through or if
any of you would like to speak to me or the team, then we're always welcome. Thank you
very much. Enjoy the rest of your day.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 8 of 8

