Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-03-22

Q4 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Adam Richard Westwood, Chief Financial Oﬃcer, Secretary & Director
Geoﬀrey Richard Carter, Chief Executive Oﬃcer & Director

Other Participants
Alan Devlin, Analyst
Andreas van Embden, Analyst
Ben Cohen, Analyst
Dominic O'Mahony, Analyst
Iain Pearce, Analyst
Nick Johnson, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Geoﬀrey Richard Carter

{BIO 19078443 <GO>}

Okay. Good morning, everyone. Do we have the phone lines open? Well, it looks like we
do. Perfect. Well, good morning. Very warm welcome to our very ﬁrst results session as a
Plc. Bit of a ﬁrst for us as a company, and ﬁrst with me and Adam, as well. So, if you can be
nice to us, that'll be greatly appreciated. I was told this is an occasion you want a song
and dance routine to start things oﬀ. So, I'm just going to ﬂatten straight into the agenda.
So, we're going to do a quick look through the 2017 highlights. Adam will then go to the
ﬁnancial results in more detail. We'll then, going to stand a few minutes for those of you
who don't know us so well just to talk through the highlights of the Sabre story and some
of our key principles. And then, we'll summarize what we've said, and we'll take a look at
the outlook for 2018, as well.
Adam and I will do most of the presenting. Adam, Finance Director over on the left. Also
in the front row here, are Trevor and James, our Claims Director and Chief Actuary. They
have been sort of growing to the organization. Frankly, I'm just a mouthpiece I've
decided. So, any diﬃcult questions could be heading their way later.
So, with that, let's go straight onto the highlights. I think we've put forward a very strong
set of numbers for 2017, and importantly, we've done pretty much what we said we do
during the IPO process. We maintained our position as amongst the very best loss ratio
and combined ratio in the market. And you'll hear me say several times that that is our
absolute number one priority above anything else we do. You can see the 46.5% loss

Page 1 of 16



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-03-22

ratio, 68.5% combined ratio, and our expenses are very well controlled at 22%. Adam can
break that down a bit more later.

FINAL

Resulted in a pretty strong proﬁt for the year £53 million after tax, and that includes a 6%
increase in our underwriting proﬁt. Very pleasing return on our solvency capital of 92%. As
you can see, we own almost all our capital in the year and a quite strong robust position.
At the IPO, I believe you all know we outlined an ambition, drop over 140% to 160%
(00:02:12-00:02:19) So, the loss ratio, the combined ratio and the expenses resulted in a
very strong proﬁt for the year. In IPO, we outlined the design to operate in a solvency
capital range of 140% to 160%. Previously, we're at 115% in our IPO days. Very pleased and
that we're right at the very top end of that solvency capital range. We've been quite clear.
We have no other ambitions, preserve this cash and to preserve it to shareholders. And
you hear us tell several times this morning about the attractive dividend we intend to
maintain this year and going forward. We also grew with 7%. And I think that growth was
in a slightly complex market environment, which we'll come back and discuss a bit more
later.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the operational highlights, I will say our success actually comes from things that are
not that exciting to talk about. As a management team, we really spend our time in the
weights and we ﬁnd our success to incremental evolutionary beneﬁts. So, these are not
very exciting or frankly I don't want to tell our competitors what we're doing. So, these are
some very high level bits of operational success.
Clearly, the big thing for us was the IPO. We completed that in quite compact time scale
and we were delighted by the responses we had from the investors around this. I think
importantly the company hardly missed a beat while we were distracted as directors by
doing an IPO and I think that's a testament to the fantastic start we had back in the oﬃce
in Dorking.
We are really pleased with the new board. (00:03:49) PLC, and (00:03:53) half of them in
the phone listening to me. We've got some very strong (00:03:56) who have now joined
these complementary skills, and they've already given us a very constructive challenge
and given us things to think about in the futures of PLC.
ITchanges. I'm pleased to say not a lot, actually. I'm not here talking to you about a
complicated IT change. Really, our existing systems do everything we need them to do or
can do most everything we need them to do. The only thing we're doing is lift and shift in
our own infrastructure to allow a new cloud solution. We don't expect any impact on the
business from that change.
We have redesigned our websites, the customer websites, if you look at the click and
buy/sell websites. That's really to ensure we don't lose customers on the click-through
journey from aggregators. So we were losing slightly to many customers on that journey
(00:04:42) and purchase on that site. We've tried to improve our websites to enjoy a
slightly high conversion.

Page 2 of 16



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-03-22

FINAL

I already mentioned our staﬀ who did fantastically. We've got many members of staﬀ
who've been with us a very long time. We were delighted at the IPO (00:04:58) with
£3,600 worth of shares, and many of our staﬀ on a service basis got considerably more
than that. Those staﬀ are now burning trench for this. Those shares (00:05:12) years.
So, I think a strong year on numbers. Operational highlights really more the same,
nothing too adventurous on the operational side. I think on that note, Adam, I'm going to
hand over to you to talk in numbers.

Adam Richard Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

Thanks, Geoﬀ. Good morning, everyone. So, as Geoﬀ has already highlighted, we did
have the strong ﬁnancial performance during 2017, and I'll now introduce a little more
detail to the numbers. If you've seen us on the road, you'll know that our P&L is incredibly
straightforward, the advantages of running a focused business. We're single-line insurer,
focusing on UK (00:05:52). So, we've already presented a single operating segment, and
we've run a straightforward, debt-free balance sheet.

Bloomberg Transcript

So here we are. Let's talk through some of the key features of this year's results. I'm going
to start with our combined ratio as this one of our most important KPIs. Our combined
ratio remains incredibly strong, having improved (00:06:15) year-on-year. This is made up
of 22% expense ratio and an improved 46.5% loss ratio against 47.7% in 2016. There's a
slide on our underwriting result later as I'll talk to you in more detail shortly.
Moving on to the rest of our P&L, premium income is up 7% year-on-year to £210 million
with net earned premium up 3%. The growth in the top line, which is about where we
expect it to be was somewhat counted by the increase in our reinsurance rates in July
2017. Our ﬁrst renewal subsequent to the ultimate rate increase (00:06:52) last year, which
I'll talk through further in the next slide.
With a combined ratio of 68.5% for the year against 69.3% in 2016, this has generated a
6% increase in our underwriting proﬁt being our net earned premium less our claims and
operating expenses. Proﬁt after tax has been adversely impacted by investment losses
during the year. Our investment portfolio is designed to be pretty low risk, almost entirely
held in short-term UK government bonds has recorded a market value. So movements in
interest rates and other factors can generate gains or losses. As the investments generate
held to maturity, those gains or losses unwind as the bonds returns to par value.
We've presented our adjusted proﬁt after tax here (00:07:38) after removing amortization
and tangibles and speciﬁc one-oﬀ investments – costs, totaling £7.5 million principally
relating to the December IPO. It then reﬂects the outcome of the group's operations for
the period and provides a fair year-on-year comparison
The reduction in earnings per share reﬂects the additional transaction cost incurred in
2017. And we've got return on tangible equity out there as well you see as a key measure
going forward. It's decreased in 2017 against the prior year, which is primarily due to
carrying high capital base in 2017, which leads me on to our solvency position.
Page 3 of 16



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-03-22

FINAL

Basically, we've previously announced, we came into Q4 with a fair amount of excess
capital, having elected not to pay an interim dividend in November, or a ﬁnal dividend for
2017. As such, given the level of proﬁt generation since our last dividend was paid in July,
we built up a solvency capital ratio of 160% at year-end, which is at right at the top of our
preferred range of 140% to 160%. The next few slides will explain on some of the points
I've made.
This slide delves a little further into our strong underwriting result for the year. Our
expense base remains predictable, with a fairly even mix of variable and ﬁxed costs,
meaning our expense ratio is broadly consistent year-on-year, coming down a little in
those areas where we've achieved economy of scale while ﬂexing with volume in line with
our agile business model. I'll ﬂag on expenses that we expect ongoing running cost of
being a listed company, drive about 0.5% to 1% to our expense base beyond 2017.

Bloomberg Transcript

A couple of factors drive our loss ratio down in 2017. Firstly, we priced in signiﬁcant rise in
reinsurance cost, price on our reinsurance renewal which was pretty placed on expiring
terms at time of renewal in July 2017. As a reminder, we've run an excess of loss programs
to limited exposure to large losses with a retention of £1 million. The increase in
reinsurance pricing of just over 40% came in below expectation. So the rise in expense is
well covered. Partly as a result of this, our current year loss ratio was 57% in 2017 down on
its own. This is also a result of continuing focus on writing only business which yield
acceptable proﬁt margins and our caution are reﬂecting increased reinsurance (00:10:04).
We've also seen signiﬁcant prior year releases in 2017 totaling around 10.5% of net earned
premium, which is similar to last year. We still consider some of these releases to be
exceptional as positive run oﬀ on our book claims from what turned out to be strongly
reserve prior years, it drives up the expectation of redundancy within our claims reserve
recorded in our (00:10:26).
I previously said that 2016 I considered around half of that year's prior reserve movements
to be exceptional. I'll say a similar for 2017, noting that while the exceptional environment
of these reserve movements cannot continue forever; these will rundown gradually over
time. The release is a little larger than we have expected at Q3 due to better than
expected claims runoﬀ particularly with respect to (00:10:50) during Q4.
Our investment portfolio, which is worth around £280 million if you include cash is
incredibly straightforward reﬂecting our core strategy that we aim to minimize downside
risk and focus our eﬀorts on generating returns from a highly proﬁtable core business of
underwriting rather than investment yield.
We see our investment portfolios ﬁll, which allows us to drive our underwriting engine.
The bonds held which are primarily UK government securities has led to maintain a
maturity pattern equivalent to the runoﬀ of our claims book. This means that on a
regulatory basis, the valuation of the discounted claims reserves moves in tandem with
the valuation investments limiting volatility of the group's regulatory balance sheet. This
does however mean that the mark-to-market nature of the investments introduced some
short-term volatility to the IFRS results where the claims reserves are not discounted.

Page 4 of 16



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-03-22

FINAL

For example, in 2016, following Brexit, bond values increased signiﬁcantly (00:11:51) in
2017 along with some market movements resulting from the increase in base rates of
interest. Overall, however, this slide shows the makeup of investment portfolio is
conservative and limits volatility on a regulatory balance sheet.
The ability to generate strong proﬁts from a relatively lean capital base is a core element
of Sabre's strategy. Our capital requirement is driven almost entirely by underwriting risk,
given the low risk approach to other areas of such investments. This is itself driven by the
level of premium income and claims reserves held. Proﬁt in 2017 and the decision not to
pay our ﬁnal dividend in respect to 2017 means that we're now at the top end of solvency
ranges of 140% to 160% having ended 2017 at 160%.
We mentioned throughout the IPO that we have no need to hang on to signiﬁcant levels
of excess capital and have the option of returning this excess to shareholders in due
course. As a reminder, during the IPO, we deﬁned our dividend policies payout 70% proﬁt
after tax, with a potential special dividends as a means of distributing excess capital to
bring our solvency coverage ratio to within our target range.

Bloomberg Transcript

So to summarize what we delivered over the past year. We've delivered leading
underwriting performance as demonstrated through the strength of various underwriting
ratios. This has generated strong proﬁts for the year allowing us to continue generating
signiﬁcant levels of organic capital whilst maintaining a low-risk balance sheet. Most
importantly, we've continued to apply service cost (00:13:29) across the principles while
opening the business to a wide base of new investors.
And with that, I'll hand back to Geoﬀ, who'll give the reminder of the Sabre's story and
outline for 2018.

Geoﬀrey Richard Carter

{BIO 19078443 <GO>}

Thanks, Adam. I'll take that. Okay. I just want to spend a few minutes just going back
across the Sabre story. I'm conscious that lots of your heard this before so I shouldn't be
friendly if you look at the window, so jam with me for few seconds. Those of you haven't,
hopefully this will start give you an insight into how we really do business.
I guess one of the key questions we tend to get asked is what makes us so successful,
what's the secret sauce for our success. Really, the big picture is much more complicated
than one secret sauce. We think we have an extensive jigsaw and metrics and skills and
competitive advantages that are incredibly hard to replicate. These skills have been build
up over a period of over 15 years and our strategy has been very consistent for a very long
time. And we are very conﬁdent in the sustainable dependability of our model I would say
in that year where attempted to convert.
The overall thing for us is focus. We do fairly limited amounts of things and we're
obsessed about doing them very well. So we believe we are amongst the best at what we
do compared to any of our competitors in the market. We have a complete focus on loss

Page 5 of 16



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-03-22

FINAL

and combined ratio. Our absolute priority is maintaining a better than market combined
ratio in line with our historical average.
So that one on this slide, which I hope you can see. If not, you can see in the pack
(00:15:08) hopefully. And the key pillars of our success, we'll just talk to very brieﬂy. It's a
great pleasure at the IPO and one of my fellow CEOs that he open our IPO prospectus
and read it cover-to-cover and learned absolutely nothing about how we do things, which
I think was absolutely spot on frankly. So we're not attempting (00:15:25) that's too much.
So, the ﬁrst thing is, and these are the things that diﬀerentiate us in many ways. A very
broad underwriting footprint. James hates this price, but we believe it was the right price
for every risk. It's our job to ﬁgure out what that price is. We are happy to quote for almost
all risks in the market. That does mean we tend to bias our converted book towards a high
average premium or specialist end of the market than perhaps all the mainstream
insurers. Our average premium somewhere over £600 at the moment. Now, that's
signiﬁcantly diﬀerent to perhaps other quoted peers.

Bloomberg Transcript

A very disciplined actuarially driven strategy. We only have one actuarial team. We don't
have any diﬀerence between the reserve and the pricing thing. We're completely
synchronized between reserving and pricing. We don't interfere with that pricing in our
distribution groups. Whatever the prices are the command of our actuarial team are the
prices that get charge without fear or favor through any of our distribution groups.
(00:16:28) that is at in-house, agile pricing model. We don't use any black box technology.
All of our pricing models are built internally, and therefore, very hard to replicate, I would
say. A very expensive data set. We've got complete data going back probably to 1982.
Certainly very consistent over the last 15 years to 20 years as we have touched a lot of
customers and even more customers in that source slightly specialist end of the market.
That gives us a unique advantage in the data we have aligned to that proprietary model,
aligned to the very expert pricing too.
(00:17:01) ones are robust, I would say, and eﬀective clients management team, including
extensive focus on counter ﬁeld. As you may know, we outsourced those (00:17:10) loss.
We don't see tremendous value in booking car into garage and variable cost that comes
with that. Our focus is on controlling personal injury cost and looking at identifying
controlled in ﬁeld cost, that what's we spend the majority of our eﬀort.
A quite diﬀerent distribution channel, I would say, too many peers, 70% of our business
comes to brokers. We think brokers have been a tremendous advantage to us. I mean, the
market many of them have very strong brands, many of them have expert custom
management capabilities, and many of them are very expert at retail pricing and lifetime
value models. We are able to sit behind a bunch of expert brokers in the market and
allows us to focus on getting the net growth right rather than confusing our pricing model
between retail and net pricing sophistication.
As Adam mentioned, it's a very eﬃcient operating model. We outsource the customerfacing ends of much of our business. We don't have volume guarantees with those
Page 6 of 16



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-03-22

FINAL

outsources. So, we can either shrink or grow the business, almost with a ﬁxed cost. We're
very happy with our outsourcing partners and they do a great job for us without any loss
of customer experience, but we do see ﬂexibility in volume management.
And as Adam mentioned, a very conservative approach to risk management. We believe
we're expert at underwriting. We don't claim to be investment experts and we used
prudent use of reinsurance to emphasize £1 million XOL (00:18:34) cover. Nothing else
complicated in our reinsurance.
What does that lead to? Market-leading underwriting performance over a very long
period. So, on 72 and a bit percent 10-year combined operating ratio, a very consistent
strong capital generation picture. And we believe a controlled and attractive growth
across the cycle. So, we believe we will grow by an average of 10% a year. That won't be
every year. We grow at the right time in the market. We won't push growth in one year. If
we do that, we'd undermine our underwriting returns or shareholder returns. So, we still
very deﬁnitely believe there's strong growth over there but at the right time.

Bloomberg Transcript

If we look at strategy, the very eagle-eyed amongst you will notice this is almost identical
to the past Sabre story. I think in this case, the past is a very good guide to the future. The
principles we have run for the last 10 to 15 years were exactly the same principles we
intend to run for the foreseeable future.
What does this mean in terms of our targets on the right-hand side of that slide? We view
80% as our maximum combined operating ratio. We look to operate around our historical
average, which you can see is 74%. 80% we see as a sort of (00:19:52) on our combined
ratio ambition. Very strong cash returns. So we emphasized 70% base dividend plus
specialist return surplus to shareholders at appropriate times. And again emphasized
high-single-digit growth across the cycle would be our view going forward.
I think (00:20:15) spend a few minutes to talk about the market. Fair to say, probably a
slightly more complicated market (00:20:22) on my ﬁrst time standing here, kind of got
going on. Clearly, the big thing last year was Ogden. (00:20:31) talking about that. We
were very fast and very prudent, improving in rate. We (00:20:34) anticipated increased
number in claims cost and the anticipated increase in the insurance premiums, and put
through rate very quickly to cover both of those costs. If anything, we were a bit too
prudent. I would let some air out of the tires we came past the half-year stage and got
over insurance pricing conﬁrmed.
The market obviously responded to (00:20:57) a variety of rates. If you look at the top
graph here, which I hope you can see, you can see the price increase coming through Q1
into Q2. I would say, our view is at the very end of Q4 and into Q1, the market has become
(00:21:12) more competitive. Why is that? I think rationally it's certainly driven by reduction
in personal injury claims through the MoJ portal.
If you look at the bottom graph on this page, looking at the gold bar, you can see the step
down in PI frequency compared to previous years and indeed the previous periods. So
we believe there is an entirely rational reason for the market to become slightly more
Page 7 of 16



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-03-22

FINAL

competitive as we came out the end of last year into this. I could speculate, people might
also be fond of baking some of the assumed Ogden discounts and the same whiplash
beneﬁts. A bit hot oﬀ the press I guess. There's been announcements this week about
both Ogden and whiplash and we can answer some of those in more detail maybe in in
the Q&A session.
Our view is it's obviously great news. The ambition continues to bring in both of those
changes. It does fall up to our headlines (00:22:03) in detail, and I think our view is detail
is all important in understanding how this may run through. So we watch with interest how
that might develop, but at this stage, we're not really calling too many beneﬁts we're
baking at this point.
So I think if we just – start to ﬁnish with some headline thought on our 2018 performance
and how that change in market competitiveness may impact. As we come into the year,
we looked carefully at reduction in PI claims and reduce our premiums gently through the
ﬁrst quarter in line with claims inﬂation, ensuring the price changes did not undermine
our combined ratio targets. That resulted in a fairly modest dip in premiums coming
through January and February.

Bloomberg Transcript

The price changes are now fully embedded in, and I would say we've return to a run rate
roughly in line with 2017, in the last couple of weeks nudging gently ahead of the 2017
position. We've beneﬁted from those PI claims frequencies and I'd emphasized again that
the changes we've made are entirely in line with our combined ratio ambitions.
I don't have a crystal ball on pricing. We're only on Q1. I wouldn't even try to call the
market at this point. There's lots of moving parts. What I would say is that with our
ongoing focus on underwriting quality, we are very conﬁdent on delivering strong
underwriting result this year, possibly slightly better than our historic average. So, we're
very conﬁdent on underwriting result this year.
Final comments, as we stated – (00:23:55) – as we stated we're looking very likely to
continue to generate capital very strongly this year. We are very aware that dividend is an
important factor for most of our investors. We're already at the top of our Solvency range
and we've never claimed we needed to be right at the top, at most to be in the corridor of
140% to 160%. We've been very clear that we intend to return surplus capital to
shareholders in appropriate time. I think given this, we are conﬁdent on delivering
attractive dividend to shareholders in 2018.
And I think on that note, we will stop the presentation and go to any Q&A, if that's okay.

Q&A
A - Geoﬀrey Richard Carter

{BIO 19078443 <GO>}

I think there is a roving – mic's going around. Alan? (00:24:44)

Page 8 of 16



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-03-22

FINAL

(00:24:45). Just a question on the outlook and particularly on the couple of questions of
claims inﬂation. What do you think is driving the decrease in the frequency in the portal?
What do you view is your kind of tool claims inﬂation we have in the severity and
frequency in large bodily injury, et cetera? And if you could split out how important is the
smaller BI in your claims frequency, and what you're seeing in the market, what do you
think the market is assuming. Thanks.
(00:25:22) in terms about claims inﬂation generally. I think if we go overall, what do I think
BI is going down, I suspect maybe some of the claims merchant companies have move to
slightly easier targets. So, this could be a foreshadowing of the whiplash changes to come
I think is my guess. So, we might already have seen some of that beneﬁt coming into the
market. I guess claims inﬂation is driven by a few things. We will see an increase in
accidental damage claim (00:25:46). The autonomy in vehicles are going to make
bumpers and windscreens more expensive to ﬁx. Our coverage is slightly older than the
average markets, that's (00:25:54) us too heavily at this point. I guess the big thing for us
is (00:25:58). We go with the biggest factor of our (00:26:01). I think (00:26:05) we're
fully in line with our historical average, 4% to 5%, somewhere in that sort of line.
(00:26:12) do you want to add to that or was that okay?

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. I think there's a few moving parts here. I think obviously we've seen the (00:26:25)
and reduction of frequency, but similarly the increased technological cost is pushing up
(00:26:32) and third party damage severity. So, I think there are a few moving parts that
are impacting stuﬀ. But I think what I would say is we're monitoring that very carefully, and
we're making sure we're reﬂecting any changes in pricing.
Yeah. (00:26:46)? So, Greg (00:26:48), I think you had a question ﬁrst (00:26:50).
(00:26:56) valuable points. I'm sorry. (00:27:00) KBW. Three questions. One is just remind
me using a USP for your Solvency II, I've seen you're on the standard model, do you have
a tailwind that's getting more data and the weighted average between standard data and
your data changes? Second question is retention rates. I wonder if you can just tell me
what your retention rates are if they've changed, and quote exactly what statute quoting
are you quoting something of, total book retention or retention in terms of only business
that you recorded just so we understand exactly. And then the one thing that puzzles me,
could you just describe the demographics broadly, age, sex, I know you can't do that
anymore, points, et cetera, of your business (00:27:51) because I'm wondering why your
loss ratio is volatile and so low. It must be something to do with the business mix.
Okay. I will try and pick out those questions. If you talk about retention ﬁrst. Retention
overall is about 30%. And I think probably an important factor here is that we target our
ﬁrst year of proﬁt. So we're not dependent on retention rates to support our proﬁt ﬂow.
We make pretty much the same proﬁt on the ﬁrst year and new business policies we do
(00:28:24) policy. So we don't have a retention pressure in quite the same way as other
people may have.

Page 9 of 16



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-03-22

FINAL

That does split between our direct and broker book. When we talk about retention, we
talk about pure retention. We don't talk about (00:28:37) and back into us through
diﬀerent distribution routes. So if you look at a customer we had last year and this year,
they may come to us through a diﬀerent broker or come from direct broker which will
(00:28:46) retention in that in the existing results.
On the demographic, we are perfectly happy to write anybody. We try and target a ﬂat
margin. You can obviously see our combined ratio, which means our margin is somewhat
bigger than maybe other people we target. That means we're bias towards risk that are
less attractive to the mass market. So that probably means we have slightly older cars. It
probably means we have a slightly younger base. It probably means we have more
people who have quirky feature or a combination of features so their risk make up. What I
would say is that our data set (00:29:20) price any of those risks entirely hopefully.
USP, (00:29:28) you said an USP question?

A - Adam Richard Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

Yes. So, yes, we're on a standard formula. We have a USP only in respect, which is on to
taking some speciﬁc parameter, and then the calculation only in respect of our number of
personal reinsurance factor that we applied to our personal liability risk.

A - Geoﬀrey Richard Carter

{BIO 19078443 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

(00:29:48) I think saw your question (00:29:51). Yeah. Okay. Nick?

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Good morning. Nick Johnson from Numis. Two questions, ﬁrstly on the comment about
modestly decreased income in the ﬁrst part of this year. If you could just say whether that
is in any particular part of the book or whether it's across the whole portfolio in terms of
risk categories, and perhaps also the leverage on whether the decrease income with the
function of price, custom numbers or mix in terms of average premium size? And then
secondly, question on reduced personal injury frequency on the small end of the scale.
Does the 2017 loss ratio pick take that into account, and what assumptions you're making
when giving us some reserve release guidance going forward on small PI frequency?
Thank you.

A - Geoﬀrey Richard Carter

{BIO 19078443 <GO>}

Okay. Sure. So, where do the premium decrease come from in the ﬁrst couple of months?
I think what we said during the IPO fairly clearly is if you guys are more competitive part of
the market, we tend to lose a bit more from the fringes of the mass market, where we
perhaps lose (00:31:01) pick out what we view as missed price risks in the mass market.
So, I think, we probably lost slightly more in that mass market. What we haven't seen is
any deterioration in the volume of business that we write in the more specialist end of the
market. And I think we described during the IPO the sort of heartland and the more
hinterland, our heartland looks not unaﬀected, more insulated than these changes.

Page 10 of 16



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-03-22

What's driving the diﬀerence down? It's a combination of price on the conversion part of
that and customer numbers. So, we've lost a bit of volume and we've lost a bit of
premium, price mix. So, both of those things really just curved back the last couple of
weeks.

FINAL

On the PI frequency, I think, James (00:31:44) you could answer that one. You have the
mic.
I mean, I think what I would say is our reserving philosophy maintains the same. We
continue to be absolutely consistent in the way we reserve, and that's one of thing
(00:32:00) business. So, I don't think we're showing anything diﬀerent in there.
Now, Adam, in terms of the reserve releases?

A - Adam Richard Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

Yeah. So, 2016, we have reserve releases of around £10.4 million 2017, £10.5 million from
the prior year. As I said in my presentation, there is an exceptional element to that as
those reserve releases run down the sort of normal run rate over time. The expectation
was that they may run down quicker than they have done or at least that they've slightly
more to come out than we initially thought. So, we'd expect a small decrease in reserve
releases next year.

A - Geoﬀrey Richard Carter

{BIO 19078443 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

John (00:32:48)?

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

Thank you. Ben Cohen at Investec. I had two questions. Firstly on pricing year-to-date,
could you maybe make some comments sort of following on from Nick's question in
terms of what you've done versus the market? How much you are prepared to put in for
the claims trends that you're seeing? And secondly, I probably missed it in the release or
whatever, but have you said there's two – the beneﬁt that you expect from the change to
built-in discount rate. I'm not sure the extent to which that has been set, but some range
around that would be helpful. Thanks.

A - Geoﬀrey Richard Carter

{BIO 19078443 <GO>}

Yeah. Sure. I think pricing year-to-date, I think – as I don't want to give our precise
numbers, what I would say is that our combined ratio hasn't changed at all which as a
result of that. So while we brought prices down, we don't believe that's changed our – the
impact on our combined ratio. We would not undermine our pricing position from doing
that. I clearly don't want to give precise numbers out on that for obvious reasons.
Ogden. Ogden is an interesting one for us, and that we have quite a low reinsurance
potential. So actually, we didn't take too much pain from the Ogden change, nor will we
get too much net beneﬁt. The real factor for us is what does that do to our reinsurance
pricing. As Trevor (00:34:03) said, prices were up by 40% last year, (00:34:07) Adam, you
Page 11 of 16



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-03-22

said that, largely driven by Ogden. Our renewal is the end of June, start of July. So the
debate for us really is how we can work with our reinsurers to establish a long term impact
of Ogden and what does that do to our reinsurance price. Reinsurance is a bigger factor
for us than the net position.

FINAL

Q - Iain Pearce

{BIO 19522835 <GO>}

Hi. Iain Pearce from Berenberg. Just on pricing and claims inﬂation, so it sounds like
you've taken a bit of pricing in sort of ﬁrst bit of this year. Do you still expect claims
inﬂation to be running in short of long term 3% to 4% range. Does that sort of indicate
that you've been overearning in the second half last year and you expect that to sort of
earn through throughout 2018? And then just on broker behavior, as we've talked about
some more competitive dynamics in the market, obviously, you sort of price it from an
underwriting basis by using your brokers being a bit more aggressive in terms of their
retail price optimization strategies and is that any beneﬁt to you?

A - Geoﬀrey Richard Carter

{BIO 19078443 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. So I'll take the second one while you think about the ﬁrst one, Adam. I think on
broker behavior, we always say diﬀerent brokers feel more or less aggressive at diﬀerent
points in the cycle. We generally view our distribution as agnostic. We like all our brokers
equally, and we don't vary our prices by the size of the book that we have them through
them. We'll vary the price by the cost to do them with that broker and their long term
performance but not because they're big or small. So I think diﬀerent brokers are
competitive at diﬀerent times. It can move on a weekly basis, so there's nothing
fundamental shift in there.
Adam, do you want to pick up second point?

A - Adam Richard Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

Yeah. Sure. So we mentioned we brought prices down a bit beginning of this year. The
way we price generally is very cautious, so we will see a trend in the market. We'll work
out what that's doing to overall cost, and then we'll adjust our prices accordingly. And
therefore there's generally a delay between the thing happening and the price reduction.
And obviously, while that delay is occurring, you are essentially writing a slightly better
loss ratio than you might be otherwise be doing. So that's the general trend.

Q - Iain Pearce

{BIO 19522835 <GO>}

Yeah. That's helpful.

A - Geoﬀrey Richard Carter

{BIO 19078443 <GO>}

So, Andreas, I think you have – you're certainly in my eye line ﬁrst anyway.

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Andreas van Embden, Peel Hunt. Could you maybe comment just purely on policy growth
in Q4 and into Q1. You mentioned you loss some volume in the mass market, but yours is

Page 12 of 16



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-03-22

stable on non-standard. As Q1 progressed, did you see volume pick up towards the end
of the quarter and do you expect policy growth to be more or less in line for the full year
with sort of the trends in 2017? Thanks.

FINAL

A - Geoﬀrey Richard Carter

{BIO 19078443 <GO>}

Yeah, I mean, as a rule, we don't get too obsessed by policy count. We tend to look at
GWP rather than policy numbers as being our key KPI. Our policy numbers are still
hovering around the mid-300,000s. They went down a bit, fairly early bit, and they've
come back up a bit in the last few weeks. We don't really obsess about where that
customer number goes to (00:37:05) some of the GWP number. So, yeah, it went down a
bit and it's coming up (00:37:10) a bit over the last couple of weeks.

Q - Dominic O'Mahony

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. Dominic O'Mahony from Exane BNP Paribas. So, three questions, two sort of
on guidance this year, and then one to the more macro long term. So the ﬁrst is, in terms
of your combined ratio guidance for 2018, you were suggesting sort of a similar, possibly
even a better number for this year. Is that net of BYD or is that a current year number
given the commentary around the potential reduction in BYD? The second question is,
does that imply that, actually, the weather that we've seen in the ﬁrst year hasn't really
aﬀected claims in terms of (00:37:57).
And then, in terms of the more macro longer-term picture, you were talking about sort of
measured growth. Quite clearly, there's limit to what you can give away here, but what are
the macro trends that you see acting as a tailwind for you in that respect? If I think about
your heartland as you describe it, what do you see in terms of development of people
who have (00:38:22) features and is that helpful in terms of getting that growth? Thank
you.

A - Geoﬀrey Richard Carter

{BIO 19078443 <GO>}

Yeah. Sure. Let's just go through those in reverse order. (00:38:29) you can think about
the ﬁrst (00:38:32). I think in terms of growth, we invest heavily in data and analysis. The
more of those that we get, the more of those we generate, the more opportunities we ﬁnd
to deﬁne our pricing. I think it's fair to say (00:38:42).
There's always new people coming into the market. We've don't really see a massive
reduction in the number of drivers, we tend to insure slightly older cars. We're not really
seeing the impact of what (00:38:54) thinking of Uber, (00:38:57) public transport. If you
live out outside London, we don't see that reduction in car ownership really impacting.
We don't see any headwinds to that growth.
So I think we see we can continue the move gently into the mass market where we ﬁnd
more data (00:39:12) as we ﬁnd our pricing. We continue to work out (00:39:16). We have
very high proﬁtability. We will still miss a few points of credibility from the aggravated
journey. We spend a lot of time trying to work out where those customers regarding how
we can get a hold of them. So, I think we see there were some in the mass market, some

Page 13 of 16



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-03-22

FINAL

in the – or more mass market, some in the specialist market, some are just want to ﬁnd
those gaps, but we're still not getting close (00:39:37).
And I think we also look – we will look at sort of gentle product expansion. What we won't
be doing is launching our ﬁntech (00:39:44) to commercial or (00:39:47). I think if this got
or sort of wheels on an engine then we think our skills are quite transferrable to that. We
already have a very small part of our portfolio is bank, small banks (00:39:53). We've not
really unleashed our full capabilities on that yet so we see bank being an opportunity.
Of course similarly we see taxi, we do a ton of amount of taxi. Again, we really push that
taxi hard, and I think we see lot of very interest (00:40:07) business starting up. So, in
short (00:40:11) ﬁntech-type businesses really focused on distribution. We are not seeing
brand pressures. We're very happy to sit behind the right distribution partners, and we
had very regular conversations. Everyone's looking for us to support their diﬀerent
distribution models.
We are quite cautious and when we do that we won't do anything that we think that
undermine our returns, but we see opportunities there in sort of the new generation of
distributors coming through. The second one was about weather. That's a much quicker
answer (00:40:40) impact (00:40:40) what I think.
(40:41).

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. And that – hopefully I was giving you a chance to think about (40:49).

A - Adam Richard Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

I think the answer is actually pretty straight forward. We always intend to write to our
target loss ratio. So, our current year result would be reﬂective of that a little more
uncertainty in the current year. So, generated current year result is slightly higher than the
target ratio.
When Geoﬀ talks about commodity ratio over the year he's talking about ﬁnancial year
loss ratios that would include the element of prior year development which may well
include both sort of normal business as usual runoﬀ and exceptional releases.

A - Geoﬀrey Richard Carter

{BIO 19078443 <GO>}

Anything else that was not covered?
Just on excess of loss, what actually is your premium? And in terms of retention, are you
reaching all the layers above £1 million (00:41:43)?
No. It's completely straightforward. It's completely unlimited over £1 million.
Premium?

Page 14 of 16



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-03-22

We declared the premium in the results.
(00:41:53)

FINAL

Yeah. It's a real number.

A - Adam Richard Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

Yeah. It's about 9.4%.

A - Geoﬀrey Richard Carter

{BIO 19078443 <GO>}

Alan?

Q - Alan Devlin

{BIO 5936254 <GO>}

Yeah. Thanks. Alan Devlin of Barclays. Just a couple of follow-up questions. Just one on
the – you mentioned the re-entrance causes the – what you're more focused on, the 9.4%
expected to come down given in (00:42:18) going to your renewals? And then secondly,
could you remind us what kind of normalized investment income assumption should be if
there's no mark-to-market move? Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Geoﬀrey Richard Carter

{BIO 19078443 <GO>}

(00:42:30) on the fund, clearly, I expect the insurance (00:42:32) to come down as a
result of autumn. Let's be clear. Clearly, there's – we said there's very positive messages
coming around (00:42:42) about the detail to the work. So, we've got a very strong
relationship with all our insurance panel. We'll be working this through within – probably
over the next two or three months. (00:42:51). So I don't to pre-guess where that might
go. On investment, Adam?

A - Adam Richard Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

Yeah. I mean, it's loan. As an investment income, as I said, it's a very, very conservative
investment portfolio. I wouldn't want to go far above sort of 1.3%, 1.5% something like that
(00:43:11).

Q - Alan Devlin

{BIO 5936254 <GO>}

The expense ratio, I noticed it ticked and I assumed that it ticked up and then I assumed
that might have been volume related in terms of overheads. But in terms of your CapEx
program going forward, I wonder if you can just sort of give us an idea facing technology
on race? And just remind me, do you account within the expense ratio or do you have
some kind of below-the-line amortization going on?

A - Geoﬀrey Richard Carter

{BIO 19078443 <GO>}

Yeah. First of all, I'll talk about CapEx a bit ﬁrst. We don't really have any big CapEx
budgets on the horizon. We're perfectly happy with our existing system. The move across
to the hybrid cloud is basically pound-for-pound with the cost of running it internally. That
Page 15 of 16



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2018-03-22

makes no meaningful diﬀerence to us. We own our own buildings. We have room for
expansion in those buildings. So, actually, we don't have any meaningful big CapEx
budgets on the horizon at this moment. The expense ratio for last year?

FINAL

A - Adam Richard Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

Yeah. That's fair. I think the expense ratio for last year pretty much in line, ticked up a little
bit. Part of that was due to an increase in levies essentially, which are incurred on a sort of
recent basis. So, generally there's a lag for them versus the earning through of our
premium. Otherwise, some of the variable costs obviously moved in line with the size of
the business.

A - Geoﬀrey Richard Carter

{BIO 19078443 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Do you have any ﬁnal questions? If not, I think we'll quickly -before I put my foot in on
somewhere. I think I got away with it so far. So, thank you, all, very much for your time.
Any questions, me and Adam are completely available for any follow-up calls you might
want to have. So, thanks very much, and thank you on the phones.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 16 of 16

