Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-02-01

Q4 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Kevin J. O'Donnell, President, CEO & Executive Director
Peter Hill, Unknown
Robert Qutub, Executive VP & CFO

Other Participants
Amit Kumar, Analyst
Brian Robert Meredith, MD, Financials Research Sector Head & Global Insurance
Strategist
Elyse Beth Greenspan, VP and Senior Analyst
Jay Adam Cohen, Research Analyst
Kai Pan, Executive Director
Meyer Shields , MD

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Good morning. My name is Amy. And I will be your conference operator today. At this
time, I would like to welcome everyone to the RenaissanceRe Fourth Quarter 2017
Financial Results Conference Call. (Operator Instructions)
Peter Hill, you may begin your conference.

Peter Hill

{BIO 3546857 <GO>}

Good morning. And thank you all for joining our Fourth Quarter 2017 financial results
conference call. Yesterday, after the market closed, we issued our quarterly release. If you
didn't get a copy, please call me at (212) 521-4800. And we'll be sure to provide you with
one. There will be an audio replay of the call available from about 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time
today through midnight on March 1. The replay can be accessed by dialing (855) 8592056 or +1 (404) 537-3406. The passcode you will need for both numbers is 18690170.
Today's call is available through the Investor Information sector of www.renre.com and will
be archived on RenaissanceRe's website through midnight on April 18.
Before we begin, I'm obliged to caution that today's discussion may contain forwardlooking statements. And actual results may differ materially from those discussed.
Additional information regarding the factors shaping these outcomes can be found in
RenaissanceRe's SEC filings, to which we direct you.
Page 1 of 18



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-02-01

With us to discuss today's results are Kevin O'Donnell, President and Chief Executive
Officer; and Bob Qutub, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Kevin. Kevin?

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Kevin J. O'Donnell
Thanks, Peter. Good morning. And thank you for joining today's call. In 2017,
RenaissanceRe executed well and strengthened our franchise against the backdrop of a
difficult market that was impacted by significant natural catastrophes. For the year, our
book value per share decreased by 8%. And our tangible book value per share plus
change in accumulated dividends decreased by 7.2%. Also, for the year, our return on
equity was negative 5.7%. And our operating return on equity was negative 7.7%.
In this business, it is not a question of if. But when catastrophic losses occur. While we
cannot control when these losses happen, we can plan for them. In 2017, I am proud of
how we executed on things we could control, such as our gross-to-net strategy, paying
our customers' claims rapidly and being a first-call market for new business. In 2018, I
believe that rather than facing the strong headwinds of the last few years, we will have
the breeze at our backs for the first time in a long time. Due to the cat events in the
second half of the year, the reinsurance market at January 1 was improved over prior
renewals. And our structure and access to the right capital allowed us to execute well and
grow into the better terms. We saw the reversal of several years of declining rates in our
Property segment, with across-the-board increases and material opportunities to grow
both our Property catastrophe and other property portfolios. The Casualty and Specialty
renewals were also positive, with better pricing and improving reinsurance terms and
conditions, particularly on programs with elevated loss emergence. I will address the
January 1 renewals in greater detail after Bob speaks. But suffice it to say that our
underwriting portfolios in-force at January 1 already show the benefits of improved terms.
Overall, I look forward to 2018, knowing that our team has all the tools, the relationships
and the capital to execute our strategy successfully and deliver shareholder value.
Moving beyond reinsurance renewals, rising interest rates should provide a positive
tailwind going forward in 2018. The Fed raised rates 3 times in '17. And the expectation is
that these interest rates will continue into 2018. Most of the impact has been to the
shorter end of the rate curve, which has been beneficial to us, as this is where our
investments have traditionally been concentrated. Bob will discuss the performance of our
investment portfolio in greater detail.
We also now have more certainty around U.S. tax regulation. In December, the U.S.
implemented significant reforms to corporate taxation. Most significantly, from our
perspective, these changes alter the current taxation of most intercompany cross-border
transactions, including reinsurance sections. For a company like ours, Bermuda remains a
preferred jurisdiction, with a somewhat diminished but still substantial advantage relative
to the U.S. Bob will explain the write-down of our deferred tax asset. But outside of this

Page 2 of 18



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-02-01

FINAL

financial statement adjustment, we do not believe that the U.S. tax reform will have
significant economic impact on us, given our flexible structure.
At the end of 2017, we advanced 2 important transactions that affirmed our reputation as
an innovator in the reinsurance business. First, we entered into a joint venture in the life
reinsurance space with RGA, called Langhorne Re, which closed a $700 million fundraising.
Consistent with our joint ventures, we are a minority investor. We anticipate there will be a
good pipeline of closed block business, particularly within Europe and are excited about
the opportunity. We were delighted to have RGA as a partner and believe that our
combined strengths will serve Langhorne customers well. Second, we agreed to invest in
Catalina Holdings, a Property and Casualty runoff company. This is more than just an
investment. But rather it helps further our strategy and, over time, may allow us to bring
industry-leading runoff solutions to our customers. Additionally, we hope to partner on
new transactions with Catalina either side-by-side or providing live protection alongside
Catalina's runoff solutions. We're excited to begin these partnerships, which will help us
explore new market sectors and expand our capabilities.

Bloomberg Transcript

We also continued to see steady contributions from our public equities and strategic
investments portfolio. In addition to the new investments we made in '17, we rebalanced
our portfolio through selective trading in public or mature investments, where we have
made significant gains over the years. We continued to think and act with a long-term bias
in this area, which has allowed many of our early-stage investments to be very successful,
including Essent and Trupanion, to name a few.
I'm pleased to announce our newest office, which we opened recently in ZÃ¼rich,
Switzerland, a major hub for reinsurance. We've spoken before about the value of having
a flexible platform. And we now have a small footprint in Switzerland, increasing our ability
to transact with customers where and how they desire. I'll provide a few more details on
the opportunities we are seeing in 2018 later on the call. But first, I'll turn the call over to
Bob for a look at our financials.

Robert Qutub

{BIO 15269353 <GO>}

Thanks, Kevin. Good morning, everyone. As we reflect on 2017, we are proud of the hard
work and dedication we displayed in executing our strategy while navigating the
challenging market conditions and loss events during the year. We remain committed to
growing our underwriting platforms and joint ventures in a disciplined manner, matching
the right risk with the most efficient capital available. We grew our consolidated gross
premiums written to $2.8 billion in 2017, split roughly 50-50 between our Property and
Casualty and Specialty segments. We achieved this measured growth while maintaining a
strong focus on expense management through a concerted effort across the
organization. And as Kevin noted, we believe the underlying market conditions of our
business are showing improvement. And we're excited about the opportunities that lie
ahead in 2018.
At this time, I'd like to take you through an overview of our financial performance for the
quarter and full year. I'll then discuss our segment results, investment portfolio and capital
activities.
Page 3 of 18



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-02-01

FINAL

For the quarter ended December 31, 2017, we reported a net loss of $3 million (sic) ($3.5
million), or $0.09 per diluted common share. And operating income of $41 million, or $1.05
per diluted common share. Our annualized ROE for the quarter was negative 0.3%. And
our annualized operating ROE was positive 4.2%. During the quarter, our book value per
share decreased 0.3%. And our tangible book value per share, including accumulated
dividends, increased by 0.1%. Underwriting loss for the quarter was $10 million. And we
reported a combined ratio of 102%.
On a full-year basis, we reported a net loss of $245 million, or $6.15 per diluted common
share. And an operating loss of $332 million, or $8.35 per diluted common share. Our full
year ROE was negative 5.7%. And our operating ROE was negative 7.7%. Our book value
decreased by 8%. And our tangible book value per share, including accumulated
dividends, decreased by 7.2%. Underwriting loss for the year was $652 million and
reported a combined ratio of 138%.

Bloomberg Transcript

2017 was one of the largest insured loss years our company has experienced. The Third
Quarter hurricanes and earthquakes, combined with the Fourth Quarter wildfires in
California, resulted in total underwriting losses of $820 million. We also incurred additional
underwriting losses of $169 million from aggregate loss contracts driven largely by the
aforementioned events. These aggregate loss contracts form an important piece of the
design and execution of our integrated risk portfolio. All-in, the hurricanes, earthquakes,
wildfires and associated aggregate losses added 59 points to our consolidated combined
ratio and resulted in a net negative impact of $720 million to our consolidated financial
results in 2017.
Now recall that net negative impact includes the sum of estimates of net claims and claim
expenses incurred, earned reinstatement premiums assumed and ceded, lost and
earned product commissions and redeemable noncontrolling interest. Given the way we
think about our business, which is on an integrated portfolio basis, we've combined the
Q3 catastrophe events in our Q4 and full year disclosures. Adding complexity to this is our
significant purchase of retro protection, which we view as protection across the book
rather than an individual event. For similar reasons, we have presented the Q4 California
wildfires together as well. We believe this presentation provides more useful information
based on how we view our integrated risk portfolio.
Now moving on -- further expand on Kevin's remarks regarding the tax bill, we wrote
down a portion of our deferred tax asset, about $37 million, as a result of the reduction of
the U.S. corporate tax rate. This write-down did not affect our operating results. As noted
in our press release discussing the tax bill, we currently expect the future economic
impact of the tax bill will be minimal for us given our flexible operating platform. For
additional details of our quarterly and year-to-date results, I would refer you to our
earnings release and financial supplement, which we issued last night and can be found
on our website.
Let me now shift to our segment results, beginning with the Property segment followed
by Casualty and Specialty.

Page 4 of 18



FINAL

Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-02-01

During the Fourth Quarter of 2017, our Property segment gross premiums written were up
$43 million compared to the Fourth Quarter 2016. And this is net of $10 million of
reinstatement premiums written in both quarters. The Fourth Quarter is generally light for
renewals in the catastrophe line of business. But we were able to enter into a number of
backup covers following the Q3 catastrophe events. Certainly, these contracts are for
partial period of an original exposure period. This drove most of the $27 million increase in
catastrophe gross premiums written after removing the impact of reinstatement
premiums written in the current comparative periods. In our Property class of business,
gross premiums written were up $15 million for the quarter. Our Property segment
incurred an underwriting loss of $23 million and a combined ratio of 111% in the Fourth
Quarter compared to underwriting income of $100 million and a combined ratio of 45% in
the comparative quarter. The underwriting results in our Property segment during the
quarter were dominated by the impact of the California wildfires and additional
aggregate losses, partially offset by a decrease in estimated losses from the Q3
catastrophe events. Combined, these items resulted in $151 million of net underwriting
losses and added 72 points to our Property segment combined ratio in the quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now recall, in early December, we estimated that net negative impact from the Northern
California wildfires would be about $90 million. Given updated information we have
received, our estimate of the net negative impact for all the Q4 California wildfires is $104
million, roughly split 2/3-1/3 between the northern and southern fires. In addition, our
aggregate contracts were also impacted during Q4. And we've put up an additional $31
million of net negative impact from these contracts.
With respect to the Q3 catastrophe events, we continued to receive an annualized
information. And during Q4, we modestly reduced our initial estimate of the net negative
impact from these events by $30 million. We plan to perform a deep dive of these events
in mid-2018 as their anniversary approaches.
Now for the full year, our Property segment gross premiums written were $1.4 billion, up
$329 million, or 30%, compared to 2016. Included in this growth are reinstatement
premiums of $175 million in 2017 compared to $21 million in 2016, each associated with
large events. Our Property -- our other property line of business saw gross premiums
written increase $109 million, or 48%, in 2017. In our catastrophe line of business, gross
premiums written were up $69 million, or 8%, for 2017, excluding the impact of
reinstatement premiums. Driving this growth was increased participation on a select
number of deals as well as entering into certain new transactions. As mentioned in my
earlier comments on the quarter, we also entered into some backup covers following Q3
catastrophe events. Our Property segment incurred an underwriting loss of $575 million
and a combined ratio of 162% in 2017 compared to underwriting income of $363 million
and a combined ratio of 50% in 2016. As with the quarter, the underwriting results in our
Property segment were dominated by the large loss events, adding 111 points to our
Property segment combined ratio for the full year.
Moving on to our Casualty and Specialty segment, where in the Fourth Quarter of 2017,
gross premiums written were up 16% relative to the Fourth Quarter of 2016. We continued
to be pleased with our disciplined growth in this segment and were able to selectively
execute on a number of new deals during the quarter, primarily within the professional
Page 5 of 18



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-02-01

liability business. During the Fourth Quarter of 2017, the Casualty and Specialty segment
generated underwriting income of $11 million and a combined ratio of 94% compared to
underwriting income of $3 million and a combined ratio of 98% in the comparative quarter.
Positively impacting the Casualty and Specialty segment, combined ratio during the
quarter was a decrease in the underwriting expense ratio driven in part by a decrease in
operating expenses, reflecting lower compensation expenses and combined with
continued growth in net premiums earned. Our Property segment also experienced a
similar decrease in operating expenses. However, the impact was muted, given the large
cat losses in that segment.
For the full year 2017, our Casualty and Specialty gross premiums written were up 7% as
we continued to selectively grow new and existing business within certain casualty lines.
Partially offsetting this increase was a decrease in gross premiums written in our financial
lines of business, primarily the result of a large, in-force multiyear mortgage reinsurance
contract written in 2016 that did not reoccur in the current year. With the growth we've
experienced to date in top line, we continued to execute on our gross-to-net strategy,
having ceded out 34% of our Casualty and Specialty premiums. For the full year 2017, the
Casualty and Specialty segment incurred an underwriting loss of $78 million and a
combined ratio of 110% compared to generating underwriting income of $21 million and a
combined ratio of 97% in 2016. The net increase in the combined ratio was primarily
driven by underwriting losses from the Q3 catastrophe events and the impact of the
change in the Ogden Rate. Our disciplined growth over recent periods continues to
leverage our existing expense base. And as we have communicated to you before, we
have a long-term view of the Casualty and Specialty book. And its fundamentals remain
well within our expectations.
Now turning to investments. In the Fourth Quarter of 2017, we reported a total investment
result of $66 million, generating an annualized total return of 2.6%. And for the full year
2017, our total investment result was $358 million, generating a total return of 3.6%. We
benefited from the rising interest rate environment and higher average invested assets in
our fixed maturity investment portfolio and as we experienced strong returns in our
private -- portfolio of private and public equity investments driven by positive returns in
the global equity markets throughout 2017. Our investment portfolio remains conservative
with respect to interest rate, credit and duration risk and with 89% allocated to fixed
maturity and short-term investments with a high degree of liquidity and modest credit
exposure. The duration of our investment portfolio was 2.5 years. And the yield to
maturity on fixed income and short-term investment was 2.5% at December 31, 2017.
Our duration is down slightly during the quarter, driven largely from the capital raised in
Upsilon, which was invested in shorter duration assets given the nature of that vehicle.
Our strategic investment portfolio, managed by our ventures unit, again produced
positive returns overall for us. And we continue to be satisfied with the long-term
fundamentals of the companies we own.
Now moving on to our capital management activities. Our balance sheets in joint ventures
remain well capitalized as we enter 2018, a testament to our capital management
strategy and access to efficient capital following the events of 2017. During the Fourth
Quarter of 2017 and thus far into 2018, we have not purchased any of our common shares.
Page 6 of 18



FINAL

Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-02-01

Rather, we focused on deploying capital during the 1/1 renewals and through our ventures
unit. Our ventures team continues to actively build relationships with high quality, longterm investments as well as looking for new strategic transactions that can enhance our
underwriting franchise as we are pleased to have worked with RGA to form Langhorne Re.
Our third-party capital management will be well matched with RGA's experience in the life
market. We're also excited to have signed a definitive agreement to acquire minority
shareholding in Catalina subject to regulatory approval. Our ventures team was also
instrumental in reloading Upsilon for the January renewals, deploying an additional $600
million of capital, with a significant portion of that raise from trusted long-term partners.
In summary, when making capital management decisions in 2018, we will be mindful of
underwriting and business opportunities, the availability of capital and the recent actions
taken by other market participants. But our approach to capital management has not
changed. As we have always said, we first and foremost look to deploy capital into
underwriting and business opportunities that meet our risk-return hurdles.
Before turning the call back to Kevin, I just want to remind you that as we communicated
with you on our Third Quarter call, this will be the last quarter we separately disclose our
Lloyd's result in our financial supplement. We view our business as a portfolio of risk and
are conforming our financial reporting accordingly. Lloyd's will continue to be a key part of
our overall strategy. And its results will roll up in our Property and Casualty/Specialty results
as appropriate.

Bloomberg Transcript

And with that, I'd like to turn the call back to Kevin.

Kevin J. O'Donnell
Thanks, Bob. I'll take a few minutes to talk about each of our segments and then move to
the 1/1 renewals. And finally, we will open it up for questions.
For the full year in 2017, we grew gross written premiums in our Property segment by 16%.
More specifically, we grew catastrophe by 8% and other property by about 48%, albeit
from a relatively small base. These numbers exclude reinstatement premiums from the
cat events. We continue to assess our loss estimates for the Q3 catastrophic events. As
Bob discussed, we recognized a reduction in our net negative impact of $30 million on
these events during the Fourth Quarter. As the year progresses, we will receive additional
customer renewal information related to the events, engineering reports and other
proprietary research from our WeatherPredict subsidiary, including firsthand, on-location
assessments that will assist us in fine-tuning our loss estimate. Once we have sufficient
data, we plan to perform a deep dive on the Q3 cat events, which should occur around
midyear.
As we preannounced, we suffered losses from the wildfires affecting Northern California
in October. Similar drought conditions led to separate wildfires in Southern California in
December. As I mentioned with respect to the Q3 cat events, when customers and perils
are similar, they can be difficult to split out particular events. Consistent with that
approach, we are reporting the combined negative impact from the Q4 California

Page 7 of 18



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-02-01

wildfires of $104 million. I should point out also consistent with my prior discussions that
the net negative impact from the 2017 aggregate losses includes wildfire loss

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

(technical difficulty)
of the increase in the aggregate contracts in the Fourth Quarter is attributable to the
California wildfires. As I noted on our last call, each loss has unique characteristics and
develops differently. And this applies to the California wildfires. Even though they occurred
after the Q3 cat events, we are finding that they are developing more quickly. As I
discussed last quarter, we recognized the benefits of our gross-to-net strategy in the
second half of 2017 and continue to do so on the wildfires. The positive side of abundant
capital, particularly for short-tail risk, is our ability to purchase meaningful retro protection
for less than we initially forecasted. We continue to evaluate the retro market and
anticipate that, similar to 2017, we will retain about 50% of our Property cat risk in 2018.
Moving to the January 1 renewal. The Property segment experienced pricing increases for
the first time in years. Going into the renewal market, the market appeared to have higher
expectations on rate changes than we did. We entered the renewal prepared to execute
in a better market. And we performed well. Rates were in an acceptable range. And
seeing this, we executed quickly, deploying both more of our owned capital and more of
our partner capital. As I said last quarter, rates needed to go up. And they did. It is our
hope that the market continues to move closer to a suitable long-term equilibrium, with
rates neither too high nor too low. Loss-affected retro was up the most, averaging
between 10% to 25%, with non-loss-affected programs flat to up 10%. On loss-affected
U.S. cat business, rates were up between 10% and 20%. Rates on other U.S. cat programs
were flat to up 5%, while rates on other property were up 5% to 10%. Rates in the
international market were flat to up 5% as well.
Given this environment, we continued to find ways to grow the Property segment
profitably at a pace greater than the pricing rate change and are pleased with our
execution overall at the January 1 renewal. For example, we were the first call in many
programs and, generally had access to the business we wanted. Our focus on the
strategic over the transactional was critical in strengthening our ties to our most important
customers and reaffirming our role as a trusted adviser across multiple lines of business.
This resulted in us having preferential access to over $200 million of new premium to the
market. The growth in our Property lines was distributed across both catastrophe and the
other property books in the U.S. and internationally and also assumed retro. It is
noteworthy that a significant portion of our portfolio is multiyear in nature, which reduces
the amount of limit subject to rate increase. That said, we were able to access new
business and grow in a market with relatively flat demand. For example, consistent with
our approach of moving from the transactional to the strategic, we grew our Upsilon
vehicle from $300 million of limit to more than $800 million of limit year-on-year at
January 1. Upsilon has evolved since we first won the vehicle in 2012 when it assumed
almost exclusively aggregate retrocessional exposure. As of today, half of the Upsilon
portfolio is retro, with the remainder coming from primary reinsurance or enterprise
covers. This continues to be a great example of sourcing attractive risk and matching it
with efficient capital. The manner in which our underwriting and ventures teams work
together on these vehicles continues to impress me.
Page 8 of 18



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-02-01

FINAL

Overall, although January 1 is a heavy renewal period for retrocessional placements, only
about 40% of our Property portfolio renews at 1/1. And there will be more loss-affected
programs incepting at mid-year. We would expect to see the recent price increases
carryforward to those programs as we move through 2018.
For the year, we grew gross written premium in our Casualty segment by 7%. This growth
was driven by a number of casualty lines of business, whereas the written premium in our
financial line book was down as expected, the result of having written several large deals
in 2016, which will earn out over several years. Similar to our Property segment, we
continued to execute our gross-to-net strategy in Casualty and Specialty, with ceded
purchases remaining fairly consistent during the quarter and for the full year. As Bob
mentioned, we currently cede about 1/3 of the premium in this segment. At the January
renewal, rates in casualty lines were up. And terms and conditions generally remained
stable.

Bloomberg Transcript

Regarding market conditions, casualty reinsurers exercised relatively more discipline in
their approach to renewals. This was particularly observable on the most challenged
accounts, whether it had been elevated loss emergence or underlying rate deterioration.
However, the trend was broader. And even accounts that exhibited healthy loss trends
and good profits saw some contraction in the supply of reinsurance capacity and terms
and conditions adjusting in a favorable direction. On average, ceding commissions
reduced. And our cedents were optimistic there would be upwards rate movement in
underlying books of business. Overall, however, even with some supply contraction, there
remained ample capacity from well-rated markets against basically flat demand.
While market conditions should continue to improve due to the significant number of
proportional deals we write in casualty, a sustained change in underlying rates is needed
before there will be a material increase in the profitability of our portfolio. While the
adjustments in terms were often small, the movement allowed our underwriters to
actively manage their positions to gain share on the most attractive business and reduce
on underperforming accounts. And this resulted in an improved portfolio. Being a
recognized leader in Casualty and Specialty has and will continue to benefit us in an
improving market. Our ability to support clients with the breadth of products and
platforms as well as provide meaningful insight on market trends and performance
translates into preferential signings on certain programs and is evidence of our clear value
proposition for our clients and brokers. Our customers want broad and deep relationships
with reinsurers who provide expertise and consistency. Because of this, we're able to
selectively monetize our relationships with customers and grow in areas where we
wanted to be overweight, such as financial lines.
Ultimately, we take the approach that we can best maximize shareholder value by
providing our partners with stable capacity over the long term. Once again, mortgage was
a bright spot for the year. There is robust demand, although there continues to be ample
supply. This business remains attractively provides -- and provides healthy returns on our
risk capital. As I mentioned previously, the reduction in gross premiums written in our
financial lines business was driven by some one-off 2016 contracts and not our view of its
relative attractiveness.

Page 9 of 18



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-02-01

FINAL

We had a busy Fourth Quarter with respect to joint venture activity, raising in excess of $1
billion in various managed vehicles, including DaVinci, our cat fund Medici, Upsilon and
other structures. This began in late September following the last of the major Atlantic
hurricanes, when we raised $230 million of equity capital into DaVinci from both existing
and new investors. This capital raise allowed us to replenish all of the capital lost in the Q3
cat events and gave us and the market confidence to trade forward into the Fourth
Quarter.
As I discussed earlier, we made key strategic investments in both Langhorne and Catalina.
I'm proud of our performance in '17 and optimistic regarding our opportunities in '18. Rates
have mostly halted their decline across our segments and are trending in a positive
direction. At the same time, we were able to execute a substantial gross-to-net strategy.
This, coupled with rising interest rate environment and growing portfolio of strategic
investments, has resulted in a portfolio that is both significantly better than the one we
constructed in 2017 and capable of maximizing shareholder value.
With that, I'll open the call up for questions. Thanks.

Questions And Answers
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Kai Pan with Morgan
Stanley.

Q - Kai Pan

{BIO 20547983 <GO>}

First question is on the Jan 1 renewal. What percentage of your account to renew on Jan 1
is loss-impact account versus loss-free accounts? I'm just wondering if that proportion
would change in the upcoming midyear renewals.

A - Kevin J. O'Donnell
I actually don't have that split. But let me talk to it qualitatively. What's coming up later this
year is really 2 big renewals, Japan. But more importantly, Florida. Most of the -- much of
the Florida renewal is obviously loss impacted. So I think that percentage for the midyear
June-July renewals will be greater than what we saw at 1/1. At 1/1, we have international
book, which had some very small participation in the losses. We had a retro book, which
had large participation in the losses. Then we had the nationwide book, which was mixed.
Some at the low-end of the program had losses, further up in the program didn't. So
without a specific split, I would say we're going into the 6/1, 7/1, with an expectation that
there'll be a greater percentage of loss-affected accounts than what we had at 1/1.

Q - Kai Pan

{BIO 20547983 <GO>}

Okay. Great. Kevin, you mentioned that you believe that rate momentum will carry forward
at midyear renewals. What give you that confidence? And also, as the retro rate is
increasing faster than the reinsurance rate, how that change your gross-to-net strategy?
Are you buying less retro coverage?
Page 10 of 18



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-02-01

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Kevin J. O'Donnell
Sure. I think I'll start with the retro part of your question first. I think it could seem as a
conflicted message in that we grew retro. But we're saying we had better-than-expected
access to purchasing retro. The reason for that is, what we are selling through Upsilon is a
very different product than what we are buying. So what we sell through Upsilon is a
heavily loss-affected program, mostly worldwide and some aggregate. In addition to the
retro that's in Upsilon, as I mentioned, we also have some enterprise coverage in some
larger nationwides. That mix is actually -- because some of the retro pricing wasn't as high
as what we needed for us to commit our partner capital. Our purchasing is done on a
different basis. So as we talked in previous calls, we have a significant amount of our retro
coverage, which I consider with partners, whether that be third-party capital partners or
long-term partners participating on the programs that we have through our CPP facility,
those largely renewed. And they will participate in the better market alongside of us. We
have a trading account retro, which often is on a more specific basis of coverage than
what we are selling within Upsilon. And the rate movement within that book was different
than the rate movement we saw for Upsilon, Upsilon getting better rates. Your second
question was, why do I think rate increases will persist through the rest of the year? One
is, there's a lot of loss-affected business that has not been renewed yet, both for what I
mentioned previously, for the 7/1 and 6/1 Florida renewals. But also there's a significant
portion of our book that's multiyear. So part of that has renewed. But there's other parts
that have suffered losses. But has not been touched. And finally, we've had a long period
of rate decline, which has persisted for many years. So there is need for rate
enhancement. So I think the overall discipline in the market recognizing that more rate is
needed for reinsurance protections is going to be a backbone for discipline as we
approach the midyear renewals.

Q - Kai Pan

{BIO 20547983 <GO>}

That's very helpful. One last one, if I may, is on the recent -- the investment in 2 runoff
business. I was wondering, in addition to the strategic value of this investment, what -how significant are the financial impact in terms of both investment, potential fee income
or investment returns from these 2 joint ventures?

A - Robert Qutub

{BIO 15269353 <GO>}

First, just from the financial standpoint, Kai, the minority interest that we have in Catalina is
small. But that doesn't withstand the strategic value we're trying to get out of it. But it's
less than 10%.

A - Kevin J. O'Donnell
And I think of these as very consistent with what we've done on other vehicles. If you take
Langhorne, we are 50-50 joint venture partners with RGA on the management vehicle.
But we have a small investment in the third-party capital pool, the $780 million that was
raised by Langhorne to fund the transactions that are ultimately underwritten by
Langhorne. That's kind of consistent with the way we think about DaVinci and other
vehicles. And we're delighted to have RGA as a recognized leader in the life reinsurance
space as the partner there. Catalina is a little different. As Bob mentioned, it's a small
investment that we have in Catalina. I think the benefit strategically to us is that
increasingly, our customers are seeing runoff solutions as a viable capital management
Page 11 of 18



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-02-01

tool. So if we can sit down with a trusted partner with a great reputation like Catalina with
our customers and provide both life coverage or ongoing coverage for books of business
through our reinsurance vehicles and runoff solutions through Catalina to those
customers, I think it's a win-win for everybody.

FINAL

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Elyse Greenspan with Wells Fargo.

Q - Elyse Beth Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

My first question probably just picking off on that last question. In the past, you guys have
really focused these investments in other vehicles, I think, on your core cat expertise, I
guess. When you guys thought about making these 2 investments in Langhorne and
Catalina, what gave you comfort in moving away from the cat area? I mean, I know you
mentioned Essent and Trupanion, which have been successful investments. You guys also
had investment in ChannelRe, which was not as successful. So as you thought about going
and putting capital here, I guess, what was the thought process and the idea that now is
the time to put capital in more longer-tail vehicles than shorter-tail, which you have
historically done?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Kevin J. O'Donnell
Sure. Let me start with Langhorne. So when I think of Langhorne, I think you're right that
we are each contributing -- RGA is contributing a lot of underwriting expertise. We're
contributing a lot of third-party capital and structure management expertise to the vehicle.
In collaboration, I think those 2 sets of skills will be a tremendously powerful platform for
us to be successful in block runoff business. I think there's some benefits that we're
seeing for some European solvency requirements with an increased level of pipeline
potentially coming to that market. So in thinking about it, what we looked for was an
industry-recognized leader from an underwriting expertise. And I think what we bring to
the table is industry-leading expertise with regard to capital structure and third-party
capital management for that vehicle. So I feel very confident about where we are and how
we've set that up for future success. Catalina is a little bit further field, with it being a
minority investment -- equity investment in them. We've known the team for a long time.
They've got a great track record. And they've got a strong reputation within the market.
So I see us again -- that's a business in some ways we're familiar with. It's going to be
more P&C. The way in which they ultimately participate in the risk is different than what we
do. But I think we can help them think about risk from a live transaction perspective. And
they will give us perspective as to how to think about the legacy issues of long-tail
business. So I think everybody is contributing something to each of these joint ventures.
And I think the combined effort of the partnerships will produce great returns for
everyone.

Q - Elyse Beth Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

Okay. Then going back to some of the market commentary. Kevin, you pointed to June
and July potentially being better than Jan 1, as more loss-impacted business renews.
We've obviously seen a lot of alternative capital reload in the market. As that continues as
we get closer to June and July, how does that factor into your thinking on the pricing
Page 12 of 18



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-02-01

dynamic? And do you have a view on the potential when you put all your comments
together, what type of premium growth Ren could see in cat in 2018?

FINAL

A - Kevin J. O'Donnell
Sure. Looking forward into the June, July renewals, there's a lot that can happen. It's
February. And there's a lot air to cover between now and then. But when I look forward
with what we see coming, I think it's reasonable to expect a reasonably flat demand
coming out of Florida. Your comments about third-party capital, whether there's more
looking for risk in Florida, I'm not sure. But I think the thing to focus on is the incumbency
priority given to reinsurers on placements. So without growth, I think it's going to be
difficult to dislocate well-behaving traditional markets. So I'm not sure what role third-party
capital will have. But I think, given opportunities for growth, I think we are about as well
positioned to achieve that growth as anyone possibly can be in the Florida market. With
regard to rates, I tried to indicate that I think the rate having the wind at our back from a
rating environment, I think that will persist. I don't mean to indicate that I think 7/1 or 6/1 will
be better than what we saw at 1/1. But I think the momentum for a positive rate and more
economics coming to reinsurers will persist as we go into those renewals.

Q - Elyse Beth Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Then, Bob, maybe this is a question for you. It seems like you guys saw a benefit on
expenses in the quarter. Maybe it seems like lower bonuses potentially due to the high
level of losses in '17. Can you quantify the benefit that we saw coming through your
expenses just as we think about modeling the expense level going forward?

A - Robert Qutub

{BIO 15269353 <GO>}

Yes. That's right, Elyse. As I pointed out in some of my prepared comments, both Property
and Casualty segments saw a benefit in the Fourth Quarter as we did take down, one, our
compensation expenses for the obvious reasons of lower profitability for the year. We
don't typically show the number. But you can probably comparatively figure it out. But it
was around $10 million, give or take. But that's reflective of the performance. But we've
also -- which you can't really see in there is the efficiencies that we've gained by
leveraging our operating expenses, not only the operational expenses. But the corporate
costs. Corporate costs are down quite a bit year-over-year as a result of some executive
exits last year, which is you're seeing a more normalized run rate in the corporate costs
this year.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Anit Kunar (sic) (Amit Kumar) with Buckingham
Research Group.

Q - Amit Kumar

{BIO 15025799 <GO>}

It's Amit Kumar. Two quick questions, then I'll requeue. Going back to the discussion on 1/1
-- sorry, on 6/1. If you look at the JLT rate online index and if you go back to KRW, in '06
versus '05, the rate online index jumped by 25%. Then if you fast forward to, let's say,
2012 to 2017, it fell by, let's say, 40% or so. I was hoping if you could tie in your comments
Page 13 of 18



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-02-01

regarding the pricing equilibrium to the past versus where we could be. I guess, what I'm
trying to figure out is, we get some rate momentum. Do we get to the point where you
said equilibrium is needed? Or is there still a gap based on your perception?

FINAL

A - Kevin J. O'Donnell
Let me try to answer your question with regard -- I think what you're asking is, is rate
adequacy expected after this renewal?

Q - Amit Kumar

{BIO 15025799 <GO>}

Yes.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Kevin J. O'Donnell
I look at -- just take 1/1. What was needed to be successful at 1/1 might be the model for
what's needed to be successful at 6/1. Knowing that all the placements were completed
should rationally lead one to believe that rates were adequate. Otherwise, there would
have been shortfalls. So when I think about that, I think that what's required for success in
this market is finding the most efficient capital and then making sure that where there is
desirable risk, you have access to it. So in looking at what we did at 1/1, we were able to
grow on our own balance sheet because we had access to risk. And we have structured
our balance sheets efficiently both on a gross and net basis. And secondly, we were able
to scale Upsilon as we've done every year since 2012 to meet the opportunity that our
customers present. And that capital is efficient for the type of risk that we're writing on to
it. So it's a very capital-consumptive on a rated balance sheet and very efficient on the
Upsilon structure. So in order to be successful in that market, it's not whether rates are
adequate or not because that has to be put in context of what capital you're using to
match that risk to. As I look at 6/1, I think the same set of variables lines up, which means
the same set of tools are required for success. So as I look at our ability to execute into
6/1 and 7/1, I think we will look very carefully at how much of our capital we're going to
expose, both on a gross and net basis. And as to whether we're going to initiate some of
the vehicles we've had in the past or a new vehicle that best meets our customers'
needs.

Q - Amit Kumar

{BIO 15025799 <GO>}

Got it. Fair point. The other question goes back to the discussion on Catalina and
Langhorne. If you were to step back, is there -- I guess, I should ask, is there like a level of
capital you would like to dedicate to these -- if I can call it noncore or non-P&C core
businesses? Is there a number in your mind? Or is this more opportunistic for 2018?

A - Kevin J. O'Donnell
It's somewhere between. I think when we think about what we're going -- so we've been
working on these deals for close to a year. So it's not as if they popped up in the quarter
and we closed on them. It took a long time to come up with the structure and the overall
parameters of the partnership. So when I think about it, we think about liquidity in these
transactions, knowing that they can be very long tail in nature. We think about the value of
the partnership and then because of the way we're structured, we can very easily
collaborate, as I mentioned, between the ventures team and the underwriting team to
Page 14 of 18



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-02-01

FINAL

come up with an enterprise value for the overall partnership. So it's not opportunistic
because strategically, this is what we do. But it's also not one in which we have finite
dollars allocated to these types of relationships. If there was another relationship from a
joint venture perspective that emerged tomorrow, we would actively engage in it as long
as it made sense for us strategically and we're able to get both partnership economics
and capital economics.

Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Meredith with UBS.

Q - Brian Robert Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

A couple of quick questions here for you. The first one, just curious, Bob, I noticed a big
increase in cash in your balance sheet at December and also big jump in other liabilities.
Was there something unusual going on?

A - Robert Qutub

{BIO 15269353 <GO>}

That's the prefunding for Upsilon that comes in there goes into cash. Recall my comment
about the short durations. And that's just the liability that'll flip into premium on the liability
side at 1/1.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Brian Robert Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Got you. So that's all on that one. Great. Then secondly, just thinking about your
investment income right now, what are new money yields look like relative to kind of with
the current kind of book yield that's on your portfolio? And should we expect a benefit
this year from the higher interest rates we're seeing?

A - Robert Qutub

{BIO 15269353 <GO>}

I'll give you a couple of perspectives, Brian. The new money yield, I'd say, our yield at the
end of the year was 2.5%. You'll see that in the supplemental I mentioned in my prepared
comments. The duration is 2.5 years. So it's relatively short. We're in fixed maturity
securities. And the interest rates have really started to take up over the course of the last
month. So as we expect. And as Kevin said, we do think we have rates kind of having a
general uptick. I would say given the short duration and where we're at right now, we're
looking at potentially how are our yields in 2018, as I think a lot of other participants are.

Q - Brian Robert Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Got you. And just quickly another -- just quick from accounting perspective to Langhorne
Re, are you going to book the fee income through kind of your other income line where
you've got Top Layer and Tower Hill? Is that where we're going to see it?

A - Robert Qutub

{BIO 15269353 <GO>}

You're going to see -- the Langhorne is a joint venture 50-50. So you're going to see
(inaudible) pickup side of it coming through there. That's where our investment in our

Page 15 of 18



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-02-01

limited partnership will be in that piece. But it's a minority noncontrolling interest. But given
the JV nature of it, you'll see it come through there.

Operator

FINAL

Next question comes from the line of Meyer Shields with KBW.

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

Kevin, one basic question. When you talk about constructing a more attractive portfolio at
1/1, can you break that down between expected return, in other words, the improvement
in expected return versus the improvement in overall risk?

A - Kevin J. O'Donnell
Let me try. What I would say is, we -- from a net perspective, we have increased our risk
on our owned balance sheets. So -- and that risk shift has been reasonably uniform. So
it's, honestly, like a jump up in the curve. It's not as if we're hotter down low or hotter up
high. It's -- below the 1 in 100, it's a reasonably uniform shift. So from an expected return
perspective, we're getting really 2 bumps, then we are using our capital a little bit more
efficiently. And we are getting more rate per dollar of risk that we are taking. So I kind of
highlighted the rate changes we're seeing by major segment. I think that could be a proxy
for what you're seeing in the change in expected returns and then adding that we are
taking a nominal amount more risk on our owned balance sheets.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

Okay. That's very helpful. Second question, I guess, I don't want to confuse your
experience with broader industry. But it does seem a little odd to me that we're seeing
loss estimates for the Third Quarter catastrophe kind of drift down rather than up, which
has been the normal practice. Can you talk about that a little bit?

A - Kevin J. O'Donnell
I can talk about us. I think from our perspective, we are going to have movements on
these losses. There's a lot of moving pieces, both -- when I think about it, there's a lot of
events that came in, in close proximity. And we have a shared retro program. So as the
wildfires happened, we had to go back and not just think about what retro is protecting
the wildfires, we had to go back from time 0 and look at each of the events and then
begin to allocate the retro across all the events again, making sure that there was an
optimal set of recovery assumptions made against the gross losses we're incurring. So I
think we're going to see some movement on them. If you look at it relative to the overall
gross loss over the overall net loss, the movements that we had weren't particularly large.
And more importantly, I wouldn't point to a trend specifically in any one of the events.
There's a little bit of movement here, a little bit of movement there. As time passes from
our process, we move from having kind of the dual approach, which is the top down,
what's the industrial loss and starting very macro with market shares to increasingly more
precision from our customers and understanding what they believe their losses to be. So I
think the migration to more definitive information from customers will also mean that the
loss numbers will be moving around a bit.
Page 16 of 18



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-02-01

Operator
And your final question comes from the line of Jay Cohen with Bank of America.

FINAL

Q - Jay Adam Cohen

{BIO 3220715 <GO>}

Kevin or Bob, from a capital standpoint, there are seemingly more moving pieces at your
company than we've had in probably years. Looking forward, given all those moving
pieces, can you give us any insight on the potential for buybacks? I mean, should we just
expect potentially no buybacks for this year, given everything going on?

A - Robert Qutub

{BIO 15269353 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

This has been -- that's a good question, Jay. And thanks for asking it. And you look at -this really started -- nothing's changed, first, on our deployment of capital and how we
look at our capital management out there. We feel very comfortable. All our balance
sheets are very well capitalized. And as we went into the 1/1 renewals like we talked
about, our focus was on looking to deploy capital, which we did. As Kevin talked about on
the 1/1 renewals, we were successful there. We also deployed it through other means
through our ventures unit. So we felt very good about that. And that's something we kind
of told you about. My comments are, we're still looking to see what the opportunities are
as we go into 2018. And again, our priority is to deploy capital, put our money to work.
Regarding share buybacks, those are things that will come as part of our overall
considerations. And we're not going to get beholden to one quarter or one single metric.
But rather looking at it over a period of time. And Jay, you've seen us over the last few
years, we've been very good about returning capital as well as balancing that with capital
deployment. Kevin, do you want to offer anything else? Or is that -- I think that covers...

A - Kevin J. O'Donnell
Yes. That's absolutely right. We'll deploy capital into the market first and then look to
manage it in alternative ways if we can't deploy it.

Operator
This concludes our question-and-answer session. I will now turn the call back over to CEO,
Kevin O'Donnell, for closing remarks.

A - Kevin J. O'Donnell
Thank you, everybody, for participating on today's call. We look forward to speaking to
you in a couple months' time. Thanks, again. Bye.

Operator
This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

Page 17 of 18



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2018-02-01

Page 18 of 18

