Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

Q4 2017 Earnings Call - Pre-recorded
Company Participants
FINAL

Luigi Lubelli, Group Chief Financial Officer
Philippe Donnet, Managing Director and Group Chief Executive Officer

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Philippe Donnet

{BIO 4657671 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to our 2017 results presentation. We had a strong
performance throughout 2017 thanks to the commitment of our over 70,000 people
across the globe. We increased profitability in what is still a challenging environment for
the insurance sector. We are executing our strategy with discipline and are confident we
will meet our targets by the end of this year. I will provide you with an update in a few
moments.
Before doing that, I would like to run through the key highlights that best characterize 2017
for us. Our overall business performance has been strong as you will see on the next
slide. Luigi will then give you a more detailed analysis of the numbers. Thanks to our
results and our confidence in the future, we have increased our dividend yet again. Our
commitment to shareholder value creation remains strong. As I just mentioned in my
introduction, we are on track to meet the industrial transformation objectives we set for
ourselves in 2015, which will be reached by the end of 2018.
And finally, we are going to present our new strategic plan in November of this year. This
will take Generali into its next phase, now that we have effectively laid the foundation for
future profitable growth.
Our group is gaining momentum. All of our high-level KPIs show that our strategy is
working. Let me take you through them. In full-year 2017, we posted €4.9 billion of
operating profit, a new record for our group, and over €2.1 billion of net income. Our
dividend for 2017 is up 6% to €0.85 per share.
Our balance sheet remains solid. Our Solvency has become even stronger, standing at
230% based on our full internal model, up by 36 points since the end of 2016. The growth
of our solvency has been underpinned by the strength of our organic capital generation.
Every six months, I like to remind you of our strategic pillars and to give you an update as
to where we currently stand. The first pillar is to optimize our international footprint. We
want to continue to redirect our resources to reinforce the markets where we can further
improve our performance and exit those where we do not believe we can deliver marketleading, risk-adjusted returns.

Page 1 of 14



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

Just recently, we announced our exit from the Netherlands and Ireland. We confirm our
target of achieving at least €1 billion of cash proceeds. Second, our operating machine
itself, we continue to streamline processes and to integrate platforms and entities. In this
regard, we have made significant progress in our second largest market, Germany, over
the course of 2017. This will have a positive impact on our performance as well as on
costs. The overall aim is to cut costs by a total of €200 million in mature markets.
Third, we will further enhance our proven core insurance capabilities and our technical
excellence. Our objective is to have the best Combined Ratio in the industry. In Life, we
are improving the quality and profitability of our new business; we are bringing our
guarantees down to 0% and are prepared for the impact of a long-term, low-interest rate
environment of any other unexpected adverse market condition. These three areas share
the common goal of improving our overall operating performance. And, in order to secure
longer term value creation; there are another three key areas in which we have already
made progress.

Bloomberg Transcript

First, the structure of our business portfolio, we are transforming it to become more
resilient and to increase our growth potential. Our commitment is to lower the average
portfolio guarantee by 30 basis points to 1.5% and to increase the share of capital light
reserves by 6 percentage points, both by year-end 2018.
Regarding Asset Management, in 2017 we announced our new strategy under the
stewardship of Tim Ryan. The new asset management business unit will become a
greater profit center going forward. We are leveraging our talent from within as well as
partnering with the most expert professionals in the market. The objective is to add at
least an additional €150 million to the group's bottom line by the year 2020. We are
confident in the potential of this business for Generali.
Second, customer and distributor innovation. We are experiencing a revolution in
customer behavior and technological development. We will continue to capitalize on these
trends. We will become simpler, smarter and faster not only in our internal processes and
operations, but also in the way we interact with customers and understand their needs.
Over 2017, we have seen how our customer has evolved. Many want to conduct their
transactions via their personal mobile device, with availability 7 days a week 24 hours a
day. We are committed through our Mobile Hub to offering our clients unrivalled service
because it is service that will distinguish us from our competitors.
Further, we are a global leader in the connected insurance arena with for example, 1.5
million black boxes installed in cars in Europe, and we intend to strengthen this position.
Our objective is to increase client retention overall by 2 percentage points.
And finally, our brand. We have a very strong brand, built on quality, excellence and
heritage. We have yet to unleash the full potential of the Lion of San Marco. We aim to
grow the mature market brand preference as we increasingly shift from traditional
marketing to digital. In some markets, such as Germany, we are aiming to consolidate our
branding to take full advantage of the Generali brand equity.

Page 2 of 14



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

Now, I would like to give you an idea where we currently stand regarding the goals we set
for each of these six pillars. On optimizing our footprint, I am pleased to say that we have
already signed deals valued at more than half of our €1 billion goal. We have started to
receive the proceeds following the closing of the sale of our Dutch operations. We have
decided to use some of these proceeds to repay the €250 million of subordinated debt
due in 2018. Capital and debt management at Generali will be one of the themes of our
next Investor Day.
We have already cut some €200 million from operating expenses by the end of last year. I
am proud to say that thanks to our Fit-to-Lead programs, we were able to reach this goal
two full years ahead of the original schedule.
In terms of technical capabilities, we continue to hold a position of excellence in 2017. Our
Combined Ratio was once again the best among our peers, standing at 92.8%. This
confirms our strong pricing, underwriting and claims management capabilities. Further, our
guarantees in Life have continued to fall to just 22 basis points, and we are poised to
achieve our objective of 0% by year-end 2018.

Bloomberg Transcript

As for the pillars aimed at long-term value creation, we are transforming our business
portfolio so that we become more resilient and can increase our profitable growth
potential.
Our commitment is to lower the average portfolio guarantee by 30 basis points by yearend 2018. We have already seen a nearly 20 basis point reduction since 2015. By the end
of 2017, we had seen the reserve mix shift by 4.5 percentage points toward capital-light
reserves, well on target to reach our objective of 6 percentage points.
And finally, we are beginning to see the first results of our recently-launched asset
management business. Its overall stand-alone net result in Europe came to €152 million at
the end of 2017, up 81% compared to 2016. In terms of customer and distributor
innovation, we reaped the benefits of a number of initiatives such as the award-winning
Net Promoter Score Program, now covering 90% of our client base with customer
satisfaction metrics clearly improving.
Also, we held the first Global Agent Excellence Contest involving over 80,000 of our
agents and distributors. Both initiatives gave us great insight into what we are doing well
and where we must do even better. We forecast achieving our customer retention targets
on time. Regarding mature market brand preference, we plan to strengthen it by 3
additional percentage points by year-end 2018. Here, we are progressing slowly and plan
to take the necessary actions in branding initiatives during this year in order to meet the
target.
Based on the results so far, we are confident and committed to delivering the financial
targets announced in 2015. We will achieve more than €7 billion of net operating cash
between 2015 and 2018 of which we already delivered €5.8 billion by the end of 2017.
Cumulative dividends will reach at least €5 billion between 2015 and 2018. And again, we

Page 3 of 14



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

are well on track; the €0.85 per share that we are proposing for 2017 will take us to €3.7
billion.
The operating return on equity will be above 13%; as at the end of 2017, the average
stood well above the target at 13.7%. As we progress on our journey that commenced
some six years ago, we are coming to the completion of the industrial turn-around. We
have strengthened our capital position and reduced debt during our financial turnaround
from 2012 until 2015. We have established six pillars to serve as the basis of our industrial
turn-around that will be completed at the end of 2018 so that we can move onto the next
phase of development, transformation and profitable growth.
Please mark your calendars because on November 21 in Milan, we will present a roadmap
that will illustrate the next part of our decade-long journey. We will outline our profitable
growth trajectory and show you how we intend to build on our competitive advantages.
We don't want to be the biggest insurance and asset management group, but we do
strive to be the best. I look forward to seeing you there.

Bloomberg Transcript

2017 was also a very important year for our group beyond our balance sheet. Generali
approved its Charter of Sustainability Commitments that includes a number of concrete
actions that our group will take which are key to our role in society and our responsibilities
as a corporate citizen.
Moreover, Generali has announced its new climate change policy. We plan to take a series
of meaningful steps that make us more responsible investors and underwriters. These
include divesting from coal for approximately €2 billion while at the same time up-scaling
investments in green sectors by some €3.5 billion by 2020.
Finally, we launched Generali's first truly global sustainability program, The Human Safety
Net, Headquartered in Piazza San Marco in Venice, this is an important new element of
being a responsible corporate citizen on behalf of our group. The movement of people
helping people will be launched in every market where Generali is present, aiding those in
need. The program is in harmony with our group's overall vision, protecting and enhancing
people's lives. The platform is open so that individuals as well as private and public
entities may contribute.
We have opened the program in markets such as Germany, France, Spain, Argentina and
as far away as Indonesia. The Human Safety Net gives purpose to what we do, a purpose
that goes beyond our day-to-day activity. While it is important to analyze our numbers and
our financial performance quarter by quarter, it is just as important for Generali to
contribute to a healthier, more resilient society. We raised the bar on the way we report
so that you can see not only our financial performance but also our accomplishments so
far in our sustainability journey.
In conclusion, today's financials show that our strategy is the right one. We are delivering
the results that we promised. We are confident that we will meet our stakeholders'
expectation. We will continue to push forward to ensure that our operational performance

Page 4 of 14



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

on the one hand, and creation of long-term value for the group, on the other, will
continue.

FINAL

I would like to take this opportunity to recognize the managerial talent that we have
around the world that has made these results and this industrial turn-around a reality. We
are all part of an on-going evolution in which we continuously strive for excellence in
everything we do, every day, everywhere.
Again, I am very proud of the results we achieved. I would now like to pass the floor to
Luigi who will give you more details on our full-year 2017 financials.
Thank you.

Luigi Lubelli

{BIO 4108780 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. This morning I have the pleasure of guiding you through the
main figures of our 2017 full year results. As Philippe has already commented, we have a
solid set of numbers, confirming the successful execution of our strategy.

Bloomberg Transcript

Before I dive into the details, I would like to give you a summary overview of our
performance in 2017. During this year, we continued to relentlessly execute our strategy,
quarter by quarter. The figures for the year are a testimony to the outcome of our work.
Firstly, let's have a look at growth. Our Life net inflows reached €9.7 billion and are again at
industry leading levels. Most importantly, they came entirely from our targeted unit linked
and protection products. P&C premiums increased by a quarter of €1 billion, growing in
both Motor and Non-Motor throughout our international presence. Assets under
management grew to €542 billion, an increase of nearly €26 billion, €11 billion of which
came from third parties.
Now, let's look at results. We recorded our largest operating result ever, at almost €4.9
billion, a 2.3% increase. This was achieved thanks to a robust technical approach, despite
natural catastrophes, prudent investments, cost efficiencies and business diversification.
The resulting operating return on equity stood at 13.4%, once more above our target rate.
Non-operating items reflect a few developments, I will go deeper into in a few moments. I
wish nonetheless to highlight a substantial drop in impairments, as well as some positive
and negative items that resulted from our active execution of geographical footprint
review, as well as to the management of our back book.
The net result of €2.1 billion was up 1.4% from the previous year. When you evaluate its
growth, I encourage you to bear in mind the various special items we booked this year,
which will allow you to immediately appreciate that our underlying profit growth is
developing at a very healthy rate.

Page 5 of 14



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

Our distribution effectiveness and careful underwriting approach bore fruit again this year.
On one hand, the strong improvement of the Life new business margin you have been
seeing in previous quarters was confirmed by a full-year figure at 4% on the present value
of new business premiums, up almost 1.5 percentage points from 2016. Likewise, our
Combined Ratio remained at excellent levels, deteriorating slightly to 92.8% due to higher
natural catastrophe losses, but nevertheless remaining at industry-leading levels.
These achievements took us to post once again very strong levels of internal capital
generation, which stood at €3.6 billion normalized, up from €3.3 billion last year. This,
coupled with our focus on capital-light business, a careful risk-based approach to
investment selection and positive variances, led us to record a further strengthening in
our Solvency II ratio, which reached 208% on the regulatory view and 230% based on our
full internal model.
Lastly, I would like to draw your attention to our net operating cash generation, which
increased by a further 19%, also benefiting from capital management initiatives.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me now get into more detail, starting with the operating results by segment. The 2.3%
increase to €4.9 billion has been achieved primarily thanks to a good development of the
Holding and Other business line, driven by a strong performance from our investments,
asset and wealth management operations, along with an increased Life operating result.
The P&C operating result decreased by almost 5%, mainly due to the higher nat-cat
burden. I will review the segments in more detail in a moment.
To move from operating results to net result, we start with the non-operating investment
income, which had an €86 million positive contribution, compared with a €213 million
negative balance last year, thus leading to a positive swing of nearly €300 million. This
very significant improvement reflects primarily an amount of impairments that was half the
level for the previous year. On the other hand, realization gains were lower than last year,
while assets held at fair value through profit and loss had a slightly positive development,
compared to a negative amount in 2016.
Non-operating holding expenses decreased by €38 million to €756 million, driven by
interest expenses on our financial debt, which decreased by €50 million, mainly due to a
double counting effect we had last year due to pre-financing. This was partially offset by
an increase in other costs including some non-recurring expenses related to the
rationalization of our geographic footprint.
Net other non-operating expenses decreased by €87 million year on year. In the second
part of the year we had two main one-offs in this line, affecting particularly the last quarter.
Firstly, we provided for restructuring costs related to the strategic repositioning of our
German operations, which we announced in September, amounting to €174 million before
tax.
Secondly, in December we announced an agreement to sell the non-Life run-off portfolio
of our UK branch. This transaction resulted in a gain of €196 million. The net effect of
these two is therefore a small positive amount of €22 million before tax, but because of
Page 6 of 14



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

the differing tax rates, particularly the lower rate of tax applying to the UK disposal, the
impact on the bottom line of these two items is around €60 million after tax. The overall
effective tax rate of the group was 31.8%, 2.4 percentage points higher compared to last
year. This increase is mainly explained by two negative one-offs in France and in the U.S.
In France, we experienced a €40 million negative impact from the extraordinary tax addon the government introduced for 2017, while in the United States we had an additional 52
million tax burden stemming from the so called repatriation tax on undistributed foreign
earnings. In the discontinued operations line we have a loss of €217 million, mainly
resulting from the sale of our Dutch operations as booked in our nine month results,
mitigated by a small profit contribution of the Irish business, the sale of which we
announced in December.
Minority interests were €27 million higher, primarily linked to the good performance of
Banca Generali. This takes us to a net income for the year of €2.11 billion. For clarity let me
recap for you the special items we have seen in 2017 between the operating result and
the net result.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the fourth quarter, in the other non-operating line, we had the offsetting effects of the
German restructuring provisions, and the gain on sale of the UK run-off portfolio, with the
total net positive impact of €60 million after tax. Also in the fourth quarter, we had €92
million negative one-offs from tax effects in the U.S. and France. Finally, we booked a
negative €217 million of discontinued operations overall in 2017, mainly impacting the third
quarter.
Let me turn to cash generation. On this slide, we show you the gross remittance coming
from the main operating entities of the group which increased by 8% year-on-year to €2.6
billion. Remittance ratios are similar to last year, with the positive exception of France,
where we also executed an excess capital upstream exercise of approximately €0.2
billion. This operation underscores our capital management approach, which focuses on
maintaining our subsidiaries appropriately capitalized at healthy levels, up-streaming,
when feasible, any resources that are not required according to their risk profile. This will
be an area of increasing focus in the future.
To move from dividends received to our net operating cash metric, first we add the after
tax operating earnings of reinsurance activities, which had a recovering result compared
to last year, primarily due to lower man-made losses, which more than offset the higher
nat-cat effect. We then deduct overhead and interest expenses, again net of a
normalized tax rate. This results in €2.2 billion of net operating cash generation, 19%
higher than the previous year, and positioning us well on track towards our goal of €7
billion for the four years ending in 2018. By the end of 2017, we have achieved a
cumulative €5.8 billion, more than 80% of our end target.
Let us now turn to look at the balance sheet. Shareholders' equity increased by 2.2%, to
€25.1 billion. The positive contribution from the net result has been partially offset by the
2016 dividend paid in May and by €0.3 billion of other movements, which comprise a

Page 7 of 14



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

number of individually small effects, with foreign exchange being the largest at €0.2
billion. The movement in available-for-sale reserves was negligible on balance.
I will turn now to Solvency. Before getting to the numbers, I would like to explain two
changes in the presentation. As we undertook, we have now delivered a more granular
analysis as I am about to show you. Moreover, while we continue to disclose both internal
model and regulatory ratios, we are focusing more on the regulatory view, so as to have a
better alignment with the regulatory SFCR documents, which we published for the first
time last summer. We maintain our plans to expand the scope of internal model approval,
and we continue to expect the regulatory Solvency ratio to converge up towards the
internal model ratio over time, as such expansion will receive, as we trust, the relevant
approvals.
Now, returning to the numbers, it is immediately clear that we have seen a strongly
positive development, with the preliminary regulatory view reaching 208% and the full
internal model view reaching 230%. Let me explain this movement. To do so, as I
mentioned, I will focus on the regulatory solvency ratio, although the drivers are similar for
the internal model view, for which you can find an analysis in the backup. Normalized
capital generation was once again strong at €3.6 billion, adding 16 points to the regulatory
ratios. I will come back to this in a moment.

Bloomberg Transcript

This year we also have a relatively large amount of positive variances, totaling €3.8 billion.
Own funds drive €3 billion of this. Economic variances were the main effect at €1.8 billion,
driven by the positive performance of the equity and real estate asset classes, higher
interest rates and lower volatilities, with a small negative impact from foreign exchange.
The remainder is explained by positive operating variances and assumption changes of 1.7
billion, offset by 0.5 billion of non-recurring expenses, for example restructuring costs. In
P&C, it includes positive claims settlement as compared to best estimate – which we do
not include in the definition of normalized capital generation and to a revision of best
estimate assumptions in some cases.
In addition to own funds, variances also drove the SCR lower by €0.8 billion. Of this, €0.4
billion is explained by the same positive financial market developments which created the
variance in own funds. The remainder is driven by a combination of effects, including the
benefit of some specific strategic asset allocation optimizations performed during the
year and the impact of the sale of the UK run-off portfolio at the end of 2017. Lastly, we
deduct the proposed dividend of €1.3 billion, worth 6 percentage points of Solvency.
Let me come back to the normalized capital generation of €3.6 billion, and on this slide
we show it for the first time broken down by business segment, as well as by own funds
and SCR. Starting with Life, we had normalized capital generation of €3.5 billion, mainly
reflecting the own funds generated of €3.2 billion, which splits evenly between new
business and in force. The new business value of €1.6 billion is slightly different to the
MCEV number of €1.8 billion and this is due to differences in scope and methodology
between the two approaches, like the calculation of risk margin and cost of capital.

Page 8 of 14



FINAL

Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

The in-force generation is then simply the unwinding of the discount and the release of
risk margins, time value of guarantees and the prudence in financial assumptions
embedded in the market consistent approach. For the SCR, you can see that writing new
business consumed €1.3 billion of Solvency II capital, but this was more than offset by €1.5
billion released from the run off of the in-force portfolio, leading to a small net benefit of
€0.2 billion. As I will return to shortly, we are growing our book of Life business, and what
these numbers confirm is the high capital efficiency of the business we are writing, we are
growing volumes, but with less capital needed to support them.
In P&C, own funds generation was €1 billion, and here the drivers are different to IFRS. The
technical result is based on a best estimate view, but changes in best estimate
assumptions are taken as operating variances and not in normalized capital generation.
On the investment side, the picture is also different to IFRS, because in this view, for the
assets backing liabilities, we have only the real world spread earned and not the full return
as in IFRS. The earnings of risk free rates on the asset portfolio are offset by the
unwinding of reserves, which are discounted under Solvency II.

Bloomberg Transcript

For assets not backing liabilities, real world returns are assumed. The SCR basically does
not vary for P&C and that is consistent with the fairly modest changes in volume. Holding
and Other contributed a negative €0.9 billion, which reflects the interest costs paid and
holding expenses. Any changes in the value of entities outside of the Solvency II
regulatory scope are included in variances.
Lastly, I would like to highlight the tiering of capital under Solvency II. The strong creation
of solvency capital this year has come from the generation of economic value, and
consequently, the €5 billion increase in own funds is primarily Unrestricted Tier 1, with
other tiers of capital relatively stable. Consequently, not only the magnitude but also the
quality of our capital according to Solvency II tiering has improved. Our Solvency II capital
requirement is now covered 1.7 times by unrestricted Tier 1 capital alone, and we are far
away from any binding limits in terms of capital quality according to the Solvency II
regulations.
Now, I will turn to look at the performance of the individual business segments during the
year, starting with Life. And here our story is consistent; the strategic actions executed
have translated into a strong margin improvement, which by far outweighed a slight
decrease in volumes, with overall new business value up by more than 50% from last year.
Net inflows remain at consistently high levels as compared to our international peers, and
the operating result increased by 1.8%. The main driver of the operating result has been
the investment result, which increased by over 6%, benefiting from a lower level of
operating impairments, realized gains triggered by the sale of some assets aimed at derisking the portfolio, particularly corporate bonds, and from a better financial margin in
France, where crediting rates have fallen in response to lower investment yields.
The technical margin recorded a €28 million decrease, mainly due to two specific items.
The first, which I had already referred to in the first semester, relates to unusually high
technical profits we had in the first half of 2016 on some group Life contracts in Italy. The

Page 9 of 14



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

technical result in Italy was consequently 56 million lower in 2017, which affected entirely
the first half. The second change relates to a change in French legislation that withdrew
state participation features on a specific line of annuity business, with a negative impact of
€43 million in the second half of the year.
The expense result decreased by €45 million, largely driven by the development of our
Asian businesses, including the opening of new branches in China, as I referred to in
previous quarters, and partially by higher IT related amortization costs in Italy. The strong
and successful push into unit linked and protection products in France also had a negative
impact on the absolute expense result due to acquisition costs, but with a much more
profitable business mix as a result.
Our net inflows closed the year at €9.7 billion, €2.1 billion lower than last year, but still at
industry high levels and, most importantly, with a much better mix. We will continue to
build new and innovative concepts for unit linked, and further increase the group's focus
on protection and health. In fact, all the net inflows we have generated this year are unit
linked and protection, while savings and pension business saw outflows.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Italy, net inflows decreased from €7.2 billion to €5.7 billion, with product sales now
entirely comprising hybrid products. In the underlying composition of this production, the
contribution of the traditional savings component is half the prior year level, while the Unit
linked component has grown strongly. Germany and France both showed increasing net
inflows, with strong unit linked and protection, which offset traditional savings and pension
flows, which remain negative in both countries.
The decline in our International businesses is explained by the lower guaranteed savings
business in Asia and EMEA. In Asia, I remind you that this reflects the strong but lower
margin bancassurance production we experienced in China during the first quarter of last
year, which was subsequently stopped and replaced with higher margin products.
Due to the strongly positive net inflows, our Life technical reserves increased by 4.2% to
€389 billion, with a particularly good development of the unit linked component, up 12.1%.
We are steering the mix of liabilities as planned. Capital-light reserves have increased
their weight on total reserves by 4.5 percentage points since the baseline of year-end
2015, on track for the 6-percentage point shift we promised to deliver over the three
years from then until 2018.
Moving to new business, the overall present value of new business premiums declined by
2.3% to €45.4 billion, but again with the most notable development being the strong
movement in mix: We had a 19% drop in the savings component, mostly counterbalanced
by a strong rise of unit linked, up 29%, and protection, up 3%. The margin increased very
strongly to 401 basis points (37:26), up 146 basis points due to our strategic actions.
Overall, new business value consequently passed €1.8 billion, up by 54% year on year.
Each business line had a positive development from a value perspective, even in the
savings component, where the margin expansion, driven by lower guarantees and better
product terms, significantly over-compensated the strong reduction in volumes.
Page 10 of 14



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

By country, we see a significant margin expansion in all territories, with the exception of
Germany, where the margin has remained substantially flat at a good level. I think that this
underlines the consistency of execution around the world. Conversely, the development in
volumes was more muted due to our disciplined underwriting approach.
In Italy, for example, we had a 3.3% reduction in present value of new business premiums,
driven by a decline of 19% in the savings business. However, protection and unit linked
rose respectively 28% and 71%. The consequent 1.8 percentage points margin
improvement led to a 56% increase in new business value.
The volume reduction of our International businesses is driven by EMEA countries, while
Asia recovered the production gap after the refocusing of our Chinese operation towards
new and more profitable products. Due to actions executed in both regions, the
improvement in profitability has been notable, with over 200 basis points of margin
expansion and a 65% growth of new business value.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me also give you some greater insight on what the new business value means and
how it has been delivered. The first comment to make on this slide is that most of the
margin expansion comes from management actions, reflecting the focus we have put on
product steering and design.
Financial market effects also had a positive influence, but with a much lower magnitude.
Here we also decompose the new business margin into the present value of future cash
flows on the one hand, and on the other, the elements of prudent buffers, that is, the
various cost of capital and risk allowances that exist under the Embedded Value
methodology. What this shows is that there has been a modest improvement in margins
driven by the lower cost of guarantees, but the main driver is the increase in future
expected cash flows.
This slide shows you how our €1.8 billion of new business value can be translated into
future cash. Firstly, if we take that €1.8 billion and remove the Embedded Value buffers for
non-cash items, for example the cost of guarantees and cost of capital, to turn it into a
pure cash number, we would reach 2.3 billion. However, this figure is a so-called certaintyequivalent present value, meaning that it is discounted, and following Market Consistent
Embedded Value Principles, it assumes asset returns at the risk free rate.
If we remove the discounting effect and calculate cash flows on modest real-world
investment return assumptions, we arrive at €3.4 billion. So, €3.4 billion is the total amount
of after-tax cash flows that should accrue to shareholders over the life of the new
contracts we have written in 2017. The chart on the top right shows you the profile of
these cash flows over time. It is evident that, as compared to 2016, we receive much
more cash and we receive it faster. Ultimately, the total amount of post-tax cash expected
to be received from new business written in 2017 is €900 million higher than the business
written in 2016, a strong increase of 37%.
Lastly, we show you the same number, grossed up for tax and minorities, at €5.3 billion.

Page 11 of 14



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

Let's look now to the Life investment portfolio. General account investments increased by
14.5%, reaching €351 billion. In terms of asset mix, in this context of very tight spreads, we
saw fit to continue our de-risking activity, marginally reducing the weight of corporate
bonds.
Current investment returns slightly decreased, by 10 basis points, from 3.2% to 3.1%. In
absolute terms, the equity returns in 2016 included some private equity income which was
not repeated this year. The new money reinvestment rate in Life amounted to 1.8%,
against 2.0% in 2016.
These returns remain healthy in the context of our liabilities, since guarantees on our
existing reserves have also continued to drop by 12 basis points to 161 basis points. And
so, the gap is widening slightly and a good margin between yields and guarantees
remains. If we think about flows of new money, we can see that the guarantee on those
policies which carry one has fallen to 22 basis points, down from 45 basis points at the
end of last year, and closer to our target of zero on retail business in Europe.
The spread on new production remains stable at 158 basis points over the fixed income
reinvestment rate, and therefore still wider than the spread on our existing portfolio.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to property and casualty. In summary, gross written premiums increased by 1.7% to
€20.7 billion, with a strong performance of Motor lines. The Combined Ratio worsened
slightly to 92.8%, due mainly to the higher impact from nat-cats, which were also the main
driver of a 5% reduction in the operating result.
Looking in more detail at its components, we see the technical result has fallen by €106
million, explained by the 50 basis point higher Combined Ratio, which I will return to in a
moment. The investment results decreased by €28 million, because of the lower current
returns on fixed income instruments.
Finally, the result from Other improved by €33 million, mainly thanks to a lower allocation
to risk provisions.
Let's look now at premium and Combined Ratio developments by geography. Italy's top
line is down 2.9%, at €5.5 billion, but nevertheless we observe the pace of contraction is
slowing. Motor decreased by 4.5%, still affected by a soft market, but also by a reduction
in the number of policies, due to our strict underwriting criteria. Primary Non-Motor is down
1.8%, particularly driven by the evolution of global corporate and commercial business and
especially by lower writing of casualty business, but with a recovery in the last quarter of
the year. In terms of profitability, Italy again confirmed its outstanding levels, with a stable
90% Combined Ratio.
In France premiums were up marginally by 0.2% to €2.5 billion. Motor grew 2.6%, thanks to
tariff increases and the development of new partnerships. Primary Non-Motor decreased
by 2%, due to the competitive market environment in commercial business and the
continuation of strict underwriting discipline.

Page 12 of 14



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

The Combined Ratio in France improved once again, by 1 percentage point to 98.4%,
driven by improved loss and expense ratios. Nat-cats were stable at 1.8 percentage
points.
In Germany, premiums increased by 1.6%. This was driven by the Motor business, which
rose 4.2%, still benefiting from a stable pricing environment. Primary Non-Motor had a
marginally negative premium development. The Combined Ratio experienced a 2.6
percentage point deterioration, mainly driven by a higher frequency of both individual
large claims and weather-related losses.
CEE continued its growth path, showing a 3.4% premium increase with positive
developments across all main countries in the region. The only exception to this was
Poland, where tariff increases and pruning activities were ongoing. The Combined Ratio
was once again outstanding at 87.8%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our International businesses delivered strong growth of 5.7% on a like for like basis,
reaching almost €6.8 billion of premiums. The overall Combined Ratio here stood at
96.2%, up 1.3 percentage points year-on-year.
Let me provide you now a closer look to the drivers of the Combined Ratio movement at
group level. The loss ratio remained stable, notwithstanding a 0.6 percentage points
higher impact of nat-cats at 2.1 percentage points. A counterbalancing improvement came
from the current year result, down 0.8 percentage points. The contribution from prior year
development was slightly lower at 5.6 percentage points. Here, we simply continue to see
the effects of our prudent and careful approach to setting reserves, which makes itself
evident as claims settle. Our reserve adequacy remains very strong, at levels comparable
to those of 2016, and our triangles continue to show a positive run-off, as we have
witnessed consistently over the last decade.
The expense ratio increased by 0.5 percentage points, due to the higher acquisition
expenses linked to actions aimed at increasing the penetration of Non-Motor business in
our retail and SME client base. This was true particularly in Italy as I mentioned also with
the half year results. The administrative expense ratio improved by 30 basis points
compared to last year.
P&C investments remained stable, compared to the end of last year, at €39 billion. As in
the Life business, there has been a slight decrease in corporate bonds and other fixed
income, with an almost corresponding increase of government bonds. Total P&C current
returns marginally declined, by 10 basis points to 3%, driven by a similar trend in fixed
income investments, only partially counterbalanced by an increased contribution from
equity. The average reinvestment rate in P&C during 2017 was 1.6%, slightly above the
1.4% achieved last year.
Let me finally turn to our Holding and Other businesses segment, whose overall
contribution to the group operating result improved from a €74 million loss in 2016, to a
€59 million profit this year. This result has been driven by the good performances of Asset

Page 13 of 14



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

Management Europe and Banca Generali, which increased their contributions respectively
by €88 million and €51 million.
In Asset Management Europe, which was the focus of the strategy we presented in May
last year, financial performance has been very strong, despite us being in the early stages
of our plan. The increase in our profitability reflects asset growth, which stood at €8 billion
net of market effects, as well as the review of fee schemes on real asset portfolios.
Larger revenues drove our cost income ratio down by 10 percentage points to 61%. These
positive developments drove the 81% increase in the standalone net result. While we still
have much to do, progress in the first year of our new strategy has been very
encouraging.
To give you the overall picture, I also show here the total Asset Management scope,
which includes our operations in Asia, but of course Europe is the largest component.
In conclusion, we have delivered record operating results, increased net profit and
delivered strong cash generation. Once again, Generali has also proven itself as a leader
in terms of its technical capabilities in the industry. We are continuing to implement actions
to ensure the successful completion of our industrial turn-around and are confident that
we will meet our financial objectives by year-end. The underlying positive fundamentals of
our business allow us to propose a 6% increase in the dividend to €0.85 per share for
2017.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you for your attention.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 14 of 14

