Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

Analyst Meeting - Legal & General Investment
Management (LGIM)

FINAL

Company Participants
Aaron Henry Meder, Chief Executive Officer
Anton Norman Karl Eser, Chief Investment Officer
Bill Hughes , Head of Real Assets
Chad M. Rakvin, Global Head of Index Funds
Emma Douglas , Head of DC Solutions
Helena Louise Morrissey, Head of Personal Investing
Honor Julia Eli Solomon, Head of Retail Distribution EMEA
Jeff Davies , Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director
Mark Joseph Zinkula, Chief Executive Officer-Legal & General Investment Management
Meryam Omi, Head of Sustainability & Responsible Investment
Nigel D. Wilson, Group Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director
Sarah Aitken, Head of Distribution
Siobhan Geraldine Boylan, Chief Financial Officer

Bloomberg Transcript

Other Participants
Abilash P T , Analyst
Andrew Baker, Analyst
Andrew J. Crean, Analyst
Andrew Sinclair, Analyst
Colm Kelly, Analyst
Dominic O'Mahony, Analyst
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Greig Paterson, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Thank you, everyone, for coming to the LGIM Capital Markets Day today. As you can see,
LGIM is built for the future. Here at L&G, we have a unique collaborative model between
our divisions, it's all about teamwork. Our culture is very much about being one firm, one
set of values, one set of behaviors right across the world and indeed you'll see that from
my outstanding colleagues within LGIM.

Page 1 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

L&G is also about growth. We're attacking huge addressable markets not just here in the
UK, but across the world with very large profit pools. We have an outstanding or strong
management team pretty much in every division across our business who are excellent at
execution.
Some of the examples of that are LGRI where Laura Mason is looking at large scale BPA
deals now, something we never thought of a number of years ago. We have back book
that we're looking at, or books that we're looking at of about £25 billion in the days when
Simon Gadd ran it would be £3 billion or £4 billion at any one given time, so massive
scale-up.
We're also looking at international following the example and leadership of LGIM. In LGR,
Chris is looking at lifetime mortgages and you can think of lifetime mortgages as very
much like the ETF business, where we were late arrivers in the market but with huge
upside opportunities. Pension innovation is also something that Chris and the team are
looking at.

Bloomberg Transcript

LGC, Kerrigan switched from LGR, our largest profit pool business to LGC because of the
huge potential. LGIM has all of the above. It's been a large addressable market. In the
days before Mark ran the business, it was largely UK DB index business and that's indeed
what probably most of you think about the business and remember the business. But
now, we've got an £80 trillion addressable market across the world rising in the next
seven or eight years, perhaps $120 trillion.
We've got an outstanding strong management team, 11 of my colleagues are here today
to give you the LGIM narrative, about another dozen or so are in the audience. The
presenters today, there's 11 of them, 6 women and 5 men, that's a great example of our
50/50 by 2020 diversity program. We undoubtedly have the best team we've ever had in
LGIM in the history of LGIM.
We've also got excellent execution across the business. You'll hear Emma talk about the
DC business where we successfully integrated the old workplace savings business and
savings into a very much more dynamic business that Emma is going to talk about in LGIM.
You'll see Aaron talk about America. Aaron and the team have proved that we can extend
our model across the world, delivering high growth and great margins. And indeed we
think that's applicable to many of the geographies and Sarah is going to talk about some
of those geographies.
We've got a huge opportunity in personal investing. Helena is going to talk about some of
the exciting things that she's bringing to the group. Our retail business again was a sort of
lethargic business in savings a few years ago, been transformed under LGIM's ownership
and Honor's giving a very brilliant presentation on how much better business can be going
forward.
And Real assets, real assets under Bill's leadership has just grown and grown and grown
over the last five or six years in particular and again it's just got huge optionality for
Page 2 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

growth. So what we have is a very diversified model across the world, across product
lines, across channels with great people doing stuff.
I'd also like to mention a few words about Mark – just have to get my hanky out – I'm upset
about it. And Mark has been a terrific colleague over the years. We haven't always seen
eye-to-eye on everything, but he's demonstrated outstanding leadership. And he has
built and will leave us a great legacy, a globally trusted brand in LGIM and indeed in L&G
and has built an outstanding management team who you'll see here today. He's created
huge amounts of diversified growth opportunities for us in all parts of L&G, not just in
LGIM, but in LGR and LGC because we have this unique synergy model and there is great
opportunities for growth.
So with that, Mark, I'll hand over to you to deliver the message. Thank you.

Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

All right. Thank you, Nigel. It's good to get that on tape. I'd like to welcome everybody
here today and delighted to see such a strong interest, the high level of interest in LGIM.
We're very proud of what we've achieved over the past seven years. We delivered strong
profit growth and have supported the growth of the broader group.
As you'll hear today, the diversity of growth engines sets us apart from many of our peers
and we're very well positioned to continue delivering strong growth. You'll hear from
many members of the leadership team. We have a very experienced and diverse team,
as Nigel mentioned, who've been driving the rapid growth across an expanding range of
investment capabilities, client channels and regions. With such a capable, collaborative
leadership team this business will not miss a beat when I step down next summer.
I'll begin by focusing on what we've achieved over recent years, look at how we're
positioned in the broader market context for asset managers, before honing in on what
we see as our core competitive advantages. Our CFO, Siobhan Boylan, will spend a few
minutes sharing some key metrics about our business, including how we're investing to
maintain our growth trajectory. I'll then summarize the three key strategic themes driving
our growth plan before turning it over to members of the team, who will go into these
themes in much more detail.
The first is broadening our investment capabilities. Anton Eser, our Chief Investment
Officer, along with Bill Hughes, Chad Ravkin and Meryam Omi will explain how we've
developed our investment capabilities to meet evolving client needs.
Then after a short break, we'll explain steps we're taking to address the UK savings gaps.
Emma is going to explain what has made us the number one player in the fastest growing
DC markets in Europe. Honor Solomon is going to talk about how we repositioned our
intermediated retail business, and Helena Morrissey will explain the ambitions in our D2C,
our personal investing space. And we'll finish by covering our third strategic theme, which
is internationalizing our core institutional strengths.

Page 3 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

Sarah Aitken will explain why we remain confident about our business in our core UK DB
markets, and our expanding into Europe, Asia and the Gulf. Aaron Meder will finish the
afternoon by sharing our growth plans for that region. We'll then make sure we have
plenty of time for Q&A at the end.
So I'll start by explaining how our business has evolved over the past several years. During
the past decade, LGIM has experienced steady asset growth that is now approaching £1
trillion of assets under management. We were around the 50th wealthiest asset manager
in the world a decade ago, and now depending on where the exchange rate is at any
given day, we're around the 10th. Go back 10 years, and as Nigel mentioned two-thirds of
our assets were in index funds. And although this continues to be a very important core
area of expertise for us, we're still over a third of our assets in index. We've greatly
diversified our investment capabilities over the past several years as you'll hear about
throughout the afternoon.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've also experienced steady growth in operating profit. This slide illustrates the
consistent strong growth in earnings over the past decade, from a business making £143
million in 2007 to £400 million last year, an annual growth rate of 11% and an increase in
profit every year. This has been a challenging period post the financial crisis of real
differentiation and consolidation in the asset management industry, which makes our
consistency of growth that much more remarkable.
As these graphs illustrate, we've outperformed the broader asset management industry
during this period by any metric, whether its asset growth, profit growth, or net flows.
Virtually all of this growth has been organic and we've delivered this performance while
executing a complete transformation of our business. We've gone from a primarily one
dimensional strategy focusing on managing index and active sterling credit funds, UK DB
pension schemes and internal clients to an increasingly diversified and global business.
We'll look at how our investment capabilities have developed in this slide and how our
distribution strategy has expanded on the next slide. You can see the impressive doubledigit annualized revenue growth in real assets, which consists of a range of property,
infrastructure, and private credit funds. Solutions, which includes multi-asset and LDI funds,
and active strategies, which mainly consist of global fixed income and also active equity
funds.
Our solutions business in particular has been a real success story, starting as mainly
hedging LDI business and expanding into active LDI, fiduciary managements and a rapidly
growing range of multi-asset funds, with an increasingly global footprint. So we now have
a much stronger and more diversified set of investment capabilities. We've developed
these capabilities to meet the needs of our clients in the UK DB channel as well as other
client segments and regions we've targeted for growth which you'll hear about more over
the course of the afternoon.
We've built the teams, strengthened our investment processes, developed investment
capabilities and products in areas that are experiencing increasing clients demand and
generated strong track records which positions us very well for the future.

Page 4 of 64



FINAL

Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

I'll now discuss how our distribution strategy has evolved. As you can see, total revenue
from our traditional areas of focus, the index funds and active sterling credit, in
combination with revenue for managing assets on behalf of internal clients has only
slightly increased over the past six years. This is due to UK DD clients implementing derisking strategies, which involved selling equities and the gradual decline of our mature
savings business, partially offsetting growth in our annuity business. However, we
generated impressive growth in other areas of our business to compensate for the
structural shifts in our traditional business lines. We delivered 19% annualized revenue
growth in a new range of products for our UK DD clients as they started to derisk. And as
a UK pension market just from DB to DC, we've also been well-positioned for this trend
and have experienced 18% annualized revenue growth in the DC channel.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've also had strong revenue growth in retail. This business shifted across another part
of the L&G Group in 2013, as Nigel explained earlier. Adjusting for the transition of
revenue, we've experienced 10% annualized revenue growth in this increasingly important
business as a trend from institutional to individual ownership of assets continues. And
while still growing in our home market, we've also expanded internationally, especially in
the U.S. with growing momentum in Europe, Asia and the Gulf. Annualized revenue growth
from international clients has been 39%.
These last few slides illustrate the vision and strength of our leadership team. As the
asset management industry goes through a challenging period of consolidation, we've
been able to successfully identify trends in client demand and develop investment
propositions to meet these evolving client needs. The team has stayed focused and
played to our strengths. Their leadership has enabled us to deliver strong annual revenue
growth across the range of new products client channels and regions, in most cases areas
where we literally had no or at best very little presence just a decade ago. We'll go into
more detail on all these areas of growth throughout the afternoon.
As I mentioned earlier, this transformation of our business has occurred during a period of
change and consolidation in the broader industry. For many firms, most of these industry
trends represent headwinds, but for LGIM most are tailwinds. There's a large retirement
savings gap in the UK and it's a global problem. Many corporate pension plans are
underfunded and pay as you go state pension systems are facing fundamental
demographic challenges. Here in the UK the dependency ratio which is the number of
workers per retiree is set to fall from about four now to about two in 2050. And the
numbers are similar for the U.S. and the rest of the EU.
And in addition to the challenges in the DB market, consider the shift from DB to DC
occurring in the UK and globally, where there is extensive data indicating most people
aren't saving enough for retirement. Ultimately there needs to be an increase in
retirement savings, and the industry needs to be more innovative to encourage
investments in products which meet customer needs.
This is a huge opportunity for LGIM. We specialize in managing pension assets. It's the
vast majority of our AUM. We're the market leader in product innovation in the pension
sector, which is evidenced by our strong growth in solutions. We're the largest manager in

Page 5 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

both DB and DC assets here in the UK and are experiencing rapid growth in pension
assets globally.
Another trend is fee and cost pressures are making scale and operational leverage more
important. There is increasing fee pressure due to greater transparency, more regulatory
focus, and a low return environment. Meanwhile a variety of factors are putting upward
pressure on costs. As a result, it's increasingly important to have both scale and a lean
operating model to succeed. As Siobhan will cover shortly, despite investing extensively in
our business, we've delivered strong growth while maintaining a market leading
cost/income to ratio which demonstrates our very scalable business model.
Another trend is the impact of technology, it is pervasive. People increasingly expect to be
able to do everything digitally. Through invest in technology we can operate virtually all
aspects of our business more efficiently. Again Siobhan will talk you through the
investments we're making to harness the power of technology and enable our customers
to interact with us through digital interfaces. We're also experiencing a fundamental
change in product demand from actively managed versus market benchmarks, to passive,
multi-asset and LDI solutions and alternatives. All shifts we anticipated as you saw earlier
in the repositioning of our business model.

Bloomberg Transcript

And we're also seeing a growing appetite for responsible long-term investing and greater
focus on corporate governance, and stewardship. Again these are areas that we have
demonstrated market leadership. While you continually hear about the challenges faced in
the asset management industry, we're positioned to mainly see opportunities.
In the context of these market trends, we believe that six factors give us a competitive
advantage. Our investment capabilities are excellent. The strong performance and they
already mapped against our clients' evolving needs and position us well for the future. We
have a unique client-oriented culture and solutions philosophy which has underpinned our
success in the UK and it's now resonating globally. We maintain leading cost efficiency
which is vital in the current environment, and we're seeking to continue this advantage by
investing in technology across our business.
We're well-positioned to capture assets as responsibility for retirement savings shifts
individuals with innovative and good value products and a scalable operating model.
We're market leaders in active ownership in ESG, which is an important advantage as
these areas become more mainstream. And finally we enjoy several unique benefits from
being part of the L&G Group, partnering and managing assets on behalf of LGR and LGC.
I'll discuss each of these advantages in a little more detail.
So earlier I mentioned, our business is well-positioned for trends in customer demand for
products. This chart illustrates this point. Only 5% of our assets are in active core
strategies, a category that's been experiencing outflows in the broader industry on an
ongoing basis for several years. You can see demand has been increasing and is
expected to continue growing for products and strategies and categories of index
solutions, active specialties and alternatives. 95% of our assets are in these growth
categories and we aren't resting on our laurels.

Page 6 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

We're continuing to listen closely to what our clients tell us and we'll remain at the
forefront of the industry in developing products that meet our clients' needs and
expectations and at a fair price. In particular, we're developing a broader range of
outcome-oriented solutions utilizing our factor-based investing and ESG skill sets. And our
fiduciary management proposition is well-positioned for future growth as that segment
receives more regulatory focus.
When people talk about LGIM they often mention our culture. We have a unique culture
which is extremely client-focused, collaborative and entrepreneurial. Everything starts and
ends with our clients. We listen to them and respond to their changing needs. As a result
they not only stay with us for a long time but also give us more of their assets to manage
over time. This client centric mentality is why we've been at the forefront of the recent
movement to more outcome-oriented solutions. The rapid growth in demand for LDI and
multi-asset solutions has enabled us to deliver impressive growth in these areas. Such that
as you saw in the chart earlier, roughly half of our assets are now in this category. And this
remains an important differentiator as we expand internationally.
When we entered the U.S. market approximately 10 years ago, we positioned ourselves
as an LDI solutions provider and established a range of active fixed income funds to
support this proposition. We've continued to incrementally build our investment
capabilities and distribution focus and now manage a £140 billion of assets out of our
Chicago office on behalf of U.S. and international clients. We've since taken steps to
expand into other target regions and manage substantial client assets in both Continental
Europe and the Gulf. More recently we started building out our presence in Asia and now
have offices in Hong Kong and Tokyo. Our international expansion is gaining momentum
with higher net flows in all regions last year and assets from international clients
representing over three quarters of our total net flows.
Another key competitive advantage is our efficient operating model. Siobhan's going to
focus on this topic in more detail, but let me share just a few highlights. Our focus on
operational efficiency translates into a market leading cost/income ratio and enabled us to
offer excellent value for money product to our clients. And we cannot do this without the
right technology now and in the future.
Our technology underpins our investment management activity where we generally
develop our own proprietary systems. It underpins our efficient operating model and
increasingly how we interact with our end customers especially in workplace pensions and
personal investing. You'll hear more about our investment in technology and how it's
giving us a competitive advantage throughout the afternoon. And you'll indeed see what
these technology investments are delivering for individual customers from Emma later on
today.
An increasing amount of technology spend is supporting our fastest growing channels in
the UK. You saw earlier that we've experienced tremendous success in the DC business
over the past few years. Just as we've created a range of products and strategies for
corporate pension clients, as they move along the DB spectrum, we're replicating this
approach in the DC market. We've established a comprehensive business model for all
clients irrespective of the nature of the DC scheme and how it may evolve over time.
Page 7 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

We're now the largest manager of DC assets in the UK with over 18% market share and
have the largest and fastest growing Mastertrusts. The trend from DB to DC is leading to
a broader trend of individual ownership of assets and we're giving more focus to the
intermediated and direct retail channels. Just a few years ago, we had no meaningful
retail footprint, and yet in both 2016 and 2017 and again in the first quarter of this year, we
ranked third in net retail flows in the UK, a truly amazing success story.
And our direct-to-consumer platforms are becoming increasingly common. People
conduct more of their daily lives online or via mobile, whether it's purchasing items, doing
their banking or simply communicating with family and friends, reading, buying, banking,
communicating and now investing. Engaging with customers is becoming more digital and
less intermediated and our industry is no exception. We're launching a differentiated D2C,
our personal investing business this summer, and expect this to be an important growth
driver.

Bloomberg Transcript

Sticking with the generational shift theme, people increasingly want to invest in a way
that's consistent with their values and beliefs. This comes across very strongly in the
millennial generation, but there is also a growing interest in virtually all client segments,
retail and institutional investors around the world. People care about financial returns, but
they also want to better understand how their money is invested, if it's having a positive
impact on society. Funds such as our expanding Future World range, allow customers to
do this with respect to climate change and gender diversity. And we're launching a
broader range of funds to give customers more investment options.
A myth persist that investing in a more long-term responsible way negatively impacts
returns, but this is not the case. People can invest responsibly without sacrificing
performance and it's the product development and investment process are designed
appropriately, can likely enhance performance. We believe we have a duty to promote the
highest standards and corporate governance, and take a long-term approach in making
investment decisions on behalf of our clients.
Another important competitive advantage stems from LGIM's partnership with other parts
of the L&G Group, especially the L&G Retirement and L&G Capital positions. While LGIM
drives a significant portion of LGR's and LGC's profit, the benefits of the partnerships go
both ways. LGR's positioned as a large and respected annuity and pension risk transfer
provider, allows us to engage with clients on a full range of de-risking options. This is an
important differentiator in both DB and DC markets, since both individual and institutional
pension clients are seeking ways to offload longevity risk. And LGR's appetite for liquid
investments has provided us with the opportunity to more rapidly grow our direct
investment business. A growing number of our external clients have similar requirements
and we're well-placed to meet that demand.
The relationship with LGC is also strategically important as we partner across a growing
range of activities in urban regeneration, housing, and infrastructure. And an important
provider of seed and co-investment capital, which has allowed LGIM to more rapidly grow
its business.

Page 8 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

And I'm going to hand it over to Siobhan, who will take you through a few of our financial
metrics.

FINAL

Siobhan Geraldine Boylan

{BIO 18090551 <GO>}

Thank you, Mark and good afternoon. I'm Siobhan Boylan; I'm the CFO of LGIM and must
be here just over five years. As we've shown over the past few years, we've delivered
strong growth and changed our profile, as a result of which our revenue is much better
diversified. This makes our business much more resilient and able to withstand challenges
specific to particular channels and asset classes, so we've grown and strengthened.
The numbers here show LGIM's size and scale today. I'm going to take you through the
financials in some detail. I will expand our exciting revenue growth and comment on the
fee environment. I will focus on the investment in the business, address the regulatory
environment and finally illustrate the benefits of us working across the L&G Group.

Bloomberg Transcript

We continue to grow strongly and we measure this through our net external flows as a
percentage of opening AUM and the revenue these flows generate. This slide shows that
we generated 4.9% of new business on this basis in 2017. And this has been a consistent
positive number over the past few years and has been greater than the industry average
of 1% to 2%. You should also remember that each year we will lose assets as our pension
clients realize their investments to pay pensions and this is shown by the outflows on the
site. Of course this is precisely what the money was always intended for. Our persistency
is around 90% on an annual basis and has been for a number of years. Inflows are 14% of
opening assets are therefore needed to offset this expected deficiency.
As you can see, 2017 is another strong year growth with our external net flows of £43.5
billion very diversified both by asset class and client channels. Around 75% of net flows
were from our international businesses. Our distribution teams generated positive net
flows in all channels.
Internal net flows were marginal last year. Within this are outflows for mature savings and
inflows for LGR's net new business. Following the sale of mature savings business, we've
retain these assets through a long-term IMA with Swiss Re from the part selling make. We
see this as an important relationship that we look forward. Finally, market returns were
high in 2017 following strong equity and bond market, although our mix is more weighted
to fixed income.
The industry has been going through some fundamental changes and there has been
downward pressure on fees. This is not only a move from active to passive management,
but also within the passive market. The impact of the asset management study and
transparency on disclosures is being felt across the piece. In common with others, we've
seen pressure on our fees and you see this demonstrated on the slide as we've moved
to 8.2 bps. We've though always focused on cost and fees and this has enabled us to
disrupt market and there is and has been a huge demand for our capabilities. We're also
benefiting from strong demand for our higher revenue margins such as multi-assets, real

Page 9 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

assets and within the index business fact-based investing an ESG products, which has
helped to offset pressure on index fees.
You can see this on the slide as the mix of higher margin products of active and real
assets have grown from 36% in 2013 to 41% in 2017. The mix of business is evolving and
these high revenue margins mean that we will stabilize our fee-to-fund ratio to
approximately 8 bps. We broadly expect to maintain this, although obviously our new
business mix will vary from year-to-year.
Turning now to operation profit, we've seen substantial and sustained growth in LGIM's
operation profit over the last five years. We've also maintained a market leading
cost/income ratio at around 50%, as is so powerfully show on this slide. This market
leading cost/income ratio is fundamental to our business model and we remain focused
on maintaining this ratio around its level while delivering – continuing to deliver growth.
This is an important differentiator in the market where our competitors face pressure to
reduce theirs.

Bloomberg Transcript

Looking at our costs, we've seen increases in our cost base over the last five years
through natural growth and increases in market related costs such as custody and thirdparty AUM-related costs, which were included in core expenses shown on this slide at a
5% compound annual growth rate. However, we've also specifically been investing in the
business to deliver growth both now and into the future. Each of these investments has
been targeted to meet our clients' needs and diversify the business.
So what have we done? In the last five years, we've built a manufacturing base in Hong
Kong that means office space, trading capabilities and distribution, built an index business
in the U.S. built a global multi-asset team based in London, created a distribution network
in Europe and built a private credit business in the UK.
More recently, we've established an office in Japan, started to build out our DC and
private credit capabilities in the U.S. and launched our ICAV index fund range for Europe.
Each of these projects has met some upfront investments and unit costs will be higher at
start. As we reach scale and new products and capabilities, we expect the unit costs to
come down.
We've also made investments in our core technology platform. In five years, we've
increased our investments in technology and data by 36% on a compound annual growth
rate. This investments has been to automate and simplify operations, improve our
scalability and makes us more responsive and adaptive to our clients.
So let me give you four examples. We've been evolving our investment management
technologies to create consistent views across our strategies for our portfolio managers.
We've been globalizing our trading capabilities across the U.S. and Asia to allow us to
trade in local markets, creating more streamlined client interactions, using better web
based tools and finally using robotics to enable continued growth and leveraging our cost
base.

Page 10 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

These examples show the breadth of investment we've made and delivered client
proposition in enhanced price engagement leading to the growth of our revenues. We've
invested all this and maintained our cost/income ratio. Our digital transformation work is
more recent and started over the last 18 months. We've commenced a program to
upgrade our capabilities in our customer-facing businesses of DC and post investing and I
will come back to this shortly.
The last five years, we've also seen significant regulation change, some in particular like
MiFID II and the asset management study providing a new level of scrutiny from regulators
and commentators. We've had to respond to these challenges. We've invested using our
scale and the great use of technology and innovation to ensure we meet the regulations,
again always in our cost/income ratio. Some of these changes represent opportunities for
our business focused as it is on client needs, transparency and value for money.

Bloomberg Transcript

With Brexit, we've been preparing for this and as of last month have our new
management company regulated by Central Bank of Ireland and are operational in Dublin.
This means we are ready to continue to meet the needs of our European funds growth.
I would now like to touch on our workplace admin business. As you may remember, this
transfer to our management team at the start of 2015 and there are two component
parts of this business asset management and admin. The asset management AUM and
related revenue in cost sits in LGIM and always has done. The admin revenues and costs
don't, so they don't impact our cost-to-income ratio. This is essential in order for you to
be able to analyze us as an asset management business and compare us to our peers.
The business broke even in 2017 and we expected to make a small profit in 2018 as we
reach scale and most importantly achieve unit cost reductions. And we expect to see
further scale benefits into the future.
We continue to separately report it as it is a fundamentally different business model and
we want to make sure you can compare our businesses with those of our peers. Admin
businesses operate with a different margin profile and we are working to ensure we build
this business in a truly scalable way and Emma will talk to this later.
I would like to touch on seed capital. Seed capital is important to launch products. One of
the benefits within partially L&G Group is through our access to capital to support the
growth of the business. Our clients can also provide seed capital where new strategies
meet their requirements, illustrating the benefits of building long-term relationships with
our clients.
A very good example of this is the launch of the Future World Fund with HSBC in 2016.
Another example has seen internationally, our index business in the U.S. was seeded by
external clients. The process by which group provides us with seed or co-investment is, as
you would expect, rigorous and is primarily focused on the launched new capabilities and
the amount we need fluctuates depending on our product innovation, programs and
availability of seed from external clients.

Page 11 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

The graph here shows L&G – how L&G has seeded funds over the period. Our joint
success of this is demonstrated by revenue growth which these new funds or capabilities
have achieved. In 2017, new funds launched since 2014 represented 20% of total revenue.
As we look to grow further, we've secured capital to invest in some larger-scale projects.
And I would like to go into this some more detail. Firstly, I mentioned that we are investing
in our DC and personal investing businesses. Approximately £60 million is being invested
over the next three years by group and LGIM into new digital capabilities that will benefit a
number of areas. This is part of the group-wise digital programs and is an is an important
component of our growth plans for these areas. This investment will be through both
group and LGIM's P&Ls starting this year.
So what does this cover? The investment encompasses a number of activities including in
how single front end user experience for our clients and customers so we drive our
engagement, greater use of data analytics as we want to understand their needs and
upgrading our operations – customer operational platform. We are not re-platforming.
The way our technology is built, this is a much more cost effective way for us to deliver.
There are specific objectives to grow revenue and also very importantly, in these
businesses where scale really matters bring unit costs down.

Bloomberg Transcript

Secondly, we announced last year the acquisition of the small ETF business, Canvas. We
were keen to enter this market and wanted to ensure that the culture of the team and
products met our requirements, and that we could make the acquisition on attractive
terms. The Canvas business has brought some exciting and innovative products and the
team keen to grow further with a backing of a strong pair with broad distribution reach.
We completed this transaction mid-March and at this point assets under management
were £2.7 billion. We are integrating the business into LGIM and expect it to grow rapidly.
We will report this business separately. The cost of build-out of this team will be included
in the operating profit and we will report our cost/income ratio with and without the
acquisition of Canvas. We expect this business to breakeven by 2020. Chad and Honor
will take you through this exciting opportunity in more detail later on.
Now, just before I hand back to Mark, let me summarize what this means for our future
growth. Our current plan runs through to 2022 and has a cost/income ratio of about 50%
at the end of this period. For the next two to three years we expect to be slightly above
50%. This is due to these investments for growth and the impact of the ETF acquisition as
Canvas breaks even during this period.
Looking forward, dependent on markets, we believe the combination of net flow and
stable pricing should lead to continued strong revenue growth. With an ongoing focus on
costs and management investment and expecting to keep the cost/income ratio broadly
confident, this should translate into an 8% to 10% operating profit growth over the
medium period.
And with that, I'd like to hand you back to Mark.

Page 12 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

FINAL

As I mentioned earlier, we've structured the day around three core strategic themes. The
first is broadening our investment capabilities. We're building on our success in global
credit by expanding the high yield and emerging market debt but we have outstanding
performance and are now starting to gain traction in raising assets.
After successfully building a real asset business in the UK, we're further developing our
private credit capabilities and starting to expand in other target regions as we
internationalize that business. Index products continued to evolve and we've positioned
ourselves to capture the growing appetite for tailored market exposures such as back to
base investments. Much of the market share in the space is now being captured by ETFs,
which is why we recently completed the purchase of an ETF platform to enable us to
compete in this space, and we'll continue to invest in our solutions capability.

Bloomberg Transcript

As I said earlier, client specific objectives have become the norm. This requires both the
ability to access the right building blocks and the expertise to package them as tailored
solutions. Within solutions we're especially optimistic about our ability to grow multi-asset
and fiduciary management. Finally, we've launched the first funds in our Future World
range with more to follow.
Our second core strategic theme is addressing the UK savings gap. Financial products
used to be bought not sold – I'm sorry used to be sold, not bought, now you're paying
attention, good. However, as I talked of a few minutes ago, savers are becoming more
sophisticated and more demanding and increasingly engaging digitally. We will continue to
expand our presence in the UK DC market and are investing in member engagements in
digital communications, which not only enhances the customer experience, but also
improves the administrative efficiency of this business. Although we've quickly jumped
from well outside the top 10 to consistently top 3 in UK retail net flows, our ambition is to
get to number 1 and we're now expanding into the European wealth and retail markets.
And we're now taking major steps to become a major player in the direct-to-consumer or
personal investment business. There's an increasing trend of members of workplace
pension consolidating their assets into individual SIPPs and using alternative savings
vehicles such as ISAs to supplement their retirement. So our workplace members of today
will become our personal investment customers of tomorrow.
Finally with regard for our third strategic theme, we're building on the tremendous early
success of our international expansion. We expect double digit percentage growth in our
target regions for the foreseeable future. We've experienced virtually unprecedented
success growing our U.S. business during its first decade. We've now entered the next
phase of growth, expanding our investment capabilities and broadening our distribution
focus.
We're building on our record year of inflows in Europe as we expand our presence in this
region. And we're building on our footprint in Asia, having established offices in Hong
Kong and Tokyo and developing strategic partnerships in this region. We're optimistic

Page 13 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

we'll start to see the same rapid growth in Asia as we've experienced in the U.S. and
more recently Europe.

FINAL

So our strategy has several growth engines across the business, each with a clear story as
to why we've achieved what we have and each with an exciting future.
Next up is Anton, who along with Bill, Chad, and Meryam will explain how we're positioned
to continue the strong growth across the broad range of investment capabilities. As I
mentioned earlier, they'll be followed by Emma, Honor, and Helena, who'll discuss the
steps we're taking to address the UK savings gap, followed by Sarah and Aaron who'll
discuss how we're expanding internationally. And I'll hand it over to Anton.

Anton Norman Karl Eser

{BIO 6610352 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

All right. Thank you, Mark. Thank you, Siobhan. Now I've been under strict instructions not
to make any rugby jokes, but any questions please join the Q&A. So anyway having
worked with LGIM for 12 years I've seen firsthand the change that Mark and Siobhan have
described. The business has undergone an incredible evolution. We started with the UKcentric mostly index-based business and globalize the team. This has been a major driver
of LGIM success over the past decade. Our approach has been organic, it's been
incremental and gradual. To us the core objective has been to maintain the closeness of
our culture throughout this journey.
As CIO, I'm proud to be standing here today with the opportunity to demonstrate the
breadth and depth of what we have built. I'll shortly be joined by some of the senior
members of the team. We will talk you through the successes we've had and
opportunities ahead. I'm going to start by taking you through the extra strategies across
fixed income and equities. We have a wide range from liability way of credit to global high
yield and high conviction equity strategies.
Bill who runs real assets is going to update you on what's happening in real estate,
infrastructure and private credit at LGIM. Chad will then take you through the expansion
and innovation underway across our index team and just before Meryam and I take you
through our active ownership platform and introduce our new Future World fund range, I'll
be taking you through the solutions business.
All of the capabilities that we'll discuss today are connected through a focused and
straightforward investment philosophy. It's this philosophy that flows through all of our
teams. To generate consistent value you need to think long-term, formulating a clear and
connected view of the world. We focus a great deal of our research efforts into the big
picture thematic thinking. Our dedicated thematic groups focus on the macro, sector and
company implications from the major structural shifts we are seeing in demographics
technology and energy.
By having company experts working with macro specialists, you're able to connect the
dots in a way that truly leads to insightful idea generation. Long-term thematic investing is
core to what we do. It's why we pay such a large emphasis on corporate governance and
Page 14 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

sustainability and by managing close to £1 trillion pounds of assets you can use your scale
to influence and having a seat at the table has never been more important than it is today.

FINAL

In a recent report I read from Bank of America 93% of millennials indicate that a
company's impact is an important consideration when making investment decisions. To us,
ESG and long-term sematic thinking are connected at the hip and create value for our
clients and for society.
Secondly, this approach has been developed in line with our clients, be it pension liabilities
in 30 years' time or savings for a child education. These objectives are long-term. This
requires the solutions approach not simply selling products, which is why 47% of our
assets are managed on a solutions basis.
Thirdly, the only way to deliver solutions to your clients is to a team-based approach. The
asset management industry is incredibly siloed. It's built on individual strategies that are
typically not incentivized to connect to each other. You need to have all the building
blocks, but it's how you bring them all together which differentiates us and what exactly
that that makes us different.

Bloomberg Transcript

And finally, there's a genuine passion at LGIM around cost. Transaction costs and fees are
the biggest detractor from total returns and in a world where returns will be lower, cost
management becomes even more important. Given our market presence, we have the
scale and awareness to ensure we can efficiently manage costs plus seeking to deliver
value for money.
Now on to our active strategies, our active strategies demonstrate the diversity of our
offering. We're a market leader in the U.S. and in the UK in providing liability aware credit
solutions. This is our stable cash flow business. At the opposite end of the barbell, we're
gathering momentum in our high conviction, higher fee products like global high yield and
in active equities we've reshaped our business to complement our index equities. These
are all fantastic growth opportunities in the future.
The global fixed income team is spread between London, Chicago and Hong Kong,
managing £149 billion in assets. This is a team that I've joined 12 years ago, when I joined
LGIM, from 20 people back then in London, there are now 80 covering global markets,
and with over 40 buy ratings across investment consultant, it is a very well regarded team.
In investment grade, across U.S., euro and sterling markets, out of the last 53 calendar
years, we've had only one year of under-performance. That's a 97% success rate. The
fixed income market has also undergone a lot of change over that period. Pre the banking
crisis, most credit mandates were managed against the benchmark. While today, our
clients are looking at their credit exposure, the combination of reliable cash flows,
combined with diversifying growth strategies. This evolution has shaped our business over
the past 10 years with a focus on three types of strategies.
Firstly, liability-aware credit solutions to pay insurance and pension liabilities. Secondly,
benchmark plus across investment grade, high yield and emerging market credit. And
Page 15 of 64



FINAL

Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

finally, unconstrained strategies targeting cash-plus return. Crucial to our success has
been our ability to demonstrate a long-term track record across the investment grade
universe. These regional funds have consistently outperformed with low levels of risk,
generating an average information ratio of just under 1.4, something we are really proud
of. In the active space, you obviously can't win without generating great numbers and this
slide largely speaks for itself. It's this track record which provided the foundation for the
build-out of the U.S. business. Over the past 10-plus years, we've only experienced 42
downgrades to high yield compared to 805 within the investment-grade universe. Our
team of credit analysts have avoided defaults and minimized downgrades.
The fixed income team has a strong heritage in managing insurance and pension assets.
They work closely with L&G Retirement and managing the annuity portfolio, requiring a
unique understanding of the asset/liability objectives embedded in Solvency II. This
combines an active approach to generating yield plus minimizing downgrades and
avoiding defaults. In 2001, we took on the first liability driven fund mandate for a pension
fund in the UK.

Bloomberg Transcript

Since then, we've seen tremendous growth in demand for credit solutions. Aaron will
cover the fantastic growth we've had in the U.S. But looking at this from a UK perspective,
we've seen growth in credit solutions from £3 billion at the end of 2011 to £22 billion at the
end of 2017. That's a CAGR of 39%. This growth has been through a combination of new
and existing clients of LGEN. 70% of our client assets we manage in credit solutions also
have LDI with us.
Alongside credit – active credit solutions, we're also well-positioned to capture the
growing demand for high yield and emerging market debt. Following the successful build
outs of our global investment grade capability, we then turned our attention to global high
yield at the beginning of 2012. This is now a top quartile global team, highly rated by a
number of intermediaries.
The track record over this period is exceptional, outperforming by 2.4% per annum. Our
active emerging market debt team followed shortly thereafter. Similar to our ambition in
global high yield, it is important we are well-positioned to capture what will be a multi-year
growth in demand for EMD. The track record is also exceptional, with outperformance of
2.2% since inception in 2014. The size of the global high yield and the EMD markets has
almost doubled from 2011 to $4.5 trillion where we anticipate further growth over the next
10 years.
Given this strong record, our ability to position both strategies alongside low turnover
credit solutions, we're well-positioned to gather assets in the future. Overall, this mix
leads to a combination of stable cash flows and growth opportunities across the fixed
income business.
Now moving on to active equities. The change you've seen in fixed income is also
happening in active equities. The traditional benchmark class 1% to 2% is in decline as
Mark mentioned earlier. We've seen an industry shift out of active equity products into
passive or factor based strategies, most pure active equity businesses are finding it

Page 16 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

difficult to respond. For LGIM, this represents a great opportunity and Chad will talk you
through the innovation underway across our index business to capture a growing share of
the switch.
Within active equities, five years ago, we recognized this trend and took action. We
reviewed our fund range, merging and where necessary closing funds to ensure we had a
much sharper focus on what we wanted to offer. In our view, concentrated, high conviction
portfolios provide the best opportunity for alpha, which complements our index business.
In addition, our funds target outcomes that are very hard to achieve to an indexed R&D
approach. Firstly we have concentrated growth strategies. These are for investors seeking
longer term capital growth. An example of this is the UK Growth Trust on the left hand
side of the slide. This is a high conviction 25-stock portfolio that has generated 4% per
annum compared to the UK equity markets over the last five years.

Bloomberg Transcript

Secondly, we have diversified income strategies an example of this is the Real Income
Builder on the right hand side of the slide, which targets long-term income growth
through bottom-up stock selection providing income and retirement strategies for our
growing DC and retail client base. While our assets and active equities are relatively small
compared to other asset classes, this is an important part of our tool kit.
Given current valuations in equity and bond markets, long-term returns from pure beta
based strategies will be low. Our clients will look to that to generate value over and above
market return and bottom-up stock selection with a long-term thematic focus is an
important part of our proposition. We're also excited about the opportunities in ESG for
active equity, which I'll talk about later, that by creating active ESG equity product within
our Future World Fund range we see real opportunities for us to gather assets. This
approach to providing a good mix of income and growth strategies also flows through our
real assets.
And on that note I'll hand you over to Bill.

Bill Hughes

{BIO 15500993 <GO>}

Thanks, Anton, and good afternoon everyone. My name is Bill Hughes, Head of Real
Assets at Legal & General Investment Management.
So, just be absolutely clear from a definitional point of view what we mean by real assets.
We're talking here about real estate, infrastructure and private credit. I'm really excited
about the future of the business we have here. We have great momentum, we have a
track record of investment outperformance, over 1, 3, 5 and 10 year periods and recently
we've won a range of awards for transactions completed, for developments completed,
for fund management more generally and for innovations around sustainability.
And there is more to come in an asset class whose appeal is very definitely on the
increase. With banks retrenching and an indebted UK government, the role of private
capital in investing in real assets can only grow and we're in an excellent position to
Page 17 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

capitalize. Now, we are about creating assets that serve the needs of businesses and
communities, whilst at the same time delivering the investment outcomes that best serve
the needs of our clients. In particular, we specialize in providing investment exposure
that's characterized by secure income, an attractive level of yield and also offers a source
of diversification and real assets investing is an area in which client demand has been fast
growing.
For maturing pension funds where income security and income level is critical, allocations
are on the up. So having built credibility and strong momentum in real assets in recent
years, our growth potential going forward from here is clear.
As you can see on the foot of this slide, we've set out our three main growth
opportunities. First, expanding into emerging sectors in real estate; second, expanding
private credit for external clients; and thirdly, stepping into U.S. real assets. I'll come back
to each of these plans in a bit more detail later.

Bloomberg Transcript

We deploy capital across real estate and infrastructure in both equity and in debt offering
a spectrum of risk and return. And with a total of £24 billion assets under management,
we're one of the top fund managers by size. To ensure we excel in delivering real assets
investments to our clients, we have a big team of around about 140 people, you can see
75 of which are professional. And really my theme is about trying to hire, retain, build
talent because here we are about growing the sector knowledge in-house to stay ahead.
Our dedicated team is experts in originating and structuring transactions and direct
development ultimately to produce assets. And we also have a track record in asset
management where we enhance and adapt and improve assets to ensure that they
perform to their full potential through time.
Unlike many of our competitors, much of the capital we manage is external, actually
almost 50%. So we're around half-half internal-external, which I think is actually is a good
balanced place to be, but we do have two critical internal clients, you've heard a bit about
before, in the form of LGR and LGC where demand for real assets investment has been
growing.
Looking at the gray bars on the chart for a moment, this represents the investments
made into private credit by LGR. And as you can see, investment allocation from LGR into
private credit has been increasing as the size of our annuity book grows. And to
complement this trend, we have a range of fund launches planned this year and next to
offer private credit investment for our external clients where we see strong and escalating
demand. As you can see in the chart on the left hand side, collectively this has produced a
compound annual growth rate, CAGR as some of my colleagues refer to, CAGR and AUM
of approaching 18% per annum in recent years. And on the right hand side of the slide,
this growth in assets, as you can see, is more than being matched by increasing revenue.
LGM Real Assets is a business with sustainable momentum. Historically, the external
capital we managed came exclusively from the UK. And I have to say round about 10 years
ago that felt to me as being pretty insular, but this has changed. While long-term
Page 18 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

institutional capital in the UK continues to see the appeal of real assets, the interest we
see from overseas sources of capital is continuing to build up. We have some particularly
strong strategic partnerships with capital from Europe and from Japan. And in aggregate,
over the past five years, we have seen a fourfold increase in the amount of client money
coming from non-UK jurisdictions.
The diversity and sources of capital, UK and overseas, internal and external, allows the
real assets to find ways with different sources of capital to work together to achieve
investment outcomes that others simply can't. So, we've been instrumental in a number
of successful urban regeneration schemes around the UK. You may have seen on the way
here in the lifts and around the lifts for example pictures of some of the schemes we're
involved with.

Bloomberg Transcript

And here's just one example of what we've been up to in Salford, just over the River Irwell
from Central Manchester in real estate. And if you don't know Salford, if you've ever been
there 10 years ago, you would know that it was a desolate location. From an initial LNG
investment working closely in partnership with central and the local government, with LGM
Real Assets operating as the investment manager, we've been able to sequence the
production of a number of assets.
As a consequence, LGR has been able to invest in safe, secure office investments and the
government underwritten car park and LGC and one of our European clients has been
able to invest in residential property as part of the holistic regeneration of the area. And
now, this is a place where people can live, work and play and where the community is
thriving. Critically, critically at the same time, we have provided an excellent outcome for
our investors.
Now, moving to the infrastructure part of our business, we've also been active in bringing
together LGM clients with LGR. An important focus has been the renewable energy space,
very much in keeping with our general ESG theme, where attractive long-term, secure
income has been available. And on the right hand side here is the Walney Extension
transaction in offshore wind where LGM led half of the refinancing that took place last
year. I know these assets all are the same as actually the pictures there. It's in the RSC
(01:03:22) but I just – from a pictorial point of view not very different from any other wind
farm offshore we do.
But another critical angle for the teams here is in using our scale to create assets that we
would choose to own in an emerging sector. And this is exemplified by the impact we
have made in the UK build to rent sector where from a standing start three years ago we
are now considered in the market to be the leader amongst institutional investors. What
we're really trying to do here is to professionalize a sector, (01:04:02) being characterized
by somewhat unscrupulous landlords.
Not only is this new investment sector destined to make a real contribution to the housing
supply scarcity in UK cities, but there is also the scope to capture a highly attractive level
of return through creating and owning build to rent properties. And this flows from our
scope to raise capital from a range of sources, from our unparalleled connection with

Page 19 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

central and local government and from our in-house expertise in actually developing
assets across the UK that would otherwise not be available to acquire. So, to conclude I'm
enormously positive about our prospects for growth from here. Whilst we have positive
momentum, we also have well prepared plans for the future.
First, as well as growing our existing funds, we have the scope to enhance our real estate
offering, particularly in deploying more capital into student accommodation, later living
assets and healthcare real estate. Second, in the private credit area we're continuing to
grow the team across additional geographies and the capabilities to respond to the
strong demand, we see from external capital. Here we plan to stay ahead of the market
and as you heard earlier on to use seed capital to launch products where we see investor
demand.
And third, and finally to know (01:05:41) the success, we have delivered in other parts of
LGIM, we are working to build out the Real Assets business in to the U.S. thereby both
complementing the LGIMA franchise, but also to allow us access the U.S. market for
internal and external clients. And you'll hear a bit more about that from Aaron in a
moment. It's a fantastic time to have a successful and growing business in real assets, but
the best is yet to come.
Thanks for listening. Now, I'd like to hand over to Chad from the index team.

Bloomberg Transcript

Chad M. Rakvin

{BIO 6937424 <GO>}

Thank you, Bill. Good afternoon, everyone. I am Chad Rakvin. I am the Global Head of
LGIM's index business. The top 5 index managers control about two-thirds of the $14
trillion in global passive assets. That total passive pot is expected to hit $37 trillion by
2025. Given the importance of scale in this business, a reasonable assumption would be
that the largest managers will benefit the most from the growth.
While today the growth in index has been mainly in plain vanilla market cap strategies, we
think the road to $37 trillion will look very different than the road that got us to $14 trillion,
in the index business that LGM is well-positioned to benefit from this growth. Future
success will be defined by the provider who can control costs while tailoring an index
strategy to meet investors' evolving needs. Accomplishing that goal will not only increase
our market share, but also enhance our profitability. Today, I will walk you through our
current position in the index world, how we plan on capturing a larger share of the everincreasing index pot, you'll hear that we've already moved away from the overreliance on
the UK DB market, international expansion has been successful and there's a lot more to
go for.
So, let me highlight where the business is today. LGIM has built a fabulous business as a
leading index manager over the last 30 years. Barriers to entry to index are high and
they're only getting higher. Success requires a large and sustained investment in people,
product and technology. So, as this slide highlights, we've a very diversified product set
today, consisting of £214 billion – I'm going to do this by memory, £214 billion in equities,

Page 20 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

£83 billion in fixed income and £44 billion in new strategies, which we'll talk more about
later, but it's reshaping the business.
We have 30 investment professionals in multiple locations. We're the fifth largest index
manager globally, the largest in the UK, of course, and the largest European institutional
factor-based manager and we now boast an expansive product offering in major markets
across multiple client segments. So, how did we get here? A good portion of the last 30
years was spent on servicing the needs of our clients in the UK, primarily in the DB market
with the philosophy of partnering with those clients to develop solutions together. This led
to tremendous success and at our peak LGIM index managed close to 20% of the entire
UK pension market. Now, we knew that success would lead to the challenge of the need
to diversify as a large portion of the UK DB books started to roll off as these plans were in
the process of de-risking.
So, about 10 years ago, the focus began to shift to new markets, into new client
segments. Fast forward to the present and of the growth from £224 billion in 2011 to the
£341 billion at the end of 2017, 62% was from the international business and we move –
we removed the reliance on the UK DB market. So, what makes LGIM's index proposition
different. Point one, we see ourselves as index solutions providers who are solving client
problems and achieving client objectives. As assets continue to grow in the index space,
investors are becoming more aware of the need to partner with the manager that really
has their best interests in mind; someone truly responsible for their assets. We are that
partner. We are the responsible index provider. Point two, we believe that our clients are
the ultimate shareholders of the securities within our funds and it is our duty to engage
with companies to lift the standard of the market. Our mantra is that we are not just
passive investors, but active shareholders and Meryam will talk more about that later.
Index investors now require a certain level of corporate responsibility that we have proven
for decades. And point three, there is always a point three, in order to make any of the
above possible without driving up cost, market leading technology is essential. As part of
our plan to expand into new markets, we have completed an overhaul of our fund
management system. The result is the proprietary platform that is capable of managing
our existing book while being able to adapt to the future needs of the index management
business. We've been successful in the UK because of our alignment with client interests,
because of our focus on corporate responsibility and because of our focus on delivering
value. This is what's growing our growth in new markets as well.
So when we discuss our global business, we do differentiate between the UK and what I'll
refer to as the international or the ex-UK business. We'll start with the UK. The UK
business is evolving. Let's spend a moment first within the UK on the UK DB book. What
first might appear as a stagnant growth story is actually a very good story for LGIM.
Approximately 70% of our current UK DB assets are in the de-risking phase and this
shouldn't be a surprise to anyone. As a result, since 2011, there have been £165 billion of
outflows. Now think about that, that's a really large number coming out of the index book.
And as you can see from this chart, we've done an excellent job capturing those assets
within the organization. You'll hear more about LDI, multi-asset and solutions, all the
capabilities that Anton will discuss right after me.

Page 21 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

So considering the outflows of £165 billion, we've still been able to grow our UK pension
assets, which remain net positive since 2011. Today, the shape of LGIM's UK DB assets are
notably different. It has grown since 2011 to £634 billion with a majority of assets outside
of index. It's a major change. Looking forward, as the size of our UK DB AUM become
smaller relative to the overall business, the impact of de-risking will continue to lessen. So
now I'd like to spend a moment on the rest of our UK business.
So DC and retail are also very important growth stories, and Emma, and Honor will give
you more detail about that later today. In the DC space, we've seen tremendous growth.
Default funds favor multi-asset solutions and as such LGIM has grown the multi-asset
business rapidly in the last five years. A vast majority of multi-fund assets are in underlying
index funds and those assets they're not even reflected in our AUM numbers. And there
is a similar story in the retail segment. Index funds have underpinned the success of our
retail business. And if you look at the retail business, it is now in the top three by flows in
the UK with over 60% of the assets in index funds. So once – so what was once a very
concentrated story has evolved to help fuel the growth of LGIM.
So it is worth going into a little more detail now on our international expansion and the
success we've had to date. LGIM has been very thoughtful about the markets we enter
and subsequently we've been very successful in those markets. In 2011, we had a limited
business outside the UK, accounting for about 6% of our total index assets. We quickly
learned that our model of being the responsible index manager in the UK was resulting in
similar rates of success outside of the UK. Therefore we began accelerating our plans to
penetrate new markets. At the end of 2017, our international AUM grew and accounted
for over 25% of the total index assets. So let me give you an example of one of our
success stories, our entrance into the U.S.
So to be successful globally, we realized, you do need to be successful in the U.S., not just
because I'm an American. In the middle of 2015, we launched our pooled fund in the U.S.
to service the institutional space. Now those funds were established with similar
characteristics as our UK funds. So limiting any potential conflicts of interest and really
aligning our interest with our clients' interests. At the end of 2017, we had raised close to
£20 billion in new index assets with an impressive pipeline. Current key index relationships
in the U.S. include some of the largest state public plans and some of the largest
consultants in the world. But remember, in the U.S., a number of U.S. public plans require a
three-year track record before investing. So to get to that £20 billion is quite impressive.
By the second half of this year, we're going to hit the three-year mark and at that time the
market opens up even more. So we're excited about the continued international
expansion with the particular focus now on Asia and then furthering our reach into the
European wealth channel.
So, so far I've discussed the evolution of the UK business, the international expansion,
now I'd like to switch gears and talk a little bit about the opportunity for ETF growth in the
European market. So a large component of our future growth will be realizing a share of
the $800 billion projected to flow into the European ETF segment over the next five
years. As Siobhan mentioned earlier, we recently acquired Canvas, which is a high growth
ETF platform. And we have a plan to become a major European player in the next five
years.
Page 22 of 64



FINAL

Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

We are already working hard to transition the ETF business from a specialist provider to a
full service offering over the next 18 months, with new products coming to market by the
end of this year. By the end of 2019, our ambition is to more than double our current
product offering. New LGIM ETFs will reflect our expertise across asset classes and
showcase the growing range of LGIM capabilities, including a more thoughtful core range
to what's available in the market today, along with additional products to reinforce our
position in thematic investing and the alternative solutions. Our development of the ETF
business demonstrates our ambition to become a key player in Europe, and is an
example of our continued commitment to growing diversified sources of revenue for the
index business and LGIM on the whole.
So as I mentioned in the beginning the requirement for an index client is no longer for just
plain vanilla index strategies. At LGIM, we have been at the forefront of this change and
we have developed a wide range of index solutions to meet our clients' ever changing
needs.

Bloomberg Transcript

This slide highlights a few of our successful categories. Smart beta, or factor-based
investing as we call it, has seen impressive growth in recent years. Whether clients are
looking to manage for an outcome or are implementing a factor strategy to help achieve
alpha we have responded and now offer our clients a range of solutions. At £26 billion we
have become the largest smart beta provider in the institutional market in Europe.
Another important trend that more and more investors are looking at is how they can
better incorporate ESG into their investments. Again, we have responded by developing a
best-in-class ESG scoring and index design capability that allows our clients the flexibility
to build a customized ESG solution within an index. Index Plus is a third category that's still
emerging. It's particularly appealing to some of the largest asset owners in the world. It's
early days but we're already at £8 billion.
And the last category which I think is very interesting is self-indexing. I believe that the
trend towards index experts like LGIM designing index strategies and solutions for clients
in a more cost effective manager is the future of the index business. We've already
designed factor based and ESG strategies and we're looking at further solutions in the
ETF space as well.
The future for index at LGIM is very exciting and it's truly a tale of growth. We have
managed the transition of our business away from its overreliance on the UK DB market
and although we've just started our international expansion story, the trajectory of success
is well-evidenced by our extensive asset growth, despite initially just focusing on a small
number of markets. There is demand for sophisticated solutions that defy the traditional
path and our solutions approach has resonated with clients globally. With the market
trends on our side, we have the technology, expertise and the reputation to continue to
be a leading global index solution provider.
So, now we'll turn it back over to Anton to discuss the LGIM solutions business. Thank you.

Anton Norman Karl Eser

{BIO 6610352 <GO>}
Page 23 of 64



FINAL

Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

Right, yeah, so this on to the solutions business. The business that we're going to talk
about here (01:20:01), Chad, myself and Bill have been describing. Within multi-assets we
create funds that target specific outcomes for retail, DC and smaller pension schemes.
While LDI targets client driven (01:20:14) objectives. This is a business that has grown
significantly over the last 10 years and most importantly evolve for the needs of our
clients. Assets have almost tripled from a £170 billion in 2011 to £463 billion at the end of
2017. As you heard earlier, this represents something like 47% of our firm-wise AUM,
diversified now across regions and client channels.
Within LDI, we have supported our clients throughout their journey, taking them from
traditional index strategies through to casting hedging against liabilities. This journey leads
to deep, long-term partnerships. And as a result we are now the largest LDI manager in
the UK, managing 42% of the overall market.
Our multi-asset capability is equally as impressive. The current team was only established
in 2012, but through their fantastic entrepreneurial culture, now manage to close to £40
billion. Our core UK LDI and overlay business offers three types of solutions.

Bloomberg Transcript

Firstly, our segregated business, where we provide the spot hedging and collateral
management for our larger pension clients. We're the largest provider of segregated LDI
in the UK, managing £310 billion.
Secondly, our pooled fund range gives us smaller pension clients access to building block,
trading a solution that is tailored to meet their objectives. And finally our derivatives
overlay business where you provide currency, equity and credit solutions for our clients to
achieve specific market exposure.
Now, there has been talk about the UK reaching peak LDI as pension schemes look to derisk. And we disagree. Over the past year, the total value of pension liabilities hedged
grew by 23% to an estimated £908 billion. And as you can see from the chart, that's only
two-thirds of the asset value and less than half of the liability value on an insurance buyout
basis. Something like 3,750 pension schemes in the UK are not even using LDI.
So while the industry has made a lot of progress, there's still some way to go. However,
the bigger picture is that talking about peak LDI actually completely misses the point.
What's more important is as schemes move toward a liability driven approach, so they will
evolve into what we call holistic solutions, that's the future of LDI and it's where our
solutions approach is extremely well-positioned. We are uniquely placed to help pension
schemes at every stage of their journey towards an end game of either self-sufficiency or
insurance buy-out. The easiest way to describe holistic solutions is to talk to you an
example from one of our largest clients.
Well, firstly it's about delivering cash flows. Our solutions specialists work closely with the
clients in designing the asset/liability strategy, stress testing different market conditions.
They work with the credit solutions team to design the portfolio to match the cash flow
requirements and finally they work with Bill and the Real Assets team to build a portfolio
designed to deliver secure income.
Page 24 of 64



FINAL

Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

From a growth perspective, our global fixed income team actively manages assets across
emerging markets, high yield and investment grade credit, whilst the index team and
Chad manages an equity beta portfolio. The holistic solution is completed with the LDI
team building an overlay that manages risk across the entire scheme ensuring collateral
and liquidity requirements on this. This isn't just possible for our largest clients, we're able
to provide small to medium sized schemes access to bespoke solutions. We can do this
by combining our multi-asset funds with credits and pooled LDI while our fiduciary team is
able to take that one step further providing the advice a scheme needs to reduce the
governance costs that are so hard to absorb for our smaller clients.
For some schemes we are at the early stages of that journey, but similar to how we've
moved most of our clients from index-based mandates to LDI. So the next steps into selfsufficiency or buy-out is one we're well-placed to take with it.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving on to our multi-asset business, which has seen strong – seen strong growth across
all client channels. The team of 26 is well-established with a clear and consistent top/down
macro asset allocation process and is closely linked to the risk takers across LGIM. They
were early in setting up sensible and simple product for our fast growing DC client base
and have had tremendous success in the retail market.
The team has had exceptional mix of clear and focused products backed up with an
outstanding track record, which I'll talk about on the next slide. There are three types of
strategies, offering our clients the choice between different risk and return profiles from
market beta to target return. So onto those strategies, firstly our strategic funds. An
example of this is the multi-asset fund which uses a range of LGIM's active, passive and
real asset building blocks.
It's the default option for our DC business and provides smaller DB pension schemes with
a low cost way of accessing diversified returns. It has outperformed its peer group over 1,
3 and 5 years.
Secondly, our dynamic fund. This fund range is used extensively across all client channels.
It's a growth allocation for our fiduciary business and its key for growing retail business
where we've seen strong demand for our multi-index and mix investment funds. The
dynamic diversified fund has consistently outperformed its peer group over 1, 3 and 5
years with an outperformance of 2.1% per annum over five years.
Thirdly, what we call low equity beta which is our multi-asset target return strategy or what
we call MATR. This fund is part of the growing global asset return sector where there
(01:26:45) is a top performing fund over one and three years. We really expect the fund
to grow as we're gaining a lot of traction through intermediary buy ratings following the
three-year anniversary in April.
Multi-asset has enabled us to diversify into the retail, DC and personal investing channels
which Emma, on a – and Helena will cover in more detail later today. The growth
opportunities are huge. Looking at the chart on the left hand side UK DC AUM is expected

Page 25 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

to grow at 10% per annum with the multi-asset allocation expected to grow even more
quickly at 13% per annum to a market opportunity of over £200 billion by 2026.
We are one of the few well established players in this market and we have the products
that work well as the standard default of providing income in retirement. We're optimistic
our share of the growth pie will continue to increase and we expect the same in the retail
market where we could see over £400 billion invested in multi-asset strategies over the
next 10 years. Again, we're well-positioned with our popular multi-index and mixed
investment funds. It's simple really. A great product range, very strong track record and
well-established team members, means our multi-asset funds are extremely well placed
for growth over the next 10 years. Combining capabilities across investments is core to
building a successful – a successful solutions business. The whole must be greater than
the sum of the parts and this is really a good segue into active ownership, which (01:28:27)
LGIM's investment philosophy for many years as described earlier.
We've always believed we can use our scale and influence to ensure the companies we
invest in are delivering long-term sustainable value for our clients.
We have a very strong corporate governance team that engages with some of the
world's largest companies, pushing them to raise their standards through the integration
of ESG. They work closely with all of the investment teams, helping us to make more
sustainable investment decisions.

Bloomberg Transcript

Meryam Omi, our Head of Sustainable Investments, will now take you through how we
have been bringing ESG to the forefront of our clients' objectives. Meryam?

Meryam Omi

{BIO 17949064 <GO>}

Thanks, Anton. So active ownership and ESG, incorporation of environmental, social and
governance factors is central to the way we manage our assets, and hopefully that
message came through in a previous presentation. Fundamentally, we believe being
responsible is good for business and therefore good for investors. Simply put, ESG is
done to enhance value of our investment. Now I know you're hearing similar messages
from all other asset managers and everyone is happily ticking that ESG box, but I want to
show you that we are different in a couple of slides.
Firstly, we have been engaging in voting on corporate governance issues for over 20
years, even before our clients asked for it because we believe it is our responsibility and
we have seen that we can make a difference in companies. Our decision to engage and
vote is not compromised by internal conflicts. We don't change our minds because of a
certain client or because active fund managers might have a different view, our focus is
our clients and their assets. Now reflecting on that point, we have been rated as a top
asset manager in ESG, especially in index funds. Our active stance is seen as a key
differentiator in – against other passive index managers.
We have also been rated number one investor by investee companies who really
appreciate the engagement we have with them. On a thematic topic, we have been rated
Page 26 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

second amongst global asset managers for addressing climate change. As I said every
asset manager claims to do ESG and is truly embedded and integrated. With this chart, I
want to inject a little bit of reality check into the state of play active ownership.
This is the list of top 10 asset managers globally by AUM and the percentage of the
support for shareholder resolution on climate disclosure. Despite a lot of marketing
(01:31:14) on average, they only supported 21% of climate change resolutions last year,
some as low as 2% representing trillions of assets. We on the other hand supported in
95% of the cases because asking for more information about climate risk is exactly the
kind of thing we should be doing to make better and more informed decisions.

Bloomberg Transcript

So with this, I want to emphasize that not all asset managers are made equal in ESG. Now,
I want to further highlight our commitment to speak on behalf of our clients and make real
changes. You can see the topics that we engage in at the top of that chart – of the slide
from board accountability, the diversity, the executive remuneration. The way we engage
differs depending on the topic. As an example, I want to expand on how we engage in
climate change because it is one of the most pressing issues that we have that would
impact the economies and the investments over time.
We have set up a framework of engagement called the Climate Impact Pledge. We focus
on the biggest companies in key sectors, who're going to play a pivotal role in
transitioning our economy to a low carbon one, like energy, transport, and of course,
finance. We score and rank them based on their stance on climate, the transparency of
disclosure, the strategy of resilience and innovation in the face of technology and policy
changes and how they lobby the government on climate regulation. We then engage with
them – with all the companies to help them be better over time. We are committing to
name and fame those companies who are leading the pack and highlight those who will
improve over time, but there's also a consequence.
After the engagement, those who fail to meet a minimum threshold can be divested out
of funds and voted against the chair of the board across the entire equity holding for
LGIM. Now, the impact on the performance from that is extremely minimal. But, the impact
on the companies to step up is very, very significant. We made this announcement early in
the month and we had received fantastic response from our clients and the advisors. We
believe we can create a healthier and better functioning market that is good for our
clients' money. This is why ESG makes financial sense for us and why we're building out a
mainstream impact product offering to meet the growing wave of demand who're more
from us – from clients who are more from us on (01:33:58) ESG.
So, we are uniquely positioned to capture that trend. So, to explain that further, I'll pass
you back over to Anton who would explain the Future World in more detail.

Anton Norman Karl Eser

{BIO 6610352 <GO>}

Thank you very much. I promise you this is the last time that I will step up – we're coming
to the end of the investment segment. So, thank you, Meryam. Yes, I mean the key point
is, ESG can mean different things to different people. Strategies integrating ESG range

Page 27 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

from simple, exclusionary screens due to dynamic impact investing. The industry is huge
and growing fast with approximately $22.9 trillion of assets managed globally. Sustainable
investing, as Meryam is talking about, is very much here to stay. And we only see assets
continuing to grow, as the (01:34:47) is aligned.
This is why we are bringing ESG into the mainstream to our Future World Fund range.
Future World is a natural evolution of what LGIM has always done. It reflects our culture
and is aligned with our clients' values. It seeks to address long-term themes and
opportunities whilst managing the risks of a changing world. With Future World, we want
to provide our clients with a range of funds that can be used to express investment
beliefs, provide sustainable investing, leveraging the strength in our active engagement.
We're launching 15 funds across asset classes, investment styles and client channels. Last
year, we introduced the first of the strategy, the Future World Equity Factor strategy which
now stands at an impressive £4.9 billion in size.
Alongside a factor-based approach (01:35:38) that Meryam talked you through. This is a
very powerful combination and is attracting demand from all of our client channels. But
this is just the beginning. We recently launched a gender diversity fund and we'll be
introducing more products over the next few months, ranging from multi-assets to fully
unconstrained active, giving our clients choice across the mainstream ESG products. Watch
the space? The growth opportunity across Future World for us is exponential.

Bloomberg Transcript

So that's it is. That concludes the investment section and I can't think of a better way to
wrap up than on Future World. It really captures what we are. It typifies the ambition,
diversity and talent across the whole investment team.
We're really proud of what we've built and we've done it in a very quiet, gradual, LGIM
kind of way. We see lots of opportunities that we talked through today and believe we are
exceptionally well-positioned for the future. We're going to take a 15-minute break. I think
we get going again at 4:00 PM. Is that right, 4:00 PM or 4:15 PM? 4:00 PM, 4:00 PM,
there you go. 4:00 PM. Thank you very much for your time.

Emma Douglas

{BIO 21280468 <GO>}

Well good afternoon everyone. Glad to see so many of you back after the interval. So I'm
Emma Douglas. I'm Head of the Defined Contribution business. Now just before, I cover
DC & Workplace, let me explain why we've called the section addressing the UK savings
gap. So at LGEN, we're unique in having all of our workplace and savings businesses under
the asset management arm, where they are directly focused on the retirements and
other savings needs of our customers. And as Mark outlined earlier, individuals will
continue to take greater charge of their retirements and other savings. So by working
together, especially across workplace and personal investing and by our investment in the
digital interface, we can be a clear winner in this important and growing market.
So moving on to DC, I have a fantastic growth story to present to you this afternoon,
which shows how LGEN's DC business is growing stronger than – is showing stronger
average growth in a fast growing market and is well-placed to benefit from the future

Page 28 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

trends in DC. So the first slide I've got shows some key statistics about the business. So
total DC assets under management have grown from £24 billion at the end of 2011 to
£68.2 billion by the end of 2017. The number of DC scheme members we service has
increased to 2.7 million and we have around 14,000 bundled schemes. So how does this
place us in an overall market context? Well, our overall asset size makes us the UK's
number one DC provider. Revenues and net flows are both strong and there will be lots
more detail on the next few slides, but that just gives you the main headline numbers.
So in terms of strategy, we have the benefit of a very clean operating model. We have an
organic growth strategy, so we're not distracted by the merger and consolidation activity
currently going on in the UK market. And this sets us apart from our major competitors.
We're not juggling multiple administration platforms. We have one administration platform
that serves all of our bundled clients, whether they're contract based, such as group
personal pension clients or trust base, where the scheme operates its own trust or
Mastertrust, which is operated by the Legal & General on behalf of the independent
trustees. And this means that all of our clients benefit through our continued investments
in our administration services. And all of our business, both bundled and unbundled sit on
one investment platform, so we can make the same range of funds available to our
bundle clients, to our unbundled clients to use a third-party administrator and to other
providers such as the Fidelity, who have clients who want to access the LGIM funds.

Bloomberg Transcript

So the next two slides show projections of market size and future trends, taking from the
2017 Broadridge UK DC report. So DC market growth over the next 10 years is projected
to be strong, with the projection that total assets will go to £338 billion at the end of 2016
to £871 billion at the end of 2026.
The biggest driver of growth is the ongoing contributions from DC members. I really love
looking at this statistic as there is an unstoppable wall of cash coming into the market.
Winning and retaining DC clients means that you get the benefit of member contributions
coming in month-on-month, cash contributions which are not depended on market
conditions or market sentiment. Our client retention rate is very high. We've never lost a
market trust client, and we have roughly 97% retention rate across our whole bundled
business.
Auto enrollment increases means that contributions are now a 5% minimum and will rise
to 8% from April 2019. Now the majority of our clients are already contributing more than
that auto enrollment revenue a minimum. So we wanted to see our cash flow increase as
much as some of those pure auto enrollment players in the market. But if we are able to
win and retain clients in the way that we have done over the last few years then we will be
able to enjoy a strong year-on-year cash flow.
We have a 17% stake in Smart Pension. They're a fintech company that successfully
targeted micro employers with an online offering that makes it very simple for employers
to fulfill their auto enrollment duties. And Smart Pension offer LGIM funds via our
investment only platform. Now their employer base is very much paying at the minimum
levels so we will see increased flows from Smart into our funds.

Page 29 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

Some money will leave the DC market as members retire and Broadridge expects some
money to move into workplace pension schemes as a result of DB to DC transfers
although the majority of these assets are moving into personal pension schemes.
So within the DC market the bundled business covering bundle trust, contract based
schemes and Mastertrusts is expected to grow much more strongly than the unbundled
sector. So the slide shows the assets and each structure in 2016 that's the light blue bars
and the projected assets in 2026, the dark blue bars. And this slide really highlights the
importance of Mastertrust as a structure within the bundled DC market as its projected to
experience by far the highest growth rate from £12 billion in 2016 to £306 billion by 2026.
And as you can see from the chart, contract based schemes as group personal pensions
are also experiencing strong growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

So as I explained upfront, we use the same administration platform, investment platform
and people to deliver all of our bundled services owned trust, contract and Mastertrust.
So we are genuinely neutral as to which trust an (01:43:21) employer may choose to use
for their staff. I would agree with the Broadridge predictions that group personal pension
and Mastertrust will be the two big growth areas. So for an employer, running their own
scheme involves high resource requirements and costs, the employer will be paying for
the governance structure, the advisors to the scheme and may also be paying some or all
of the administration charges as well as having to make the contributions on the
members' behalf. GPP, a Mastertrust, take these costs and burdens away from the
employer and leave them simply with the duty to pay contributions.
Now, given that Mastertrust is predicted to see the fastest growth in the fast growing
market, it's important for us have a strong offering in this area and we believe that the
Legal & General Mastertrust is market leading. So the Mastertrust was set up in 2011 with
Marks & Spencer, one of the first employers to join. And since then, we've taken on many
more of the UK's largest employers. So, when Tesco set up their new DC scheme for all
staff in December 2015, they chose the Legal & General Mastertrust. With over 250,000
members, we believe it's the largest DC scheme in Europe and we've invested in our
administration system to ensure it can handle the scale. With £4.7 billion of assets at the
end of 2017, we are the largest Mastertrust by assets in the recent Hymans Robertson
report.
So we've seen the trends in the market with particular emphasis on the growth of
Mastertrust, so the next section just looks at our numbers in more detail. So, this slide
shows the growth of the overall DC business split by business type. So the grey bars are
our unbundled business, which, as you would expect, is declining over time as our clients
follow the market trend of moving to bundles.
The darker blue bars are the unbundled clients – are also unbundled clients, but these are
clients that use our investment platform to access external manager funds and create
scheme-specific blended funds. These tend to be the larger clients, who are likely to
remain unbundled as they have scale in their own rights. We launched our investment
platform in September 2014 to meet the demands of our existing clients and we have
been successful in doing this and in attracting new clients. The next set of bars are where
we sell our LGIM investment funds to the clients via other companies' platforms.
Page 30 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

And the top bars show our bundle business, which as you'd expect from market trends, is
showing strong growth. So, Broadridge estimates that the DC market is growing at 10%
per annum, our overall growth rate is 19%, well ahead of the market average. We are a
fast growing business in a growth market.
So, this slide shows the steadily increasing cash flows year-on-year. So this is regular
contribution money from our existing schemes, it doesn't include transfers or new
schemes and assets won, this is the regular flow from our DC schemes that come into the
business through payroll deduction. And experience shows that this flow of regular
contributions is pretty much immune to market conditions.
When you win a DC scheme of (01:46:58) the client, you also win a valuable set of future
cash flows back to that unstoppable wall of cash.

Bloomberg Transcript

Unique (01:47:08) scale and efficient systems to be able to make money in member
recordkeeping. So, looking at our administration business alone, not including the
investment management revenues, you'll see that we were breakeven in 2017. And in
order to get to this point, we needed to invest in our systems to ensure that we can bring
down the average cost of administering each member record. And you can see that cost
of member reducing from 2014 to 2017 and the continued losses that you can also see
there in 2015 and 2016 are as a result of us investing in this business to improve our
systems.
So, just one example of this is contribution processing efficiency whereby the Tesco
payroll file of 250,000 members can be fully processed in less than an hour. And we're
investing to improve efficiency and reduce member costs even further. So we're
introducing robotics on the simpler repeatable processes and we're reviewing our
processes across the board using lean methodology to make sure that we're operating in
a fully efficient way.
Also, our improved user experience which I'll talk about in a minute will encourage more
members to self-serve and that should reduce calls to the helpline. So, as we undertake
these activities, we open the doors of profit with increased revenues from a growing
client base and then reduce costs of servicing those clients and members. As I mentioned
upfront, we have one administration system, so all the investment goes into improving
this system for the benefit of our clients and also for us in terms of improved efficiency.
Of course, as the only vertically integrated bundled provider, we also get the benefit of
generating investment management revenues from our bundled business. Over 90% of
our bundled assets are invested in LGIM funds. And you can see how the bundled
revenue, which the dark blue bars, from administration and investment is both growing
year-on-year and is growing as a proportion of our overall DC revenue.
So the next section talks through the investment trends in the DC market and how we are
well-placed to capitalize on these. So the Broadridge research shows that the largest
asset allocation is to index equity, fixed income or factor-based funds both in 2016 and
the projected asset allocation in 2026. As the largest UK-based index manager, LGIM is in
Page 31 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

a strong position to benefit from this trend and we've also seen the successful launch of
factor-based funds such as the Future World Fund and we are the only index manager to
offer a full range of bundled products.

FINAL

Index funds are always likely to play a strong in DCF allocation as all schemes use the auto
enrollments have a 75-basis point cap on all member borne charges. The other key
investment types are multi-asset, target date funds and ESG.
And as you heard from Anton earlier, we have strengthened all of these areas and the DC
business is fully supported by our solutions team. Just one example of this is that we've
recently launched the Pathway Funds, a range of target date funds. So the investment
map looks quite similar to lifestyle strategy in that a member assets are (01:50:45)
getting higher risk investments move gradually into lower risk investments over time and
the path consisted a mix of Legal & General funds.
So what's different about target date funds? Well, target date funds are easy to
communicate. A member chooses or is defaulted into some (01:51:04) that's in line with
our expected retirement date and they stay in this one fund throughout their retirement
journey. The journey and the higher risk investments go on post-retirement and we've set
up the funds in five-year vintages to take account of the fact that very few members can
predict with accuracy when they're going to retire.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the other key benefit of this structure is that the end outcome can evolve to meet
the needs of future generations and take into account how retirement income needs
would change over time.
As you heard from Siobhan, we are investing in our technology providing an engaging
user experience helps win new clients and retain existing clients. If you focus on the needs
of a member in a DC scheme you can't go file wrong (01:51:56). Engaged members are
more likely to have a savings goal to take advantage of matching employer contributions
and save more than the minimum level. They're also more likely to consolidate other
pension savings into their current scheme which will be important as the launch of an
industry pension dashboard in the next couple of years will increase transparency and is
expected to increase demand for pension consolidation.
So at LGIM, we're in the middle of a digital customer initiative that will allow us to send
personalized messages to members to show them a consolidated picture of their
savings, both pension and ISA or other investments and give them all the tools they need.
So we're working very closely with Helena's personal investing business to ensure that all
of our customers have a consistent view of all of their holdings and we're also investing in
technology to increase our operational efficiency and bring our cost down further. Our
operating model is digital first with a focus on the online journey.
Now as an example of some of the new communication methods we've been working on,
we started sending out personalized videos rather than pay-per-benefit (01:53:10)
statements and the early results have been impressive. So the video I'm about to show

Page 32 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

you was sent out to RBS employees, each received a personalized version and as a result
14% of the membership made a change to their contribution rates.

FINAL

[Video Presentation] (01:53:32-01:55:23)
Now in real life, that click here does stay on the screen, you don't just have to do like
chasing it across and you've got one second to click it, and the feedback around the
membership was that it was the most engaging pension communication that they've ever
had, maybe they should get out more. So this technology does not increase cost, it may
look expensive but while it costs £0.50 to send out a piece of benefit statement, a
personalized video like that costs around £0.44.
So in conclusion, how are we building on this success to deliver on future customer needs
and the needs of our business? So for our customers, we are exploring advice solutions,
working closely with personal investing. Now there's a lot of information, guidance and
tools that we can deliver to members via the digital first journey. But there will be some
points in the journey particularly as members get closer to retirement what their main
need is advice.

Bloomberg Transcript

We're also building a framework to help members understand how they could spend their
money in retirement, calling out four key areas or four jam jaws (01:56:30) they could fill.
So this is shown in screen on this slide. So there's one allocation to provide income for the
early active retirement years, one for a guaranteed income in later life, a rainy day fund
(01:56:44) and money to pass on as an inheritance. So not everyone will want or be able
to fill all four of those jam jaws (01:56:52) but the framework can work for all.
So the business as you've seen from the slide, the core strength of the business is the
rapidly growing regular cash flows. We've already reduced our cost per member and
these costs will continue to decrease as our scale grows and as we improve our
administration efficiency. And the way we're looking to do this is to learn from the wider
group as we further develop that robotic strategy and implement lean processes. We
believe that these developments and our digital spend will allow us to consolidate our
number one position in the DC market.
I'd now like to hand over to Honor Solomon.

Honor Julia Eli Solomon

{BIO 18915625 <GO>}

Good afternoon. I'm Honor Solomon, LGIM's Head of Retail Intermediary business. We
define the Retail Intermediary client base as intermediaries buying funds on behalf of end
customers. The intermediaries role is to select the best funds in the investment market on
behalf of their end clients. My team built relationships with intermediaries, so they have a
full appreciation of LGIM's range, and strengths.
Intermediaries covered by my team are in two categorize; advisory and wealth. An
example of the advisory audience are independent financial advisors, IFAs and the
networks that they belong to, where advice is usually given to their end clients. Our
Page 33 of 64



FINAL

Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

second and newest channel is wealth or discretionary clients, for example, private banks.
The private banks' high net-worth clients have approximately £2 million plus in liquid
assets. The intermediary or the private banker usually has discretion as to how this money
is invested. My team will speak to the banks' investment committees and fund selectors
who are responsible for asset allocation and identifying the best funds across the whole
market. The fund selectors then package all funds up into their investment solutions, for
example, into ISIS, BPS, or modeled portfolios, which are then sold on to the private banks
end customers.
We also distribute our funds and solutions to banks, building societies, national wealth
managers, rating agencies, direct to consumer platforms, and insurance companies.
LGIM's distribution capability to-date cover the breadth of the UK intermediary time
spectrum. Our next chapter of growth will be coming from Continental Europe. In order to
access this market, we have launched offshore product wrappers in addition to standard
UK unit trusts. These are Luxemburg-regulated SICAVs, Irish-registered ICAVs, and we've
acquired the Converse ETF capability that Chad mentioned earlier. So we have this full
range.

Bloomberg Transcript

The UK market typically defines retail as two types of asset management channels,
Intermediary Retail, the advisory and wealth audiences, and Personal Investing. Following
my presentation, you will also hear from Helena Morrissey, whose Personal Investing
business deals with customers directly rather than through intermediaries. Today, our
combined Intermediary Retail and Personal Investing business assets under management
stands at £30 billion, generating revenues of £116 million.
Last year, combined net sales flow was £3 billion. The key messages that I will be covering
during this presentation are, how we have grown our UK Retail Intermediary business over
the past four years, how we have built our product range and client service proposition
that will be instrumental for our continued strong growth, and how we've identified
significant opportunities outside of the UK and have a clear plan to capitalize on
developing these.
This slide shows a sustained and strong growth in growth and net inflow since 2013. When
I joined LGIM in October 2014, our Retail Intermediary business was ranked outside of the
top 20 in net sales versus our market competitors. You will see from the bar charts on the
top left, how our Intermediary Retail and Personal Investing assets under management
have grown since 2011. Following Helena's arrival, we've now separated £4 billion of retail
assets under management. That represents the asset base for what is now a separate
Personal Investing business.
We're delighted with the growth we've achieved in Intermediary Retail. If there is one
word, I would like you to remember from my session apart from growth, it is
diversification. Both on the client side and the product side, working with IFSs is in our
DNA, but we've now diversified into the wealth space too by restructuring the sales team
and recruiting sales specialists to service wealth clients.

Page 34 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

Index funds are our heritage and future. To build on this, we focused on diversifying and
broadening our product range as well as improving our customer proposition to make the
most of the breadth of LGIM's fund management strengths. We are now a force in
(02:03:05) multi-assets, real assets and interactive funds and this has given us an ability
to reach a wider intermediary audience.
Bottom left, you can see the breakdown of assets under management by asset class for
2017 and on the right you can see the UK competitive landscape for growth and net sales.
In 2017, we were ranked third in the market for growth in net sales. In terms of our market
share, at the beginning of this year, our overall position in the UK for assets under
management was 3.8%, ranking us 10th. For context, M&G was ranked first with a market
share of 11%. So we have only scratched the surface in terms of opportunity.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have a strong backdrop in the pan-European markets that we have identified for
growth. Through our new ETF business, we now have clients across 14 jurisdictions and as
Siobhan mentioned, we have a thoughtful, deliberate and incremental growth strategy for
the future. As a first step, we have ensured we cover and can therefore cross-sell LGIM's
product suite to our newly acquired book of ETF clients.
Picking out a few of our target countries, Germany is our primary entry point, where we
have an established office and our sales team are building on our existing institutional
sales presence. The Italian market has bought into our ETF capability already, and we see
that there're interesting opportunities with our active and index strategies. Switzerland
has been prioritized due to the concentration of assets from high net-wealth individuals.
Many of the private banks have teams that we know already in London. Therefore,
building relationships with their Swiss counterparts has been straightforward.
We've already been successful in Ireland through building a relationship with a major
partner there. We're also ramping up our sales team. Our European distribution strategy
for 2018 and beyond has been a deliberate phased approach, moving from the fly-in flyout model to feet on the ground. We plan to add distribution presence in key European
markets. This will help grow existing relationships and build strategic partnerships across
Europe. We've already hired in Germany and Ireland and Italy and Switzerland to follow
next.
We're focused on expansion of products, resources, and our client base. This plan plays
into asset management trends in Europe, with Italy and Germany vying for leadership in
terms of sales flows. But, to be very clear, none of this growth will be at the expense of
our UK business, which we will also continue to grow.
In the same way, we've been successful in the UK, I am confident that we can win on the
Continent, due to our credible and broad product suite as shown on this slide. We
understand that different types of clients whether advisory or wealth have different
needs. We have built and tailored our product proposition according to these needs. We
recognize that on the Continent, our clients will require a different product set and we will
respond accordingly.

Page 35 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

The strength of LGIM lies in the range of cost-effective, multi-asset solutions and index
funds. These are complemented by the top quartile active, fixed income and equity funds
that Anton discussed earlier. Bill has touched on our award-winning real assets capability.
In the UK, my team sell the LGIM UK Property Fund, The Pace (02:07:14). Our property
funds and global REIT was the top selling group net over 2017 in the Investment
Association Property sector. On the active side, we're gathering momentum with our
Global High Yield Fund which is producing top quarter returns for our clients.
We placed a lot of focus on listening and responding to our clients' needs. We look to
continually understand our client's objectives and identify how we can meet them in an
original way. Clients told us that the market was lacking cost effective solutions, tackling
their existing clients' requirements for ongoing suitability analysis. They wanted unique,
thematic exposures to an uncorrelated to traditional asset classes. MiFID II regulations
also shaped our clients' appetite for transparency and value. We responded by building a
multi-index proposition four years ago, launching with a fund for the UK advisory market,
and then broadening the range to target European clients.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our multi-index range stands out as a success story for the advisory audience. We
listened and responded to the clients' needs both in the UK and Eurozone. The multiasset solution combines many areas of excellence within LGIM from the index funds as
the principal building blocks, the dynamic asset allocation process of our well-established
multi-asset team, and for the UK range exposure, our Physical Property Fund managed by
the real assets team.
This solution meets the clients' needs to be transparent and cost effective. They're able
to select the multi-index fund in the range that is most appropriate for their personal risk
appetite and investment objectives. For example, Multi-Index 7 targets a higher risk
profiles and typically holds more actives, whereas Multi-Index 3 targets a lower profile,
typically holding more fixed income and cash. You may ask, why we didn't launch a MultiIndex 1, 2, 8 or 9, and this is because our client conversations revealed limited demand for
the lower or higher risk products in the retail market.
Clients are also able to opt for growth or income flavor. The growth in assets under
management from zero to £2.4 billion in four years is testament to the success. Our fund
range was the second best-selling range of funds in the Investment Association Volatility
Managed sector for 2017.
As Chad discussed earlier, the next exciting catalyst for our continued growth is the
opportunity to build and sell ETFs. My team could not be more thrilled to add ETFs to our
toolkit. The graph shows the markets growth in European ETFs, it is highly concentrated
with only three scaled players with assets above €50 billion, giving us a great opportunity
to capture clients who wish to diversify their mainstream exposure. The existing range
now at £2.7 billion includes in thematic funds like the robotics ETFs, which raised nearly £1
billion since launch as well as commodity and fundamentals fixed income funds.
As well see the existing ETF range, we will be launching a full range of new funds in four
key areas core, (02:11:17) capabilities, smart beta or factor-based investing capabilities,

Page 36 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

Future World to capitalize on our ESG strengths and extending the existing range of
thematic funds such as our robotics, battery technology and cybersecurity ETFs.
Before I hand over to Helena, what are my key messages; the first is that we've come a
long way from our position outside of the top 20 in net sales to within the top three in the
UK. We've achieved this success by selling to our diversified client base of the advisory
and wealth audiences and by expanding our product range. The right products at the right
prices are important. Diversification has been the key.
The second is that we will continue to grow our position in the UK whilst carefully
implementing our European market strategy. This will be focused on the history and scale
of LGIM, the expertise of our teams and the philosophy, process and risk management of
our fund managers.
The third is that it's all about the great sales people we have and their hiring as well as the
excellent ETFs and funds that meet our clients' needs.
On that note, let me hand over to Helena Morrissey, Head of Personal Investing.

Bloomberg Transcript

Helena Louise Morrissey

{BIO 1651982 <GO>}

Thank you so much, Honor, and good afternoon. So, I joined LGIM a year ago because of
my strong belief that the company was uniquely placed to make investing accessible to
everyone in the UK. To succeed where others have tried and failed requires a
combination of many things, it requires reach, a trusted brand, a relevant range of funds,
value for money pricing, great technology including a welcoming website and perhaps
most importantly of all a new message about investing that really resonates.
Now, LGIM already has many of these characteristics and the others are now well in train.
So, today I'm even more confident that we can popularize investing in the UK. And the
first phase of our program to engage the nation will kick off next week. We intend to
make the Legal & General brand just as synonymous for personal investing as it is today
with insurance or pension. Ultimately we want to revolutionize investing so that UK
becomes a nation of investors, more in control of their financial well-being.
Now the direct personal investing business is a recent focus for LGIM but it's seen as
strategically very important as financial responsibility shifts from the institution to
individuals. So within the £30 billion retail assets under management that Honor
mentioned, we have that small existing personal investing book of around £4 billion. Now
this book has an average customer age today of over 60, and without a growth plan that
business had previously been dwindling with £50 million of net outflows last year. But
we're looking now to take a significant share of a fast growing market to capture defined
benefit transfers and enable our defined contribution pension customers to easily access
personal investing.
We know (02:14:55) it is early days but already we've seen a significant rise in new
customers and their average age is falling now in mid-40s following modest
Page 37 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

improvements that we've made ahead of next week's much bigger launch. And we now
have these clear high growth ambitions and a plan to enable us to win.

FINAL

Now a number of factors are driving the rapid growth of the UK personal investing
markets. Together they create a really powerful trend. As well as a move towards
individual financial responsibility that you've heard about already, there is as in other
sectors a trend towards customers going direct cutting out the middleman, (02:15:35).
The pie charts on the right here show this quite clearly the blue segments represent
those who access investments directly. In 2011, this was roughly half and now its three
quarters of all invested. Now the present investing market in the UK is fragmented at
present and that creates a big opportunity for us. The two key sectors are insurers, at the
top, currently the biggest and asset managers, the fourth down (02:16:06) which are the
fastest growing and Legal & General obviously fits well into both.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our UK credentials in DB, DC and retail intermediary markets are a good foundation for
our ambitions. We're able to cater for customers throughout their whole lifetime. And as
you can see from the statistics on the right hand side, although we're hardly a nation of
savers, already there's a significant amount of investable cash, £1.5 trillion. Now women in
particular tend to be either recklessly cautious or simply not involved. Only 9% of women
in their 40s and 50s have a stocks and shares ISA and a high proportion, around 70%, of
junior ISAs are in cash.
You can see from the bottom right that customers prioritize multiple things. They want
value for money; they want a trusted name; a wide range of investments; a good web
site; and of course they want excellent service. LGIM is in a really strong position because
we can offer all of those. While we'll be at least as good as the competition on all aspects,
we have two clear points of differentiation. We have an authentic trusted brand and a
broad investment offering. So we want to popularize investment in the UK by being bold
by connecting emotionally with people who have not yet felt investing is for them by
focusing on what actually matters to them, and of course by serving them well.
Now an authentic trusted brand is worth a huge amount in the financial services sector
today and it gives us a head start. Our broad range of funds that you've already heard
about aligns with potential customers' needs as well as their values. And by investing in
our digital operating model and offering more competitive pricing, we can meet all those
requirements for success. Importantly, Legal & General's scale means that we can reach
to many not just a few. So we're now firmly on ambitious growth mode, designing a mass
market proposition to turn this un-invested into invested.
So, how exactly are we going to do that? Now, I think that when any of us feel motivated
to do something, we need a reason why, we need to understand how we'll do it, and of
course we need to know what steps we should take. Now, I think our industry has tended
to focus on the what or which funds people should buy and the how has also been a
recent focus, because technology has clearly enabled us to offer that.

Page 38 of 64



FINAL

Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

But at LGIM, we are focusing very firmly on why. Our aim is to show why investing is
relevant, so it becomes genuinely appealing and seem to help people to meet their
goals. Of course, we can also address what funds and how to get invested. And that
emphasis though (02:19:13) sets us apart. We are modeling our business on the customer,
motivates them, not build it and they will come. And of course as we seek to make
investing genuinely appealing, we will test and learn. We recognize that we can't base the
behavior of new investors on the habits of existing ones. There is no blueprint to follow,
because no one has yet achieved what we're seeking to achieve. And if our approach isn't
working, we'll make changes. We're not just going for a slice of the existing pie, we intend
to grow it.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now I mentioned that LGIM has a couple of advantages already, we have the full suite of
the most popular investment strategy for personal investors today and we will continue to
innovate. To be honest, there is actually a danger that a choice might seem rather
overwhelming so we are presenting a more clearly signposted range with four key
categories that you see on the slide here. So multi-index, diversified funds as a one stop
shop, a growing Future World Fund range that we've talked about funds focused on what
potential customers really care about, index building blocks for low cost investing and
absolute return, the massive fund that Anton mentioned earlier which is an all season
offering and over time we will introduce relevant exciting ETFs such as robotics.
Now as I mentioned, many of us are reluctant to invest and we don't invest enough,
offering strategies that align with the interests and values of younger investors and
women is an essential part of broadening the appeal. The bar chart that you see here is
based on U.S. research but the findings fit the UK too. A significant majority of millennials
and women are interested in funds that are responsibly managed. You may have seen the
recent FTP has (02:21:13) headlined NextGen clients see greener, leaner wealth
managers. They want funds that reflects their concerns about issues such as climate
change.
And the future world's range that we've talked about already offers those investment
strategies that are purposeful without compromising on returns. They are attuned to
those (02:21:34), the sustainable responsible choices which are also smart financial
choices. So the gender and leadership of GIRL Fund which launched in May has already
expanded the Future World's range. And as Meryam has shown, many years of leading
edge work (02:21:50) by our corporate governance team, really make LGIM stands out, it
makes us authentic, when it comes to issues like gender equality.
So let's turn to perceptions of the brand, our other key starting points. Now we are
already a household name, mainstream. And the Legal & General brand, according to
research, is seen as expert, genuine and respected. And this means that we have an
advantage, we can have an impact right from the start, but at the moment we've not
seen as sufficiently different. And so we are addressing that. What's interesting is that
none of our competitors are in the prime position in the top right hand. Our aim is to
optimize intersection between being disruptive and being meaningful to move our brand
into that winning space.

Page 39 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

And as we seek to really appeal to the mass market, recognition is critical. So I thought its
worth pointing out that the Legal & General brand is already recognized by 83% of
personal customers and that that compares with much lower percentages for our
competitors. We are already also on a lot of people's radar, 41% are considering using us.
So our goal is to convert these into customers, starting with exciting new advertising and
editorial campaign that I'll show you in a moment.
And alongside this big flash (02:23:15), we will be undertaking carefully selected
sponsorship. You may have seen that we've just announced a five-year partnership with
the Girlguiding Association to contribute to the UK's financial legacy. The Girl Guides
(02:23:27) has to reached, the organization has 400,000 present UK members, one is in
four British adult women was around the (02:23:37).
The partnership involves sponsoring a new saver badge and we will be launching a
competition as well to find the future female entrepreneurs helping to create a new
generation of female savers and investors, also at the same time, increase the presence
of our brand in British households and help the long-term growth of our client base.

Bloomberg Transcript

So I'd like to introduce you to our exciting Own Your World campaign, which you'll start to
see next Monday. And we're basing our campaign on the concept that investing is about
taking ownership, ownership of your future, ownership of part of a company and in the
age of activism, ownership of something even greater, the world around us. So Own Your
World is a punchy line lays down both the challenge and it empowers the individual. I think
it captures what share ownership is all about and suggests that becoming a nation of
investors we can have an influence, we can make companies work for us.
And we want to convey that investing isn't limited to the wealthy, and so we are reducing
our minimum contributions to support this. It's a call to action. Everyone can get invested
and together we can create the world we want to see. So it's a disruptive campaign
based on the behaviors and habits of the underinvested and it's deliberately designed to
provoke a reaction. You can see a few examples here, one of my favorite quotes. The
message is clear by investing you can better control your own and our collective future,
financial and social outcome can be achieved together.
Now we'll assess reactions to this initial two-week campaign that starts Monday and then
we'll launch a second wave in September. And that second phase will have a more
specific focus on Future World funds moving from exploring the concept of investing to
actually being invested. And we'll be assessing non-financial as well as financial metrics,
including website visits, page views, social media hits, the profile of new customers and all
of this will help us gauge the campaign's effectiveness.
So what about our competition? Now, there will of course be more than one successful
player, but I believe that each one needs to be distinct. So beside our brand and
investment offering, we are ensuring we provide good value for money, a wide range of
services and a great customer experience based around the customer's own ongoing
needs. We are confident that we occupy a distinct place.

Page 40 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

Now, there's still room for the full service and full cost approach. And at the other end of
the spectrum, on the left there, the no frills model that actually may have already tested
for the low point on fees for sustaining profitability. And while barely a month actually,
sometimes it feels like barely a week goes by without yet another (02:26:45) advisor
entering the market, bear in mind that a lot of these competitors are charging up to 75
basis points platform fees before their fund charges.
Now, our digital investments that Emma has touched on will allow us to contend with
these providers on technology. As part of our first release i.e., from next Monday this
week, we've reduced prices on our core funds bringing them down to a level that offers
value in a more competitive market. So, fees for our core multi-index range have reduced
(02:27:19) by 20% to 61 basis points and the fee for our core index funds have reduced
(02:27:25) by up to 40% with the UK range now at 48 basis points. These are all in-fees
including platform charges.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now in terms of our growth ambitions, we have been gathering data on the
characteristics of those we think might be open to investing. This is helping us to target
our distribution approach and confirms that these people have the means to invest, that
the pie actually can be grown. The analysis is based on the database of 50 million UK
adults. And LGIM's target segments fall into two broad groups; the build on the left and
acquire.
The build are those who've usually already made investments. So we are aiming to
increase their commitment and to gain market share. The acquire are potential
customers, very much smaller today in terms of what money they have but they have
considerable higher growth potential. We believe that success in these two broad
categories will not be sequential, but will occur in parallel. If we succeed and attract the
attention of those just thinking about starting to invest, we will also appeals to those who
are already invest.
Now, of course, another powerful driver of growth is that we can build on existing Legal &
General customer base. As Emma's already set out, we are a leading DC provider and
there are over 600,000 people who have left their employer and who are already on our
platform. Around 10% of these have actively opted in to receive marketing from us
regarding personal investing. And we're moving closer to the DC pitch process so that
DC prospects become aware right from the start of our personal investing capacity or
capability. And we are well placed to become employers' natural partner for employees
personal investment needs. I'll show you in a moment how our digital customer
investments means that customers will have a seamless, great experience.
Our proposition will also be offered as a tool for the retail into new channels. We will offer
a link to Legal & General platform for those advisors who don't have the resource to
create their own digital proposition. And looking beyond internal opportunities, we've
been identifying potential external partners with the goal of developing a financial wellbeing ecosystem and even broader access to customers. Right across the platform, we
are expanding our services and functionality so we'll be adding tax-efficient pension
wrappers to increase the scope of our target market.

Page 41 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

Now as we've already heard, we're investing in a world-class digital customer journey right
across the groups. Wherever and however a customer comes to Legal & General, they
will have a great, consistent and seamless experience. This is such an important
development. It makes it easy for customers to access our various financial services and
we believe will help develop their loyalty.
As Emma mentioned, we believe a digital-first model is the best way to meet currently
unfulfilled personal customer needs cost effectively. But we do believe, we must also
offer human interaction. Now obviously, mobile is rapidly becoming everybody's first
choice. And so we are developing a mobile-first approach. An advice gap still remains at
the lower end of the market. So we're working on a robo-styled investment advice
offering with a monthly subscription type fee. People are used to monthly subscriptions to
services like music and sports, and it highlights that advice is an ongoing need, not a one
off. And we'll be testing this with staff before we go externally, and of course, with advice,
it's essential that we work closely with the regulator and that we put customer affordability
and our duty of care to these customers first.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now we'll be making continuous improvements to the digital customer experience.
Starting next week, one of the things we'll be announcing is a faster, more straightforward
ISA apply journey. Of course, we need to be forward looking and thinking. We need to be
able to adapt to increasing customer expectations around technology.
So we're building innovation around our LGIM's own technology stack rather than
outsourcing. It's really important that point as we can then ensure that we can compete in
agility with fintech newcomers. And as we gather more customer data, we will make
further progress, further improvements and share the benefits of operational efficiencies
with our customers.
So our ambition is to deliver a profitable, winning, mass-market offering to be the go-to
personal investing house in the UK. We expect an ongoing acceleration in marketplace
growth. We expect more and more innovative competitors to enter and we just believe
that will increase customer uptake as well as obviously increase the competition.
As I've outlined, we have a number of significant advantages. New robo-based advisors
can't compete with us because of our scale, but we're not complacent and we're
investing for growth and to be agile. LGIM's personal investment business is profitable
today. And as you've heard we're investing to grow. By engaging the nation, we can
become the customer's first choice for investment needs across their whole lifetime. I am
very excited about the prospects of driving a new culture investments in the UK. It's a big
– grand even – ambition, but I believe that LGIM has what it takes to succeed.
Thank you. I'd now like to hand over to Sarah Aitken, Head of Distribution.

Sarah Aitken

{BIO 1941315 <GO>}

Thank you, Helena. And just to say you've got only two of us left. So we're nearly there.
Yes. So I just want to say we are all very, very excited about all three of the businesses
Page 42 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

you've just heard us talk about DC and retail are stories about growth now and anyone
who thinks back to that frightening statistics from Mark's opening with the dependency
ratio in the UK halving over the next 30 years will understand that not being a scale player
in personal investing simply isn't an option.
You might actually call it a strategy of following the pound and really that pound starts in
UK DB. So let me now take you right back to our roots which are in UK DB and before
what I'll do after that is then show you how with the same capability these institutional
capabilities can be used to build presence in a range of new markets.
So the UK DB market truly is the bedrock of our business and it remains a significant focus
for LGIM. It's large and resilient and it has decades left to run. It will continue to play a vital
role in generating strong repeatable earnings for us for many years to come. As you've
already seen, our business strategy of diversification has reduced our dependence on this
channel, but it is crucial you understand that this has been achieved by growing other
channels more quickly, not by losing our focus on UK DB.

Bloomberg Transcript

Client assets under management of £634 billion and revenues of £357 million at the end
of 2017 reinforced our position as the number one manager in UK DB, including in LDI and
in managing assets for local government pensions. We are not, however, resting on our
laurels. This is a business that we continue to invest in and we will both defend our market
dominance and continue to grow our market share.
So far, we have anticipated all the major shifts in this market. We understand our clients.
We have the right investment capabilities. We offer outstanding service and value for
money. And with L&G as our parent, we're competitively blessed, able to chaperone our
DB client assets, uninterrupted from cradle through to buyout grave.
LGIM's UK DB business still accounts for 44% of our revenue. Clients value our input and
work with us and our advisors to evolve those strategies. This helps us to attain assets
and grow revenue as their investment needs change and it's clearly demonstrated in the
chart on the left, which Mark showed earlier.
The strong growth of non-traditional mandates highlighted here as DB Expansion
evidences our success in keeping one step ahead. These outcome-oriented and nonbenchmark strategies have grown from being just 28% of our UK DB revenues in 2011 to
55% last year. Our scale really matters in this market. LDI is a tough market for new
entrants. And just as our clients have long-duration liabilities, this is actually long duration
revenue. And in fact, although the often quoted average holding period when institutional
client is between five years and seven years, over 80% of our clients have been with LGIM
for longer than five years and the average tenure is 13 years across the entire client base.
And we can evidence how we grow revenue per client by meeting more of their needs.
Let me offer you a bit of color on that. Today, we manage more than four mandates for
every one of our top 20 clients and more than five for all of our top 10. With genuinely
long-term relationships that span a broader range of mandates, we remain in an enviably
strong position. So it remains an attractive market for us. It's the largest pensions market
Page 43 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

in Europe. Approximately £1.5 trillion in assets under management, still with deficits to
make up and with an average duration of liabilities of something close to 20 years. This is
a market that will outlast my career.
Nevertheless, the market is competitive and consolidating. This is an environment in which
scale, deep client knowledge and breadth of investment offering are powerful
advantages. And we have the scale and the efficient operating model to compete
successfully in areas where asset consolidation has been a recent theme, such as LDI and
index.
Barriers to entry remain high. The UK DB market is highly intermediated. According to
Greenwich (02:38:40), 94% of institutional assets are overseen by investment consultants
and the top six alone account for 80% of this.

Bloomberg Transcript

No manager in the UK can compete without buy ratings from consultants. These are
essential, not optional; and it's extremely difficult to renew business without them. Our
key investment capabilities are buy rated by all the major consultants and this has been
fundamental to our growth in fixed income LDI and multi-assets. Again, let me give you an
example, Greenwich (02:39:15) noted that we talked shortness recommendations in
segregated and pulled LDI assets such as, with 90% inclusions. We currently have 139 buy
ratings in the UK from consultants across a range of investment capabilities.
So to recap, the attraction of institutional business is the resilience of the revenue it
provides. And a successful institutional business should be able to demonstrate three
things; longer than average persistency, deeper than average relationship i.e., multiple
mandate per client and broad investment capabilities that mean assets can be retained
as clients strategies evolve.
Let me just share very quickly a real client case study, and please don't worry about the
details in the slide. So this is a prominent FTSE client, who first engaged with us in 2004,
and we'll start with the DB plan, which is at the top. So from very simple index beginning in
2004, we started by helping them manage risk more than 10 years ago. This strategy has
evolved over the last decade to a place where they are largely hedged from a liability
perspective and where the focus has now switched to cash flow management. We have
worked closely with them at every turn. As a result, revenues have multiplied over the
years as assets have transitioned.
We currently have six strategic mandates with some 30 underlying portfolios. This is a
top-tier relationship built to last and based on trust. And with a similar relationship with the
same client in DC. From being a peripheral manager via a third-party platform, we are
now pivotal to the DC strategy. We were appointed as bundles manager a couple of
years ago and most recently also won the mandate for the drawdown decumulation
phase. As their bundles provider with solutions for both pre and post retirement, this is
another mandate build for the long term.
So let's very quickly recap before I sum up UK DB. This market has faced real difficulties. It
has often been described as the perfect storm, low interest rates, increased life
Page 44 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

expectancy and regulatory change led to deficit and scheme closures. We have helped
our clients at every stage as they have shifted from the focus on growth to holistic
approach that looks at managing liability risks and cash flows.
So de-risking has now become the norm. Outflows from the vanilla index have negatively
gathered pace as Chad mentioned and this is a challenge we've had to face. But there
has been a real opportunity to replace these outflows with revenue accretive and added
value alternatives so think index to cash flow matching, index to multi-asset, index to
factor-based solutions or index consolidator of choice and that includes active to passive
mandates.
Scheme closures and de-risking is increasingly accompanied by desired outsourced
oversight and governance. Now we offer effective solutions here too. Our fiduciary
management service takes total responsibility for our clients' whole portfolio. So we go
from running a slice of the pie to managing the whole, from a manager overseen by an
adviser to owner of the strategy. Fiduciary management by LGIM meaningfully embeds
long-term relationships and long-term revenues. It's early days but our offering is winning
business and gathering strong momentum and anticipated a need for consolidation of
smaller schemes, we are also working on a solution to improve the scalable delivery of
small scheme fiduciary management using technology.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the back of what will be a largely digital service, we will attract new books of clients
based on better investment solutions, more streamlined client management, and a good
value proposition, directly addressing the FCA's goals for a pooling (02:43:40) solutions
for smaller schemes. These are all opportunities for us to retain and grow revenue.
The final chapter has decades to run, but is now on the visible horizon. There are no new
DB schemes being established, and almost all existing schemes are now closed to new
entrants. So as our DB clients plan for the end game, it's important to highlight that L&G is
uniquely well placed to support a scheme from cradle to grave as previously discussed.
Low risk self-sufficiency or risk transfer via buy-out or buy-in are usually the final
destination for most schemes. LGIM continues to benefit from managing assets under any
of these scenarios. And by structuring and evolving client portfolios towards a buy-out
solution, LGIM and L&G have the ability to prepare clients for more attractive terms and a
smoother transition.
In different circumstances for DB clients without viable sponsors, we also have a role to
play as a manager for the PPF. For corporates setting up alternative plans under DC, as
Emma has already said, LGIM is the UK's leading provider of DC with the fastest growing
(02:44:57) and it is this expertise and total pension from DB to DC to buy-out all postretirements that underpins our business model and support LGIM's entry into new
markets.
So we're going to move abroad. Having talked you through, our core UK DB book, now
I'm going to take a look at our international businesses. So as you can see, we now have
offices in seven locations and clients in 29 countries. I'll be covering Europe, the Gulf and
Page 45 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

Asia, and will then hand it over to Aaron to talk about the U.S. All of these markets offer us
significant growth opportunities, and we're starting to capture them. So you can see here
that we've achieved scale in Europe and the Gulf, and we're just getting started in Asia.
And as Mark highlighted earlier, we delivered strong flows in each of these markets. I'm
going to talk a little bit about where we are today, what our growth plans are and how we
will deliver them. And I thought I'd just start by being clear about what makes a new
market attractive to us. So it must be a market where client needs can be met by our
investment capabilities, it offer secular growth, it needs pensions or insurance expertise
and it is likely to be institutional. And we approach the build-out by hiring experts
salespeople building to scale and adding local presence one it's justified. The starting
place is the home, let's look at Europe. Well, as we can see from the chart, we've
delivered strong AUM growth of 29% per annum over recent years. And what have we
got there, well we won our first European client in the Netherlands in 2002, Ireland
followed sometime after, and then Germany.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then in each of these markets having started with just one senior salesperson, we've
reached sufficient scale to justify a presence on the ground. Additionally, we fly in and out
coverage of the Nordics market. And clearly I should say all of the local offices rely on our
significant resource in London to support them and their clients. And it really is only in the
last two to three years that we focused more significant sales effort on the region and this
is yielding impressive results with just under 200 clients now in Europe ex UK.
So I'm going to focus on a couple of countries with very different reasons. We can't talk
about Europe without touching on Brexit. Ireland is our Brexit hub, as Siobhan has already
mentioned. Our new Irish super manco was the first Brexit-related approval by the Central
Bank in Dublin and we'll continue to build as necessary to support our EU business. We've
a strong base amongst institutional clients, have achieved success with key retail
intermediary partners and are working with other assets owners who chosen Dublin as
their hub.
Now we'll look at Germany as an illustration of both the challenges and opportunities in
Europe. Germany is key for us and we're very excited about future growth. We've got the
right people in the right place. The head of our European institutional business is German
and based in Frankfurt. And we already have a good base of active fixed income clients.
Now we like the market for reasons others find it hard. First of all its opaque. It's hard to
scope the size of various channels and lacks the dominance of a few global intermediaries
who could make market entry quite straightforward. It's operationally quite complex
involving KDG for institutional clients and tax transparency for funds and it is misleadingly
Anglo-Saxon, easy to misunderstand an ability to speak English as the sign of a good
relationship.
So it's a large market open to global managers and with investment needs that we are
well-placed to meet, but with barriers to success that you need to understand and we do.
This is a very attractive market for us and we know we've only scratched the surface.
There's plenty more growth to come, so what's the vision. Well, we've planned for a much

Page 46 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

larger business building on these foundations. We know that demographics and welfare
trends will drive the growth of pension and we see an even greater opportunity in
insurance as you can see from the chart on the right.
We occupy a curious, but favorable position, not competing directly with European
insurers, but sharing the same DNA. So we can be non-threatening and empathetic
partners. So whether it's supplying investment product to AGI as part of their fiduciary
offerings or sharing insights that come from managing our annuity book what represents
an additional challenge to others presents an opportunity for us.
And as we've heard from Honor, we also have ambitious plans in retail intermediary. So
what's the appetite in Europe and how will we win and grow? Well let's look at the
demand starting with ESG. First, mainland Europe is the home of ESG with 53% of global
ESG assets located in the region. This plays directly to our strengths. Secondly, there's a
desperate search for yield especially in Germany. Not surprising, when at short maturities
you have to pay to lend our capital to the German government.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've outstanding capabilities in areas of specialist credit and we'll continue for example
to benefit from sales momentum in global high yield. And thirdly, parts of Europe including
Germany have been a little behind the trend in passive. So we see a big opportunity here
too and I can certainly confirm that our recent launch of index funds has seen really
enthusiastic take-up amongst German clients. So we're investing sensibly in resource and
making sure we're ready to take full advantage of the opportunities we can see.
So now I'm going to move on and take you with me to the Gulf and tell you where we are
today. So we won our first client in Abu Dhabi in 2009. We manage index, credit and some
real assets. You won't be surprised to learn that the average mandate size is very large
and that the fee environment is competitive. Worth noting though that vanilla index clients
are moving into new areas such as factor-based investing, as Chad said, self-indexing and
index plus which all imply more constructive fee discussion.
We've a specialist team based in London supported by the broader business and have
already shown our ability to gather assets with compound annual growth of 32% since
2011. This is a classic institutional market with 90% of all assets in the hands of the top 20.
It is also a market more than any other that requires long-term commitment and
relationship is all.
We are benefiting from structural organic growth in these markets, but how do we stay
successful? One way we're winning is we're putting ourselves in the middle of a
consolidating and changing market. Asset owners are coming together and pension funds
are outsourcing. We knew as in some but seen as a highly committed manager with good
heritage. We're in a strong position to be appointed as a diversifying manager as clients
grow or as a complete replacement where our innovation is particularly priced. And finally,
as you'll all know that there has been deep step change in attitude to ESG, with particular
focus on E&G, clearly more opportunity for us.

Page 47 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

And I'm going to move further east again and just share our thoughts on Asia. For many
good reasons, our approach to Asia-Pac has to be different to that in Europe and the Gulf.
Time zones and communication alone mean that local resource is a key requirement from
the outset. So, where are we today? And we have offices in Hong Kong and Tokyo, we
have manufacturing and distribution capability in the region, and this is just a start.
In Asia, we look after £8 billion of assets. It's a well-diversified investment base across
fixed income, index and real assets. We concentrate on the larger institutional markets of
north Asia. This means sovereign wealth funds, pensions and insurance in China, Hong
Kong, Korea and Taiwan, although we do have our first clients in Singapore and Australia
as well. These are rich pools of assets already open to outsourcing. We also like the fact
that global consultants have a role to play and that the average mandate size is big.
As you can see on the right, these are all fast-growing market. Our history in Japan is
more recent, but our ambition is just as great. We're focused on public and private
pension funds as well as insurers and other financial institutions. At this stage, our clients
are investing in fixed income and real assets.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, what is our ambition in this region of a huge opportunity? Well, we know China and
Japan faced the biggest demographic challenge, but all markets in the region are
predicted to see strong growth in insurance and pensions. We've investment expertise
that matches client needs, and we are offering solutions to a region that has bought
products up to now. We're building up our teams and identifying partners where
appropriate. For example, we see South Korea as a key opportunity, given pensions,
regulation and long-tail insurance guaranteed guarantees.
We're excited about Japan where we've clear alignment of interest, given ongoing ESG
developments, (02:55:11) 242% increase in FRI assets over 2017 which is still just a fraction
of the market and is where it is ultimately could lead. And please don't think China isn't in
our plans, it is; it's just that its early days and we're evaluating the market. It's clearly too
big to miss in the longer time.
And with that, I'm going to hand over to Aaron Meder, who's going to take you over the
final stop f the wealth for U.S. Aaron is the CEO of the U.S.

Aaron Henry Meder

{BIO 16683830 <GO>}

Thanks, Sarah. Finally the U.S. All right. It's a one final fantastic story to leave you with
before Q&A. We are off to a great start in the U.S. We're very excited about the growth
opportunities ahead.
So let's start with a summary of where we are today. We now manage £140 billion in
assets and are experiencing significant external net flows that continue to grow year-overyear. So what's driving these flows? One major contributor comes from our marketleading position in the defined-benefit de-risking market where we're really wellpositioned for future growth. We've established three competitive advantages that led to
this strong position; a client-centric culture, investment excellence in fixed income and LDI
Page 48 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

and a true solutions orientation and we see a large opportunity to leverage the same
competitive advantages and deliver solutions in the DC and the public DB channels. In
particular, we see opportunities to innovate within the growing retirement income and
ESG markets and to address these opportunities, we have rounded out our investment
capabilities to include index and factor-based investments, multi-asset and real assets.
While we're very excited about the future, let's start with a bit of history on how we got
here. Here, we see strong consistent growth in our assets over our first decade, which all
started with the establishment of our U.S. fixed income capabilities back in 2006. We saw
three opportunities for U.S. fixed income. First, our insurance and retirement divisions
wanted to diversify their credit investments and gain more exposure to U.S. dollar assets.
Second, increasing UK pension fund demand for U.S. fixed income as they started taking a
more global approach. And third, we had a view that U.S. DB plan would de-risk just like
UK DB plans and fixed income will be the cornerstone of U.S. de-risking solutions.

Bloomberg Transcript

As we expected, we saw and continue to see growth from international investors in U.S.
fixed income, but what's really fueled the first decade of growth has been delivering a
market leading de-risking propositions to U.S. corporate DB plans. A few critical things
happened during our first few years to set us up for success.
First, we recruited a really talented fixed income team and they delivered outstanding
performance over a very difficult period, including the global financial crisis. Second, the
global financial crisis happened and was the trigger for U.S. DB plans to adopt an LDI mind
set and begin to derisk. This was partly because people regained a strong appreciation
for risk, but also because the crisis led to an opportunity, to match liabilities with highquality corporate bonds at very attractive yields.
The last critical element was hiring a best-in-class LDI team, so we could package up our
investment excellence in fixed income and offer a comprehensive spectrum of fixed
income and LDI solutions. I can't emphasize enough the importance of talent in our
business and our commitment to hiring, developing and retaining strong talent.
We won our first corporate DB client in 2010, and we've seen strong consistent growth
ever since. And from very early on, we started working with some of the largest and most
sophisticated pension funds in the U.S. For example, within a few years we had won
mandates with three of the 10 largest pension funds. While there's still lots of de-risking
to be done, in 2014 we started building out the investing capabilities we need to address
the broader U.S. retirement challenge and the corresponding DC opportunity.
First, we hired a team to establish our U.S. index business, which we launched with a £38
billion transfer of assets from our U.K. business. Our index capability is resonating across
all channels, and helping us build relationships in the DC market. We now have
relationships with 32 DC clients plans in a nearly 100 index clients. In 2017, we rounded out
our investment capabilities by establishing a multi-asset team, allowing us to more fully
address the DC opportunity and a real assets team initially focused on private credit,
which further differentiate our DB de-risking proposition. All of this leads us to where we

Page 49 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

now manage £140 billion of assets and having successfully established ourselves as a
leading solution provider.
More specifically, we are s leader in corporate DB de-risking and are an emerging force in
index and factor-based investment strategies. We now manage £61 billion in assets across
the full spectrum of fixed income and LDI solutions, which is being driven by a strong and
consistent flow from corporate DB plans and shows no signs of slowing down. Our index
and factory-based proposition now has commercial traction across all key U.S. client
channels with £67 billion of assets across all traditional market cap and increasingly factor
based investment strategies.

Bloomberg Transcript

So how are we doing it? Given the success we're having and how difficult it's been for
foreign asset managers to win in the U.S., I get asked this question a lot. Clients are
always the best place to find the answer and what I hear from them is that there are three
things that make us different. First, I consistently hear about our outside-in approach to
building our business, where we start with a deep understanding of the client problem
and then we build what's needed to solve it. This is very different from the traditional
inside-out approach most investment managers take where they build a product,
establish a track record and then try and find the clients to buy it.
Our outside-in approach is sustaining two cultural attributes that differentiate us. First, it
naturally leads to a strong client centricity across the business and second, creates a
collaborative environment as a traditional investment siloed approach to building an
investment management business, doesn't work when the objective is to bring the whole
firm together to solve client problems. The fact that 64% of our clients who have been
with us for at least a year have expanded the relationship is an excellent reason to believe
this approach is working.
Second, consistent with Anton's earlier comments, clients recognize the outstanding
investment performance we have delivered for them. And related to this, they also
appreciate our focus on being great at a handful of capabilities we need to solve their
problem as opposed to trying to be all things to all people.
Our U.S. credit capability is the cornerstone of our de-risking solutions for DB blends. And
having the number one risk adjusted returns since inception has been a key reason clients
have hired us and in many cases have expanded the relationship over time. And third,
we've always had a true solutions orientation underpinned by innovation and pragmatic
thought leadership. A key principle here is our ability when solving client problems to be
fully aligned with the client objectives and manage assets versus client benchmarks
instead of generic market benchmarks.
A great example of this is our ability, when designing LDI solutions to manage assets
versus custom liability benchmarks. We now manage £24 billion of assets versus client's
benchmarks, and this is one of the fastest growing areas of our business. So that is what
we've achieved and how we did it. Now let's switch gears and talk about the significant
growth opportunities ahead.

Page 50 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

First, where do we see opportunity? We see large opportunities for growth across all of
our key channels. We show 40 channels here, three U.S. client channels, plus the
international channel, just covered by Sarah. So I won't discuss international beyond simply
re-emphasizing Sarah's point that there is significant international demand for the
capabilities we've built in the U.S. And we continue to work closely with our team to grow
our international presence.
Now focusing in on the three U.S. domestic opportunities for growth; the corporate DB
channel has been our biggest driver of growth to date, and we're focused on solidifying
our market leading position, so we can continue to take market share. The DC market
needs significant innovation throughout all phases of an individual's lifetime, particularly
around incorporating more of an income-aware approach and related to that, we see
significant long-term opportunity to be a market leader in post-retirement solutions.

Bloomberg Transcript

Public DB plans are the pension funds for individual states or other public institutions. They
have their own set of regulations and are focused on different objectives than corporate
DB plans. They remain long-term return-focused as they have not had to adjust for the
mark-to-market accounting and funding rules that have incentivized corporate DB plans to
de-risk. While the underlying economics are ultimately the same for both public and
corporate DB plans, for now public DB plans are more focused on solutions to help closer
funding gap, reduced fees and are increasingly interested in using their assets to make a
positive difference in society.
So now let's look at the size at each of these opportunities. Starting with corporate DB,
the main point is that we don't expect flows in the de-risking solutions to slow down any
time soon. There are just over $3 trillion in total assets but importantly $1.7 trillion are still in
return-seeking strategies. Not all those assets will move into fixed income and LDI
solutions, but it is our expectation that the majority will.
The DC market is already extremely large at almost $8 trillion, and there are two key
trends leading to large opportunities. First, target date funds continue to grow in
popularity and are expected to be in over $3 trillion market over the next five years.
Second, given demographic trends we see a large long-term opportunity in postretirement solutions. We estimate this market to be as large as $5 trillion in five years'
time.
The public DB market is large and importantly expected to grow long-term as the majority
of these plans are still accruing benefits for planned participants. One trend we see
playing out first hand is increasing demand for ESG solutions, which is consistent with the
fact that 40% of public DB plans are expecting to increase their investment in ESG
strategies this year. We also see a large opportunity within fixed income, where we can
innovate as public funds become more liability aware over time.
Now, let's talk about how we're going to win in each of these channels.
Starting with corporate DB, we've been consistently taking market share for the better
part of a decade. How have we done it and why are we confident it's going to continue?
Page 51 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

Our key advantage is that few competitors, if any, can offer the full range of de-risking
solutions to clients. Clients like this because what they need changes significantly from the
beginning stages of de-risking, when the focus tends to be on straightforward long
duration credit strategies to the later stages of de-risking, what we call the end game,
where clients sell you a higher level of customization than most competitors provide.
Another important point here is that by offering the full range of solutions in our
experience, we not only win a lot of initial mandates, we also become well-positioned to
be a client strategic partner where we often end up managing the majority of liability
matching assets.
Lastly, to further round out our range of solutions, we launched private credit capabilities
last year. Private credit fits perfectly as a yield and diversification enhancement for
solutions that don't need the liquidity of the public credit markets. Adding this capability
deepens our advantage and solidifies our position in this channel.
The DC market has a real need for innovation. The U.S. retirement challenge is real and
one way it will be addressed is for the DC market to evolve from an asset-only growth
mentality to one that explicitly targets a level of secure income as the ultimate investment
objective.

Bloomberg Transcript

Income-aware solutions in general and post-retirement solutions more specifically are akin
to LDI for DC. And we are leveraging our market-leading capabilities in fixed income and
LDI to give us a great starting point for winning the large opportunities we see to innovate
in the post-retirement market.
We are also working with our insurance colleagues to provide more income security,
broaden out our range of solutions and further differentiate our overall post-retirement
composition. We are seeing a large and more immediate opportunity to be a component
provider. For example, the focus on lower costs has been driving funds from active to
passive and our emerging strength in index and factor-based investment are wellpositioned to address this. And this is exactly how we've gotten our initial wins with DC
plans.
In addition as target date funds evolved to become more retirement income focused, we
are well-positioned to manage the retirement income component that target date funds
will de-risk into overtime. As we continue to establish ourselves in the DC market, we also
see opportunity to leverage our foothold and expertise to offer a comprehensive, target
date solution that explicitly states income as its objective.
And we continue to invest in this market. We established a dedicated DC team last year
to focus on the design and distribution of these solutions and will be making further
investments this year, as we believe we're well-positioned to address the U.S. retirement
challenge. It's true that public DB plans are a long way away from derisking, like corporate
DB plans, but we still see an opportunity to redefine the role of fixed income in their
portfolio. The current fixed income approach is typically benchmarked against a full
market benchmark, which carries a relatively low yield and short duration.
Page 52 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

As a result, this approach to fixed income either helps close their funding gap, nor does
anything meaningful to match planned liabilities. So while public DB plans are not yet
ready for LDI solutions, we do see opportunity to innovate and improve upon their current
fixed income approach with what we call liability-aware solutions. Public funds are also
increasingly focused on ESG investment strategies.
Leveraging the ESG intellectual capital we have developed globally, we can add significant
long-term value for our clients by customizing a solution to meet their specific ESG needs
and then leverage our market leading corporate governance team to maximize impact.
We're launching our first ESG focused fund next quarter, the future world climate change
fund and have hired a head of stewardship and sustainable investing to drive this forward.
This fund is an extension of the broader Future World fund range that Meryam spoke
about earlier.

Bloomberg Transcript

We were also seeing public funds focus on reducing costs, which is leading to
opportunities for both traditional market cap index mandates as well as factor-based
investment strategies. The recently announced factor-based wins we've had with two
large and influential public funds are great examples of the momentum we're seeing
here. And we're investing in this channel as well with the goal of building our brand
awareness and presence in this market and have recently hired a head of public fund
distribution to lead this effort.
So to summarize, our first decade in the U.S. has been a great success driven by our three
competitive advantages, a client-centric and collaborative culture, investment excellence
and a true solutions orientation. But we're just getting started and see lots of
opportunities to deepen and broader these advantages to grow across all key channels.
To execute on this, we'll continue to invest significantly in the business across investment
capabilities, distribution and our overall operating model. And for all these reasons, we
see a fantastic opportunity to continue our rapid growth in the U.S.
Now, I hand over to Mark to wrap up.

Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

All right, almost there. So I do appreciate. It's been a long afternoon. We've covered a lot
of ground and I'm sure there are many questions which we can have here and continue
over drinks. So I'll be brief with my concluding remarks.
To summarize some key points from this afternoon, clients are at the core of everything
we do. We're fully committed to it earning their trust and doing all we can to deliver for
them. We now have a very diverse set of growth drivers and a resilient business model
and we'll continue to invest in our business. And most importantly, we have a fantastic
leadership team, who put us in this great position. They're motivated to capitalize on all of
our competitive advantages that you heard about today and grow the next £1 trillion
pounds of assets and continue delivering attractive profit growth.
So, I'll I now open it up to the floor for questions. Is there microphone going around?
Page 53 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

Q&A

FINAL

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Hey Mark. Three questions from me. It's Andy Sinclair from BofA Merrill Lynch. Firstly on
the Future World funds, it seems to be a real key growth focus for the coming years. I just
wondered if you could tell us about the initial desire from different channels, different
geographies particularly thoughts on the U.S. on these funds?
And secondly, a boring techie question from me. On the 8% to 10% guidance on
operating profit growth, what market growth that would be allowed for within that 8% to
10%? And thirdly, just on the personal investing, a very interesting proposition. But I just
wondering how would you deem this this launch to be a success? What do you see as the
opportunity, what would you measure success on for this, how significant can L&G be?

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

Well, I'm sure the answer to the last one is, number one in the country, but I'll let Helena
provide more details on that. Future World funds, the original plan was the climate tilt fund
that we designed in collaboration with HSBC a while ago and then it's evolved from there.
But Meryam you want to or Sarah do you want to talk more about the growing demand
from other client bases for a broader range of Future World funds.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Meryam Omi

{BIO 17949064 <GO>}

Yes. So the Future World funds have started looking at creating very much a mainstream
fund that's good enough to be a default for DC scheme, and that's very different from
what you've been seeing in the ESG space where you might have been screened out, it's
going to small our (03:15:03) universe and things like that, to really having something
that's diversified, tracking errors very small. That was kind of the starting point.
And from there, we really grew out across the spectrum that Anton was talking about,
where we just launched a multi-asset solution which again a lot of DC space is multi-asset
So let's create a fund that's designed to be good enough to be a default, so you're not
really compromising on the diversification and the returns, but at the same time, you are
really amplifying the fact about the fact that you are having better exposure to a broad
range of ESG factors.
In the U.S. space, I spent about a month going around to a lot of different schemes and
consultants and I would say that the market is slightly behind UK or even continental
Europe in ESG, but there's a lot of questions particularly from public pension schemes as
Aaron described. So we see that the launch of this – first of all, climate tilted index fund is
going to gain quite a lot of traction. But I do want to say that the long-term ESG funds in
themselves are not new. I'm sure you've seen it from other funds and I think where we
bring the difference to it is that all the engagement and influence that we're doing.
So we really want to engage with the end members, so this is not just any ESG funds that
ticks your box. It's really something that allows you to feel like you own the world as we
talked about and we're going to continue to send the message about how they can be
Page 54 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

part of the change that they're creating with their own fund. So we're very excited about
the opportunity in the U.S. and Asia and everywhere else.

FINAL

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

Okay. And then the second question, market growth assumptions, I don't know have
those committed to memory, Siobhan do you recall? The reason to conservative recall but
I don't remember the exact.

A - Siobhan Geraldine Boylan

{BIO 18090551 <GO>}

Yeah, it's based on our asset mix and it'll be a normal standard market return, with
standard offering. (03:16:53)

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

Yeah. It's the same, same assumption we use across the group.

A - Siobhan Geraldine Boylan

{BIO 18090551 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

And Helena, what's the success from PI?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Helena Louise Morrissey

{BIO 1651982 <GO>}

Success? It's (03:17:01) number one, but also to grow the market obviously as I talked
about now. We are sitting out to win we do have very high ambitions for LGIM and for the
country. But obviously it won't be achieved overnight. We have built a business turnaround
being at least same as the top taker of flows in the market, and buildings implementation
around their likely flows. We are starting small as I hope I've made clear. So we expect to
achieve our number one status over what I'd call the medium term and we won't just sort
of, here is our new release, here are the improvements we've made and let's hope that
works. We will be doing a series of releases sticking around expanding the range of
options that we have personal pension and so forth that will be in the first half of next
year. So I can't give you a precise sort of the, this date we will be number one and this is
exactly how that the market will be but that's what I would judge as success.

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

And you have to keep in mind the defined contribution of D2C markets here are in very,
very early stages and we are – you have to think about them together in a sense.
However this journey evolves in individual responsibility for their retirements, it's going to
be in a combination of workplace and direct platforms as well as intermediated. But you
know in terms of the extent to what the (03:18:27) involved remember another legislative
focus evolves over time. We'll give ourselves a lot of flexibility and a lot of workplace
customers will end up being direct customers down the road.

Page 55 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Thanks. It's Colm Kelly from UBS. Thanks for the presentations. It's been a very useful
exercise today. Just a question on the specific drivers of the 8% to 10% growth and again I
apologize for the mechanical nature of the question. But it – obviously the 8% growth in
operating profit over the last say five years, the CAGR on that has been supported by
very strong asset returns both on equity and credits, and given that those assumptions
are now normalized, it implies one of the underlying metrics we're going to see a step
change in that either we're going to see a significant increase in the net inflows as a
percentage of the opening assets from 2% to 5% currently, or we're going to see the
margins on those assets stabilize, which isn't something we've seen over the last two
years, and unlikely to do so I suppose given the shift increasingly towards solutions, which
is a lower margin product.
So, in terms of your forecast on those key metrics, can you give some detail, because
that's ultimately driving the 8% to 10% growth? And secondly, just on acquisitions
management has always provided some color on the potential for both on acquisitions
and the asset management space maybe in the U.S. Can you confirm it – it depends on
the economics of that, but if an acquisition is exercised is that going to be additive to this
target, or is inorganic growth factored into this target? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

Okay. So, in regards to the drivers of growth, firstly we went into quite a bit of detail today
to look at how the business model is evolving. So, you can look at the fee rates on the
existing categories of assets and channels, but then also assess the direction of travel in
those channels. So solutions for example started as LDI hedging assets which were pretty
low-fee to be honest and to be on par with comparable segregated index mandates, but
as that markets evolved and it's been increasingly in the pooled funds, active LDI,
fiduciaries management, a range of multi-asset funds, those are all higher key products
and that's where we're seeing more growth.
And the hedging assets are still great asset to have, they're still very profitable, it just
takes more assets to get the profit. But in essence the growth drivers are a combination
of what we do expect to maintain around mid-single digit net flows or at least outperform
the market I should say. So, depending where the market's at and net flows we think we'll
comfortably outperform, it will be lumpy in the institutional channels as you know but not
everything like DC, where you're going to have cash flow streams, there is a wall of cash
this just waiting. And then we aren't assuming acquisitions in the 8% to 10% numbers. So
anything we would do there would be additive to that figure. Any other questions?

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Yeah. Gordon Aitken from RBC, a couple of questions for you, I mean, you put a slight
option in global index managers and you're number five. I mean it's just quite staggering
how big like the BlackRock and Wenger and State Street are. How do you compete with
those guys and particularly in the U.S.?

Page 56 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

And secondly illiquid assets, I mean I know they're an excellent match when you use your
liability on that duration, they complement your corporate bonds, they add some yield,
but investors that we speak to are less than convinced, so I know your job is to grow your
earnings, but I think you also would like to start to be rerated. So how would do you
reassure these investors who say, I don't think you should be getting involved in illiquid
assets because that maybe gone wrong for insurance companies before?
And then, one final question and I think on the 8% to 10%, I think you've undercooked that
lever, because you've showed some – you're in solutions, you're in index and you know
active to passive shifts. You show these assets growing at 9% to 10% and that's the
assets and as you point out it's a scale game. So, you'd expect earnings growth to be
higher than that. It doesn't look like too much of a stretch given you think your flow is
going to be better than everyone else's, so it that fair?

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

Of course, it's fair. Okay. I'll let Chad take the first question. I'll add a few comments on
the next two. I'll ask Bill to talk about illiquid investments, and Siobhan if you want to talk
about why you're sandbagging on these?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Chad M. Rakvin

{BIO 6937424 <GO>}

Yes, we are number five. Who asked the question? Over here. We're not going to close
that gap overnight. We realize that. This is going to be a very long-term trend. We will start
to close the gap. And if you think about what we're doing today and the business that we
launched in the states that was taking the model in the UK and bringing that model, which
is very unique to the U.S. market. The initial assets that we won came from everyone
above us. It's coming from the top players. So, we know that message is resonating.
When we look into the future and as we talked a little bit about in my presentation, new
flows aren't going to come from the traditional index phase, that's not where we want to
play. It's going to be in ESG, It's going to be in things like factor-based investing and we're
winning in that space as well. So, long-term, we think our model will be adopted more,
every consultant that understands our story, hears our story, gives us buy rating. We
recently have heard in the ESG space by one of the top global consultants that we are the
only manager they're recommending for ESG index strategies. So, as that space
continues to grow, as the factor-based strategies continue to grow, we expect to win
more and more. But you're right I mean it is a big gap. But we plan on closing that gap
quickly.

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

In regards to private credit, Bill do you want to add some comments on that?

A - Bill Hughes

{BIO 15500993 <GO>}

Yeah. I think it's a good question. And I think I that would answer in a number of ways, I
think the amount of illiquidity one chooses to take on all the volume illiquid assets is an
important consideration. So it needs to be proportionate to liquidity requirements and
that will differ one coming to the next, but there is no intention to be excessive in terms of
Page 57 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

having an exposure to illiquid assets, because liquidity may well be a requirement that's
important.

FINAL

Second of all, I think it's a misnomer to contemplate the fact that illiquid assets are all
illiquid and illiquid all the time. And actually if you manage illiquid assets intelligently, you
can create liquidity in terms of keeping them clean and desirable. And so that's partly
about quality of management.
And then the third thing I would say is it seems to me that the increasing demand that
exists for illiquid assets to some extent creates more liquidity. So I don't think we're taking
big position there at all.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

And regards to the – before I turn it over to Siobhan, just a couple of comments on 8% to
10% guidance. I think the – you have to look at broad investment management industry
and I talked about this quite a bit at the beginning but there are some trends that are
putting pressure on the industry right now. So, on balance that would be comfortable
outperformance relative to the broader sector. You know when you look at – and we are
investing in our business where we have a lot of opportunities and if nothing else we
would probably want to err on investing a bit more because we – all the reasons I heard
today which is why our cost/income ratio may drift up slightly over the near term and
that's the rationale for that. But it is also relatively early days in a lot of these sectors that
we're in or channels that we're in. So if you were to pull everybody where you heard from
today on a base case and how they would define success, I suspect how they would
define success, the weighted average of that would be a higher number, but again it's still
relatively early days in a lot of these channels. It is clearly a growth trajectory, so it's a
question of how steep will those lines will be and how much we want to invest to
accelerate growth in those areas over the near term?
Okay. Anything more you want to add to that (03:27:09).

A - Siobhan Geraldine Boylan

{BIO 18090551 <GO>}

I think you've covered it very well, but what I'm going to say is you have seen a variety of
growth drivers and we've shown you in our businesses and we are clearly investing for
growth to make sure that our growth continues to come through.

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

We agree.

A - Siobhan Geraldine Boylan

{BIO 18090551 <GO>}

We agree.

Q - Dominic O'Mahony

Page 58 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

FINAL

Thank you. Dom O'Mahony, Exane BNP Paribas. Thank you for the presentations. Just two
questions from me. Just coming back to this point about the revenue margins and the
projections for it to be roughly flattish, is there any material difference in the regions that
you're playing in Asia versus the U.S.? Clearly it looks like you're moving away from UK in
terms of the shift, so just any comments on that.
And then secondly I'm curious about the LDI capacity landscape in the U.S. It sounds a bit
like you are leading in that sort of product category. What is the competitive landscape?
(03:28:05) players have been a bit sleepy, are the new entrants coming in, could you see
more pressure there?

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

All right, okay. I'll take the first question, Aaron, do you want to take the second question.
So, yes, Asia is going to be very different from the U.S. and we're not moving away from
the UK. Our business (03:28:19) want to – but yeah, there's significant growth
opportunities in parts of the world that we've never been in before.
The U.S. thematically – what's happening in the pension space theatrically is very similar to
what's happening in the UK with DD plans closing, maturing, de-risking, gradually being
replaced by DC schemes. The details are very, very, very different, but conceptually kind
of the same trend is going on. So not surprisingly, we're playing to our strengths and
developing products and the ordering might be a bit different and so forth than over
here, because the circumstances being different, but yeah, it's relatively straightforward.
Asia is a completely different ballgame. Sarah covered how Japan is different from
(03:29:03) China and then if you go a little bit further south, Australia is kind of interesting.
So we have a client there in the post-retirement space. We are looking to get involved
more in that region. So it's a different puzzle for us to solve in that region so to speak,
broadly speaking in a (03:29:20).
And then U.S. LDI, competitive landscape and how we stack up?

A - Aaron Henry Meder

{BIO 16683830 <GO>}

Yeah. It probably depends a little bit on kind of what specifically they're looking for, so we
think as LDI is either Level 1 LDI or Level 2 LDI. So think if Level 1 LDI is straightforward, long
duration type mandate, so not a lot of customization. And to be honest in that market,
there is, 50, 60, close to 100, right, active credit managers and so it's hard to describe
the landscape. But we get – we often win those mandates because one, I mean the
performance that you saw and then number two, they like the fact that we can take them
to the customized place over time and that gets to that Level 2 LDI, I guess marketplace,
which – it goes from 60, 70, 80 active credit managers. Now, you're only talking about a
handful of people who actually do the real true customization. And so that helps us win
the Level 1 LDI mandates. Does that make sense?
And then in Level 2, where you are talking about customized LDI mandates, I'd say the
number one competitor by far, when we think about who we compete against would be a
firm called NISA. It's not a firm that – it's a U.S. based firm based in St. Louis. They have no

Page 59 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

presence here in the UK or broadly across Europe. So a lot of people haven't heard of
them, but they would be the first entrant into the LDI market and probably are, I guess,
our biggest competitor.

FINAL

Q - Greig Paterson
Yes, three questions. Keep to the trend. Greig Paterson, KBW. There has been a lot of
entrants into people trying to originate illiquids and spreads have come off. We've even
seen the PRA start to investigate internal ratings, where we've got (03:31:06) Solvency II. I
wonder if you can talk about the threats there.
Second point is you seem to be pushing in segment Workplace (03:31:12) where we are
seeing specific people exiting that market, I mean what do you know that they don't know
given that they'd been there for a while and tried it? And the third thing, what do you think
about GARS, what do you think the opportunities there and if you do have any capacity to
enter that space if you wanted to, if you thought it was an opportunity?

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Yeah, I'll take a stab at the first one (03:31:37) have the credit one. Workplace,
Emma, why are we going to win when everybody else is giving up, and GARS which – the
fund that Anton I'm talk about which we call MATR, which now is a three-year track record
would be – a fund that would be in the same category as GARS, so I wouldn't take that
question.
Regards to illiquids, there is a bit of a theme here. There is no question that I guess the
way I would describe it, we have a lot of illiquid liabilities and long duration insurance and
certainly pension assets that are backed by asset portfolios that have "excess liquidity
relative to the liabilities" that they're tracking. So it would make sense to go into illiquid
assets, get some kind of a premium, right, where you're not taking really any additional
ALM risk. But the devil's in the details and that's – these are scarce assets. There is a lot of
demand. There's only going to be so much supply, especially with large syndicated type
transactions. So that's where at a time like this, I think you have to be particularly careful
and prudent in your underwriting and to the extent we can self-manufacture assets that
gives us an advantage. That's why we make a lot of noise about some of the
regeneration activity where the linkage of LGR and LGC, where we can basically kind of be
involved through – Bill seemed throughout the process and developing assets, managing
assets and development capital and so forth. Ultimately, when you're terming out the final
capital structure – when you're creating the final capital structure, terming out the debt,
those are really attractive assets for us to be able to back our liabilities. So it conceptually
makes a lot of sense, but you're right, there could be some people who end up taking
risks that aren't being properly priced in the current market.

Q - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

(03:33:18).

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

Page 60 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

No, I don't think so. No, because I think this is where the strength of our real assets
capability, the partnership with LGC and their ability to help us self-manufacture assets for
LGR is the scale that we have, I think gives us a real competitive advantage and just the
discipline obviously we have the quality of the team.

FINAL

With respect to Workplace, where this has clearly started to consolidate, so why are we
going to succeed in this market?

A - Emma Douglas

{BIO 21280468 <GO>}

And I think the answer as to why people have moved out of the market is actually fairly
simple one. So it tends to be around, they don't have enough scale. So certainly the
bundled business is absolutely a scale game, and we've talked about we're now at
breakeven, we will be investing to improve operational efficiency. We are looking to move
into profit, we're opening those jaws of profit. But if you don't have those assets there in
the first place and quite a lot of the people who have actually moved out of the market, I
would say would be relatively subscale. So subset billion (03:34:21) certainly in terms of
bundled assets.

Q - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

(03:34:24)

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Emma Douglas

{BIO 21280468 <GO>}

Well, Stand Life is still in the market, but sold to Phoenix and I think that's a slightly
different strategic move that comes from Aberdeen's wanting to be pure Aberdeen
Standard to be purely asset management business. But, I mean for us it's fantastic. The
competition are moving out of this market. The market is still going to be bundled and we
are there. So I actually see this as a real positive. It's certainly generating a lot of
conversations with people who have some of those providers as their DC provider and
they're worried about their long-term future of what's going to happen to them. So they
are coming to people like us who are connected to be in that market for the long-term.
So yes it's a trend, mainly because of scale but it's absolutely a great opportunity for us.

A - Mark Joseph Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

Okay. Anton, last question.

A - Anton Norman Karl Eser

{BIO 6610352 <GO>}

Yeah. So we spoke about the three multi-asset strategies, strategic dynamic and then
there was a third one the low equity beta where we have the multi-asset type of return
strategy which is the MATR fund which is in the GARs, the global absolute return space so
that would be the equivalent of (03:35:36) GARs, et cetera. We launched that in March
2015 with internal fee for lot of these strategies getting through the three-year track
record is just really important for buy rating for intermediary. So we're through that and we
actually had got our first external client coming into that. So we (03:35:58) away from our
competitors but – and we've topped on a one-year and three-year basis. So whether

Page 61 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

we're taking assets from the existing underperformers or what we think is a growing
demand for global absolute returns and we think we're really well placed there.

Q - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

FINAL

(03:36:14)

A - Anton Norman Karl Eser

{BIO 6610352 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Thank you.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Andrew Baker, with Citi. So, just two questions both on the vertically integrated DC model
if that's okay. So, the first is – so I think you mentioned 90% of the underlying funds are
actually in LGIM funds in this model. In the U.S., a lot of the DC administrators have run into
problems with high allocations to proprietary funds on a similar model. So, fiduciary legal
issues. Just likely – what are the reasons this isn't an issue in the UK and is that a potential
issue going forward? And the second is I think I heard you mention that you were the only
vertically integrated firm in the UK that does this. What is the reason for being the only
vertically integrated firm in this? Thank you.

A - Emma Douglas

{BIO 21280468 <GO>}

A lot of the funds we actually offer in DC are index funds. So, I think this is less likely to be
that challenged because although we think our index funds are the best, they are
generally viewed as a commodity. So, I don't think there will be any kind of legal challenge
in the UK. And then as the only vertically integrated index provider, I mean it's interesting
because quite a lot of the asset management players in DC are moving away from the
bundled side of the business and that goes back to previous question, some of those
moves out because of scale. So what it gives us is whilst we are going to be generating
profit from our administration, we're also generating revenue from the investment
management side of the business. So, you put the two together and that's really a
fantastic package to have. So, a lot of our focus is on the admin business has broken
even, we're going to be generating profits going forward. But let's not forget that as we
build those assets, 90% we're also getting revenues for the investment management
business. So, that's why I made the point because it's unique to have that and that really
helps support your whole bundled business and your investments into that.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Anymore?

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

It's Andrew Crean at Autonomous. One question, from what I can see your DC strategy
was targeting the mass market, and I would have thought the mass market – I mean after
Page 62 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

they've put 8% of their salary into the (03:38:44) they wouldn't have an awful lot of
financial savings now left. So how do you target that DC proposition? Are you targeting on
your workplace clients or is it really going to be a customer proposition and if it's the
latter, why (03:39:01) if there isn't any money left?

FINAL

A - Honor Julia Eli Solomon

{BIO 18915625 <GO>}

So the – you might have been able to see the numbers on (03:39:09) client page, but on
the (03:39:12) are the people who haven't invested yet, who tend to be younger – there
are another four segments by the way which – where we don't think there is enough
money that people have at least for now to invest. But those three groups tend to be sort
of young and sort of professionals, people with – often with families who have – are now
thinking about planning for their future more for the rising up through the ranks that
haven't invested yet.

Bloomberg Transcript

And actually I'm happy to show you the slides. It's in the package I suppose. I haven't got a
pack myself, hard copy, but it's actually got quite surprising household incomes compared
with those who are already building and they're quite comfortable except for people who
are really close to sort of the end of their careers. So actually we have probably done the
segmentation analysis (03:39:52) if they don't have the money, but we are confident that
although they'll start small and our £42 billion of aggregate opportunity from this group is
really dwarfed by the (03:40:05). This is the group that's going to grow because they're
young, they're still developing their careers and they're saving for their future. So we think
it's – they have the wherewithal, they will start small there.

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Right. Anymore?

A - Honor Julia Eli Solomon

{BIO 18915625 <GO>}

Oh and I should just – sorry, I should add that we are also going to be looking through
(03:40:23) mentioned the 10% of (03:40:25). So we will be trying to acquire those
customers as well.

Q - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Quick one. (03:40:36) DC product, you spoke about a DC product that's going to be
launched this year – DC platform. (03:40:44-03:40:54)
D2C, D2C that's (03:40:56), personal investing.
(03:40:57)
Yeah. I think I said the...
Did you say D2C?

Page 63 of 64



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-06-20

D2C, yeah, sorry, yeah. Probably going fast. The American accent. Okay. Anything else? All
right, oh, just when we thought we were going to have a drink. (03:41:13) better be good.

FINAL

Q - Abilash P T

{BIO 18625052 <GO>}

Right. Abilash P T, HSBC. Just one quick question. Putting LGIM in a group context is
roughly around 20 – 21% of operating earnings. Growing 8% to 10% per annum operating
earnings, where the group target is around 10% earnings over the next five years to
2020, how do you think about where LGIM ends up in a group context in terms of
contribution over the next medium term as it were?

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah. So, Jeff do you want to? Jeff Davies, a good question.

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Obviously, I'm expecting them to hit 10%, (03:41:47) again. Yeah, I mean the 10% EPS
growth. I mean is 20% with longevity releases in that £2 billion, of course, this year. So it's
a bigger percentage of on-the-line earnings if you like. Certainly, yes, (03:42:05) 10%. We
have 10% as a group target. Then it maintains around that 20%, 25% level. We'd love LGIM
to grow as quickly as possible and give us good, stable, diversified earnings. We believe
there are other sources in the group as well that give us more diversified earnings.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nigel D. Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

All right. (03:42:25). All right, well, thanks again. I know it was a big time commitment by
everyone, including the leadership team, especially. But thank you for taking so much time
with us. Hope you can join us for a drink afterwards. And if you have any follow-up
questions, I'm traveling next couple of days (03:42:39) happy to take the questions and –
yeah and just anybody in the team obviously would be happy to meet with you
subsequently. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 64 of 64

