Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

Y 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Andy Moss , Chief Executive of Phoenix Life
Clive Christopher Roger Bannister, Group CEO & Director
Henry Eric Staunton, Chairman of the Board
James McConville , Group Finance Director & Director

Other Participants
Andrew John Crean, Managing Partner, Insurance
Andrew Sinclair, VP
Angel Parasotam Kansagra, Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Executive Director and Co
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Oliver George Nigel Steel, MD

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Henry Eric Staunton

{BIO 1520566 <GO>}

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the group's 2017 results presentation.
I'm joined on the podium by Clive Bannister, our Group CEO; Jim McConville, our CFO;
and Andy Moss, CEO of Phoenix Life.
2017 was another successful year for the group, in which we delivered strong financial
performance and substantially completed the integration of the businesses acquired
during 2016. This demonstrates the strength of Phoenix's specialist operating model. 2018
will be a transformational year for Phoenix.
On the 23rd of February, we announced our plans to acquire Standard Life Assurance and
enter into a strategic partnership with Standard Life Aberdeen. This transaction is fully
aligned to Phoenix's strategy and will make us the largest closed life consolidator in
Europe. These acquisitions have enabled us to increase our dividend from an annualized
amount of about GBP 120 million in 2015 to an expected GBP 338 million in 2019.
I'll now pass you over to Clive who'll provide you with a detailed business update.

Clive Christopher Roger Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody. And thank you, Henry. 2017 has been a successful year for the
group, with strong financial performance across each of our key metrics. We have already
Page 1 of 18



FINAL

Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

updated you on our 2017 cash generation of GBP 653 million, which included significant
contributions from the acquired businesses of both AXA and Abbey Life. We have
improved our capital resilience through the restructuring of our debt, increasing our group
Solvency II surplus. In July 2017, Fitch upgraded the group's life companies' rating to A+
and this rating has been reaffirmed by Fitch following announcement of the Standard Life
transaction. As Henry mentioned, we have substantially completed the integration of AXA
and Abbey Life. And the expected synergies from these acquisitions are ahead of our
original targets.
The final 2017 dividend has been increased to 25.1p per share. This amounts to an annual
level of 50.2p per share, a stable and sustainable level. We have announced our
commitment to increase this dividend further, following the successful completion of the
Standard Life transaction.

Bloomberg Transcript

During 2017, Phoenix focused on the integration of the businesses we acquired during
2016. As I speak today, these integrations are substantially complete and have delivered
synergies ahead of target. Andy will talk in more detail about the work we have
undertaken to integrate both businesses. But I wanted to recognize the achievements
made against our key metrics. We have already delivered GBP 518 million of cash
generation from the AXA and Abbey Life businesses and cost synergies of GBP 27 million
against our original expected synergy target of only GBP 17 million. The move to our
target operating model will be completed at the end of the First Quarter of 2018 ahead
of plan.
On Friday, the 23rd of February, we updated the market on our expectations for future
cash generation, signaling that we expect to be at the upper end of our 2-year target of
between GBP 1 billion and GBP 1.2 billion. We also announced a new 5-year cash
generation target of GBP 2.5 billion. Beyond 2023, we anticipate a further GBP 3.8 billion
of cash generation from a run-off of the Phoenix alone book. The acquisition of Standard
Life Assurance is expected to bring further cash generation of GBP 5.5 billion, which will
provide increased sustainability to the long-term cash profile of the group. Jim will talk
more about this cash profile in a few minutes' time.
In June 2017, we described our plans to move into the BPA market; and on the 23rd of
February, I was delighted to announce that we were currently in exclusive discussions on
our first BPA transaction. We expect this transaction to be completed shortly. We only look
at BPA transactions through an accretive lens. And any transaction will be proportionate,
selected carefully and funded through our own existing resources.
I will now pass you on to Jim, who will take you through, in greater detail, our numbers.

James McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

Thank you, Clive. Good morning, everyone. 2017 has been a successful year for Phoenix.
And this is highlighted with a strong set of financial results. I'll take you through each of the
key metrics in more detail shortly. But let me set out in summary the key results.

Page 2 of 18



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Strong cash generation of GBP 653 million during the year, including GBP 401 million from
the acquired AXA and Abbey Life businesses. Holding company cash as at the end of
2017 of GBP 535 million. PGH group Solvency II surplus of GBP 1.8 billion and a shareholder
capital coverage ratio of 164%. IFRS operating profits of GBP 368 million, life company
assets under management of GBP 74 billion and a final dividend for 2017 of 25.1p per
share, which is reflected in the reported solvency positions.
The cash generation from Phoenix Life for 2017 was GBP 653 million. This includes GBP
165 million from the ex-AXA businesses, GBP 236 million from our Abbey Life and GBP
252 million from the other operating companies. The AXA cash release largely resulted
from the inclusion of the ex-AXA Wealth business onto our Internal Model in the First
Quarter of 2017. During the Fourth Quarter of 2017, we completed the Part VII transfer of
this business to Phoenix Life Limited. As a result, we will no longer separately report cash
generation from this business. In December 2017, we reinsured the majority of the Abbey
Life business into Phoenix Life Limited. This supported a cash release of GBP 162 million,
which took total cash generation from the Abbey Life business during 2017 to GBP 236
million.
With regards to the uses of cash, the increase in pension scheme contributions during the
year is driven primarily by a one-off contribution of GBP 25 million made to the Abbey Life
Staff Pension Scheme. In addition, the move from annual to monthly contributions to the
Pearl Pension Scheme has resulted in an additional GBP 10 million of contributions during
the calendar year, representing an acceleration of our agreed payments. Nonrecurring
outflows consist of project costs associated with acquisition integration expenses and
costs associated with hedging. Debt interest is slightly higher than the previous year,
reflecting the higher coupon payable on hybrid debt issued during the year, which has
more than offset the impact of lower debt principal balances debt principal balances
following repayments. The Tier 3 and Tier 2 bond issues completed during 2017 raised
net proceeds of GBP 830 million. The proceeds from these debt issues as well as funds
from our existing resources were used to repurchase GBP 178 million of our senior bonds
and to repay in full the revolving credit facility so that at year-end it was completely
undrawn. Finally, we ended 2017 with GBP 535 million of cash at the holding company
level.
We communicated the progress made on our debt strategy when announcing our half
year results. We now have a more appropriate funding structure for the group and the
majority -- the maturity profile better matches the underlying cash generation of the
business. Fitch upgraded its ratings for the group in July with Phoenix's main life
companies having a rating of A+. Fitch has also considered the impact of the proposed
Standard Life transaction and reaffirmed our ratings with a stable outlook. The work
completed to bring the group onshore has progressed well. The head office became U.K.
tax resident on 31st January 2018 and the governance structure has been simplified.
Solvency II reporting will now be completed only at the level of the PGH Group. The final
stage of the onshoring process will be the establishment of a new U.K. holding company.
It remains our intention to complete this final stage as soon as possible after the
completion of the acquisition of Standard Life Assurance.

Page 3 of 18



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

So moving onto the PGH Solvency II position. As of the start of 2017, the surplus at PGH
was GBP 1.1 billion, which included the pro forma impacts of the GBP 300 million Tier 3
issue in January and the incorporation of the AXA business into the group's Internal
Model. The surplus at the end of the year has increased to GBP 1.8 billion, with a
shareholder capital coverage ratio of 164%. The year-end position anticipates the final
2017 dividend of GBP 99 million payable in May. As we have discussed previously, there
are an additional GBP 0.6 billion of unrecognized surpluses relating to the group's strong
with-profit funds and the PGL Pension Schemes. These surpluses are not included in the
overall Solvency II surplus but do provide the group with an additional resilience in a stress
scenario. On 1st March, we received approval from the PRA to bring Abbey Life Assurance
Company Limited onto the group's Internal Model. This returns the group to a Full Internal
Model with no business remaining on the Standard Formula basis. The additional benefit
of around GBP 40 million associated with this approval will be reported in the 2018 results.
This slide provides more details on how the Solvency II surplus has changed over the
course of 2017. The increase in the surplus has been driven by positive impacts from
management actions and the subordinated bond issues. Andy will take you through the
management actions shortly. These effects have been partly offset by negative impacts
of economic and other variances, the costs of the senior bond tender, the workplace
pensions' management fee cap and the dividend payments over the year. The group's
solvency II position remains resilient. This partly is a result of the additional surpluses within
the strong with-profit funds and PGL Pension Scheme, together with the hedging actions
that we carry out, designed to protect the group's solvency position. And therefore, our
future cash generation. The group's more significant sensitivities are to increase longevity
on our annuity portfolio and the widening of credit spreads. It is important to note that on
our expected cash flows there are broadly similar impacts. Any detrimental impact on our
life company Solvency II position directly reduces the free surplus that is available to
distribute up to the holding companies as cash. Therefore, there is a direct and
immediate impact on the cash generation from these stress scenarios. As at the yearend, the group had limited sensitivity to equity markets. And following the announcement
of the acquisition of Standard Life Assurance, hedging actions have been taken to
mitigate the group's exposure of the acquired Standard Life Value of In-Force to equity
risk.
This slide shows the group's operating profit, which was GBP 368 million for the year,
slightly up on 2016. The Phoenix Life operating profit of GBP 388 million has been
enhanced by assumption changes. As reported at the half year, we have incorporated
CMI 16 into our reserving assumptions; and the resulting release, together with positive
impacts from reduced life company expenses, have more than offset the negative
impacts of persistency experience for products with guarantees. Group costs were higher
in 2017, primarily as a result of increased pension scheme charges. As stated earlier, our
hedging strategy is designed to protect our solvency position but introduces an element
of volatility in our IFRS results. Losses on the equity put options and swaptions held to
protect the solvency exposure of the group to equity and interest rate risk have led to a
negative investment return overall. Nonoperating items include a (GBP 25 million) impact
from the tender for the senior bond and a GBP 27 million impact of the management fee
cap relating to workplace pensions.

Page 4 of 18



FINAL

Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

Moving on to cash generation. I appreciate that many of you will be familiar with this slide,
which I presented to you on 23rd February. Total cash flows of GBP 5.5 billion are
expected to be generated from Standard Life Assurance's in-force book, which will
increase the combined group cash generation to GBP 11.8 billion. As you will note, the cash
generation profile of the Standard Life business is more long-dated from that of the
legacy book. This is primarily driven by the fact that Standard Life Assurance book has
continued to be open to business, whereas the legacy books of Phoenix closed many
years ago. As a result, the duration of the acquired cash flows is longer than that of
Phoenix. In addition, the cost associated with moving the Irish and German business of
Standard Life Assurance from branches to subsidiaries through a Part VII transfer and
readiness for Brexit is doing an element of cash generation from earlier to later periods.

Bloomberg Transcript

This slide shows the sources and uses of cash for the combined group over the period to
the end of 2022. As Clive mentioned, we have updated our long-term cash generation
target between 2018 and 2022 to GBP 2.5 billion. We have also announced that we
expect Standard Life Assurance to generate cash flows of GBP 1 billion over this period.
This cash generation is shown in the green bars on the chart and is additive to the
opening holding company cash position at the end of 2017 of GBP 0.5 billion. Moving
along to the right, we show the various usages of that cash. Pension scheme
contributions, including our funding commitments to the Pearl and Abbey Life Pension
Scheme period over the period, the PGL Scheme is now fully funded. The analysis
assumes that the dividend has increased from the time of the 2018 final dividend to an
annualized amount of GBP 338 million. After these uses, the cash we are left with, with an
illustrative GBP 1.3 billion of cash at the holding companies as at 2022. And over the
coming years, this accumulation of cash balance positions the group to potentially deploy
more of its own resources for future acquisitions or to support BPA transactions.
This slide follows on from the previous one, showing the position for the combined group
for -- from 2023. There is a significant expected cash flow over the longer term, with the
acquisition adding GBP 4.5 billion to Phoenix's existing expectations of GBP 3.8 billion.
These longer-term cash flows do not assume any management actions nor do they
assume any value from the new business generated through the strategic partnership
with Standard Life Aberdeen. Holding company cash of GBP 7 billion will be used to meet
interest and head office costs and to service the dividend. The acquisition, therefore,
provides significant additional durability to the dividend and supports our stated stable
and sustainable dividend policy.
I would now pass you onto Andy, who will talk more about the achievements of Phoenix
Life in 2017.

Andy Moss

{BIO 19123183 <GO>}

Thank you, Jim. Good morning, everyone. 2017 was a very busy year for Phoenix Life, in
which we have substantially completed the integration of both AXA and Abbey Life,
delivering cost synergies and cash flows ahead of target. We've also delivered a number
of management actions, which have added GBP 553 million to Solvency II surplus and
supported our ability to meet our cash generation targets in 2017 and in future years.
From a customer perspective, we continue to invest in digitalization to improve customer
Page 5 of 18



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

FINAL

communication and engagement and reduce conduct risk and cost. In addition, all of our
service levels across both internal and external metrics remain within target.
Our integration plans for AXA and Abbey have focused on moving the acquired
businesses onto Phoenix's target operating model and harmonizing the approach to
capital and risk management. These integration activities underpin the delivery of both
the cash generation and cost synergy targets. For AXA, our integration activity is now
substantially complete, generating cost synergies of GBP 17 million per annum, well ahead
of our original target of GBP 10 million per annum; and enabling us to deliver GBP 282
million of cash from the acquisition to date. Integral to this integration has been the
establishment of SunLife as an independent distributor based in Bristol. I will talk more
about this business model shortly.
The migration of all core functions to Wythall was completed during the year and the
outsourcing of policy administration for the AXA business became fully operational with
Diligenta and FNZ on the 1st of January, 2018.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the capital side, we have accessed significant diversification benefits with the mortality
exposure of the SunLife business offering the group's existing longevity exposure from its
annuity liabilities. In March, the acquired business was incorporated into the group's
Solvency II Internal Model and the policies were legally transferred to Phoenix Life Limited
by our Part VII transfer during the Fourth Quarter of 2017.
In 2017, we have completed our work to establish SunLife as a distribution business, which
continues to be based in Bristol and has 121 employees. The SunLife operation is
responsible for the advertising and direct sales of over 50s products, for which it has a
45% market share. These are manufactured and administered by Phoenix Life. While
smaller in scale, this operating model is similar to the one that we intend to use under the
strategic partnership with Standard Life Aberdeen. Under this arrangement, Phoenix Life
will provide white-label manufacture and policy administration for workplace pensions,
self-invested personal pensions and drawdown products branded by Standard Life.
Moving onto the Abbey Life transaction. This integration is also substantially complete and
will deliver cost synergies of GBP 10 million per annum, ahead of the original GBP 7 million
per annum target. GBP 236 billion of cash was generated from the business in the year
towards the GBP 0.5 billion target to the end of 2020. The operating model of Abbey Life
was already closely aligned to Phoenix target operating model, with an existing outsource
agreement in place with Capita. Our initial focus was to put in place governance and
management quickly, ensuring the oversight of the business and its outsourcing
arrangements were enhanced. The migration of all functions to Wythall will complete by
the end of April. The Abbey Life business was reassured into Phoenix Life Limited in
December 2017. This reinsurance allowed the group to access transitional benefits on the
Abbey Life business. It also provided efficiencies from the annuity portfolio by extending
the Matching Adjustment approvals of Phoenix Life to all of Abbey Life's qualifying annuity
liabilities. In the Fourth Quarter of 2017, we submitted our application to move Abbey Life
onto the group's Internal Model. This application was approved on the 1st of March.

Page 6 of 18



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

Management actions broadly fall into 2 categories on the Solvency II. Those that increase
Solvency II own funds and, hence, increase the total quantum of cash flows emerging
from the business; and those that reduce the SCR and, hence, allow an acceleration of
cash that would otherwise have been expected to emerge over time. Management
actions added a total of GBP 553 million to our Solvency II surplus in 2017. Those
management actions that have increased own funds by GBP 321 million include the
benefit of investing in illiquid assets, lower expenses for the life companies, which has
been possible due to the economies of scale from the enlarged business. And also from
the Part VII transfer of AXA policies to Phoenix Life Limited. Long-term illiquid assets return
a higher yield for shareholders and better match the duration of long-dated annuity
liabilities. During the year, we have increased our shareholder asset allocation to illiquid
assets from round about 6% to circa 15%. And this has primarily been driven through an
increased holding of equity release mortgages obtained through both back book
acquisitions and ongoing sourcing. Finally, the GBP 232 million of management actions
accelerated cash flows included the AXA Internal Model approval, hedging actions and
credit optimization.
We continue to be committed to delivering a high level of service and engagement to our
customers. We are currently investing in online capabilities to connect digitally with as
many customers as possible. Not only will this improve customer communication but it will
help ease processing for customers and reduce costs. Our digital offering has been
developed in cooperation with our outsource partners and would enable customers to
better understand the Phoenix policies and make more informed decisions. Central to this
Digital Vision in 2017 has been the offer of online encashment for smaller pension pots to
over 55s. This offering is being well received with 23% of eligible customers completing
the transaction online. Another area of focus for us in 2017 has been the development of
a Dedicated Advisor unit to support the IFA business within AXA Wealth. Regular feedback
has been sought from advisors throughout the process of migration to Phoenix. This
feedback from advisors has been positive and has translated into persistency experience
which is better than expected. Maintaining these strong service levels for IFAs and for
employers for workplace pensions business will be a key area of focus for the acquired
Standard Life Assurance business.
We continue to innovate so that we can deliver wider options to our customers. During
2017, we launched an initiative to buy out customers with small annuities-in-payment. This
offers customers real optionality in their retirement journey. By the end of April, we expect
to have contacted 16,000 customers and are anticipating an eventual take-out rate of
around 70%. The table on the right-hand side of the slide sets out our key customer
metrics, which are a combination of internal and industry metrics. I am happy to report that
we met all of these targets in 2017 and our FOS overturn rate is our best ever.
Phoenix has continued to be active in progressing the work required in response to the
Abbey Life annuities review and legacy enforcement action. The indemnity with Deutsche
Bank provides protection against the outcomes from these ongoing reviews and our
current assessment of the associated settlement and restitution costs are within original
expectations. We continue to process PA(GI) creditor insurance claims with the deadline
for claims set by the FCA for August 2019. The provision for claims has been increased to
GBP 40 million but has been offset by the recognition of a corresponding reimbursement

Page 7 of 18



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

asset of GBP 32 million. This asset represents recoveries due from third parties under
contractual arrangements and limits the group's downside exposure to this risk. Finally,
the regulatory landscape remains fast paced, with a number of FCA publications and
consultations under consideration. We continue to actively review customer outcomes.
And as a result, we believe Phoenix is well placed to respond to regulatory change.

FINAL

I will now pass you back to Clive.

Clive Christopher Roger Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Thank you, Andy. On the 23rd of February, we announced our plans to acquire Standard
Life Assurance. And that was the European -- U.K. and European life businesses. And enter
into a new strategic partnership with Standard Life Aberdeen. Thus, this deal is both a
transaction and a marriage. The strategic rationale for the proposed transaction is simple.
It allows both of us to focus on what we do best. Phoenix will become the preeminent
closed life consolidator in Europe and Standard Life Aberdeen will focus on its world-class
investment management business.

Bloomberg Transcript

The Standard Life Aberdeen transaction is fully aligned to the Phoenix strategy and it is
financially compelling. It is value accretive, giving us GBP 5.5 billion of cash generation,
which will not only enable us to increase our dividend but will also significantly enhance the
sustainability of these dividends. It delivers Scale, with capital S, in an industry that rewards
scale. And we believe this Scale will enable us to deliver cost and capital synergies of
around GBP 720 million.
We have future opportunities. First in the form of asset growth generated from the
strategic partnership. And second, as the transaction provides us with a base in Europe,
which we can leverage in taking forward a European growth strategy. Finally, it is a
strategic partnership between 2 companies whose objectives are aligned and it is
embedded through a 19.99% strategic stake by them in us.
Phoenix has long seen the potential in Europe. The acquisition provides an existing
European base in both Germany and Ireland. The European closed life market is still very
nascent. But it offers an additional avenue to create value for Phoenix shareholders in the
future. We believe that there remains a market opportunity of around GBP 380 billion in
the U.K., that is up GBP 80 billion from our original estimate of GBP 300 billion; and
Germany and Ireland add an additional GBP 160 billion of assets to an overall total market
potential of GBP 540 billion.
Looking to the future. Phoenix remains focused on its strategy of delivering value from
closed books. The bifurcation of our industry that we are seeing today, particularly
yesterday, supports this strategy. We will continue to seek selective transactions in the
bulk annuity market. We will continue to write annuities for our own policyholders as well
as over 50s protection through products delivered by SunLife. These are complementary
capital like products providing a natural longevity hedge for the group. In addition to the
new business written by the existing German and Irish businesses, our new strategic
partnership offers the opportunity to generate future assets and cash flows on a white-

Page 8 of 18



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

label basis. Whilst we have placed no value on this business in the cash flows that Jim has
just presented, asset growth through this arrangement will act as a natural dampener to
the run-off of our closed life book. In summary, some transactions make you bigger, some
transactions make you better. This is one of those very unusual transactions that makes us
both bigger and better.
I close today by setting out our strategic priorities for 2018. Cash generation continues to
be our key metric as it underpins our stable and sustainable dividend. We are clearly on
track to be at the top end of our GBP 1 billion to GBP 1.2 billion target for 2017 and 2018.
We will obviously be working closely with our colleagues at Standard Life Assurance to
progress the change in control application process and expect to complete the
transaction in the Third Quarter of 2018. Customers will always remain a key priority for
the group. And in 2018, we will further develop our digital proposition, as Andy talked
about, which will improve our customer communication. The work to simplify our group's
structure, as Jim described, is largely complete and the final stage of our onshoring work
will be undertaken as soon as practicable, following the completion of the Standard Life
transaction. Whilst our primary focus in 2018 will naturally be upon the completion of the
Standard Life Assurance transaction, we will continue to examine (technical difficulty) I had
one sentence to go, saying, whilst we are naturally focused on making sure that we land
safely, change of control in transitioning of the Standard Life Assurance transaction, we
are of course focused on other opportunities in the M&A environment.
So that is the end of the formal presentation. So ladies and gentlemen, we move onto the
Q&A. This is where -- wait for a microphone. I'm looking at my back, we're just carrying on,
we're just carrying on. So wait for a microphone to be brought to you, give us the name or
your name and the name of the institution you represent. And then the Chairman will give
all the difficult questions to Jim and the impossible questions to Andy. (technical difficulty)

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions)

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Gordon Aitken from RBC. Three questions, please. First, Prudential (inaudible) redress
provision GBP 175 million, doubled it to more than, (what, GBP 400 million). You talked
about the Abbey Life provision. And the Standard Life also had a GBP 175 million provision.
Now if the provision has to be increased, who picks up the (TAT) for that? And second on - there's obviously been mortalities or a slowdown in life expectancy in the U.K.. So there
will be gains coming. I'm just wondering on part of the Standard Life acquisition, who gets
the gains? I mean. And really what table was used when you priced the Standard Life
book, because if it was CMI 15 and we obviously know what CMI 16 and CMI 17 looks like.
We've got a pretty good insight into what CMI 18 will look like. Does that mean the price
you paid was effectively a good chunk or will be a good chunk lower than that's stated?
And finally on workplace pensions and the SIPP business, I mean I was surprised when

Page 9 of 18



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

these were included in that Standard Life transaction. If you did want to sell those, could
you?

FINAL

A - Henry Eric Staunton

{BIO 1520566 <GO>}

Thanks, Gordon. Just in terms -- what you're thinking about just to say in terms of
Standard Life provisions, you're quite right, they were GBP 175 million, they were
increased by (GBP 100 million). And that's in the numbers. And the use of about GBP 25
million, which means it's a net GBP 75 million increase and we do have indemnities in that
area as we did with Abbey Life as you know. Do you want to pick up? Anything you'd both
pick up?

A - Clive Christopher Roger Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

So I'll do indemnities, will you take, please, the CMI issue? I mean, you know about the
workplace pensions and how we're dealing with that going forward. So of course, we're
well aware there were 2 players in terms of the annuities, one was Standard Life and one
was the Pru. This is territory that we understand well and you can imagine that it was a
focus of the due diligence that we completed. And therefore, we have made appropriate
considerations, both in terms of the price paid and the indebtedness sought.

A - James McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

On the use of the CMI tables. So just to confirm, Phoenix uses the CMI 16 table. So we are
up to date with the tables that have been published. Standard Life use their own data
primarily to establish their annuity provisions. But their latest position reflects their latest
experience and so you can consider that as also up to date.

A - Andy Moss

{BIO 19123183 <GO>}

Then on workplace and SIPP, I think we see this as a key part of the strategic partnership.
We will have an arrangement in place with Aberdeen Standard for the exclusive
manufacture of those product. So we see this is continuing to be a key part of our offering
going forward.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan. Just 2, 3 questions. First of all, how should we think about
movement of your assets, I mean, liquid assets into illiquid asset? How does that create
strain, capital strain? Can you give us some clarity? If you shift (GBP 1 billion) to illiquid
asset, what does it do? Secondly, you still have like north of 55% of your shareholder
assets in gilts, cash, supranational bonds. I doubt that, that a lot of U.K. companies have
that much in gilts, I mean, low risk assets. So what is the potential you see in your book to
keep on shifting these assets into illiquid, or say a bit more high yielding assets? So that
would be the second one. And the third one, you mentioned -- I mean, SunLife is still
generating some new business. Can you give us some color about what volumes, I mean,
in terms of premiums, profits, anything that is coming on top of your guided numbers
already?

A - Henry Eric Staunton

{BIO 1520566 <GO>}
Page 10 of 18



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

Andy, why don't you?

FINAL

A - Andy Moss

{BIO 19123183 <GO>}

Let me do the SunLife one first. So we sold just over 100,000 whole of life funds within
SunLife last year. We also distribute third party products to the over 50s market as well.
On the whole of life product, we have a sort of (annual premium driven of ) about GBP 25
million. And that's currently producing round about GBP 5 million of bottom line profit for
us at the moment. In terms of the illiquid assets, I think, as I said in the presentation, we've
moved out from round about 6% to 15%. We do have a longer-term target on our annuity
assets to get between 30% and 40%. And obviously that, for us, gives us overall a high
yield but also from diversifying our overall portfolio. It's actually quite capital efficient for us
as well.

A - Clive Christopher Roger Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

And you had a third part of the question, Ashik. Was there any appetite to change our
bond and credit and going to higher yield and taking on commensurate it either rewarded
or unrewarded risk. I think we've thought about that hard and the strategic allocation
process of the Dublin takes us from about GBP 3 billion to about GBP 5 billion. And we're
doing it in measured way. So it's ERM, it's local authority loans, it's commercial real estate
and touching at the edge of infrastructure. And that's where our appetite stops and that is
principally involving our own shareholder funds and with the life companies where -- and
your funds. The risk profile we've taken is appropriate for the nature of the assets in the
policyholders that we wish to serve every time. So there's not going to be a change in our
risk appetite for the assets you've made reference to.

Q - Andrew John Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

It's Andrew Crean speaking. Can I ask 3 questions as well? Firstly, you said that by 2022
the holding company cash would be about GBP 1.3 billion. How much holding company
cash do you need to hold as a group? What's the policy around that liquidity? Secondly, I
suppose this is something of the winner's curse. I mean, winning Standard Life means that
you're so large that...

A - Clive Christopher Roger Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Large in what criteria, Andrew?

Q - Andrew John Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Well in terms of assets and in profitability. The number of further consolidation deals to be
done, the U.K. must have shrunk just purely because they wouldn't make a difference.
Could you give us some idea as to how many targets now are relevantly in your -- on your
radar screen? Then thirdly, cost synergies. I think -- not in this presentation but the one
late February, I think you capitalized the cost synergies benefits, they were about GBP 50
million pretax, GBP 40 million net of tax. And you capitalize them over 10 years at GBP 415
million or so. I was wondering how that worked as to whether -- you will go into more
detail as to where the cost synergies are coming, what you're not assuming, because this
is quite a substantial target which you could yield quite a lot of cost synergies out of ?

Page 11 of 18



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

A - Henry Eric Staunton

{BIO 1520566 <GO>}

Why don't you talk about the cost synergies and come back to the strategic issues on the
acquisitions, Clive, okay?

FINAL

A - James McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

Well into the cost synergies, first. So what we mentioned on the 23rd was cost synergies
of GBP 415 million, which was a capitalized number over 10 years that represented the
equivalent of GBP 50 million pretax. And that was out of a combined cost base of -- in
excess of GBP 600 million. Then once you strip out the European businesses, because
they are standalone with no equivalent Phoenix business, the sort of shareable cost base
is around about over GBP 500 million. So the savings represented some 8% of the
relevant combined cost base. And where these come from is really doing what you would
expect us to do. First of all, putting the management of the life companies together;
secondly, looking at the support functions for the 2 life company operations and
harmonizing these where appropriate; and finally, in terms of opportunity, we need to
look at whether we make more use of our outsourced model or make more use indeed
of Standard Life's in-source model. But in the numbers that we have presented, we have
not put in any significant savings for the opportunity.

A - Clive Christopher Roger Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

And Jim, would you answer the first question, which was about the nature of your war
chest, just how much money do you need lying around? That is what Andrew is asking.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew John Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Yes. Indeed.

A - Clive Christopher Roger Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

And I think that goes back to the slide where we talk about resources and apps. And it
goes from about GBP 535 million holdco cash today, building up to GBP 1.3 billion. And
then thereafter to 2023 a much larger number.

A - James McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

Yes. So if you remember past presentations, Andrew, we've spoken about having a war
chest of around GBP 500 million available. To support further acquisitions, we will
obviously be utilizing some of our war chest to support the Standard Life acquisition as we
have previously described. But thereafter, as the business progresses, it will start to build
up again. And indeed you will see the end of the five years. We see the amount building
up to GBP 1.3 billion. So Phoenix as a standalone business, we have GBP 950 million
undrawn RCF and we have the GBP 500 million of cash. We have more than sufficient
liquidity for our needs. The minimum liquidity requirement we need is a fraction of that
total amount. So there is no shortage of liquidity and a substantial proportion of that GBP
1.3 billion at end of five years could be available to support BPA or further M&A deals.

A - Clive Christopher Roger Bannister
Page 12 of 18

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

Then you asked an impossible question, Andrew, about what is the market remaining. So I
don't have a crystal ball. But I am robust in my belief that there's a cyclical change. The
events of yesterday just confirm it. So the tectonic plates of our industry are changing.
And you -- we think that the overall size of that in the closed life. So it's just all closed life
in the U.K. before we talk about BPA and before we talk about Europe is GBP 380 billion
and we've taken that up. And outside this meeting, we can go through the component
parts of it. What is intriguing for me is, three years ago we put up a pie chart and we said
that half of the owners of these legacy historic closed books were U.K. insurance
companies, about 30% were foreign insurance companies in the U.K. and then about 10%
to 20% were banks. So if you look at the 3 deals we've done since '16, they've come out
of each of those pots. We started with a foreign insurer saying they wanted to direct their
assets towards the GI market, that is AXA, they haven't left the U.K., they just
repositioned it. A deal we paid (GBP 3,754 million), we've got (GBP 283 million) already
out from that transaction. The next one was a bank. Deutsche Bank decided that they
didn't want to have capital committed to a legacy business. Then here we have a U.K.
insurance company redeploying it. So I don't have a crystal ball for when and how much.
But I am absolutely certain that there are boardrooms that thinking hard about which way
their capital is phasing. The seminal event that took place and there are 2 big drivers to
the change of our industry. One, the starting gun was set off by (George Osbow). He
gave clients choice. So the capital that was mandatorily fixed behind paying for annuities
can now be put against a DC rather than some DB environment. That's not stopping
anytime soon. And especially with auto enrollment and the freedoms that come with that.
It is a DC, it a fee-based, fee-riched environment, which is why our strategic partnership is
so seminal because we still get the opportunity of benefiting from Standard Life
Aberdeen's success in that area. The second one was the re-pricing of capital in 2016,
which was made reference to in yesterday's presentation by Solvency II. And that's not
going away anytime soon. So I think this is inexorable. Then part of your question was,
well, are you going to run out of road of any big ones versus little ones? I had a wise Irish
grandmother and she said never ignore the pen is at your feet, looking at the (inaudible).
And so I am completely convinced that there are going to be. But plethora is the wrong
word. But there will be sufficient small and medium size deals. And there maybe whales
out there yet to come that I can't identify. But that gives us a very sustainable future as a
growing business in the U.K. Then I'm going to answer the question, (a Finnish) question
very quickly. We then look to a place called BPA. Many people give you statistics, GBP 550
billion of assets to be transferred in the next 15 years. It's enormous. There is the very big
bulk end and there is the vesting annuities. It's a spectrum. We do on average -- we did
GBP 529 million vesting annuities last year, GBP 540 million the year before that, GBP 500
million or GBP 486 million the year before that. We think, with our business with Standard
Life, we'll be another GBP 200 million. So we're in the annuity business. That is a great
business and builds our ability to pay -- extend our dividend-paying capability. Then we
can acquire annuities by buying deals as we did with Abbey Life, 1/3 of that, GBP 3.5 billion
of that was in annuity; and then in the BPA space, as we've advertised, we're looking at
that. We looked at 7 transactions last year, we did 1. Immensely selective, proportionate,
which means small in my category, using Jim's war chest. So we're never going to come
to shareholders for it. And it has to meet the criteria of being accretive, sustaining the
dividend and our investment grade rating. So there's some portion of that GBP 550
billion, which is available and then there's new environment called Ireland. And I have
Ireland and Germany in terms of closed life. We've priced that, or we see the market at
about GBP 160 billion, who knows? So we don't think we're running out of time -- road
anytime soon. And actually we see the tide coming towards us in the fact that boards are
Page 13 of 18



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

now contemplating which way their capital is phasing. And it is not, in my opinion, correctly
aligned in many of the businesses against the strategic objectives of getting into the
wealth management business and capital like business. Apologies. Long answer. Oliver?

FINAL

Q - Oliver George Nigel Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank. Two questions. The first is, I suppose sort of building on
Andrew's question. There are a number of sort of smaller deals potentially out there over
the next 12 months, let's say. Ignoring the cash, do you actually have the management
capacity to take on those deals in the next, say, 12 months? Actually, I'm going to make it 3
questions.

A - Clive Christopher Roger Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Vibrate the habits of a morning. Let's just -- everybody has asked for 3.

Q - Oliver George Nigel Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

So the second question linked to that is, if there are a plentiful number of small deals
available in the future, do you have the management capacity to do, say, more than 1 a
year of those smaller deals? Because I thought it's getting around Andrew's question
about relevance, you just have to do them more frequently. Then the third question is
about the German and Irish cost. Is that in the GBP 135 million, or is that deducted of the
cash flow that you're expecting from Standard Life over the next 4, five years?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Henry Eric Staunton

{BIO 1520566 <GO>}

Shall I just touch on the management one to start with? Firstly, we did do 2 deals in 2016,
AXA and Abbey. And we -- and the management team succeeded in doing that. We have
got with -- at Standard Life in Scotland, we've got huge expertise and talent there that is
now part of our group and part of our management team. And when you talk about things
like BPA, have you got the management do it? We already do GBP 11 billion -- have GBP 11
billion of annuity (inaudible) liabilities. So we're in that business already. So it's not a sort of
new business and new management that's required. Do you think we've got the
management team? We have.

A - Clive Christopher Roger Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

That's very generous of my Chairman to say that. I echo his comments, having done 2
deals. But I think there's a more subtle point to Oliver's question as to whether we
increase the frequency on the smaller deals. So you fly at 2 different altitudes. The gating
item, Oliver, in doing deals are management, bandwidth, do we have the money. And
how does our regulator feel about it. I am robustly confident particularly at the prospect to
getting more talent in Scotland. We have the management talent to do these deals. Then
when it comes to financing, Jim has a lot of money and the markets have been very
supportive. He has an unspent RCF of GBP 950 million. Then I think you get into more
interesting territory with our regulator. They are navigating Solvency II, there is a plethora
of Part VIIs literally. And we have a lot of model changes and matching adjustments. And I
think it is not unfair of our regulator to say there's a new focus on the things that really
have to be done before you start dashing off elsewhere. And therefore, I'm going to use
the word bifurcated approach where there are smaller deals where it is more
Page 14 of 18



FINAL

Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

administration and fee oriented rather than capital related. And there was a transaction
last year which had a capital component. But it was a lot about administration and taking
on a book and how to manage it. And so I'm interested in. It's not so much the scale an
issue and frequency, which I think is a good way of looking at it. But it's whether it involves
me having to create burdens for my regulator. And of course, burdens for ourselves. But
as the Chairman said, we've already done more than 2 deals or 2 deals in '16 and we're
absolutely -- we take a long time to gestate as businesses and we're always attentive to
prospects in the market. Jim, do you want to talk about the...

A - James McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

Yes. So your final question, Oliver, was about the treatment of the integration costs and
the German and Irish Brexit related costs. So on Slide 19, the integration costs, which we
expect the amount to GBP 135 million after-tax are included within the operating and
pension cost line of GBP 0.5 billion shown on that chart. The costs of capitalizing the
subsidiaries following Brexit for the German and Irish businesses are deducted from the
cash generation line in the green box. So within the GBP 1 billion, that is after the
capitalization of those businesses. So what it does is, it depresses the cash we expect to
get over the first five years. And that is a number of several hundred million pounds.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Angel Parasotam Kansagra

{BIO 19712659 <GO>}

Angel Kansagra at HSBC. My first question is on the illiquid assets. So you said you have a
target of increasing it from 15% to 30% to 40%. And you have a range of assets you
would be investing in. But do you have preference for like specifically equity release
mortgages because that's what you did in H2 2017? When you acquire the equity release
mortgage back books, can you maybe share the risk profile of the back books in terms of
what's the loan to value you get from the business? And third one is actually on longevity
reinsurance simplification, that was one of the points you mentioned as management
action. Can you give some more details on that? And a quick one actually, answer would
be yes or no. But did the -- GBP 160 billion Standard Life assets, were they part of your
GBP 300 billion market size estimate previously? Or was it something out of that?

A - Henry Eric Staunton

{BIO 1520566 <GO>}

Why don't you start with (technical difficulty), Andy?

A - Andy Moss

{BIO 19123183 <GO>}

So yes, we do have a preference of equity release mortgages. So we have an ongoing
flow of equity release mortgages through various funding arrangements which we have in
place. And actually the margins which we're (going to earn but) swaps are quite attractive
on equity release mortgages at the moment. In terms of back books. So I think we've
acquired 2 or 3 over time. At the point in time of acquisition of back books, we do
extensive due diligence. So the features of all of them vary significantly across the base.
But particularly we are looking, as you said, loan to values, no negative equity guarantees,
ship certificates. So this is where the equity release (council is basically issuing) certificates
around it, particularly to make sure they have been legally drawn or properly that that
families have been involved in all of those. So we do quite a lot of due diligence around

Page 15 of 18



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

the risk of that. And then obviously continue to monitor that as we take on the
administration of those back books as well.

FINAL

A - Clive Christopher Roger Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

So on the Standard Life and amounts of books available for sale. On the announcement
on the 23rd of February, we updated estimates for the market size in the U.K. at GBP 380
billion. And that excludes the Standard Life books.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

It's Andrew Sinclair from BofA Merrill Lynch. Three for me as well. Firstly, given the step-up
in the cash generation from the Standard Life deal and where your holdco cash goes over
next few years, were you not (tempted) to increase the dividend a little bit further in the
step up? Secondly, on the -- actually on the results today, believe it or not, another
significant IFRS loss on the supported with-profits book, just any color that you can give us
there? And thirdly, just thinking about bulks, how should we think about the cash
generation step up from bulks? I know you've typically said that the dividend only really
steps up when you do an acquisition. If you're doing a decent number of bulks, how
should we think about that?

A - Henry Eric Staunton

{BIO 1520566 <GO>}

How do we do it?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Clive Christopher Roger Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Jim, on the dividend, Andy on with profits, IFRS. And I'll deal with bulks.

A - James McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

Well as we explained on the 23rd, Andy, our dividend policy remains stable and
sustainable and we review it at every period on a transaction. We've taken the decision to
increase the dividend by 3% this time compared to the 5% that we declared at the time
of the AXA deal and again at the time of the Abbey deal. And I think I used a phrase that
going to appropriate amount is out and out science and we were very mindful of phasing
of the cash flows. And in particular, the Brexit related cost that I've just spoken about in
the previous question. So there was a longer-term back-ended nature to the cash flows
from the Standard Life book compared to, say, the AXA book. And we came to review
that looking at the dividend, the yield where it current sits, that 3% was the right answer.

A - Andy Moss

{BIO 19123183 <GO>}

So on the IFRS loss what we'd generally see across all of our books of business is that
people are retiring later and we have won a couple of particular products and are
supported with profit funds, which have guarantees in terms of roll up. And what we're
seeing is those people are staying in those products longer. And hence, I think Jim
referenced the negative impact from overall persistency experience and that effectively is
that particular one. We are seeing, on the positive side in our unit-linked book, the same
trend. And that obviously gives us a benefit, which partly offsets the total persistency
experience.
Page 16 of 18



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

A - James McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

FINAL

And I think your final question was on the impact of both transactions. We have said that
both transactions will be selective and proportionate. We've talked in the past about
doing dues roughly equivalent to GBP 500 million of liabilities per annum. So the annual
impact of the cash flows of that business will clearly build up over time as we do dues
going into the future. But initially will not be significant.

A - Henry Eric Staunton

{BIO 1520566 <GO>}

We still said selective and accretive. That's important -- and I think it won't be material. It's
interesting because (we're already in) that business. But it won't be material.

A - James McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

It will build up.

A - Henry Eric Staunton

{BIO 1520566 <GO>}

It will build up. Our focus is going to be on closed funds. That's the key message.
Dividends, it's an art, not a science is all I will say.

A - Clive Christopher Roger Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Shall we say thank you very much?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Henry Eric Staunton

{BIO 1520566 <GO>}

Yes. That's it.

A - Clive Christopher Roger Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Henry Eric Staunton

{BIO 1520566 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Clive Christopher Roger Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Thank you very much indeed. It was a strong year financially for Phoenix Group and that
gave us the confidence to increase our dividend based off strong cash flow and strong
solvency. Thank you very much indeed.

A - Henry Eric Staunton

{BIO 1520566 <GO>}

Thank you for coming.

A - James McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

Thank you.

Page 17 of 18



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-15

A - Andy Moss

{BIO 19123183 <GO>}

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Thank you.

Page 18 of 18

