Q2 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

E. Friese , Chairman of Executive Board & CEO

Presentation
E. Friese

{BIO 17996109 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

We are pleased to share that our results for the Second Quarter of 2018 are solid with an
improved operating result in most segments, a robust balance sheet and a strong Solvency II ratio.
The value of new business increased at Insurance Europe and Japan Life. And the measures to
improve the performance of our Netherlands Non-life business are starting to bear fruit, although
work remains to be done to structurally improve the combined ratio. Furthermore, we are well on
our way to achieving our cost reduction target of EUR 400 million by 2020.
The integration process of the Delta Lloyd activities in our Dutch and Belgian operations is
progressing well. Many former Delta Lloyd products have been rebranded and the integration of
the asset management businesses and head offices have been completed. We continue to invest
in developing innovative products, for example, in Romania, where our Sparklab launched NN Bike,
the country's first bike insurance for urban riders. And NN Investment Partners signed a
memorandum of understanding with China Asset Management Co. to explore opportunities to
jointly develop products in the area of environmental, social and governance offerings.
Today, we also announced several changes to the composition of our management board. Tjeerd
Bosklopper will start as Chief Transformation Officer, which is a new position in our board. Dailah
Nihot has been appointed Chief Organization and Corporate Relations and will succeed Dorothee
van Vredenburch, who will leave NN Group as of the 1st of October to pursue her career outside of
the company. Fabian Rupprecht has been appointed CEO of our International Insurance
businesses. And Janet Stuijt will join the board in her capacity as General Counsel and Head of
Compliance.
These appointments of 3 internal and 1 external professional are aimed to further equip us with
the expertise and skills to shape our company's journey, especially in the areas of transformation,
innovation and our role in society. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Dorothee for all she
has contributed to our company over the years. We will miss her and we will wish her all the best
for the future.
As we continue to shape our long-term strategy, our focus remains on our key priorities to
successfully integrate Delta Lloyd, to further improve performance, to accelerate the
transformation of our business model and to continue to allocate capital rationally. By staying true
to our values and ambitions, we want to be a company that truly matters in the lives of our
stakeholders.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

