Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

Q4 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Adrian Gore , Founder, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director
Mike Brown, Chairman

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Mike Brown

{BIO 6995397 <GO>}

All right. So, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I think everybody's in now, including
myself as the very latecomers. I apologize for that. I'm Mike Brown from the Investment
Analysts Society. We'll be hosted today by Discovery Limited for their annual results for
period ended 30th of June.

Bloomberg Transcript

This is a presentation I think we all greatly look forward to. And one of the unique things
about Discovery is that it's a company that's chronologically and you guys back about 25,
26 years and we listed 18 years. So, many of the founding fathers, the original team, are
still here. They started this business.
One of them, if I can just pass a very brief tribute to, is John Robertson who is the Chief
Information Officer who's now retiring. John and I went to school together, so I know he is
past retirement age. And the last thing John did here was to effectively deliver this
building as an operational asset for Discovery to house the entire Discovery head office.
So, we wish John a long and happy retirement.
Thank you. Somebody hopefully won't be retiring as Chief Executive Officer, Adrian Gore –
and I've – it's a great privilege that Adrian is going to address us this morning on the
results of the group, and I'd like to ask him to come up and to thank you on behalf of the
Investment Analysts Society and all the other stakeholders that are listening to this
presentation.
Over to you, Adrian. Thank you.

Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Mike, thank you for that introduction, and thank you to the Investment Analysts Society for
the opportunity, and to all of you, thanks for the time. We greatly appreciate it. Maybe it's
a good segue, Mike, just to thank our staff. It's been a most remarkable year, and people
have worked incredibly hard to get to where we have got to. I get the pleasure of
delivering the results, but it really is a team effort of remarkable people. And also, to – just
highlighting John Robertson. I think it's an amazing thing to do. He's the most wonderful
guy. He's one of the founders and builders of the entire organization. So, this is not his
farewell yet, John, wherever you are, but we will celebrate with you.
Page 1 of 28



FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

So, let me get to the actual results. And as you heard, it's for the June 30, 2018, our full
financial year. It's been a remarkable year. It's been a very, very complex year. I think it's
been a fundamental year in our growth. I think the numbers are fairly clear, strong growth
in operating profit, up 17%, new business up 10%, headline earnings up 32%, and
normalizing them down to what we think is the appropriate measure, up 16% year-on-year.
There's been considerable activity across all of our businesses. And I hope I give you a
sense of that. There's just a lot of moving parts, and we try our best to get across the
stuff that really makes a difference.
There're really four themes I'm going to try and get across, and this framework is going to
follow through the presentation. So, I'm hoping I'm not going to be too verbose. We get
across the issues to you. The first I think is context. We set out this 2018 ambition of being
best globally. It was a bold ambition. And I think what's important about it is it really
reflects where we came from a core purpose of make people healthier. That kind of it
over time manifested into, we think, a globally relevant, repeatable model of SharedValue Insurance model that's unique and very powerful.

Bloomberg Transcript

And on the back of that, the deep conviction of its applicability, I believe that we could be
best globally. And so, we set this 2018 ambition. The truth of it is that strength is in the
actual operating models and discipline that I think it put onto us. This was five years ago.
And throughout the results, I hope you'll see the context of that ambition and the
framework for it.
Secondly, the financial performance has been a particularly strong year for us. We saw
operating profit up 17%, normalized earnings up 16%, and we generated ZAR 10.6 billion
of cash, we invested a lot in new businesses. All of our businesses are profitable. All the
emerging businesses turned to profitability. We earned a return on capital just under riskfree plus 10%, and our experience variances are positive. So, the organization as a whole
outperformed the actuarial assumptions. And I'll take you through the financial
performance I think in quite a bit of detail through the framework of the 2018 ambition.
The Discovery Bank, I'm going to talk about it to make the point upfront. There's been a
considerable amount of work on the bank. There's been a slight delay in it in the context
of our licensing approval that was conditional, and I'll tell you now publicly on FirstRand
over time moving down their shareholding from 25% down to zero over a five-year time.
That was the licensing conditions. We made a decision collectively with FirstRand that they
would exit as soon as possible, so I'm here to tell you that we're acquiring the 25% now
subject to regulatory approval, and we'll be issuing equity in order to fund that acquisition.
And I'll take you through that process and I hope that becomes clear.
And then I'm going to take you through the businesses themselves, the established, the
emerging. The new initiatives gives you insight into them. I think the dynamics between
them has been quite fundamental and powerful. I hope I'll give you insight. It's very, very
difficult given the scale of where we've got to try and cover everything. We've tried our
best to look at those (00:05:24) issues and I think and hope are relevant.

Page 2 of 28



FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

At the outset, I kind of thought before we get into strategy and the whys and how we
operate, just put the numbers out there in the most kind of naked form. What you'll see is
the operating profit up 17% to ZAR 8.3 billion. If you cast your mind down or your eyes
down, you'll see that I think there's strong robust growth across the entire group. New
business up 10% to ZAR 16 billion. Very good new business growth. There's been a focus
on profit. A very strong focus on internal rate of return of new business. The numbers I
think are strong. Good performance in the UK despite a very difficult economy. And our
three start-ups have grown really, really well. And that's one of the features of – our three
emerging markets have grown very, very well, one of the feature of the results.
We spent, as you can see at the bottom of the table, on operating profit, 7% on our new
initiatives including the bank, so well within the guidance. But, over time, that, of course,
will change as the bank is launched, and I'll touch on that a bit later.
What you see is net cash flow across the business, I think very strong. Our established
businesses beside Vitality Life generating positive cash flow. Return on capital, nearly riskfree was 10%. You can see the risk-free was 9.6%. And across the business, I think, a very,
very good performance. And experience variances, in other words, how each of the
companies in the group performed against the actual expectations, I think very, very
positive.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, we are pleased, I think, overall with kind of how the results and how the group has
played out. So, although maybe upfront, just kind of put the numbers out there so you can
see it. And I thought it's important then for me to give it a bit more context.
And kind of let me start with the why, the how, and the what. And that framework that is
really framed, I think the evolution of Discovery. Our core purpose of make people
healthier has been an incredibly powerful kind of North Star for us. It has evolved into this
very disciplined Shared-Value model, incentivizing behavior change, (00:07:13) insurance,
and that created this virtuous cycle, they're good for society, good for us, and
fundamentally good for our customers. And, of course, that is important.
The core capability is at the bottom of the slide, this ability to take the Vitality
methodology and to kind of mix it, integrate it within institutional capability to get to the
right kind of traction. And then we apply it to a whole range of things: life insurance, health
insurance, long-term savings, property and casualty insurance, and then ultimately, of
course, banking. And that's the intention.
But to make the point, I think the conviction of its applicability is that we kind of strongly
feel that the world is changing. And I think you will have seen this from us many times that
I do believe that there's three mega-trends that are really framing what we do. Of course,
technology and more of it, whether it's fintech, digital therapeutics, all of the stuff, is
accelerating at a considerable rate, so we know that the enabling disruptive issue are
technology.
On social purpose, we've been here saying we're here to make people healthy. In early
years, it was seen as almost bizarre. But that's become a bigger and bigger thing since
Page 3 of 28



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

2008. And I was really amazed to see Larry Fink, CEO of BlackRock, sent a note out to the
top 1,000 CEOs making the point that they strongly are urging and forcing social purpose
on the companies they invest in on the back of the idea that governments can't deliver all
that, and of course (00:08:33) private sector actors like ourselves have to do that.
So, there is an increasing push towards companies standing for a social purpose. And I
think the great thing about Discovery, our purpose of making people healthier is entirely
authentic. That's how we started. We never had a mission statement. That's what we do.
And our business model is entirely and totally consistent with that. But it's really the nature
of risk that I think is critical. We've made the point, you know this that we're an
organization that believes in behavior change. And what's really becoming clear is that in
financial services, healthcare, and other stuff that we're involved in, most of the risk is
about the simple choices people make and their behavioral biases. And if you can affect
that, you can make a real, real difference.
And I kind of wanted to show you this interesting analysis. It's kind of – it's maybe
provocative, but I think it makes a point. Now, just to make this maybe strange analog,
turns out that the DNA of a human and a pig is actually very, very simple, extremely simple
and very similar as far as I know. So, no – no – I'm not suggesting anything. It's a biological
fact. But it turns out that there's kind of a DNA strand running through our industry. So, it's
definitely as (00:09:42) life insurance is to motor insurance is to banking. It turns out like in
health, 4-4-60, four behaviors lead to four conditions that drive 60% of mortality:
smoking, eating badly, physical inactivity, alcohol drives four conditions. Cancer, diabetes,
lung and heart disease drives 60% of mortality. Turns out those behaviors are consistent
across everything: so aggressive driving, harsh braking, saving too late, corrosive
spending in the banking space, these simple behaviors have the same effect.
So, if you look at banking, four – our analysis shows that four simple behaviors drive 90%
of defaults: semi long-term savings, semi-motor insurance. So, as different as these things
are from a human to a pig, there is a very similar DNA strand that's running. I wouldn't say
which one is a pig incidentally. I'm just going to – (00:10:30) taking this analogy way too far.
But just to make the point that the behavioral piece drives a huge amount of the risk, and
in fact increasing amounts when it comes to long-term savings and to banking.
And so, this interpretation of make people healthier, make them drive safer, make them
manage their money better, et cetera, is entirely consistent in a pure play, a purely
authentic play on the core purpose of make people healthier. And you'll see throughout
the presentation – I hope I get it across – that this virtuous cycle is true in every single case
because we are completely aligned with our customers, right? We monetize better
behavior, better decisions. So, if customers make their decisions, we are more profitable,
we can find the incentives. So, we have this ability to kind of circulate this model. So, it
really is a consistent simple play.
So, when you look at the results of Discovery, I think you need to be clear that in fact it's
entirely a consistent adjacent move, but it's exactly the same DNA strand, exactly the
same model. As soft as it sounds, it has a hard edge actuarially. So, if you look at this from
a kind of a veer and weave (00:11:31) point of view, or a margin point of view, the effective
Shared-Value of this model is tremendous. It creates a sales effect, so we get an uplift in
Page 4 of 28



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

sales. Critically, it creates a selection effect, the kind of people that buy products like what
we're doing (00:11:46) which is important. There's a behavioral change once they're with
us. They behave better. And then critically reach people often as I understand the
selective lapsation effect in our industry is critical. Most insurance, the better lives tend to
scatter and you keep the worst risks because their lives tend (00:11:59) to see value for
money. In our model, it's quite the opposite.
The lives that we're engaging tend to stay and the lives that aren't tend to leave. And so,
you get a positive selective lapsation cycle. And this table comes from all of our different
bits of data, but just to make the point, if you get the model right in the life insurance
space and give you a double kind of value of new business, your margins in health and
property and casualty insurance are dramatically high through a lower loss ratio. And the
semi long-term savings, VoNB's dramatically higher if you get that right.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, to make the point that our conviction kind of comes from the soft idea of make
people healthier, but it siphons through a much more disciplined environment to one that
actually translate actuarially into better value for us and, of course, bettering lives for our
customers. And so, on the back of that, we set this 2018 ambition.
I've shown this to you before, and I'm not going to be laborious with it. But it's based on
the hypothesis that we can attract the best people according to a set of values,
technology capabilities, they will build great businesses on the back of this Shared-Value
model in life, health, and other, and that will flip into an impact ZAR 10 billion of pre-tax
earnings, growing our earnings by CPI plus 10%, achieving a return on capital of risk-free
plus 10%, and touching 10 million people through the Vitality program, and that's what
we've set out five years ago.
I think you will see through the presentation, and I hope it's clear we still have six months
to run, we're actually fairly close to achieving this ambition. I believe we're going to miss it
in certain areas, I think we're maybe too South African. We haven't globalized quick
enough I think to claim the relevance I think we need to do, but we're well on the way. And
I think this ambition has proven to be remarkably – how can I say – just instructive as in
setting up exactly what we need to do.
So, let me deal with the financial results, and I'm going to deal with them in the context of
this third dimension of the financial and social impact of the organization and just bear
those metrics in mind. And, over time, we've developed, I think, a pretty sophisticated
and disciplined model around growth, cash, and capital. And the important point to say at
the outset is, I think we are quite unique in the fact that we've build our businesses
organically. It doesn't mean that we can't make acquisitions but, simply put, I think
intellectually if you have a unique model like ours, we're having it figured out how to do it
into a back-book, we're working on that. But, in truth, this is about building businesses
from the ground-up, building anew according to this basis and, therefore, this is an
organic model.
So, if you accept, then let me take you around the cycle so you'll see what we're trying to
do. On the left-hand side is the growth model, businesses start new. Over time, they

Page 5 of 28



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

become emerging. Over time, they become established, and we've metrics for those.
We see that phasing typically five years and another three to five years. That's what we
see. (00:14:36) To build an institutional business, it takes five to eight years in our
experience, and that's what you get.
The growth, what we spend is – (00:14:39) our earnings should be 90%, 20%, minus 10%.
Now, those established businesses should be 90% of our profit, the emerging 20%, and
we spent 10% of our profit on funding new initiatives. If we get that all right through the
relative growth rates, that should spell out a growth of CPI plus 10%. That growth funds –
or generates cash and we invest that cash in tax, dividends, finance cost, but then in new
businesses. And kind of intellectually, we should fund as much of it as possible at the right
rate of return provided we don't breach our risk parameters, and that's really the model.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, that leads to the capital model which is made up of four components: regulatory
capital, making sure that all of our entities are soundly capitalized; allocated capital,
making sure we can wind through five years of growth without recourse to additional
capital; the use of debt and its quantum; and then a buffer of cash at the center that can
be there to manage growth.
And the two – if we get that right, we should run (00:15:34) risk-free plus 10%. That's the
target. But the two critical kind of controlling variables are at the bottom. The leverage
should never exceed 28%, and that was that financial leverage ratio should never exceed
28% if insurers hold a buffer of ZAR 1 billion to ZAR 2 billion in cash at the center. If you
accept that this kind of washing machine, we call it, should spin around and we should do
it as fast as we can provided we don't violate those two kind of optimizing variables at the
bottom of leverage and cash at the center, and that's really how this model has been
played out.
So, the central question, of course, then is how have we done. So let me deal firstly with
the growth engine and go through the numbers kind of with you. Very quickly on new
business, you can see it's grown 10% on the previous year. If you kind of look at it
graphically, it's actually not unlike previous years. A few comments to make, firstly, Ping An
at the bottom. We used to show it as 100%. We only own 25% of it given its scale, we now
show 25%, which you can see it's growth is staggering at over 80%. Really it's growing
quickly.
The Vitality Group above that showing 2%, but in fact that includes our U.S. corporate
business. When you look at the partner market, that's growing at 40%. I'll take you
through that later. So, those two for us are really strong growth areas. The rest of the
growth I think has been strong. I made the point about the UK growing nicely in a very
staggering market. Discovery Life, the individual business grew by 3%. It was a focus on
profit, on quality, and I'll take you through a lot of that later.
And then Discovery Health continues to grow nicely despite the scale of the base. I think
the robust growth in new business, if you look at that and combined with the back-book,
we had a kind of a target of 10 million. Today, we cover close to 18 million lives across the

Page 6 of 28



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

globe. You can see how they're made up of insured lives, Vitality lives giving you a total of
18 million, and you can see them across the various countries.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

I'm quite proud of the fact – I think the team has done remarkably well, that we cover 1.1
million fully insured lives in the UK. So, that business really is getting I think considerable
scale. You can see the rates of growth in China in Ping An, quite amazing and then the
Vitality Group approaching 1 million lives. So I think the growth has been fairly strong.
Let me turn to the operating profit, up 17%. The performance has been, I think, excellent
over the period. If you look at the various businesses and the growth, it's just strong and
robust across all of it. For the first time, all of our emerging businesses have flipped to
profitability. The established businesses are a ramp of ZAR 8.6 billion of profit, as you can
see, and has grown by 14%. So, a very strong growth in the rate of – in the established
businesses. And then I made the point that we spent about 7% of earnings on new starts,
et cetera. There's more spend on that. What's coming through, of course, is as you
capitalize a lot, it doesn't come through the income statement yet, but I'll touch on that a
bit later.
We thought may be appropriate on the right-hand side to break it down – I'm not sure if
this is instructive – by industry, by business unit, by growth model. You can see what it
shows. You can see Discovery Health at the top, (00:18:37) less than a third of the
earnings, I think. You can see by industry: health, life, property and casualty, the growth is
actually quite strong across the board. And, in fact, they're kind of mixes of start-ups and
whatever, so it's hard to draw conclusions, but I think that is pleasing. And then, the
growth model itself, the existing businesses are growing at CPI plus 14%. That has
implications, and I'll touch on a little bit later.
Maybe just to just reconcile some of the accounting stuff – Deon, our CFO is with us. So,
any questions later, we will be here to take. But profit from operations, I've made the
point, up 17%, just under ZAR 8.3 billion. If you take out finance costs and some other
issues, you get profit before tax up 28% to ZAR 7.4 billion, after-tax and a few other
issues, headline earnings up 32%. We normalize out the – there's been a considerable
deferred tax asset that emerged as the businesses turned to profitability. (00:19:30). So,
taking that out brings that 32% down to 16%. As we published it, we're declaring a
dividend today of ZAR 1.14 per share, up 16%, very much in line with the increase in
normalized headline earnings. So, that is kind of the – a recall of the headline earnings
down to the normalized headline earnings and the dividend declaration.
I want to just touch briefly on the building we're sitting in. It has been really good for us, I
must say. Our people I think are motivated. We've got a fantastic deep space. I think the
culture is working remarkably well. This is not a group of separate companies; it's an
integrated organization. We like people to see each other, work with each other, be
integrated, and I think we've done well doing that. But, of course, the question is how
much does it cost, right?
And what I want to show you here is, in fact, in the accounts we've taken I think the
appropriate approach. The accounting standards now require a finance lease accounting

Page 7 of 28



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

approach. So, in effect, what you're seeing on the chart there is the green line is the cash
cost of the rental, right? So, kind of the monthly cost of the building. What the accounting
standards do is require to – account for it as if you've acquired the building and you're
depreciating it over time. So, you kind of get a lease cost that's made up of interest and
depreciation.
So, in the accounts, we've actually taken the finance lease accounting, and that's what
we've got in our normalized headline earnings per share. So, to an extent, there's a
significantly higher charge than the actual cost of the building. It's fairly flat and comes
down. So, we're over penalize us (00:21:02) in early years, but in the later years, it will
actually be a boost to our operating profit.

Bloomberg Transcript

Why is this relevant? Well, it is relevant because I think when you compare one year with
the other, it is important to understand that in the previous period, we're in about five or
six buildings with old leases, et cetera, et cetera. We moved all of these – everyone into
one massive building and flattened out the rental cost. So, it's a pretty penal approach.
Our board had quite a debate around whether we should normalize (00:21:29) compare
like with like and decided not to do that, because if we did that, every year, we would
have to normalize, and that didn't make sense.
But just to show you the reconciliation, our headline earnings is up 32%. I showed you right
at the bottom, our normalized headline earnings is up 16%. So that includes this flat line
(00:21:43) treatment of the rental cost. If you looked at the actual rental cost in the green,
it would have been a 20% growth year-on-year. So, comparing like with like, you do get a
20% growth, but we're not going to show that. We've settled on this accounting
convention, and that's what we will show, and so you get the normalized headline
earnings up 16% year-on-year.
So, let me just wrap up on the growth model, making the point that headline earnings –
sorry, that operating profit is up 17%, trying to show you how it's broken down. And I think
the critical thing to do is to look at it how it's evolved, 7% on new initiatives. Our emerging
businesses all profitable, growing considerably. I think the growth is ridiculous (00:22:21)
because you've gone from negative to positive, but the growth of the established
businesses had been at CPI plus 9%.
And this is an important kind of strategic consideration because kind of the linearity of the
growth model is starting to break down. If you've got a ramp of established businesses,
nearly ZAR 9 billion in scale, it is largely impossible to have a start-up that linearly grows
and makes a massive impact unless you take big bets and do things that have blue-sky
potential. And that really is, I guess, the question.
On the right-hand side of the chart in those graphs, just showing you that we're trying to
get you 20% of earnings from the emerging businesses. At this stage, they're a slither.
They are earning – to be fair, that just turned around, but with small earnings compared to
the established. But if you look at it on an embedded value basis, we don't publish an
embedded value for our new starts, but an estimated EV that's around 10% of the group
EV, so in fact, the value being created is very, very considerable.

Page 8 of 28



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

And so I'll put it to, this is really where I think the – not a level where I think we (00:23:15)
kind of heading is that the established businesses we think are very well positioned. It's
about making sure the emerging businesses have real blue-sky potential and investing in
new initiatives that really can make a difference over time. And I think with things like the
Discovery Bank, Vitality Invest and other stuff that we're doing, we think that is in the belly
of the strategy that you will see.
So, the growth model, I think, has worked well. It's generated better than CPI plus 10%,
but I'd argue that its linearity is probably breaking down and we need a more exponential
approach, I think, to new starts as we go forward. And I do think we are doing that.

Bloomberg Transcript

Maybe turn to the cash and how we've applied the cash, and we've tried our best here to
be absolutely, how can I say, detailed in giving you whatever you need. We've tried our
best I think to reconcile all these numbers, so all of the stuff is absolutely visible for you.
But to make it clear, the group generated ZAR 10.6 billion in cash over the period. We
spent ZAR 7.8 billion of that on new business. We spent ZAR 2 billion of that on new
businesses, and we spent ZAR 3.4 billion on tax, dividends and finance costs. And that's
really how the model has played out.
If you look at the net cash flow, again, I'm repeating it for you, (00:24:24) I think did well.
Vitality Life is in a growth phase, it requires a lot of capital. The return or the internal rate
of return on new business is very strong, mainly risk-free plus 10% or better if we can
achieve that in the UK which is a much lower rate interest rate environment. Risk-free plus
7% to 9% is embedded in the new business. And, in fact, the period of how they come
out is fairly consistent. We're trying to get our cash back over 5 to 8 years, earn risk-free
of about (00:24:47) 8 to 10 years, and then risk-free plus 10%, I would say 13 to 15 years.
That's really how the business tends to play out.
So, all of the new business models have the same requirements in them. All of them have
to meet the hurdles set for them both in terms of duration and return on capital. So this
then flips into the capital model. As I've said to you before, risk-free plus 10% and exactly
how it plays out. I think if you look at the period, I think performance has been very, very
strong.
On the left-hand side, you can see that we actually earned risk-free plus 9% from a 6%,
(00:25:16) very close to what we set out to do. The regulatory capital in the businesses is
strong. So, each of our entities is I think very strongly capitalized. We have sufficient capital
– I mean, allocated capital to grow despite the diversity of growth strongly over the next
five years. The debt levels, in fact, the financial leverage ratio has come down, so it was
closer to 28%. You can see it's come down to 25.8%. And the cash buffer's increased to
about ZAR 1.7 billion. So, if anything, the capital plan I think is more intact and
strengthening. And our desire is to keep that financial leverage ratio coming down slowly
and building out cash at the center while we continue to grow.
On the right-hand side, just showing you graphically the return on capital of the
businesses. Now, all doing I think fairly well. Even on the extreme right-hand side, our new

Page 9 of 28



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

businesses are starting as they make positive profitability, starting to offer reasonable
returns on capital. We expect that profit growth to increase over time.
Maybe if we could segue to the embedded value, just touching on those briefly, I think
fairly straightforward, return on embedded value is 17%. You can see the growth in the EV,
new businesses adding ZAR 2.9 billion, the unwind of the discount rate adding nearly ZAR
6 billion, positive experience variances overall of ZAR 300 million, some changes to
methodology and that's in the detail that we hand out giving a total EV of ZAR 67.5 billion,
a few reductions, new initiatives, changes in capital and dividends paid, getting it down to
ZAR 65.6 billion or an increase of 15%, not very dissimilar to the rate in operating profit.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, putting them all together, that's how this kind of cycle has played out. I would argue
very, very well it's created the right discipline. The growth rate of CPI plus 12%. I think
we've generated a lot of cash. I believe used it judiciously and actually have cut off
(00:27:03) in the future. The organization is well-capitalized for growth with leverage
coming down. Buffer is going up, and we expect that to increase over time. So, it's in a
very solid position. And despite kind of the diversity of growth from the Vitality Group –
from Vitality Group globally to Ping An Health in China, to a new bank over here, we
believe we're well-capitalized and positioned well for growth.
But I wanted to make the point, I guess, just on this dilemma around how we grow and
the kind of exponential nature of organic growth that we need to achieve. So, if you look
at the established businesses, just to make the point, they are ramp-up over (00:27:38)
ZAR 8 billion growing at CPI plus nearly 9%. I'm not convinced we can continue to do that
kind of growth, but it's a massive, massive ramp-up for us. And if you look at them, they all
are growing strongly and have continued to grow strongly. And the UK itself had a
particularly good year.
So, these are all great businesses and we think that can continue to grow. But we do think
that there is real blue-sky potential in the emerging business, and I've made the point that
they're all profitable: Discovery Insure, the Vitality Group and Ping An (00:28:05)
profitability should dramatically grow. But I would argue, these businesses offer quite
unique opportunities each and on itself running (00:28:12) exactly the same model, but
they kind of have – each of them has a different case.
Discovery Insure is the fastest-growing short-term insurer in the country. I'll show you a bit
later that the dynamics of the Shared-Value model of changing behavior is dramatic, and
the embedded value building up is really, really powerful. So, the value that we think can
be – the profit growth and value we think can be substantial.
The Vitality Group with its partners and what it's doing has just amazing potential. It's in its
infancy. We are getting tremendous results. I'll take you through that. Really it's open sea
for us. We've built the largest global platform globally around behavioral change linking it
into financial services and the potential for that is tremendous. And then Ping An Health
needs no case to be made. It is the leading specialist health insurer and its (00:28:50)
growth just tends to be tremendous and the quality, I'll take you through that.

Page 10 of 28



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

So, we do believe that these three opportunities are starting to mature. They offer
considerable capability and despite the scale of the established businesses, these
emerging businesses can be very, very substantial. Anyone who opens a fizzy water at the
podium is an idiot. Sorry (00:29:15).
And then, I guess at the bottom of the growth model, just turning to the new initiatives,
we've been very busy over the period. We rolled out our Discovery Business Insurance
into the commercial market, offering companies – and I'll take you through that, some of
the skills of Discovery Insure. Umbrella Funds were launched during the period as well.
And then, a very important launch for us in the UK, Vitality Invest, I'll take you through, that
was launched just about a few months ago, just before the summer holidays in the UK.
And then, the Discovery Bank, a huge amount of work is taking place, and we intend on
launching it before the end of 2018.
So, these are substantial initiatives. Maybe to summarize then, I think where the group is
now is a very strong set of established businesses, a strong set of emerging business
offering real blue sky potential, and a set of new initiatives that are in and of themselves
really large bets of real potential going forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, just to summarize before we turn to the actual businesses, I think the Shared-Value
model has proven to be remarkably efficient and powerful. And to an extent, for us it
feels like it's in its infancy. There's so much we can do with this model. The businesses are
well positioned, as I've said. And, critically, the capital plan is robust, intact, generating
cash, strengthening, if anything. And so, all the disciplines applied in the past of what
we've tried to achieved are largely intact now in the model.
So, maybe it's a very good place to start talking about the business. I want to talk about
the Discovery Bank first, I mean, and just tell you what we are doing. There's been a
considerable process of work as you would imagine in building the bank, just a timeline
down there, the left side of the chart, just to show that we started the process in 2015,
acquiring 55% of the Discovery Card. By October 2016, our provisional banking license
had been granted. We began the bank build in January 2017. A considerable work has
been done since that day of October 2017, our bank license was obtained and we made
this public that the license was granted by the regulator subject to certain conditions.
Well, the fundamental condition of where it has taken us a year or two kind of unraveling
work through has been the fact that while the entire architecture of this bank has had
FirstRand owning 25% of it, the regulatory approval was subject to the fact that FirstRand
would have to reduce their share from 25% down to zero over a five-year period.
So, this presented considerable complexities I think for both parties and we kind of
collectively quite quickly decided that the best way forward for us and for FirstRand would
be for us to acquire their 25% outright (00:31:57) as soon as possible. FirstRand has its
own objectives about the long-term value creation and that's their decision. From our
perspective, we need to own our bank fully, we need to control it fully, we need no
competitive forces within it, et cetera. So, for both parties, it seemed to be the right
decision.

Page 11 of 28



FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

But extricating out the card and its migration and how that will work legally and pacing was
not a simple thing. And we worked through (00:32:22) to agree now that we've agreed
with FirstRand all the terms and conditions subject to regulatory approval. We'll be
acquiring 25% of the bank and the remaining card and we'll be issuing equity in order to
fund that. The purchase price is largely formulaic. It's ZAR 1.8 billion for it. There's the
balance of the card that is really the previous valuation with interest. And then we had a
contractual price of the balance in the bank, the 25% of the bank rolling up with interest,
giving ZAR 1.8 billion to acquire the balance of the card and the 25% of the bank that we
didn't own.
So in effect, that is what we're doing. And I wanted to make a few points in this regard. It
is important to understand the asset ready in the belly of the bank as it grows. The
Discovery Card is performing really, really well.
So if you look at operating profit, it's grown by 17% to ZAR 414 million over the period. And
so to make the point immediately, if you look at the valuation of the price of the card
versus the profitability, it's about a post-tax P/E of, I think, around a 10 times multiple. So in
effect, the purchase price embedded in this is kind of a 10 P/E.

Bloomberg Transcript

And if you kind of place the entire cost of this on the card, it's kind of buying the card at a
15 P/E. So to an extent, you could argue it could be value accretive to us, but bear in mind,
that's inside the belly of FirstRand. We have to bring that across. We have to get it into our
systems with our costs. So, there's a lot of work to be done. So, it's not hubris or
(00:33:45) whatsoever, but I do think the price is fair to both parties but the card has
performed well.
You can see the scale of the card. There's a book of ZAR 4.3 billion, and I think critically for
us, in the middle of the chart is just how well the book has done. Non-performing loans
are about 3% of the base, that compares to the kind of 8% average of the banking
market. So, it's substantially better quality book than other banks.
And the important point for us is just how integrated to the behavioral model the
Discovery Card is. So, if you look on the left-hand side as people engage in Vitality, they
tend to spend more on the card. As they engage in Vitality, their closure rates or their
propensity to leave us goes down. So, spend more, become more sticky.
And then if you look at the kind of bad debts are going into arrears as they engage in
Vitality that goes down, we'll have more Discovery products with us, bad debts go down,
and amazingly this kind of (00:34:42), these things are all correlated. People who drive
better have lower default rates. Right? Not sure why but that's how it is. So, it's kind of like
all of the stuff interlinked. And for us of course this has been behind the impetus of the
bank, the data, the segmentation, the correlations, and more, and that gives us the ability
to build the bank.
Dealing with the decision about how we fund the purchase price, and this has been quite
a considerable debate of our board over time over the year. If you look at the capital plan

Page 12 of 28



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

and you look at the white line of how the financial leverage is coming down, we've put a
self-imposed limit of 28%.
We're coming down nicely. Were we to fund acquisitions of bank with internal resources?
It's doable but it pops us right to kind of that limit. And our feeling was given the rate of
growth of the group, China, the Vitality Group, the stuff that we're doing (00:35:33) at all.
We've made it clear in our guidance that our capital is sufficient for everything that's on
the table. This is a new acquisition. It offers considerably something (00:35:42) for us so
we felt an equity raise to do that is fairly insignificant in the market capital of the group,
but the right way to acquire it.
This is all subject to regulatory approval. The deal has been agreed with FirstRand, and
that's the process we're going forward. So, expect more from us in the next few weeks,
so I would guess, Deon, around this issue as it plays out, but that is our preferred
approach.
So, let me go back to the businesses. And, now, I'm going to move through them and I'm
hopefully not going to be too laborious. I will deal with the international stuff first, the
(00:36:12) markets in China and the Vitality Group elsewhere around the world.

Bloomberg Transcript

The Vitality Group has really had a tremendous period. You can see the rate of growth
here. The integrated products with our partners like AIA, Generali, John Hancock has
grown by maybe 80% to nearly $400 million of new business. Our revenue has grown by
40% to nearly $52 million – just over $51 million of revenue and that business is now
profitable.
It's very much a fixed cost business. There's a lot of fixed costs at the center. And as it
grows, we should actually start seeing good (00:36:43) profit emerge out of it. We are
still investing considerably in it. So, it's going to take us a bit of time. We are not rushing
the profitability. This is not something that's dragging us at all, but the potential is just so
remarkable. If you look at the growth of the business over the last few years, it has been
tremendous. And the number of membership as it's grown, it's really accelerating
exponentially.
And to make the point on the right-hand side of the chart, we really have got the largest
platform globally around behavior change and how it integrates into financial services. And
the Vitality Group is learning its repeatability and scalability. So, the different product
designs from dynamic processing to enhanced yield, we're learning how that applies to
different markets. We're learning how to optimize the partner mix from healthy food
partners to germs (00:37:26) and all the like, learning how to deal with regulators in
different markets and then we're repeating and scaling it I think particularly well.
One of the notable aspects over the period has been technology in Vitality One. We
spent nearly ZAR 0.5 billion on building this piece of technology. In the first iterations of
the Vitality Group with AIA, we're using our own South African Vitality system bent into
shape and we did this around the world. The decision made by the Vitality Group that we
should really globalize, one platform, cloud-based, multi-tenancy, multi-language can be
Page 13 of 28



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

deployed very quickly per partner, a very, very substantial rollout. It's taken us years to do
this, 105 developers around the world working on this. And it's been a very, very powerful
capability. That's just been rolled out with Sumitomo Life in Japan and with AIA in Korea.
And it offers considerable ability to take the platform and really scale it quickly to make it
much more flexible. So, that's a very important step for us. And over time, the group will
fall onto this platform in different shapes and sizes.
The other point I wanted to make is that the actual performance for our partners is
remarkable. So, I made the point up-front about the effect of this model. You should get
better selection, better growth, better behavior change, better lapsation. These are three
use cases across three markets. We can't divulge the names of our partners, but we
chose them. They are quite unique in each case.
In case one on the left-hand side, this is a very large market that's fairly stagnant. Our
partner has managed to grow its new business by 10% in a stagnant market, but by
growing the Vitality integration by 14%, so it's giving a really strong new business effect.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the (00:38:59) market, it's hard to get customer interaction using Apple Watch and
Active Rewards. On the chassis, we're seeing considerable uplift in engagement. And
then the right-hand side, I think a fantastic example. A market that has annually renewable
premiums in life insurance, so that the prices go up every year, we get considerable lapse
rates and that's the biggest challenge in the market, keeping clients on the books.
You can see on the right-hand side of the chart how correlated the lapse rates are. So, as
people engage, their lapse rates go down by 30%, down to a sum of about (00:39:29)
further 30%, et cetera. So, the actual stickiness is remarkable. So, the ability to get the
sales effect, behavioral change, lapsation effect is real. So, the data coming out of our
partners is incredibly powerful.
And so, we remain very excited about how we can grow this business. The profit I think
will follow strongly and you will see that. Three distinct areas of growth. We have amazing
partners in Ping An, Generali, John Hancock, and more. We need to exploit that latent
potential. There's a whole lot of ways to do that. More products attached to the chassis.
More penetration in the product. Better engagement. We had our infancy there, and the
ability to do that I think is substantial.
The second point is our joint venture with Hannover Re where we kind of have boxed this
together with the reinsurance offering and offering this in many smaller markets. You can
see the pipeline is building up strongly. We signed up four companies across Asia and
Latin America. We've got three that have signed letters of intent and a very long pipeline
building up. And then, importantly, the considerable adjacencies. Our motor insurance
business has applicability internationally. The VitalityInvest capability, using this platform for
long-term savings has applicability. We're working really well with Apple on a number of
adjacencies, and I hope you have the time to see how that will play out. So, there's
considerable potential.

Page 14 of 28



FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

But one thing I did want to show you, it's the only video I have in the entire deck, but our
launch of Sumitomo Life in Japan, this has taken us a few years. It's probably the best
example of repeatability and scalability. The team worked on all the learnings, worked
with the regulator that the product is set right. And the actual launch itself has Sumitomo
play this out in terms of partners like Apple, Garmin and others in exactly the way it was
structured is kind of the model placed and how this can work out. It's just a few months
old, taken us two years to launch. We launched I think early July, June-July we did the
formal launch. Let me give you a bit of insight into the launch itself in the process.
[Video Presentation] (00:41:16-00:42:24)
So, early days but really exciting stuff. Barry and I had to learn a bit more formality about
standing on a stage and bowing, which is new for us, Barry, but really, really exciting stuff
and offers great potential.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then we turn to China at Ping An. Again, there's a lot to say here and I just want to be
pretty clear. It's been a tremendously positive period. New business grew by 95%. You
can see the scale of growth to nearly $450 million. The written premium because of the
rate of growth also grew by nearly 90% as you can see. The profitability is just starting to
emerge, but this business is full of new business strain, tax on commission. We've been
growing at this rate (00:43:01) the profitability emerges very slowly. Our profitability is
25% of it less our costs. We have quite a strong team under Barry and his team driving the
Ping An Health capability.
So, if you turn to profitability and we expect that to be muted for a year, but then to grow
really strongly thereafter as you look at the effect of new business strain (00:43:19) of
these specific dynamics of the Chinese market.
I'm not going to make the case for how big the Chinese private health insurance market
will be, but this is coming out of the Ping An, their own analysis. I mean the market really is
emerging. On the left-hand side, you can see private health insurance penetration is tiny.
It's kind of non-existent. In the middle, out-of-pocket expenses are very high, like 35%.
And therefore, the insurance opportunity is really, really substantial. On the right-hand
side, the actual addressable market, they believe, will kind of be 7x quite quickly. So, this is
a market of considerable scale. But issue really (00:43:52) is the quality of the business
that Ping An is building in Ping An Health.
Firstly on the distribution side, Ping An Health itself now has its own branch network that
covers large cities in China, covering nearly 230 million people by the end of this year in
some of the major centers including Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen and more. In the middle
of the chart is just the agency force of 1.4 million agents. And amazingly, 21% of them are
now actively selling Ping An Health. And then on the right-hand side, something that I think
is kind of a seminal (00:44:23) issue for the period under review is the power of
technology. And in China, as you know, it's the highest rate of adoption of technology,
people live online and a different distribution channels. The third-party platforms that are
selling our product.

Page 15 of 28



FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

And then critically on the top, we have our own app, our own Ping An Health app that's –
that people are using and buying health insurance through it, and it's proven itself to be
remarkably powerful. So, the Ping An Health app now has over 4 million users. We've
done over RMB 100 million of business through this. So, the trend has been remarkable.
And amazing this app out of I think a couple of hundred thousand financial services apps
has been ranked, on the (00:45:02). So, it's an amazingly powerful piece of real estate.
So, the business itself has just tremendous distribution capabilities directly online through
the Ping An distribution capability.
The product strategy I think is working well. We have three real product lines that are
getting real traction. Our group high-end business is truly the (00:45:21) group market.
We've got a fantastic set of clients Goldman, GAP, McKinsey, et cetera. But the real
breakthrough in this business has been selling individual business through the agency
force.

Bloomberg Transcript

The mid-market products of Ankang and Anxiang have really got traction and sold through
the Ping An Life agents and then importantly, over the last year, the really notable thing
has been E-sheng Bao, which is sold online. It's a lower level product, a RMB 10,000
deductible and really sold online promoted by the Ping An agents. And you can see how
their revenue grow off, it's just exponential. I think importantly on the right-hand side, our
loss ratios and our lapse rates are very much in line and below the premium assumptions
which is of course very, very important and the stability is there. So, the quality of the
business there I think is quite tremendous.
The team, I believe, is interpreting the environment correctly. While intellectually, you
accept the market is big and it's going to grow. There's certain kind of catalyst that may
change. This is a very interesting thing that happened this year. You might have read
about it in The Economist, but a movie, Dying to Survive, about a kind of a parody about
an individual suffering from leukemia in China who's smuggling drugs into China from
India. Cancer drugs are not available in China, highlighting the deficits in the system and
the dangers not having access to these drugs became like a viral hit. And you can see
generated over ZAR 5 billion of box office sales in two weeks illustrating kind of a
continuing interest in healthcare and fears about things like cancer.
So, our team has launched – they're doing it anyway but they launched a cancer product
that has just been rolled out, fairly low premium. We're selling about ZAR 3 million a day
of new business online through this approach. Trying to illustrate that in fact I think the
team is interpreting how the market is kind of developing and how our product shows you
– you should follow that.
The other important point to say is that there is a considerable investment in technology,
digitalization. This is a fascinating chart that kind of shows the capability of the company. I
do remember this and you may – if you've attended our presentations, a few years ago,
we were trying to get to 100 cases a day. We developed this individual product and the
aim is trying to get to 100 cases a day. We're now writing 25,000 a day, right? So, when
you get growth like that, the ability of organization to actually handle it from an
administrative perspective is very difficult.

Page 16 of 28



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

So, there's been a considerable focus in digitalization. You can see the capacity to handle
applications was about 100 per minute. That's now 4,000 per minute. The ability to
process claims per day has gone up dramatically. Operating cost has come down. So, the
ability to grow and manage that growth is quite substantial.
And then, finally, from a Discovery perspective, we are shifting as much IP as possible as
quickly as possible from all the data capabilities that work with quantum (00:47:57) on the
data side. All of our analytics, all of our product development tools, our Vitality capabilities,
as fast as we can, we're putting them into the Ping An capability.
I thought I'd end with this slide, it kind of brings it all together, kind of illustrates the growth
of what's happening. This is a month-by-month revenue slide of Ping An Health, 2017 in
grey and 2018 in orange. I guess it's obvious, if you're doubling in size, you have double
revenue, right, pretty obvious. But I just wanted to show you, by June, we've done the
same revenues we did in the entire year last year. So, this really is growing on the back of
the power of the Chinese market and the distribution capabilities, the product sets, et
cetera. So, we are excited about Ping An Health. It is profitable. That profit is likely to stay
where it is for a year or so because of the new business strategy but they're off to a –
(00:48:44) confident it will grow quite significantly.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me turn to the UK. And the UK, I think, had a very, very good period. We've built, I
think, a composite capability in the UK, new business up 12% to quite substantial and it's
just under ZAR 2.3 billion of new business. Operating profit, really in the back of the
incredible performance of Vitality Health, up 44%.
In the last comment I made the point before, total lives covered climbing by 11% to 1.1
million lives in the UK. The (00:49:18) is fantastic and when we launched the VitalityInvest,
it's starting to look more and more like Discovery so, you've got the ability to integrate.
We haven't done any of that stuff yet. The truth of it is this has been a business both
Health, Life in the belly of Prudential initially and then brought across, and that really is a
composite capability. We can focus more on integration. There is no cross-sell between
them at all. There's like 0.5 million lives in Life, 0.5 million lives in Health. The two don't
cross. We haven't cross-sell-ed anything with either of the base. So, there really is
potential. You can see the quality of the Vitality platform. The levels of integration and the
levels of engagement on the right-hand side are absolutely tremendous. So, it's a very,
very tight – very tight capability.
Vitality Health had a absolutely tremendous period. I want to just take you through what
has driven this. As you know, it's had not an easy evolution and the team is focused very
hard on quality. New business is up 14% to just over ZAR 1.1 billion while operating profit is
just a remarkable growth and I'll show you why.
Lives for the first time is going to grow. You can see at the right-hand side of the chart the
lives we've kind (00:50:21) we felt the right kind of lives to rightsize the business and now
we're growing I think strongly again. But the real driver has been the quality. All the factors
of the model have worked. We're selecting better lives. If you look at the actual quality of
the health of the people that are joining, dramatically different to the UK average. In the

Page 17 of 28



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

middle of the slide, if you look at behavior change, we're getting tremendous correlations
to engagement in lower claims. In the left side, we are retaining the better lives, losing
the worst lives.
And so, mathematically over time, the book gets better not worse and that's important.
But I think there's two other aspects as well. For a given life, we're developing
considerable sophistication on our premiums. It's an amazing market. There are no
community rating requirements guarantee issue. You could rate any factor you like in the
UK market. So, there's literally over 100 million possible combinations of risk factors,
Health status, Vitality status, the postal code where people live. If you know, the UK
insurance market is highly, highly sophisticated. Our team has developed fantastic AI
machine learning models and they developed really good ability to price premiums.
And then, on the right-hand side, our joint venture with Aviva where we operate in a
purchasing alliance buying healthcare, has given us as you can see on the right-hand side
of the chart, we can't give, of course, the granular amounts, but you can see the inflation
on hospital oncology cost has, in fact, come down, so keeping those costs relatively
stable.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, you add together great demography, the effect of all of those effects, great pricing,
and lower cost of healthcare when you buy it, you get a fantastic effect. The loss ratio has
just decreased over time by 21%. It's remarkable. The business has flown out. The back
book has flown out ZAR 1 billion from ZAR 5 billion of cash. We spent ZAR 1 billion of it on
acquiring new business and other developments and throwing out a net ZAR 0.5 billion of
free cash into the center.
And so, the performance, I think, has been absolutely tremendous. If you look at the
return on capital, it has climbed from a kind of 3% close to nothing to exceeding now riskfree plus 10%. So, that's pretty great performance, I'd say, together with some of the
other with Ping An and with Vitality Group, really a standout performance of what we've
set out to do.
If we turn to Vitality Life and make the point, this business has been a very difficult
environment with low rates of interest. We've been clear over the last number of
presentations. If we're rightsizing – not rightsizing, getting the business configured
correctly in terms of a low interest rate environment, I think it had a great period in that
context. New business up 10%. Operating profit up 6% in a pretty tough market. Lives
covered growing by 15%. The interest rate environment is difficult. You can see that rates
came down dramatically with real rate of interest now like minus 2%. We don't think that's
sustainable. I mean you point out negative real rates of return forever, but they're low.
The other factor that is really the devil that's been is considerable volatility in interest
rates. And how we were operating before was – we've made this point clearly was we're
using the interest rate for IFRS calculations at the point in time that our (00:53:11) finished,
so, whatever happened, kind of potluck that would determine our earnings. And I think
we've made this point of how we're trying to deal with it. In working with a regulator, with
our auditors, we now shifted to a passive approach. So, what we're using in our IFRS

Page 18 of 28



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

numbers is really a 12-month average of GILTs (00:53:26) and other rates that are
appropriate with (00:53:28) 25 basis points above and below. Should rates break out of
that, then we'd – have to relook at that calculation. And so, we stabilize the volatility by
changing the accounting approach that provides much more stability and predictability to
the earnings, and you should see that going forward.
But I think in the dynamics, I think the team has done a great job in shifting to its business
that operates better in a low-interest rate environment away from Whole Life business
now meeting (00:53:51) 96% term insurance, more and more towards the index business,
which is naturally immunizing in a low-interest rate environment giving a 38% index as
opposed to 24% just a few years back. The effect of that I think is good. You can see the
new business has grown. The margin went down to 2%. It's climbed back up to 5%. And
the internal rate of return on new business has climbed to kind of about 8%. Not bad in
the environmental risk-free is like 2% or thereabouts. So, we are pretty comfortable with
the performance of Vitality Life, and we strongly as rates are going to just go up
(00:54:22) the inherent profitability and value will increase.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me turn to VitalityInvest, I hope I'm making sense. I hope I'm not running out of time.
Let me just tell you that we are excited about what has been launched in the UK. I want to
just – give me a moment to explain the hypothesis here that it's very, very interesting. And
the UK is one of the most competitive commoditized long-term savings markets in the
world with just hundreds of fund managers and choices and you know the stuff as well as I
do.
But this is an amazing issue. As the market has shifted from defined benefit to defined
contribution environment, there's just been a considerable sophistication in a number of
funds, passive, active, all kinds of innovation. You can see from the chart the expense
ratios, platform fees, asset management fees have come down. So, it's a highly, highly
sophisticated market. And it's a considerable scale. It's a market of in total £180 billion of
flows every single year. So, it's a market of just considerable scale.
But our hypothesis is that we want to harness all of that sophistication and we can and we
have, I believe. But the key issue that we want to offer is the idea of the demography
side, people managing the mortality. It's kind of quite mad in a sense that you plan so well
on the asset management side with fund choices but you have no idea what your life
expectancy is, you have no idea how long you're going to live and what planning horizon
you're planning for, how sick you're going to be and what it means to your retirement
income. So, kind of our value add is the Vitality share value model. And so, we've rolled
that in the UK. I think a very, very sophisticated product set. I'll try to show you in the lefthand side that's from our team's marketing. But effectively, the currency we use in this
shared value model came from Discovery Invest, idea of boosting people's funds.
So, if you save earlier, you manage your health, you drawdown less, all of the stuff leads
to boosting your fund, boosting your retirement income, reducing your platform or asset
management fees. So, giving you more money. And the strategy that we invoked
(00:56:18) has got all the technology, all the asset management choices. We have a JV
with Investec, with Vanguard on the passive fund side, access to all of the third-party fund
managers, so, trying to bring together this capability. We've increased dramatically our
Page 19 of 28



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

distribution footprint through our franchises and our advisors on the ground but I think,
close to 25% or 50%. It's a dramatic number that we've increased. And we saw – you can
see traction in that regard.
The actual value proposition is interesting. I just want to show you this tool. Just bear with
me. I find it fascinating. Forget about all the asset management complexity. The question
is when you're retiring, how long are you going to live at and are you saving up enough
money? So, what we're doing is we've done a lot of work on that, signs of aging, and
we're giving our clients and advisors tools to actually work this out.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, this tool, which is available online, allows based on individual risk factors to tell them
their life expectancy; in this case, a 35-year-old male is expected to live to 75. We give a
confidence band from 67 to 81 in this particular case. And then, we propose through
Vitality what lifestyle (00:57:20) they should do. If they do that, their confidence band
goes from 77 to 91 with an expected life expectancy of 85. The problem then is with their
retirement savings, they're only going to make it to 83. So, the whole idea is that if you do
the things we say, we're going to boost your retirement income, therefore push you out
to 88. So, we're trying our best to give all the kinds of tools to people to make decisions
about the kind of mortality demography side of the choices they make, life expectancy,
and to give them the ability to boost those savings as they go forward.
It's early days. I think the traction we will see in the next few months, literally, the market is
only starting as people come back from the summer break, but you can see we're using
the same kind of approach of Vitality, Stanley our dog (00:58:02). And we've had really
good traction in the press. So, in The Financial Times, you can see they're linking this idea
of health to long-term savings and that's the link we're trying to – we try to get. So, early,
early days, but we're excited about what we think we can achieve in the market that is
quite substantial.
To make the point, addressable market we see, I think, is £29 billion where the
accumulation of drawdown products are which is ZAR 0.5 billion of – ZAR 500 billion of
potential market for us. So, if we get the chart to scale it's I think considerably different to
what we're used to.
Let me move on and just try and end off with the South African businesses, if I can, just
talk to them one by one. I think it has been a very good period. In the South African
business, our deal with Discovery Health, growth remains very strong. New business up
8%. Membership now climbing over 3.5 million. Operating profit continues to grow by 11%
in this regard. If you look at Discovery Health, it's doing better with restricted schemes as
well. So, of the last 17 tenders, we've won 16 of them and Engen just joined the Discovery
Health platform. The total market share of private healthcare lives is 40%. And you can
see on the right-hand side the quality of restricted schemes with one open scheme, the
Discovery of medical scheme that we saw right at the start of Discovery today. It makes
up 56% market share of the entire open scheme market covering 2.8 million lives.
The Discovery Health Scheme itself and I show the slide at every presentation is
remarkably strong. They pay 16% less for health care than its competitors. It has

Page 20 of 28



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

administration fees paid to us in the lowest quartile. It is remarkably stable. Buy ups and
buy downs are very small from year-to-year as 27% or more in solvency. ZAR 16 billion in
cash in reserves and it's AAA rated. So, it's incredibly robust. I think the performance is
really, really strong.
And I don't like the point with any sense of hubris or in any way blasé. I mean the issue
really is given that strength, how do we navigate the way forward. And I think to make it
clear, we kind of know our social mandate. We have to make – keep healthcare affordable.
That's our fundamental issue. And keep access to quality healthcare, not just for our
members but for all South Africans. We have to help the country build its health care
system both public and private. So that's a very, very big mandate.

Bloomberg Transcript

There are only three things we can – it's one of most complex businesses you can think of
politically, economically, actuarially, it has everything in it. But I wanted to make three
points, navigating regulation, trying to deal with medical inflation that is really our nemesis,
and then just building the service digital environment that is superior. On the regulatory
side, we have heard a lot from us. I mean this is a lot of stuff in the pipeline, the NHI Bill,
the Medical Schemes Amendment Bill around macro (01:00:46) regulation medical
schemes, the competition health market inquiry. I think we are pretty focused on what we
think we need to do. The NHI Bill is lacking detail but pretty rational by creating a fund in its
governance.
We don't see growth from (01:01:00). Discovery Health is committed to helping build the
NHI. On the (01:01:05) Health Market Inquiry, there are a lot of findings in every single side
of the healthcare system. We think they're in the large or rational and appropriate. And as
they get implemented, they probably have a very good effect on the healthcare system. I
don't think though you should hold your breath for a dramatic cuts in the cost of health. I
just don't think it's possible.
And maybe it's – the next slide, they may be makes it a point. Clearly, our biggest issue
and always will be is medical inflation, how you keep it under control. I wanted to show you
these slides they're kind of changed from year-to-year, but the points are the same.
Trying to keep healthcare cost under control is extremely difficult. So, people often get
misconstrue inflation for tariffs and doctors' fees. Those things are largely under control.
So, CPI and tariffs are like 6% to 6.5%. That's not the issue. The issue is the utilization
factor. That is growing at like 4% to 5% a year. It's dramatic.
So, the inflation or the increase in utilization is almost in scale the same size as underlying
inflation of tariffs. It's dramatic. And it's driven by what we call both supply side factors and
demand side factors. And the one point I wanted to mention on the right-hand side, the
increase in VAT of 1% is costing the Discovery Health Medical Scheme in excess of ZAR
300 million. So, if you study that in the budget, I think the cost to – in total of that 1%
increase in debt is ZAR 30 billion. So, fully 1% of the country's entire increase in VAT will be
carried by the Discovery Health Medical Scheme. It's a very big number. That means that
we have to put our rates up 1% to fund for that.

Page 21 of 28



FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

But let me come back to the issue of the utilization increase and there are many things
that drive this. I thought I'd mention one that remains for us always something difficult to
deal with that's increase in the number of hospitals. That's well-known in health care. You
get the (01:02:51) supply-induced demand. The more supply side you get, instead of
prices going down, they tend to go up. So, when you open up a hospital, see on the righthand side the case study in Pietermaritzburg, hospital beds went up, immediately our
utilization went up 23%. So, you can see in the middle of the chart, 52 new facilities were
opened up, and it created a spend of nearly ZAR 1 billion to fund these facilities. You can
also take to your left-hand side where medical scheme lives have grown by 7%, hospital
beds have grown by 40%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Is this a bad thing? Probably not. A lot of these new hospitals are black owned (01:03:26).
There's new quality. These are things that we should encourage and we should try to
fund. But you're going to get supplier-induced demand when you track up everything
always. And at some point, we need to start making choices about how we deal with that
and what and where we restrict. So, this is something that I think is difficult to fund, but
something that we need to deal with in the appropriate way and something we are
supportive of, but we need to deal with judiciously.
On the demand side, we often get asked about cancer. And given the richness of our
statistics, I want to show you these quite scary numbers. This is coming out of the
Discovery Health Medical Scheme, just illustrating on a risk-adjusted basis the kind of
incidence of cancer – the increasing incidence of cancer, males and females, you can see,
over 2,000 and acts in a kind of a 10-year period, the incidence rate has almost doubled
as you can see, one from 8.5 times in the case of females, over 2 times in case of males.
You can see the different kinds of cancers and what those incidence rates are. In males,
colon cancer is up nearly 3 times. Why is it happening? We don't know. Earlier diagnosis
may trigger some of the statistics, but the really (01:04:31) obesity or lifestyle choices,
other factors we're not sure.
Of course, the effect on the price of healthcare is dramatic. As you all know, that each of
these cancers, amazing immunotherapies and biological drugs are coming at
considerable, considerable costs. So, you put this together with supply-induced demand,
all these things together create considerable medical inflation. I'm not here complaining
about it. I'm making the point that we know what we have do and that's our mandate. And
we will do it. We have to keep costs under control. Just to make sure we'll be releasing
our rate increase and other product enhancements into 2019. And all of these factors
have to be priced in. We know where we have to go.
We're at the end, so very quickly just telling you we continue to focus on the
administration fees and our 10.1% and they're in the lowest quartile. In the middle of the
chart, just showing you the core administration fees has come down quite a bit below the
average. But on the right-hand side, you can actually see the scheme gets considerable
value out of those fees. So, we are acutely aware of what we need to.
Discovery Health has built incredibly sophisticated integrated digital ecosystem. I've
demonstrated here DrConnect, HealthID. These things are all together with all of our data
management population management tools. And I do believe that Discovery Health has
Page 22 of 28



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

the ability to tremendously manage health care costs, add value to our customers, and
add value to society as we go forward.
Let me talk to Discovery Life. I think a very good period. And the focus really was on
quality and robustness. New business grew by just 1%, but that was – we had a very large
group scheme in the previous period. The individual life new business grew by 4% in a
pretty stagnant market. You can see on the right-hand side our market share continues to
grow. So, the fact we're now over 30% of the new business, (01:06:15) life insurance
market, nearly 60% bigger than our nearest competitor. Operating profit growing by 7%,
on the individual block by about 9% of the period with just over ZAR 3.8 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

Discovery Life really has been the kind of catalyst of the shared value modeling in longterm insurance, and we continue to see most remarkable results. So, if you look at
selection, mortality correlations, lapsation, the value we're sharing with customers is
remarkable. We're getting better lives in than we expected. The mortality correlations are
amazing. People heavily engaged in Vitality are exhibiting 20% to 25% lower mortality
levels. And we're getting lapses in excess that we like to see. People are engaged of
staying. People are opting (01:06:53) to be in the book over time should get better.
But I thought of showing you the shared value, the top-right hand chart because our
customers get value from us, obviously in their life cover, fundamentally. But they need to
die for that, which is one of the stays of the product we offer, right? But they get value in
terms of premiums coming down as they engage. But one of the benefits has been the
sort of paybacks. If you engage with Vitality, every couple of years, every five years, you
get a payback benefit, a function of the number of factors. You can see the scale of the
paybacks (01:07:19) borrowing we can.
We paid back this year, this period under review, nearly ZAR 1 billion to our customers. And
in fact, cumulatively over the years, we've paid ZAR 5 billion back to our customers in
terms of engaging in Vitality, so really illustrating kind of the shared value at work. The
company continues to innovate, Global Education Protector, I think won a (01:07:41), Global
Award for Innovation around covering education, the whole range of issues. We've
segmented our market where we cater our (01:07:48) Purple Life plan for coverage about
10 million. All of that stuff has added considerably to our market competitiveness.
A lot (01:07:55) on the left-hand side, some of the technology we're using are using data.
So, for example, if you have a rare disease or a severe illness policy today, typically you
get a severe illness, after you've had treatment, you try to figure out with your adviser, do
you qualify, don't you, if you think about that and then you make the claim. We now more
and more are being proactive using the data. We know from the data whether you qualify
for a claim, even if you or your adviser doesn't know it. When we pick up the data from
your claims, we actively reach out and tell you that you qualify for a claim out of your
policy.
So, we've done a lot through that. This is still – and you can see a bit more of that kind of
use of technology and data will follow. So, I would argue that the competitive frontier of
Vitality Life is particularly strong. But I wanted to just change gear, and you will know this,

Page 23 of 28



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

this considerable noise around the accounting standards, the dynamics in Discovery Life. It
is a very, very complex business. And I wanted to deal with it kind of head on and tell you
the choices we've made and why. We've done a considerable amount of work that would
be available to you, a whole bunch of papers that illustrate all of these factors of exactly
the profit emersions of Vitality Life, the assumptions and why we've made these choices.
So, let me just go through this quickly and just give you the rationale of our thinking and
hopefully that will make clear all the choices we are making in building Discovery Life. The
first point to make is Discovery Life is very different to its competitors. Number one, it only
sells one class of business unlike our competitors that sell all kinds of different policies.
We have sold protection business, long-tail, whole of life, up-front acquisition cost from
the day we started. It creates a financial dynamic that is quite unique. You get this up-front
cost and over a long period of time, you recoup that.

Bloomberg Transcript

The second point is that it's a young business. It started 18 years ago or thereabout. The
midterm of a businesses is 6.3 years old. If you look at our competitors, they are typically
100 to 150 years old and, therefore, there's a very different scale of maturity. The third
point is that the growth has been rapid. We've grown about 25% per annum compound
over the entire duration of the business. So, as you acquire business, you get more and
more acquisition costs that kind of go through. And then, finally, the Shared-Value model,
the Vitality model means you got dynamic pricing. Your premiums are flexing from year to
year based on how people engage in Vitality.
So, from this kind of – this complexity, the question is how do you recognize profits? Well,
there're two extremes. You could just do it on a cash flow basis, right? As you spend the
money, you just kind of – whatever goes through, you account for it. The problem with that
is that given the rate of growth, you'd have a kind of minus ZAR 20 billion cumulative
profit when the business (01:10:29) profitable.
At the other extreme, you could do a full kind of EV accounting (01:10:35) embedded
value created. The approach we've taken, which is consistently we offer is 17 (01:10:37), is
going will take us is a prudent emergence of value, setting up a negative reserve that
reflect, hopefully prudently, what the outstanding acquisition loadings are and trying to
get the profit to emerge throughout the journey illustrates inherent profitability of the
business. And that's been the accounting standard we've taken. We think it's appropriate
given how the business is positioned. And if that is appropriate according to IFRS, we'll
send that. But it has a number of consequences and it creates kind of a controlled cycle
that I wanted to just demonstrate to you.
The first is once you've set the accounting policy at that, you create a large negative
reserve. So this is the point 2. You need to check the assumptions behind that negative
reserve and make sure it's resilient. Once you have those assumptions that leads to point
3, you've got to make sure every year the experience is in line with what you expected,
else your assumptions are wrong. And then finally, whatever happens, you've got to
manage your cash and capital given the nature of this business with high up-front cash
requirements and a long tail associated with it. We've done a lot of work on this and I
probably won't do it justice, but I did want to kind of touch the tops of this and leave you
with papers that deal will all of these.
Page 24 of 28



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

On the issue of the negative reserve, you will see on the face of our balance sheet,
there's a negative reserve, I think ZAR 27 billion, attributed to Discovery Life. That's a
massive asset on the face of our balance sheet. The question is how resilient is it. Well,
you will see in the paper that the ZAR 27 billion has margins above it, first and second year
margins of a further ZAR 24 billion. We've tried our best to illustrate to you that if you
stress this asset with lapse rates, interest rates, higher claims, you'll find that in 1 in 200 of
your stresses, the margins actually survive, so you never really penetrate through to the
underlying asset. So that's an important issue.
On the actual experience variances, even if you assume the asset is resilient, the question
is are we performing in line with the assumptions. Well, this is a very important point. You
will know if you follow us closely that over the years – I'm sorry, it's a complicated slide –
over the years, we've had positive experience variances. For the first time for the last two
years, we've had negative experience variances. And that creates a concern, are you
performing in line with what you said you would do? I am pleased that the work done by
the team has lifted positive experience variances for this year and work done. We've
strengthened the bases by a further ZAR 1 billion to make sure that the experiences going
forward are positive.
But if you look at the key areas, claims, lapses, and policy alterations, we've done
considerably good work. So, claims are better than expected despite the first half being
quite a bit worse. They turned around dramatically. Lapse has continued to be dramatically
better than expected. And even our policy alterations, we've actually made the second
half as positive, a lot of work done on a number of structures. So, in total, the experience
variances are positive for the period. I think that, together with the strengthening of the
basis, we are confident will lead to positive experiences going forward.
And then, finally, managing the cash. I've made this point. Discovery Life was cashgenerative to the tune of ZAR 540 million – just over ZAR 0.5 billion (01:13:24) you can see
it there playing out, generated ZAR 12.7 billion of revenue. After claims and other
expenses throughout about ZAR 3.5 billion of cash. We invested ZAR 2.9 billion of that in
new business and to a few other changes. You can see that the net cash is fairly strong,
and the company's remarkably well capitalized. Our solvency cover is about 170% on the
new same basis. So, it's kind of self-perpetuating and growing on this basis, and gives us
confidence that the company will grow, innovate and continue, I hope, to eat market share
on a sustainable basis. Its fundamental proposition, of course, is making people healthy in
addition to its social role of providing coverage.
Let me move quickly, Discovery Invest had a very good period. It actually – new business
was down 10% at the half year. We clawed back somewhat in the second half. Not a
simple market, but the net flows were up 10%. So, reflecting surrenders and withdrawals
better than we expected. Assets under administration continue to climb 18% to just under
ZAR 82 billion, profitability reflecting both scale and efficiency, and maintaining margins up
19% to just over ZAR 885 million.
I wanted to make a point really borrowing out of the Vitality Invest part of the presentation
that we've simplified our thinking around what we're trying to do is get people to save
earlier, manage their health, and draw down less in retirement. And all of the incentives
Page 25 of 28



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

are aimed at doing it. So, the currency here like we're using in the UK is simply the idea of
boost. We boost people's funds. We boost their retirement funding, provided they do
what we're trying to incentivize them to do and to kind of avoid those corrosive behaviors.
We're actually getting fantastic results as you can see. People are saving on average two
to three years earlier. Fantastic engagement in Vitality. And on the bottom right-hand side
of the chart, we're seeing 3 percentage points lower on average drawdown levels. So the
actual – the product in that sense, I think, are working well.
At the same time, the dynamics of the business are strong. We've managed to bring
down the platform fees, 90% or more of the choices of our customers are on our own
funds. The Discovery Balanced Fund has performed remarkably well. And then, we've
managed to maintain margins despite a very, very difficult market.

Bloomberg Transcript

During this period, we rolled out the Umbrella Fund business. That's a pretty complicated
– very, I think, comprehensive offering based on Vitality, but the fundamental issue is we
boost your retirement funding if you do what we are trying to get you to do (01:15:43)
preservation funds across, we boost and provided you manage your health, you saved
early, et cetera. So, it really offers, we think, strong, strong value for money.
Let me turn to Discovery Insure and end off on this and just make a few comments. I think
a great period. New business up 17%. Written premium up nearly 30%, reflecting the scale
of new business slices just adds to the revenue flow. The number of cars we cover over
200,000 and the business is now turning to profitability. I think the exciting thing behind
Discovery Insure is just the model works unbelievably well. The selection of lives is
remarkably good, so we're getting really good quality lives joining.
The behavior when people drive is – behavior changes quicker. We can see a 17%
improvement in one month. So when people know they're being monitored, they're
getting incentivized for change, they change quickly. Lapses are better for our better
drivers. And, again, we're getting fantastic correlations. People that manage their health
tend to drive better. People that manage their health and their wealth drive even better.
So, it turns out it's the same kind of behaviors. Wherever you cut the data across our
group, you get the same stuff.
We're getting remarkable data coming out of Discovery Insure, but I wanted to show you
this kind of hot off the press. I want to make this point to you. There's all kinds of
sensitivities in these slides. And let me just try to get it across to you in a – I hope, a fairly
simple way. We live in a country with considerably dangerous roads. Our road fatalities are
known to be absolutely terrible. But the fundamental question is how well do our drivers
drive and are we seeing a lot of fatalities as you engage in our incentives.
And what you see on the left-hand side is the South African average of fatalities for
100,000 motor vehicles. You can see our population is dramatically lower, second from
the left. So, the fatalities we see in our covered base is dramatically lower than the South
African averages you would expect. But the important thing you see is that those that are
with us that on to the Vitality drive program are not that dissimilar to the South African
Page 26 of 28



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

average. But as you engage, if it goes down dramatically, and I think what's interesting is
our silver class drivers are dissimilarly in danger to what they see in the U.S.

FINAL

So, it's kind of – I don't know if it's an intuitive result or not despite the danger in our
roads, it turns out that people that are driving on our roads, as our silver drivers and
higher due are exhibiting similar kinds of danger levels to those driving around in the U.S.
You can see it tails off in Australia, et cetera.
One last statistic I like is we haven't had one death of a gold member yet, right? So, our
gold members will live to 300 or something. I know what this means. They never die. But
we haven't had one death yet of gold members. So, there's a lot of potential applications
for understanding fatality rates and how the correlation between driving fatality rates play
out.

Bloomberg Transcript

I want to make one point just before I end off, on just the quality of the business being
built up. It's turned to profitability. But the exciting thing about Discovery Insure is the value
being built up. Everything is durational. People behave better over time, the better they'll
stay with us. So, in fact, the back book gets better and better. And if you look at the back
book in this period, ignore the acquisition cost, the back book, ZAR 324 million of profit
and cash and had a margin of about 11%.
And if you look at all of the factors, you've got the extreme right-hand side of the chart,
you can see the combined ratio of this business mathematically should drift down quite
dramatically over time. So, if we can keep doing what we're doing, that 11% margin on the
back book, it's going to grow and grow as the business gets bigger and the expense
levels come down, and it will add to the combined ratio coming down. So, our deep
believe is while the business turn to profitability, its power over time I think is quite
dramatic.
Let me end off by just making the point that we rolled out Discovery Business Insurance
during those period. I think the product offering is absolutely remarkable. It really does
interpret the idea of Shared-Value in a business perspective, that's around focusing not
on the big corporates, but on the commercial side of the market, which is not insignificant.
We're making available all of our driving technology. So small SMEs, for the first time, can
operate their own fleets and the same day have the ability as an owner to see where your
drivers are, how they're driving, incentivize them to drive better, so making those fleets
run better. The coverage itself covers things like intangibles, like reputation or cyber risk.
So, things that are modern. So, the coverage itself is powerful.
And then, the interpretation of Shared-Value also extends to the business itself. Our
belief is that a well-run business is probably a low-risk. So we used learnings from
Endeavour in building businesses to try and help companies who join us. And the simple
idea is we kind of curated a bunch of partners and working with Endeavour, trying to help
companies be better companies. If you join Discovery Insure, we can offer you access to
diagnostic test of how well you're running your business; access to capital, do you need
technology, do you need financial reporting tools, et cetera, et cetera.

Page 27 of 28



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2018-09-04

FINAL

The idea is using our buying power and our learnings to make the companies we cover
better. We think in that process, the whole selection, behavioral effect will come out. A
very deep conviction that a well-run small business is probably a lower risk to us, so
interpreting Shared-Value I think, in a slightly different way, we have a great hopes for the
business insurance model and quite confident that it's going to do well for the business.
So, I've been going here way, way too long. Let me end off where I started and just say
it's been a remarkably good year. The context remains has been the 2018 Ambition. The
performance of the group, I think, has been strong with a 16% increase in headline
earnings.
All of our businesses are profitable. All, I think, are well positioned. Discovery Bank, we
hope to launch during this year. Slight delay in some of the work we've done the first year,
and I think the joint decision between us to acquire the equity is the right one. We'll be
issuing our own equity in order to fund that transaction.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then, finally, I think our businesses are very well positioned, South Africa, the UK,
international, and by established, emerging, and new. I'm very excited about where we
are. To make the point that we are – everything we do I hope is clear, we are strongly a
South African company despite our globalization, great belief is in our countries.
These are difficult times for the country, but we are optimistic, building, investing. It's
worthwhile saying some of the steps that over the last five years we've created net
5,000 new jobs within the Discovery head office capability and we're investing
considerably buildings, banks, new business. So, we are optimistic and excited and
moving forward. We urge you to do the same. Exciting times.
Can I end off by thanking you and maybe making the point – we've actually set half an
hour, I think we're spot on time for Q&A session, have our CFO...
[Abrupt End]

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 28 of 28

