Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2018-05-09

American International Group Inc Annual Shareholders
Meeting

FINAL

Company Participants
Brian Charles Duperreault, President, CEO & Director
Douglas M. Steenland, Independent Chairman of the Board
Rose Marie E. Glazer, VP, Corporate Secretary and Deputy General Counsel

Other Participants
Unidentified Participant, Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Rose Marie E. Glazer

{BIO 16059799 <GO>}

Good morning. I'm Rose Marie Glazer, Corporate Secretary and Deputy General Counsel
of AIG. And I welcome you to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders for 2018. Joining me is
Doug Steenland, Chairman of the AIG Board of Directors; and Brian Duperreault, AIG's
President and Chief Executive Officer. This meeting is also being webcast. And we
welcome those listening from beyond 175 Water Street in New York. Before we begin the
meeting, I'd like to cover a couple of housekeeping items. For those joining us in person,
please turn off your mobile devices as they may interfere with the webcast.
In addition, a quick safety announcement. Note the emergency exits in the side and rear
of the room. In the unlikely event of an emergency, instructions will be provided by our
building fire safety and security teams. If, for any reason, it becomes necessary to exit the
building, you will be directed by our staff to the emergency exit and to the stairwells
located at the rear of the elevator lobby.
Turning back to the meeting. Doug will conduct the official business and address the list of
proposals under consideration today as presented in the proxy statement. You have been
provided with the procedures we are going to follow. And I ask everyone to adhere to
them. He will then introduce Brian to discuss his 1st-year at AIG and his priorities for the
company going forward. We will conclude with Q&A.
A certified list of shareholders is available for inspection. Copies of the AIG Annual Report,
which includes the Form 10-K for the year 2017, the proxy statement and the Form 10-Q
for the First Quarter of 2018 are also available. I now submit the affidavit of Broadridge
Financial Solutions, Inc. certifying that each shareholder of record at the close of business
as of March 19, 2018, was sent a notice of availability of proxy materials transmitted on
March 27, 2018, a package containing AIG's 2017 annual report, notice of this meeting, a
proxy statement, a proxy card and a return envelope mailed commencing March 27, 2018.
Page 1 of 5



FINAL

Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2018-05-09

In addition, I would like to remind you that the remarks made today may contain forwardlooking statements, which are based on management's current expectations and are
subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Any forward-looking statements of
future performance or events, actual performance and events may differ possibly
materially from those anticipated in any such forward-looking statements. Factors that
could cause such differences include the factors described under Management's
Discussion and Analysis and under Risk Factors in our 2018 First Quarter 10-Q and our 2017
10-K.
AIG is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any obligation to update any
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or
otherwise.
The information provided today may also include non-GAAP financial measures. The
definitions of such measures and the reconciliation of such measures to the comparable
GAAP figures are included in AIG's Annual Report to shareholders and our 2017 and First
Quarter 2018 financial supplements, which are available on AIG's website.
Michael Barbera has been sworn in as our independent Inspector of election. He advises
that a quorum is present. And with that, I will turn the meeting over to our Chairman, Doug
Steenland.

Bloomberg Transcript

Douglas M. Steenland

{BIO 1433979 <GO>}

Good morning. Thank you, Rose Marie. I hereby call to order the 2018 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders of American International Group, Inc. First, I will introduce the 11 nominees,
which include Brian and myself for the AIG Board of Directors. All of the nominees are
currently members of AIG's Board of Directors. Nominees are seated here in the front
row. And I ask them to stand as I read their names: W. Don Cornwell; Brian Duperreault;
John Fitzpatrick; William Jurgensen; Christopher Lynch; Henry Miller; Linda Mills; Suzanne
Nora Johnson; Ronald Rittenmeyer; and Theresa Stone.
I'd also like to recognize Peter Fisher and Sam Merksamer who are retiring from the board
and thank each of them for their service and valuable contributions. Finally, I thank all of
the nominees for agreeing to stand for election and being willing to serve. Thank you.
Proceeding to the official business of today's meeting, I will present the list of proposals
under consideration today as they appear in the proxy statement. After the list has been
presented, if any shareholder wants to comment on or ask a question about any of these
proposals, a microphone can be brought to you and I will recognize you.
The first proposal is the election to the AIG board of the 11 nominees I introduced to serve
as directors until the next annual meeting and until their successors are elected and
qualified. The second proposal is a nonbinding resolution to approve executive
compensation. The third proposal is the ratification of the selection of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as AIG's independent registered public accounting firm for
2018.
Page 2 of 5



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2018-05-09

Are there any questions or comments on any of these proposals? Seeing none. We will
now proceed to vote on the 3 proposals that have been properly presented to the
meeting. The polls are now open. If anyone wants to vote now, please raise your hand.
And we will have a ballot brought to you.

FINAL

(Voting)

Rose Marie E. Glazer

{BIO 16059799 <GO>}

We have (inaudible)

Douglas M. Steenland

{BIO 1433979 <GO>}

Okay. We are ready to go?

Rose Marie E. Glazer

{BIO 16059799 <GO>}

No, he is still voting.

Bloomberg Transcript

Douglas M. Steenland

{BIO 1433979 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, sir. With everyone having voted, I hereby declare the polls closed. And
ask the ballots be delivered to the Inspector of Election. Thank you. I now have the report
of the Inspector of Election as of the start of this meeting. The inspector certifies that
each of the director nominees standing for election has been elected by a majority of the
votes cast, that the recommendation to support management compensation on say on
pay has passed and that PricewaterhouseCoopers has been elected to serve as our
independent accounting firm.
Later today, we will issue a press release with these results in details. With the official
business of the meeting concluded, I'd now like to welcome up Brian for remarks about
AIG.

Brian Charles Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Thank you, Doug. And thanks to each of you who are here today, not just for your
attendance. But for continuing to entrust us with your capital. During 2017, AIG
demonstrated its commitment to stakeholders and its industry leadership by being there
for clients, employees and shareholders in a year of record catastrophic loss. We ended
the year in a position of balance sheet strength, with parent liquidity of over $7 billion.
When I spoke to you last year, I said my priority was to grow the business. That has not
changed. We continue to position AIG as a growing profitable leader in the insurance
industry. We want to be known for being a top-performing underwriter, with the best
talent, tools and technology and with a global footprint. Let me briefly update you on what
this means for each of our businesses. In General Insurance, the past year was a starting
point from which we expect to grow profitably over time. Our new GI structure focuses on
Page 3 of 5



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2018-05-09

FINAL

businesses on specialized underwriting, as we revitalized Lexington and reconstitute AIG
Risk Management. We are positioning GI to best serve our clients and distribution
partners. This includes empowering our underwriters with accountability and ability to
make decisions closer to the client with the right tools and expertise.
Looking ahead, Peter Zaffino and his leadership team continue their work to
fundamentally improve risk selection and build a higher quality book, deploying capital
towards the best opportunities for profitable growth and improve operational processes.
Turning to Life and Retirement. In 2017, the business delivered solid results and saw the
benefit from diversification. Kevin Hogan and his team are focused this year on making
the necessary investments to ensure that we have a competitive and sustainable
platform.

Bloomberg Transcript

They are also formalizing our data strategy to maximize the use of data available across
Life and Retirement and the whole of AIG. For Blackboard Insurance, Seraina Macia and
her team continue to reimagine solutions for Commercial Insurance as a technologyfocused subsidiary. They are developing a platform that brings together digital
technology, data analytics and automation, (they applied some) brokers move faster and
with more insight to focus on what's important, reinvesting in growth. I remain very excited
about this work. And I look forward to the launch of the platform. Having laid this
foundation in 2017, 2018 is a year of execution. As we move towards our centennial in
2019, we remain committed to delivering to you a stronger, growing and more profitable
business.
Now I'll turn the floor back to Doug and begin the Q&A.

Douglas M. Steenland

{BIO 1433979 <GO>}

Thank you, Brian. Now is the opportunity for our shareholders in the audience to ask any
questions. If you have one, please raise your hand. And we'll bring a microphone over to
you. Are there any questions? Yes, sir.

Questions And Answers
Q - Unidentified Participant
My name is (Natoshimi). I am the one who is behind the AIG bailout case. I came here in
2012, '13. I discussed it with the board at the time. They did not do any action. I contacted
Mr. Greenberg. I send him the memo with all the legal stuff and he take it to the court. And
the court declared it illegal and unconstitutional. But they need the company, AIG to join
the case. Can you consider that? Because this is way, one of your object to maximize
shareholder equity. And in this case, they can (cut) the compensation that shareholder of
AIG entitled to from the government that grabbed AIG for nothing. They got the
shareholder -- they get percentage of the company 80%. They get paid for the loan. They
lost interest. They make $23 billion profit and all the shareholders got nothing. The court
declared it is illegal transaction and unconstitutional. At that time, AIG think to join the
case. They have a pressure from the member of the Congress and from administration to
Page 4 of 5



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2018-05-09

back down. And they did. And this is unfair. We hope that you will consider joining the case
to pursue it and to get our legal right and compensation. Thank you.

A - Douglas M. Steenland

{BIO 1433979 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you. Any other questions? Yes, sir.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Is there any chance of spinning off AIG real estate or selling it?

A - Brian Charles Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Well actually, we find that we have a kind of an excellent team in the reinsurance -- in the
real estate area. We are quite happy with them and their performance. And so at this
point, there are no plans.

A - Douglas M. Steenland

{BIO 1433979 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Do we have another question? Okay. Seeing none. Thank you, all for your attendance. Our
meeting is now concluded. Have a great day.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 5 of 5

