Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

Y 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Bernie Hickman, Chief Executive Officer, Legal & General Insurance
Chris Knight, Chief Executive Officer, Legal & General Retirement, Retail
Jeff Davies , Chief Financial Officer
Kerrigan Procter, Chief Executive Officer, Legal & General Capital
Laura Mason, Chief Executive Officer, Legal & General Retirement, Institutional
Mark Zinkula, Chief Executive Officer, Legal & General Investment Management
Nigel Wilson, Group Chief Executive
Simon Pistell, Chief Risk Officer

Other Participants
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Andy Sinclair, Analyst
Angel Kansagra, Analyst
Barrie Cornes , Analyst
Colm Kelly, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

David Bracewell, Analyst
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Greig Paterson, Analyst
Jon Hocking, Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst
Ravi Tanna, Analyst
Unidentified Participant

Presentation
Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Welcome to our annual results meeting for full year 2017. The
usual housekeeping announcements first. There are no fire drills planned. Please turn
mobiles off. And the standard disclaimers apply to forward-looking statements.
2017 financial highlights were formidable . Operating profit up by 32% to 2.06 billion; PBT
also up by 32% to 2.09 billion; EPS up 50% to 31.87 pence, and ROE of 25.6%. Our results
do include a mortality reserve release of 332 million for the full year. That is 274 million
post tax. This led to an additional GBP250 million of dividends from our LGAS entity to

Page 1 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

FINAL

group, increasing remittances. There was a one-off boost to EPS from the reduction to
the US corporate tax rate, which was positive for our US insurance business.
Legal & General is strongly cash generative with net release from our continuing
operations also up 9% to 1.4 billion. And we are structured to enable cash to flow easily up
to group without trapped cash or trapped capital in subsidiaries. Remittances were 1.6
billion, up from 1.1 billion for 2016. We are therefore confident in recommending a 7%
increase in the full year dividend to 15.35 pence; another terrific year. I would of course
like to thank all of my colleagues and thanks particularly to Steve Ellis who is sitting in the
second row here and the team in our lifetime mortgage business. In less than two years,
they've created a market-leading business with a 30% plus market share, and it is based
in Solihull, proving you can grow new entrepreneurial businesses in financial services
outside of London, a model we've also replicated in Barnsley.

Bloomberg Transcript

This slide captures medium-term trends in our financial performance, showing consistent
delivery of strong financial metrics. Our goal is to make our medium-term trends our longterm trends. Operating profit has grown by 12%; net release by 9%, and return on equity
has grown from 14.9% to 25.6%. Net release retained after payment of the dividend has
averaged over 500 million over the last three years.
You should also note the book value per share has also grown by 7% and grew 13% last
year. So in 2017, 7% DPS growth coupled with 13% increase in book value per share was
over 20%. Although we have reported a 32 pence of earnings per share, if you take off
the effects of the 2017 mortality release and the one-off, one-off change in the US tax
rates, we delivered a 23.1p of EPS, a 9% growth on last year, which is in line with our stated
long-term EPS ambition.
We've been busy for several years at Legal & General, shaping our company for the
future, enabling us to focus on our core businesses, which can drive real earnings growth
for shareholders and which are economically and socially useful in our chosen markets.
This has included decluttering or disposing of sub-scale legacy and non-strategic
businesses. Our disposals include our old-fashioned businesses in the Netherlands,
France, Germany, Egypt, Gulf, Bahrain, Ireland and our less successful acquisitions, Suffolk
Life and Cofunds. Some of this has also been strategic with the most important latest
step being the sale of our Mature Savings business announced in December for GBP650
million. We also secured an ongoing long-term investment management agreement for
LGIM. And with Swiss Re, we have a great partner for our long-standing customers.
We have significantly reshaped the group over the past few years to a simple, focused,
modern business model. This reshaping has allowed us to redefine our strategy. It is
unchanged overall; straightforward and consistent, but we've clarified and simplified what
we do. The strategy is effected in three broad business areas; investing and annuities,
investment management and insurance. Our strategic purpose is unchanged; to improve
the lives of our customers to build a better society, and in doing so, create value for our
shareholders. By aligning these interests, we create the inclusive capitalism of our annual
report.

Page 2 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

FINAL

Our divisional structure is retained, and I am fortunate to have an outstanding leadership
team. Laura, Chris, Cheryl, Mark, Kerrigan, Jackie and Bernie are all here today sitting in
the front row. And we are delighted to have added Jeff Davies, Paul Miller and Emma
Hardaker-Jones to our leadership team. As well as welcoming, John got feedback from
his [ph] sabbatical advising the Prime Minister.
Our strong collaboration across teams and the synergies between the divisions means
that we can collectively perform better than the sum of our parts. I will talk in more depth
about the strategies later this morning, once Jeff has taken you through the numbers, but
the resulting threefold business is focused on our core strengths, modern product,
technology innovation and a footprint, which is global for LGIM, but to date largely UK and
US for the rest of the group. Moreover, we deliver sustainable profitable growth

Bloomberg Transcript

And our strategy continues to be driven by six long-term growth drivers; ageing
demographics, globalizing asset markets, creating real assets, welfare reform,
technological innovation and creating today's capital. All play a part in creating market
conditions, from which we can benefit, and they are more relevant today than ever. And in
2017, we demonstrated how we are able to use them for customers, for shareholders,
and for society.
Strategy in the abstract can the elegant, but execution is paramount. We are applied
thinkers. This rather busy slide illustrates progress in areas where we are positioned to
benefit from the growth drivers to become leaders in our chosen markets. Highlights
include LGIM approaching GBP1 trillion of AUM; group-wide direct investments increasing
44% to 14.4 billion, and we became the first company to achieve GBP1 billion of lifetime
mortgage advances in a year, as well as a 463 billion solutions business with a 40%-plus
market share, and as Mark will tell you, tremendous global growth opportunities.
I am also pleased to say that Bernie Hickman and Steve Griffiths did a great job in 2017 of
turning round our underperforming group protection business, now profitable in H2 and
beyond. Taking collectively, the simplified strategy and the excellent execution by a strong
management team has delivered another terrific set of numbers.
I'll now hand over to our CFO, Jeff Davies who will take you through them in more detail.
Jeff ?

Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Thank you and good morning, everyone. I am going to run through the financials for the
year, our dividend and capital position before handing back to Nigel for more on the
group strategy and Q&A.
As Nigel has already said, it's been an outstanding year at a headline level with operating
profit from the continuing operations up 35%. This includes the recent changes we have
made to our reserving for longevity, but has been adjusted for the sale of our Mature
Savings business. As we flagged at the half year, we reviewed our longevity improvement

Page 3 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

FINAL

assumptions and we moved to an adjusted version of the next actuarial table CMI '15. This
made the total release in the year GBP332 million.
Even without this prudent release, we grew operating profit from continuing operations
by an impressive 12% as a result of our excellent execution and clear focused strategy.
Our key divisions performed strongly in 2017, contributing to the 9% increase in net
release from continuing operations. In line with half year, on top of the net release, there
is now in total GBP250 million additional dividend from the LGAS subsidiary in respect of
the mortality release. When added together, this means the group generated 1.7 billion
total release, up 21% on 2016.
On internal dividend, the cash remitted to group in respect of 2017's results was up 46%
on last year at GBP1.6 billion. We regrew our return on equity to 25.6%. Finally, as a high
level summary of our capital position, the group's Solvency II net surplus generation was
GBP1.2 billion, up from 1.1 billion last year, leading to a coverage ratio of 189%. This net
surplus generation will continue to grow over time. As an additional point, our coverage
ratio as of 5th of March was an estimated 196%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our dividend policy based on operating metrics remains unchanged. The Board took into
account the strong 2017 results together with the medium-term underlying business
prospects, and therefore announced a full-year dividend of 15.35 pence, which is up 7%
on the previous year.
Turning to the operating profit from our divisions, we saw good growth in many areas.
Our institutional LGR business, which deals with the corporate pension schemes, grew
39% on a reported basis, and after excluding the mortality release, it was a strong 10%.
This was as a result of the larger opening position together with a 7% growth in new
business sales. Our retail LGR business grew 116% and a great 26% after excluding the
mortality release. New distribution arrangements, as the preferred provider of annuities
to Aegon and other DC platforms helped drive this.
LGIM grew an impressive 9% on the back of record external inflows and strong asset
performance while maintaining discipline in its market-leading cost-income ratio. LGC was
up 6%, benefiting from returns from the division's GBP3.8 billion traded asset portfolio
and continued strong performance in the 1.5 billion of direct investments. LGI contributed
303 million, which was flat year-on-year with growth in its US division offset by the
previously reported adverse claims experience in group protection and lower long-term
lapses on older business in retail protection. And finally, GI contributed 37 million, down 15
million from 2016, predominantly due to the impact of increased costs from escape of
water in line with industry experience as we reported at half year. We are happy to say
we've not seen a repeat of this in the second half.
In terms of divisional performance, I'll start with LGR. We've already covered the 13%
operating profit growth even without the mortality releases. LGR's net release was up 16%
to GBP688 million, benefiting from a new business surplus increase of 13%. This was as a
result of securing attractive spreads on direct investments, whilst maintaining our
discipline when pricing new business. We've also warehoused more DI than last year,

Page 4 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

FINAL

which we can now apply to new business in 2018. Our total annuity sales of GBP4.6 billion
or the new business value-add of 8.5% was achieved at a regulatory capital strain of less
than 4%, which is within our target low to mid-single digit range.
For the mortality release, I want to illustrate how our change in assumptions in respect to
future improvements drove the 206 million that you see. As you know -- excuse me, as
you know, at the half year, we decided to release 126 million of prudence in our reserves
in light of the continuing high number of actual deaths we experienced compared to
expectations. On the back of further analysis of our own mortality experience and the
trends we have been seeing, we've also decided to move to an adjusted version of the
next actuarial model CMI '15 for our longevity improvement assumptions. These
adjustments are made to reflect how our annuitants differ from the broader population
and apply some smoothing.

Bloomberg Transcript

As you can hopefully see from this illustrative graph, our model still anticipates the same
long-term improvement assumptions. Moving to CMI '15 simply assumes we'll experience
slightly lower improvements in getting there. You could see this is a minimal change in our
total life expectancy assumption, illustrating the prudence of this release. Going forward,
we will continue to scrutinize the likelihood of a sustained slowdown in mortality
improvement as population data and that on our own book emerges and consider
whether to make further changes to our best estimates assumptions.
If we do choose to make assumption changes, it will be in stages and over several years.
In the coming year, we will consider the appropriateness of moving to CMI '16. As an
indication, simply moving mechanically to this table would have a similar sort of economic
impact as the total release this year.
This table breaks down the new business flows in LGR. We wrote GBP3.4 billion of UK bulk
annuities in 2017 as demand remained strong with 1.4 billion of this transferring from LGIM
clients, giving further evidence of the unique breadth of pension de-risking solutions we
can offer clients. Additionally, we wrote a further 15 deals in the US, bringing the total
business written there to over $1.6 billion. Client demand from UK pension plans remain
substantial and the pipeline of transactions we are in active discussions with has risen to
GBP17 billion. The US defined benefit pensions market has similar potential with the
market growing year-on-year. We will continue with our measured approach as we look to
expand.
Our LGR retail business had a particularly strong year with new individual annuity business
up 78% due to the new distribution agreements and demand continuing to return to this
market. Also in LGR retail, our lifetime mortgage business wrote loans of just over GBP1
billion. The market has the potential to grow rapidly with 1.5 trillion of UK housing equity
owned by the over 55s. We expect up to 4 billion to be transacted in 2018, up from 3.1
billion last year, and with our 33% market share and great distribution network, we are
well placed to benefit from this growth.
The asset portfolio backing our annuity liabilities has expanded its range and diversity in
2017 and remains defensive in nature. 20% of the portfolio is in sovereign like assets and

Page 5 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

FINAL

over two-thirds of it is A rated or better. In addition, we continue to have a 2.7 billion credit
default reserve held against it. We now have 17% of the portfolio in direct investments
with stable income, often collateralized or secured on great counter-parties. Overall, this
is still less than we hold in sovereigns, which is an opportunity to create further value.
LGIM had a year of strong growth with record external net flows of 43.5 billion, which is
5% of opening AUM, and 33 billion of this from international clients. Operating profit grew
9% to GBP400 million and we maintained a steady cost-income ratio of 50% due to the
scalable nature of our business model, offset by continued investments in our growth
strategy and increased regulatory costs.

Bloomberg Transcript

Positive flows across virtually all of our channels, regions and investment areas
demonstrate the breadth of LGIM's business model. We continue to grow our UK DB
business and remain the largest manager of assets in this market, and the market-leading
provider of LDI conditions. We are also the largest manager of DC assets in the UK with
good growth in the past year, and the market leader in workplace master trusts. Our UK
retail business has also grown rapidly with record net inflows of GBP3 billion and ranking
third in net flows for the second consecutive year.
As I mentioned, nearly three quarters of our flows last year came from international clients
with our international AUM at GBP228 billion. Our US business contributes significantly to
this with assets of $189 billion across an expanding range of strategies for 350 clients.
Our thought leadership in the US DB market has planned to increasingly implement LDI
strategies and consistent strong performance in our range of active fixed income funds
and now complemented by our more recently established index team and DC
proposition.
But it is not just the US where we have seen success and see significant market potential.
In Europe, we had GBP12.6 billion of net inflows and we now have 44 billion in client
assets. Our acquisition announced in November of Canvas, the ETF platform, will provide
clients with access to one of the fastest growing segments in asset management,
broadening our geographical reach and product range.
In the Gulf , we had 3.6 billion of net inflows and now have GBP36 billion of assets as we
deepen our relationships in this region. We've established a distribution office in Tokyo,
trading and fund management capabilities in Hong Kong, and won our first Australian
client. As well as broadening our UK footprint, our global brand is well recognized and we
have been winning mandates whilst we pursue a focused and disciplined expansion.
LGC continues to grow assets and profit as it diversifies the asset classes it invests in.
Operating profit was up 6% and PBT of 363 million with strong performances from both
the direct investments and traded portfolio. In the direct portfolio, a combination of asset
disposals and sales of funds generated GBP369 million of proceeds, exceeding the
target of 250 million for 2017. And importantly, our disposals during the year met our
return expectations of at least 10% to 12% IRR. These sales proceeds were recycled as we
invested or committed almost GBP700 million into new investments as well as into our

Page 6 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

FINAL

existing portfolio, including new investments in later living as well as expanding our buildto-rent fund with LGIM.
Our operating business investments also delivered strong results with Pemberton and
NTR expanding rapidly, and CALA delivering revenue of GBP776 million, more than three
times the amount it achieved the year we acquired our share. In our housing portfolio, we
will continue the expansion of our build to sell and build to rent offerings, and we have
measured plans to develop businesses in the later living and affordable housing sector.
We intend to grow the urban regeneration portfolio through further investment into
existing projects and the regeneration of cities where we do not yet have a presence.

Bloomberg Transcript

For LGI, operating profit for the division as a whole was flat year-on-year. Within that
result, US protection grew 5% with good premium growth of 8% and favorable mortality
experience. In UK protection, our profits of 209 million were impacted by the previously
reported adverse claims experience in group protection as well as some lower long-term
lapse experience on older business in retail protection. The range of actions taken by
group protection, including pricing at scheme renewals, has returned the business to
profitability in the second half and we anticipate it will continue on this trajectory in the
coming year. The margins across UK protection remain robust in a competitive
environment.
During 2017, our US business launched the direct-to-consumer sales channel and work is
ongoing to digitally transform the business. This will continue in 2018 with the launch of an
application that provides an instant underwriting decision for more customers and digital
collection of medical information to increase efficiency. As usual, LGI America has already
paid its 2018 dividend. This year it was $105 million, up from $100 million paid last year.
In GI, gross premiums increased 13% to GBP369 million whilst maintaining our pricing
discipline in a competitive market. 38% of our premium now comes from our direct
channel. As flagged at half year, our operating profit was affected predominantly by the
impact of increased costs from escape of water claims in Q1. We took action to address
this and saw improved claims experience in the second half, as can be seen by the 92%
combined ratio.
GI has now won seven distribution agreements in the last two years with major UK
financial institutions, several of which will commence in the first half of 2018, and we are
diversifying our proposition with our acquisition of pet insurance provider, Buddies. These
factors combine to give good prospects of growth in 2018.
On savings, the team did a great job in delivering the 2017 results and made a few
distractions. As you're all aware, we announced the sale of our Mature Savings business to
Swiss Re in December for GBP650 million, achieving a sale price of one-time Solvency II
own funds. The profit of over GBP400 million will be recognized when the Part VII
completes, which is targeted for mid-2019.
Moving on to our capital position, the group's Solvency II surplus increased 1.2 billion since
the last year-end to GBP6.9 billion. Our Solvency II coverage ratio calculated on a
Page 7 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

FINAL

shareholder basis increased to 189%, up from 171% last year. As I mentioned earlier, our
coverage ratio as of 5th of March was estimated at 196%, reflecting increases in interest
rates since the year-end. Our economic capital showed similar growth over the last year,
as expected.
We have expanded our usual Solvency II surplus bridge to explain the 1.2 billion total
movement over the year. As we guided, our operational surplus generation has increased
to GBP1.3 billion. The impact of the amortization of the opening transitional was broadly
offset by the corresponding release in risk margin. The impact of writing new business in
the year was a very capital efficient strain of less than GBP100 million.
Operating variances of 0.4 billion, including the impact of a change in our mortality
assumptions, experience variances, changes to model calibration and management
actions. These actions include changes to asset mix, matching adjustment optimization
and hedging strategies. We also chose to strengthen our interest and inflation calibration,
which offset some of the benefits in the second half. Our market movements for the year
were a net zero with equity market rises offset by credit spread narrowing and small
interest inflation and FX changes.

Bloomberg Transcript

And finally on Solvency II, our usual slide gives you our estimate of the present value of
Solvency II surplus emergence from the key elements of the new business we wrote. As
we have already noted, our margins continue to be resilient whilst maintaining pricing
discipline. For a small strain of less than GBP100 million, we have created GBP564 million
of value.
So to conclude for me, even without the mortality releases or one-off US tax benefit, our
business produced excellent growth with an operating profit increase of 12% and an EPS
growth of 9%. This is in line with our previous EPS guidance and an indication of our
ongoing ambition. On longevity, we maintain our prudent and staged approach to the
trends we are seeing and will investigate a move to CMI '16 in light of our 2017
experience. All our businesses have great growth opportunities and are backed by a
strong balance sheet and cash position whilst delivering excellent ROE.
I'll now hand back to Nigel to go into more detail on these growth opportunities.

Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Thank you, Jeff. Clearly this has been another great year of delivery. I am both very
pleased for my colleagues and very proud and privileged to be the CEO of Legal &
General; record annuity assets, record assets under management, and record insurance
premiums. But what is really exciting, as Jeff mentioned, is looking forward, how our
reshaped business and focused businesses can address and build on so many global
trends, which are moving in our favor.
Our strategy begins with our six long-term growth drivers, which are highly relevant and
drive continued growth here at Legal & General. To pick on a few, the ageing
demographics combined with pension and welfare reform is still leading to the significant
Page 8 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

FINAL

DB to DC shift, which continues to gather pace. We now manage 68 billion of DC assets,
the largest manager in the UK. We're highly focused on the whole DB journey from LGIM's
LDI products to buy-ins and buy-outs of LGR and providing the direct investment to deliver
the returns expected by our policyholders and by our shareholders.
We're also actively growing in DC both in the UK and so far in the US. Technological
innovation drives so much today, but we at Legal & General are more than keeping pace.
Investing today's capital could provide a threefold benefit; solving customers' problems,
building a better society and delivering strong returns for Legal & General's shareholders.
Inclusive capitalism means finding solutions that work for both Legal & General and for
society. Having exited from some businesses, we can really concentrate our attention and
energies on those that can make a real difference and deliver our unique model of
inclusive capitalism. Within investing and annuities, we will continue to drive our global
leadership in pension de-risking while investing policyholder and shareholder capital in
direct investments to address the societal need in infrastructure and housing.

Bloomberg Transcript

Within investment management, we continue to build out our world-class international
businesses and we are addressing the UK savings gap by growing our retail investments
and workplace savings businesses. Finally, within insurance, we are seeking to harness
technology to become a fully digital and data-enabled insurer, while addressing a clear
customer need for financial protection. The numbers Jeff took you through show we are
very capable capitalists, but what we do also meets real customers and real societal
need.
Let me take you through each business area briefly. First, LGR within investing and
annuities. LGR institutional is our largest business and we continue to be really excited by
its growth prospects. Our franchise, particularly including LGIM, gives us a differentiated
ability to source attractive business. Our financial and brand strength allows us to remain
disciplined in our pricing. Laura has picked up the reins and has promised me another
great year in 2018.
In LGR, Chris has terrific plans to further broaden our individual annuity franchise within this
important area, delivering complete retirement solutions. Then on the investing side of
the business, we have a unique capacity to source attractive and high-performing direct
investments via LGIM, via LGC and via lifetime mortgages.
LGC has two principal goals. First, it uses our strengths, including our existing businesses,
network, brand and talent to invest our shareholder capital to maximize returns. Secondly,
it supports our other businesses by creating or unlocking debt-like instruments investments with great counter-parties for LGR, and by creating opportunities for LGIM
and its clients.
Recent examples include the urban regeneration project in Cardiff, and seeding LGIM's
build to rent fund. LGC invests in four principal areas; urban regeneration, housing, SME
finance, and clean energy. LGC will take fund investments, outright ownership or equity
stakes, but only if they satisfy our return criteria and are consistent with our strategy. This
Page 9 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

FINAL

is a unique capability and we'll continue to evolve and accelerate its evolution under
Kerrigan's new leadership. And I'd like to thank Kerrigan for taking on this exciting new
challenge.
LGIM is a business we have built for the future. Once rooted in UK DB pensions, LGIM's
strategy today is focused on three things; broadening our investment capability, growing
globally and expanding our UK DC and retail businesses to address the UK savings gap.
We've expanded into the white space; huge multi-billion pound markets such as global
high yield, multi-assets, real assets, factor-based investing. We have no legacy problems
on the upside. And we're taking a global lead on ESG, mall [ph] of our inclusive capitalism.
Sacha Sadan and his team are leading the market across the world. We plan to host a
Capital Markets Day in June focused on LGIM, so you can look forward to hearing more
from Mark and his outstanding management team.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our insurance business goal is to be a fully digital and data enabled insurer. Firstly, we're
looking to use technology to improve operational effectiveness, reduce costs and
improve customer outcomes with extensive use of robotics, AI and Big Data. Secondly, we
are digitizing and diversifying our distribution. For instance, SmartQuote for GI where we
offer executable quotes after only five questions by using Big Data. And as Jeff
mentioned, we are already winning partnership business because of it. Thirdly, insurance
is where we innovate and explore alongside digital pioneers in FinTech and Insuretech. As
Jeff said, GI delivered 13% growth in premiums in 2017, and indeed Cheryl and her
talented team are planning to make me even happier by achieving even more growth in
2018 and beyond.
Although we have strong divisional accountability, collaboration and synergies enable us
to deliver more than we ever could as individual businesses. It is a vital part of our firm's
culture and a key positive differentiator. There are many, many examples of this; providing
institutional and corporate clients with consistent solutions across LGIM and LGR using
assets sourced by LGIM and LGC; leveraging our workplace customer base to offer
products from across the group, and creating a single customer interface for over 10
million customers within MyAccount to provide access to retirement, savings and
insurance solutions.
The refocusing of our business puts growth in the US to the full. We have three excellent
growing businesses with great management teams. LGIM has delivered strong growth in
client numbers, including some of the largest US DB and DC funds; LGR with a strong
pipeline and market where only 4% of the 3.7 trillion of DB liabilities have transacted so
far. LGI's US term insurance business is well positioned for the many opportunities we see
for increased digital deployment and more D2C activity.
Now a few case studies for future growth. In 2017, we launched LGIM's Future World Fund
to address the demand for better risk-adjusted returns alongside greater ESG impacts.
With over $6 billion in the fund to-date, we have a $100 billion ambition. And our build-torent fund is currently a GBP1 billion business, seeded by LGC, but it has also attracted
investors from LGIM's global institutional clients.

Page 10 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

FINAL

It is truly amazing that to-date we haven't created an institutional asset class in housing in
the UK. We will change that. We see it as a GBP10 billion opportunity, which taps into the
demand we are seeing right across the UK for high quality, institutionally-owned rental
accommodation, a classic case of fixing a market failure and using our commercial
strength to help tackle a societal problem.
It's not just the millennials who face the housing shortage, but older people too. Legal &
General is once again providing a solution through later life living. Digital or Insuretech has
become a watchword across our industry. It is also crucial to use data to improve the
customer experience, which is what we do in GI through SmartQuote and SmartClaims.
Five years ago, filling a digital slide was demanding. Today we have multiple projects
evolving at real pace and with real energy. We started a few years ago with four robots,
known as the remonts [ph]. Now we have more than 50 with many more being
developed to massively increase efficiency in our operations, primarily in LGI. Our
partnership with Slice Labs like our work in payroll lending with SalaryFinance addresses
contemporary customer needs.

Bloomberg Transcript

So another great year, but we remain ambitious. We achieved 17% EPS growth in 2016 and
9% in 2017. So well placed and on track for our financial ambition to achieve 10% EPS
growth from 2015 onwards. I feel like our business is in great shape. We are at a real
inflection point. We have clear strategic goals we are delivering on. We have a great set of
businesses, unencumbered by the legacy of the past; a globally trusted brand and a great
team focused on our exciting growth opportunities.
With that, let me open it up to Q&A.

Questions And Answers
A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Gosh. Oliver. Can we limit everybody to three questions at the most?

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank. Three questions. First of all on cash, 3.4 billion is what you're
saying you've got at the moment. I don't think that includes anything yet from the saving
sale. So perhaps you can talk about what could be pro forma. But then I don't think what
you've ever really sort of clarified is how much of that cash is actually excess and perhaps
you can also link it in with the Solvency ratio now 196, how much of that is excess.
Second question is what are you going to do with it. You've proved that a lot of your
business is capital-light. Even the annuities business is not facing that much strain, and the
sort of businesses you are in don't sort of sound as if they've got a lot of major acquisition
opportunity barring maybe CALA. So what are you going to do with it? And then the third
question is perhaps for Jeff. So you're saying the longevity release in 2018 will be the
same as 2017.

Page 11 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

(Multiple Speakers) what I said.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

FINAL

Well, you can correct that. You've also said you are going to spread it over several years.
So does that imply that 2019, 2020 are also going to be in the same area?

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

I'll get the first two and let -- Jeff let lots of breadcrumbs for people to follow there and
it's interesting to watch people's faces as they were trying to figure out exactly what he
was saying, which he believed in rehearsals was totally clear for your understanding,
(Multiple Speakers), but he was getting points of correction from Mark Zinkula. So he was
right [ph] on actuarial and -- issues, which is the first time when -- so all that training that
he's had to go through for several years were beginning to show a benefit.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the cash point, indeed you are right. The GBP650 million of cash that we received
from the sale of Mature Savings isn't included in the 3.4 billion. We received that on the
2nd of January, and as Jeff mentioned, that will result in over GBP400 million of profit
being credited to the P&L in 2019. There was some other cash we received, which was
part of the transfer and that's in one of the footnotes, which Jeff might highlight, which -where that goes to.
On the whole issue of capital and what we're going to do with it, that's why I've got a
great outstanding management team who are going to inundate me with brilliant ideas in
the next few years, but you're right at the moment that we've created a very capital-light
model, which is generating about 0.5 billion of extra cash per year that we're not actually
using as a business sense. The cash balance keeps going up and up and up and with the
disposals goes up even further. But because we've got a 20% odd return on equity, we
have business models where we can deploy the capital truly efficiently. We have a huge
amount of white space to expand into, and I alluded to a few of those areas. The rollout
of Future World as a global brand is a key priority and one that Mark and I are massively
enthused about on a personal level.
We have a series of bolt-on acquisitions that we are thinking of making. Mark has been
thinking of making one in America for a few years and he's still thinking of it in 2018. I hope
this year he actually gets on and does one of them because we need a greater direct
investment capability in the United States. We've still got further opportunities in Cheryl's
business and in Chris' business. So we are not short of opportunities to deploy the capital,
but we'll be very patient, we'll be very patient and very measured with the word that Jeff
used. And yes, the Solvency II ratio is pretty close to 200%, but we like having a
particularly strong balance sheet. We've never had targets for our Solvency II ration.
Now, Jeff, can you answer that third tricky question?

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Page 12 of 29



FINAL

Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

It was all clear form the presentation, as Nigel says. Yes, so the longevity, we will look at
CMI '16. We're waiting for our 2017 data to be fully developed. And as you note, we use
an adjusted version of those tables. It was adjusted CMI '15. So what I talked about in the
presentation was, if you just mechanically plugged in CMI '16, you get an answer very
similar to the total release that we had this year. But of course, we're not in a position
today to say we will just mechanically plug it in because we smooth out data to make sure
there aren't blips in it. We look at our own portfolio, we look at our socioeconomic group
against the underlying data. So that's the reason for the caveats around that. It's not as
simple as saying we'll just move to that table. There is a lot of work to be done for that
and understanding what's driving it and continuing to invest in understanding what's
driving those.
And then looking forward, we still talk about the several years. Only last week there was
CMI '17 released and that showed the same sort of similar numbers. Again, you're talking
small numbers that -- you saw the point two, change in life expectancy, but that again
translates into the same sorts of releases if you continue to see it. So we need to see
what comes out of our data and we'll continue to keep addressing it, but we see the
trends and we believe there is a medium to long-term slowdown in mortality
improvement in the short term.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Two extra points there. So both of our senior audit partners smiling that you gave the
correct answer to the question on that, which will keep them both happy. I think the other
point is, I noticed one or two of the notes that came up this morning said the mortality
release is one-off. I think Jeff is trying to say that it's not one-off. It's multiple years and
we're moving forward in a very measured way in terms of recognizing what's happening
to longevity for the business. And he thought he was getting the mic there. That's what
you can get for being the broker in UK.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Thanks. Gordon Aitken from RBC. First on mortality. So you have moved to an adjusted
version of the tables (inaudible) your book is different. Just wondering how it is different
and what actually has been your - the experience -- mortality experience of your
annuitants versus the population. Your book will definitely be wealthier than the
population. Can you talk a bit about this? I'm just wondering if you're holding because
there is a bit of debate in the industry (inaudible) about how that wealthier segment is
moving. So I wonder if you're holding some prudence back here. And so the second
question is on retail annuities in the open market. You can talk a bit about that as a
proportion of the total annuity market. It was broadly 45% a year ago and I'm wondering
what it is now and how fast you think the open market will grow.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah. I'm going to let Chris answer the second question and Jeff is going to have yet
another go at answering the first. (Multiple Speakers) Andy.

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}
Page 13 of 29



FINAL

Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

I mean, you're right in that we have a slightly higher average socioeconomic group within
ours and there is more uncertainty about how wealth is impacting future improvement
developments. It's -- we just released the paper along with the panel that we sponsor and
what we've seen in the past, but there is that question of do you get faster
improvements, if you have more wealth because you can invest in it or if you already had
all your improvements and therefore it may be slower going forward. And so that just give
us that little bit of extra prudence that we factor in, but in terms of underlying experience,
there is nothing substantially different about what we have seen to-date than what is
coming through in the population data or in pensioner data et cetera.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Chris?

A - Chris Knight

{BIO 18966542 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, thanks. Yeah, we see the open market continuing to grow. The whole market grew
modestly sort of in 2017, up again over the last two years. And with 300,000 people
coming to retirement every year going forward with more DC money rather than DB
income that we see that potential to grow, it's up for us to make that market. I think the
implementation of PS17/12 is also going to have an impact. That happened last week. So
we would have to see what that does, but that essentially means that when anybody gets
annuity quote going forward, they will be presented with the best price in the market as
well as the price -- immediate price as well. So that may well -- we see that as being net
positive for us over the long run.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah. One of the interesting and unintended consequences of Dow Jones bonds pension
freedom is we're going to see a lot more innovation in pension solutions being offered by
providers like ours -- like ourselves. And it was in fact creative destruction at work and one
industry reduced in size massively and a lots of other new industries are emerging around
it and we're pretty much trying to be market leaders in all those other areas. And so far,
DC has been a huge success, lifetime mortgage and later living are all doing -- also doing
incredibly well. Andy?

Q - Andy Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Thanks. This is Andy Sinclair from BofA Merrill Lynch. Three questions from me please.
Firstly on LGIM. Just wonder if you could give us a bit of thoughts on the pipeline of
business coming into 2018 and also what you kind of think of for the longer-term costincome ratio for that business. Secondly, staying on LGIM, your recent ETF investment,
Canvas, just wonder, do you feel like it gives you everything that you need to compete in
the ETF space and how material can ETFs be for LGIM? And thirdly on the dividend. You
have pointed towards EPS growth of 10%, guided towards dividend growth of 7%. How do
you feel about the divergence of these and kind of increasing coverage over time.
Thanks.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Page 14 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

Mark, you've got two questions to answer. I think this is the first time you've had two
questions back to back.

FINAL

A - Mark Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

All right and thank you. So regarding to the pipeline, I think we are expecting to see a
continuation of what we have over the past two to three years, which is continued positive
net inflows pretty much across the board. You saw this past year we've seen an increase
in flows in every region, increase in flows in DC and retail, down slightly in DB, but again
still positive and that we still expect to have continued single-digit profit growth for the
foreseeable future in the DB market while the other markets, obviously where the growth
potential is higher. We do have one, which we announced last year, but we do have one
significant outflow the first part of this year, which is the access, local authority pension
pool, which would be 6 million of outflows. So that's -- again, there will still be a lot of
lumpiness in the DB part of the business, but again, the underlying trends are still very
favorable for our business model very broadly.

Bloomberg Transcript

In regards to the Canvas acquisition, so I think the timing is certainly right for us as we're
expanding our retail business. As we pointed out earlier, we're doing very well in the UK
retail market now. We're now expanding into Europe and ETFs are becoming increasingly
popular in Europe for a variety of reasons, which I'll go into if you're interested in more
detail. And we think we have the right partner. It's a great leadership team, and actually,
since we announced the acquisition in November, assets are already up 25% from the
announcement date and we'll continue to launch funds that would be expected, core
funds and thematic funds and ESG related funds that would be expected from our brand.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Perfect. Thank you, Mark. Jeff, do you want to --

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yeah. I mean, the short answer was similar to the earlier one around we will continue to
invest. It's not a conscious decision to improve coverage ratios or anything else. You know
it. So we think it's a sensible number given where we stand and we continue to review the
position. The Board will continue to review the position across a range of metrics. So there
is -- there was nothing magic about either of those. We generally believe that's our
ambition around growth and we think that's a sensible place to set the dividend at this
stage.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Okay. Laura, do you want to --

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

Thanks. It's Ravi Tanna from Goldman Sachs. And three questions please. The first one
was just going back to the cash that was asked about earlier, the 3.4 billion. I was
wondering if you could give us any sense of how much of that's encumbered versus was

Page 15 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

FINAL

freely available. And also if you could perhaps give us a sense of where that sat, whether
it's in LGF or elsewhere in the group.
The second one was just on the annuity business. Obviously, very strong new business
surplus and you've referenced the contribution from direct investments and lifetime
mortgages. There was a speech from the PRA last week referencing their scrutiny around
use of matching adjustment to internally rated assets and you've obviously talked about
the scope to take that further. I was just wondering how -- if you could tell us a bit more
about your risk appetite in that context, please. And then the third one was on LGC.
Obviously with the decision to sell out of investments and crystallize cash, there is a tradeoff with profits to a certain extent. I know some is being reinvested and recycled, but
could you give us a sense of that trade-off going forward, please?

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Okay. On the cash, the cash at 3.4 billion was the cash that was largely held in LGC. As you
will see in the slide, it isn't actually the total cash absolutely across the group, which we
didn't give. And there was 650 million that came in in January in one tranche and 170
million in another tranche. So we have very long cash. I don't think we've ever given out
the numbers as to what's encumbered and not encumbered and given the model. Maybe
Simon, do you want to just talk a little bit about risk appetite in general and in the lifetime
mortgage markets specifically. And Simon is our CRO, and then Kerrigan, can you answer
the LGC question?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Simon Pistell

{BIO 15951837 <GO>}

So same as we presented before about all of our direct investments, we -- the primary
aim is to make sure that they are good match to our liabilities and make sure that all the
risks underneath them are properly assessed. The matching adjustment process, which
was referred to in the question having to get approval from the PRA to any asset that
goes in that portfolio really ups the game in terms of making sure there is really rigorous
assessment of the risks, that the cash flows are as fixed as possible so that they are a
good match to liabilities.
Lifetime mortgages, we have to put into a structure to do that, but again, that's been so
rigorously assessed with the PRA and (inaudible) is a continuing dialogue about that. We
are very comfortable with the way we are currently reserving for and capitalizing against
the risks for that product. So certainly there is a limit to how much ultimately we can have
in direct investments back in annuities, but we are a long way away from that at the
moment because of the liquid nature of those liabilities. So I think it's about 17% of the
portfolio currently. We've got plenty more scope to increase that without encumbering
any illiquidity issues.

A - Kerrigan Procter

{BIO 15093363 <GO>}

Great. Yeah. Just on the reinvestment and recycling of capital within LGC, we have a range
of assets within LGC on the direct investments side. We have yielding assets,
development assets, operational assets and then a startup area. And of course, some of
those assets come to the end of their useful life with LGC and it makes sense to sell them

Page 16 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

FINAL

on; things like part of our office developments in Cardiff urban regeneration, we sold
those on, parts of Bracknell moved on, and of course, we've got really exciting
reinvestment opportunities, so things like that of the land we bought for our communities
business where we're building out 3,000 houses and the exciting opportunity -- the really
exciting opportunity in later living where we put 100 million in in 2017.
So the net investment was positive and we expect to do some guidance on the future.
We expect more of that into some of those really exciting opportunities in later living, for
example. Some of the existing urban regeneration plans can be developed out and we're
working with further cities, really exciting plans on clean energy where we've only just
started and we've got about 100 million in the range of FinTech, PropTech and HealthTech
companies that's incredibly exciting, we can curate and develop further. So it's going to
be net positive obviously in a whole range of really exciting areas.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. I think we took a very measured approach here as well, is that we want to do a
proof of concept because we know what a cynical group of people we have in the room
with us today. So build it and sell it is part of it and it was great to see in Cardiff that the -there were two European investment firms who bought the assets and a Canadian firm
who bought it in Bracknell. So it wasn't -- I love to say that was in the plan, but it wasn't in
the plan that actually these would have wide international institutional appeal, which is
something we found to be unexpected, but actually beneficial to us as a company. Colm,
just start with --

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Colm Kelly, UBS. Thank you for taking my questions. Firstly just on the margins. As
mentioned earlier, the annuity margins and the new business margins are improving
maturity through the direct investment strategy. I suppose, how do you see that trajectory
in terms of margin expansion going forward? Is there more to go there? I know Kerrigan
previously mentioned there was a bit of a ceiling in terms of how much lifetime
mortgages could be used within the asset portfolio, given the matching, the need to
maintain matching. So maybe just a color on that. And also just why the -- maybe the
Solvency II new business margin has come down a little bit since the half year.
Secondly on LGIM, again, performing very well on flows, on earnings, also the cash
remittances are up, I think, for the first time since 2014 with a payout of 76%. So just
thinking about that progression in the payout from here, given it had come down a little
bit prior to this year. Are we going to see continued growth in that cash remittance
number or should we expect a little bit more held back for maybe reinvestment or
acquisitions in the asset management space, as alluded to earlier?
And then finally on the subsidiary cash remittances, you provided enhanced disclosure on
that. So thank you for that. I'm assuming the sale of Cofunds and the proceeds has not
been remitted from entities, and so maybe is that flagged for reinvestment? And then
finally, there is the other subsidiary remittances of 120 million. So I was just wondering if
you can provide a little bit more detail on where -- what is driving that. I think last year the
sale of Suffolk Life contributed to that number. I'm just looking at some of the subsidiaries
Page 17 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

underpinning it. I don't know if -- I don't think they have paid dividends largely in the past
per L&G Re. So just maybe color on where exactly it's driven from and can we expect
continued growth in that number going forward? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Okay. On the -- I'll just -- while Jeff is thinking of a couple of the answers here, I'll give a bit
of waffle to (Multiple Speakers). The -- on how we think about the portfolio, the thing we
are trying to flag is we have over 20% in sovereigns and moving from sovereigns to -area to direct Investments or lifetime mortgages is a phenomenal trade for us and hugely
value creative. And we haven't really started on that. So there is a lot of back book
optimization that, if you want to talk to Laura and Chris afterwards very specifically on the
actions that we're taking, the size of the price in that given area, but I don't know whether
you want to add anything to that or take that very complicated last question or whether
you want to take that one offline as to what the remittances are going to be, the mix of
remittances.

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. I was going to say 120 million remittance is probably best, but you just chat with
Gavin later on that number. Some of that is tied in; some of them are smaller entities, just
paying small amounts to that. I mean, obviously the vast majority of remittance comes
from LGIM, LGAS et cetera, and that's where we're seeing good progress, good
precedent around release, sort of the longevity release and then the dividend paying on
top of the underlying and just say -- trying to get more disclosure, the 1.6 billion paid up
and what are we moving to group and where is that sitting. So that was the main thing
around that.

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

(inaudible) is within the entities (inaudible) from that?

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah, that's small numbers. Start of '17, we would have dealt with that just because normal
course of dividends as it was paid through, and as we're pretty clear in the dividend
strategy around what we pay through LGAS et cetera. And just on -- adding on the
annuity, new business margin et cetera, I mean, it was sort of following up from the
previous question as well. I mean, as Simon says, we are 17%, 4% lifetime mortgages as
the total book as an in-force portfolio and overall we believe there is plenty of headroom
in that. We could easily go 30 where the 40 is the right answer,
but 30, there is headroom there which is a number of years of adding to that book. And
lifetime mortgage grow as we grow new business, we grow the total book, we can
allocate this DI that we warehoused over to the in-force or to new business. We'll be
disciplined in that, and because we have that optionality with the in-force, we can maintain
the pricing discipline. So we're very focused on the right new business, added value, the
right returns on economic capital and know when we can apply to the in-force if we need
to.

Page 18 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

FINAL

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yeah. I mean, the thing I learnt last year was some of you pay a huge amount of attention
to this, whereas -- in fact, we usually round it to the nearest 50 million on some of the
internal stuff, and then you get bothered whether it's 76% or 72% or 78%. We rarely do
that, but we tried to demonstrate this year that there was a huge amount of remittances,
and rest assured, there will be a huge amount of remittances again this year because we
hadn't realized the sensitivity of some of the analysts to exactly making sure that we don't
have trapped cash or trapped capital in the divisions. So we recognized we didn't succeed
last year in convincing all of you. So Mr. Crean in particular came and gave me a touch on
my collar to remind me that actually this is part of the equity narrative, and then we'll
come back to you, Greig.

Q - David Bracewell

{BIO 16394801 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Great. Thanks for the question. It's David Bracewell here, Redburn. Two questions. One on
the workplace savings. There is going to be an increase to the contribution rates this year
also and the year after. I'm just wondering how that will affect your business. I don't know
what your average contribution level is for your current workplace flows. So I'd just be
interested to hear how that might impact the flows there. And the second question is on
the risk margin for the annuity business. There is a good chance the PRA going to maybe
change the rules there, allow you to have some flexibility. I was just wondering if they do
relax the rules there, what you might do in terms of strategy. Would you reduce the
reinsurance that you purchase or actually have you found that the reinsurance is so cheap
you might keep that going forward? Thanks.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

They're both very good questions for all sorts of odd reasons, which we'll go in
afterwards, but Mark, why don't you explain why Emma and the team had done such a
fantastic job in the DC space.

A - Mark Zinkula

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

Yeah. So in the workplace business, so contribution rates are scheduled to go up. Many of
our clients or our customers are already at an 8% contribution or thereabouts. So we
would expect there to be somewhat of an uptick and we don't expect persistency to go
down. The concern is when the contribution rates go up, obviously that there might be
some lapses. So on balance, net-net, a slight positive for our business overall.

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Being an actuary, I love the answer to the next one, it's it depends because -- yeah, but it
does depend. If there is a movement, it will come down to what is the cost of reinsurance
versus how much has the risk margin been reduced and the cost of capital, trade-off
we've always said that and it entirely depends how much any risk margin reduction would
be and we will then review. The reinsurance remains very good value for both parties and
we have a good supply. We have the 14, 15 on a panel that we can get reinsurance from.
So we have maintained to look at that at the operating model obviously with the focus as
well on new business strain and managing that on a Solvency II basis, ensuring we would
continue to be capital efficient.
Page 19 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Okay. Greig?

FINAL

Q - Greig Paterson
Greig Paterson, KBW. Good morning. Three questions on your numbers. I was surprised of
the jump in annuity margin, and I'm talking about on your new business release basis, you
allocated 80% -- sorry, you reinsured 8% of the longevity in the first half -- on the new
business in the first half. What percentage did you reinsurance in the second half ? I'm
trying to understand the change. And second point is, in terms of direct investments, what
percentage were allocated in the first half to new business -- into new business as
opposed to the second half ? And then just finally, if you can give us some guidance on
where you see the sustainable tax rate going forward at the operating level post the US
changes.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah. I'll -- a little bit on the first one, just by way of background, I think people often
forget the individual annuity business, we don't reinsure at all. The US annuity business,
we don't reinsure at all. All the back book transactions, we don't reinsure at all. And it's
only the UK PRT business and so it's hard to do linear mathematics when there is lots of
changes in the mix, and it's really -- answering the preceding question, it's the ratio that
we have in the UK PRT business, which may well change going forward depending on
what percentage Simon does. And if you -- any of you want to be really technical about
this, Tim Stedman got an incomprehensible answer to Jeff and I last night, which was
depends. And you can do the depends sensitivity with Tim afterwards, but do you want to
add?

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yeah, sure. I mean, in terms of first half to second half percent, I mean, it -- very similar.
The model hasn't -- didn't change. It's 80%, 85% reinsured on the UK PRT. We look at
each case on an individual basis, depends how much deferred and in -- payment is in a
transaction and on what the pricing is, especially on deferred reinsurance where it's
available. So some of that drives it, but there isn't any conscious decision that was made
between first half, second half on that.
In terms of percentage DI, I mean, we don't -- we haven't been explicit on how much
we're allocating to a new business versus in-force. I mean, some of the useful metrics is
we carried over more DI than we had in the previous year. So we could have allocated a
lot more if we wanted to make numbers look better and we effectively warehoused some
of that.
I think the other thing which has improved the margin significantly is obviously greater
lifetime mortgages. If you're writing deferreds and you got lifetime mortgages, that is a
reasonable pickup on yield compared to any other assets we'd be sourcing at the very
long tail, big impact long duration, higher yield pick up. So that has an impact on that. Tax
rate --

Page 20 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

Q - Greig Paterson
Was it increased first half versus --

FINAL

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

No, no, no. No particular change. That's right. On tax rate, yeah, the simple answer is, it's - at the group level, it's materially neutral on an ongoing basis. It was very much a one-off.
So I mean, there isn't much more to add to that to be honest, given how big it is
compared to the rest of the group.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah. Laura, do you want to pick up the bits that Jeff missed out on what the -- how
warehousing works, which I think a lot of people haven't fully covered and the -- what
opportunities are in the DI space moving forward?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Laura Mason

{BIO 20420360 <GO>}

Yeah, sure. I mean, I think Jeff's -- on Jeff's slide, he was very clear about the relative
proportion of direct investment and lifetime mortgages in our portfolio growing over the
year as the size of our book grew, and the diversity point is a really key point. For us divest
-- direct investments is now almost a flow business. Lifetime mortgages have been
highlighted. The other one to highlight is the LGIM's real assets, private placement
business both in the UK and US as well as some of the other sources that we're working
on with LGIM real assets, and really importantly, the opportunities we are unlocking
through LGC. So we've talked about Cardiff. Newcastle is another one. We did a really
successful deal in Leeds, Headingley on the back of work we've done in -- with LGC in
Thorpe Park, and looking forward to working with Kerrigan really with LGC to unlock
further opportunities in the sectors we chase in.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah. We don't think anybody else has this sort of LGIM, LGC, LGR capability and because
we created huge amount of optionality over the last four or five years in all these towns
and cities across Britain, we will reap the benefits of that in future years. And Chris and the
team are innovating hugely in the lifetime mortgage market, which is going to increase
the flows of that business coming, and as Simon mentioned, we're well below our risk
appetite at the moment. Jon, and we'll come back to this side.

Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Good morning. Jon Hocking, Morgan Stanley. I've got three questions on LGIM, please.
Coming back to the ETF point, I think the conventional wisdom is unless you are a top five
player in ETFs, you don't really make any money, it's a very crowded space, but I guess on
the flip side, you guys are running at sort of 4, 5 bps expenses. Just wondering whether
we should think about ETFs differently if you -- given your expense base, is the first
question.
And then secondly on the sort of factor-based investing .Is this a sort of full-on (inaudible)
offer, and what capabilities do you have there? What capabilities do you have to need -Page 21 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

FINAL

do you need to build rather? And then finally, you've got sort of three strategies there,
which are pretty low cost fees to funds. You've got the sort of classic index business, a
passive business, you're going to have the -- you have the ETF platform and you're going
to have Quant. Is there a sort of issue here we're sort of creating [ph] in sort of -- in terms
of go-to-market offer and you've been so well known in that sort of index space. You had
to actually sort of pitch to institutional retail clients when you've got sort of three things
which should sensibly do something very similar.

A - Nigel Wilson

Yeah. And while Mark is thinking of answering the first three, I think the key thing, we have
such huge white space to go into. Mark and I have done a few trips to America, to the
Middle East and to the Far East and what struck us is how well the brand resonates with all
sorts of customers around there and their sort of values and behaviors sort of are really
highly regarded. And the other colleagues have gone there and made it easy for us, as I
say, when we went down. But the reception we've got has been absolutely outstanding
and now it's putting people on the ground. And as you say, we have much more equity
narrative or narrative around the products and solutions that we have and people, we're
getting demand pull. I mean, Australia is somewhere we haven't even visited, but we are
winning mandates. Korea, Taiwan, Japan are all areas where we're just beginning to put
the infrastructure in. So we've had demand pull ahead of the infrastructure. Mark, you
might want to answer the three questions.

A - Mark Zinkula

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

{BIO 16142450 <GO>}

Yeah, certainly. And the related questions are very good questions. Conceptually,
thematically what's happening is, the index market, the passive market is still evolving and
it's from a product vehicle perspective as well as product design perspective. And so we
still have a lot of demand in the core index space, but the market is evolving toward
factor-based investing. So investing in different kinds of indices to meet client needs,
which we define as factor-based and some people call it smart beta, more thematically in
the ESG space, we talk about the Future World Fund and so forth. And there is a blurring
of the lines of what's technically index or passive and what's a bit more than that, but this
is the direction of travel and we want to be, we are I think right now, but it's early days, a
market leader in developing products that are going to meet evolving industry demand.
And as part of this value proposition, it's just the strength of our corporate governance
team. Just the importance has been placed especially from institutional investors over
time, by the millennial crowd and wealth managers and so forth that we are proper
stewards and doing our part as one of the largest asset managers to hold companies
accountable for a variety of ESG topics and some are more higher priority than others for
various clients.
Regards with the ETF space, understand the conventional wisdom -- I mean, keep in mind,
this is still very, very early days for the ETF market here. Vanguard was a late entrant in the
US back when the ETF was evolving there. And we have a very strong index brand, a very
strong passive brand. Yes, we have the scale, but we also have the brand. We're known to
be in the space. ETFs are primarily a vehicle for index strategies broadly speaking. So we
do believe that we can enter the market, not starting as a top five provider, but grow
Page 22 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

rapidly over the next several years. And again, it is of the strength of our scale operating
model and our brand and it's still -- it's very early days in this market outside of US frankly
and everywhere else in the world. I think I covered all the questions.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. We're going to go here, then (inaudible) Andrew. Okay. Don't move it up. Barrie?

Q - Barrie Cornes

Okay. Good morning. It's Barrie Cornes, Panmure Gordon. I've got a couple of questions.
First of all, in terms of the lifetime mortgage market, I wonder if you could just give us a
view in terms of the outlook and also maybe comment on any central regulatory concerns
over policies which you cancelled relatively early. And the second question I had was in
respect to the credit default reserve, which I presume has got no drawdown during the
year. Just wonder whether or not there is any chance for the reserve release there. Thank
you.

A - Nigel Wilson

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 2389115 <GO>}

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

You asked that question five years ago, Barrie. I'd just like to give you the same answer
that we gave five years ago. We almost never had a drawdown on the default reserve,
and I know KPMG was studying it very carefully for their year-end as we were switching
auditors. We've had PricewaterhouseCoopers. I think from near 175 years as our auditor, I
think the original auditor was in fact Price all those years ago, but it's something that -- we
constantly actively look to see whether we -- we have excessive prudence built in the
credit default reserve. Chris, do you want to talk about the lifetime mortgages? And you
should -- Steve is here today and so if anybody's got a lot of detailed questions and Steve
will be around afterwards to answer them.

A - Chris Knight

{BIO 18966542 <GO>}

No, we're very positive about the lifetime mortgage market going forward. GBP1.5 trillion
of equity earned by the -- by people in retirement. So I don't think it is right for innovation
going forward. We absolutely try our best to go way beyond the sort of regulatory
compliance minimums to make sure the customers are getting really good value for
money, for example, by making all our products flexible, so people only borrow what they
need to borrow when they set one up and then they come back to us for future
borrowing.
We've not seen, and I think probably because of our approach to compliance and
distribution oversight, we've not seen a lot of early redemptions, that's always not a big -not even a small issue really for us. Those of you who read The Sun yesterday would have
seen they helped us announce our property refurb, lifetime mortgage as we (inaudible)
people living in houses that are tiny, unsuitable for them and we can help them fix that
house up and make it livable and rentable out and so forth. So whether it's sort of a
separated, there have always been an issue, people living without children, it's a huge -- if
you are living without children, there is a million people over 60 living -- ageing without
children, why would you not want to take a lifetime mortgage out of it, what are you

Page 23 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

waiting for, this kind of thing. So I think there is tons of things that we can do to the
mortgage. (Multiple Speakers)

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

FINAL

You wanted like a 25% conversion rate today when you saw the audience come in.

A - Chris Knight

{BIO 18966542 <GO>}

As you can see, we're quite passionate about growing this part.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah. There was a sentence there, Chris, I'll just show you. When you all read The Sun
yesterday, which I thought was a -- they didn't all read The Sun yesterday. Rest of you -anybody with a copy, they can have a copy of it.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thanks so much. First one is upon numbers question on the figure you show on slide, the
mortality basis slide where you show the CMI '15 impact of 65 at 23.5. I'm just trying to
remember what CMI unadjusted was. I think it was 22.8 and I was just wondering the
margin versus what the population stuff is because basically the point is, I'm trying to work
out a) what I'm looking at here, the 23.5, is this your base table bulk annuity rolled up with
all your assumptions? And it sounds like you put an extra smoothing factor on top of the
base CMI stuff because you talked about smoothing. So have you used a different
smoothing adjustment to the CMI which you can do or are you using the base CMI tables
on top of your own population? And the second question is a more strategic one. So the
10% EPS growth sort of ambition thing is very hard for a business that is largely kind of
annuities. So maybe you could help us out as to how you're going to grow the earnings by
10% per annum. Thanks.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

That was also a question we were asked five years ago. I think when -- since then we've
grown slightly faster than 10% per annum. Maybe you want to take the first question, Jeff ?

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yeah. The first and fairly straightforward, there was big letters that say illustrative and
that's very much what it is. Is it at best -- so it's our IFRS basis. That is one age that we
chose to just show how we're changing the underlying, but yes, as we said earlier, we do
apply smoothing. We apply smoothing to our own data, we apply smoothing to how we
bring the CMI tables in. So they're all adjusted and that's just an indication of what the
movement has been on an IFRS tied basis, best estimate basis, what's the -- it's the
quantum change that's important, the point one or the point two rather than the absolute
number.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Page 24 of 29



FINAL

Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

Yeah. I think on the EPS thing, we have a multitude of businesses now in the portfolio. At a
personal level, I think they are all capable of growing at circa 10% per annum; LGM, LGR,
the two LGR businesses, LGC and GI. I think Bernie has got the most difficult task with the
current portfolio to get 10% growth in the retail protection businesses. I think given the
great work that Steve and the team did in 2017 in group protection, I'd be disappointed if
we didn't get 10% growth in the group protection business. So when we come here next
year, Steve will be standing proudly and telling you we we did in fact achieve that in 2018.
Andrew?

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Good morning. It's Andrew Crean, Autonomous. Can I ask three questions? On the
protection side, could you just give us the numbers for what the hit on retail protection
was and whether you have got over the persistency problem now? Secondly, on
(inaudible) release mortgages, is there a finite amount of appetite you've got for this? It's
the one product which has got a cliff guarantee in it. It's very Continental European rather
than UK. PRA, I think in June came out with some quite scary statistics for what would
happen if housing fell 25%, 30%. And then thirdly, what's the nature of the annuity pricing
competition? You've got the normal BPA market and then you got this enormous life back
book coming in. What is the pricing comparison between the two? And is the tail wagging
the dog or the dog wagging the tail?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

I'll answer in reverse order. I think the -- both the customer business in the UK where we
mentioned the 17 billion, which is the highest, we usually have about 10 billion in the
hopper, we've got 17 billion in the hopper. And it depends how much we could converse in
that, but there is an increase in demand and supply in the UK at the moment. Certainly -and that's going to work its way through the marketplace. And the point that I think Jeff
and I were trying to get across was, we have a lot of pricing discipline around that. So
we're not going to chase any particular individual transaction because we have a everincreasing breadth of opportunities that we've been presented in the market, but we
certainly have enough risk appetite capital and direct investments to support a pretty high
level of growth in 2018 from the size of the back books that we've got. And I don't know
whether Chris or Simon want to take the equity release issue. Maybe Simon?

A - Simon Pistell

{BIO 15951837 <GO>}

Following up on that, the answer I gave earlier, so in total, the DI, we have an appetite
threshold. For lifetime mortgages, I want to use Jeff's answer about the depends again
because it depends on the mix of that business. So it very much depends on how much
your average loan to value is on that portfolio. We are very careful not to be aggressive
on loan to value and try and keep that down to as low as possible so that we've got the
bandwidth to accept volatility in house prices. So as long as we keep that down, then we'll
have more capacity. Also, I think there was mention about a new product that we're
launching in that space where effectively the borrower pays the interest, carries or pay an
interest where effectively you're a lot more --

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Page 25 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

(Multiple Speakers) that was in the rehearsal.

FINAL

A - Simon Pistell

{BIO 15951837 <GO>}

A lot more protective in that type of product than we are in one way, there is a roll up of
the interest. So yeah, it would depend on the mix of business as to how much we can, but
we are very on top of being very prudent about assumptions about future house price
inflation.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

So we have some very exciting new products coming. And you heard it first today in here - here. We were trying to figure out how to answer this question yesterday, and Simon
obviously didn't hear the answer, what we went through. Bernie is going to answer the
other question.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Bernie Hickman

{BIO 19334629 <GO>}

Yeah. So yeah, on page 32, we set out a experience parameters [ph] and valuation
assumptions. It's fair to say we haven't got a problem in persistency. We've actually got
customers really happy with us and we've got lower lapses. It's just in later durations. And
on our level term business and on our life business, the premium state level, the claims
and quite a bit of our reinsurance premiums go up and so it's just a mechanical fact, if we
get people happy to stay with us, we actually make slightly less money and so it's just a
kind of minor impact. Just to give you a quantification on that, (inaudible) like a level term
long-term persistency rates, we've seen lapse rates of 3.3% going to 3.1%. So it's quite a
tiny change in lapses. And we hope customers carry on wanting to give us premiums and
remaining in-force and we'll be doing what we can to keep them happy. So yeah, that's
what's going on broadly with the lapses and the figures are in the pack.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

The price of success. Last two questions. So we'd try and finish by 11. Okay?

Q - Unidentified Participant
Andrew Baker from Citi. Just two questions, please. If we see rates increase, presumably
good for bulk annuity demand. Does it have any impact on the ability to source direct
investments? So does it make that harder and does that become an issue for you guys as
bulk annuity demand presumably increases? And then secondly, as you are looking to
replicate your UK model in the US, specifically in the PRT space, you've seen, I think, 60%
growth there this year. The market itself grew I think 70%, which area is -- how do you
models differ right now and specifically if you could talk a little bit about infrastructure -direct investment sourcing differences and any plans that you have there going forward.
Thank you.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah. I'll let Laura pick up the second question there. On the first question, just in general,
on DI, you're right in the sense that it will be terrific for us if the interest rates go up, our
balance sheet will look even stronger than it does today, but we don't see any sensitivity
Page 26 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

FINAL

around that. I think there is just a huge demand for new assets across the UK and indeed
across the US and Europe. And both have recognized how crappy their infrastructure is.
America gives itself an official rating which has now gone from C minus to D plus. So
they're in a poor state there.
But also in the UK, and the expression we've used is a sort of a coalition of doers. There's
lots of discussion about levers and stairs, but outside of London, it's all about who wants
to do things and we're finding pretty much across the country, getting PRS schemes
through or housing schemes or urban regeneration projects, roads et cetera relatively
straightforward, probably the best environment we've had for 30 years. It's still a C plus,
but -- and -- but it's moving towards a B in terms of how much better it's getting here in
the UK. And Laura, do you want to --

A - Laura Mason

{BIO 20420360 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. I mean, really just expanding on some of the points I made earlier that --- and we've
organically grown a great platform for sourcing direct investments, probably quite
different to our competitors because of the in-house capability we have through LGIM real
assets and LGC and really worth reiterating that we've -- I think we've really only just
begun to scratch the surface of the opportunity that we have through LGC. So we've
been very vocal about some of the things we've done in urban regeneration. And if you
think about the other sectors that we've chosen to invest in housing and clean energy,
both of those have huge potential for long-term financing and creating investments that
will fit annuity liabilities.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

And one of the key messages is this capability. And if you think Kerrigan has moved from
LGIM to LGR to LGC, Laura has moved from LGR to LGC back to LGR, Chris has pretty
much worked in every division right now, well, Mark Zink, he just seems to sit at LGIM all of
the time. Last question.

Q - Angel Kansagra

{BIO 19712659 <GO>}

Thank you. Angel Kansagra from HSBC. Three questions, please. The first one is, you have
given the split of cash remitted to the group from subsidiaries, which is welcome
disclosure. Would you ever think of giving the split of operating capital generation by
divisions? So -- because it's quite strong to see that the operating capital generation and
cash remittance comfortably cover the dividend, but to just see what the divisions are
contributing, that would be useful.
The second is on net capital strain. How much net capital strain have you seen from the
UK PRT in particular, if you give the split from that? And the third one is, I know you can't or
you won't actually comment on political outcome, but if a Labor government comes in,
they're talking about nationalizing some of the industries. Have you thought of taking any
action on your credit portfolio in particular, utilities? Thank you.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Page 27 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

I'll answer the third question, which is one of my specialist topics, but I'll let those really
difficult first two questions pass to my colleague, Jeff. Jeff Davies.

FINAL

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

(inaudible) first. You're talking the operating cash generation, you mean, on a Solvency II
basis? Yeah. The issue with that is, of course, you've got to allocate the capital. So I think it
would get a little bit messy. So I won't be part of the issue of allocating it both between
legal entities and divisions. You start to make so many assumptions that we probably
wouldn't get it past the auditors to be honest. So I think that's the issue that we will be as
transparent as we can around this stuff. Having said that, we haven't been explicit on the
strain, but we do -- we'd say that it's less than 4% for the PRT business, which is
predominantly UK. And so that gives you an indication, so that gives you the negative. We
then write a lot of other business like LGR, which creates positives and offsets and brings
you back to the less than 100 million number that we quote as the total across the group.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. On, I mean, the whole political situation right now, I never met Corbyn and I don't
know him well, so it's difficult to have an informed judgment on exactly what's going to
happen. What we have seen is, is our experience with the local authorities across the UK
and regardless of whether they're Labor, Conservative, whether it's Bath, Bristol,
Birmingham, Bracknell, Cardiff, Leeds, Manchester, Newcastle, there is just a whole array
of political people. And the Labor mayors or the Labor politicians and the Conservative
have been equally enthusiastic about being involved with us.
In respect of utilities, quite a lot of the utilities are actually in America because, the BBB
rated American utilities. Yes, we have some exposure in the water, but it's at the most
senior level. And if you want the exact numbers for that, then I'm sure Laura can provide
those to you afterwards. We've looked at the portfolio and we think we've gotten all
portfolio adjustments that we need to make as a group in respect to the ongoing political
climate. We're very happy with the diversified nature. It means the switch-out of
sovereigns into something that's kind of the biggest change in the stock, the various flow
changes that Chris talked about and Laura talked about and Jeff talked about earlier,
which we'll see over the next few years.
By way of wrap-up, I'd just like to say thank you for everybody for their interest in following
Legal & General. Thanks once again to all my colleagues for great results in 2017.
However, it's 2018 now and my colleagues know well I waited a whole day, whole day
before sending them out a memo as to what we needed to do for 2018 and beyond. And
the enthusiastic response to that memo is, I congratulate them on that. So thank you. Bye
now.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
Page 28 of 29



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2018-03-07

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 29 of 29

