Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

Q4 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Chris H. Figee, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Jos P. M. Baeten, Chairman-Executive Board & Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Michel Hülters, Head-Investor Relations & Ratings

Other Participants
Albert Ploegh, Analyst
Andrew Baker, Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Benoît Pétrarque, Analyst
Cor Kluis, Analyst
Farooq Hanif, Analyst
Johnny Vo, Analyst
Matthias de Wit, Analyst
Robin Eduard van den Broek, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Steven Haywood, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good day and welcome to the ASR Conference Call 2018 Results. Today's call is being
recorded. There will be time for Q&A at the end of the call. At this time, I would like to
turn the conference over to Mr. Michel Hülters. Please go ahead, sir.

Michel Hülters
Thank you, operator. Good morning, everybody. Welcome to the ASR conference call on
the full year 2018 results. On the call, we have Jos Baeten, the CEO; and Chris Figee, our
CFO. They will present and give you an update on the ﬁnancial results, strategy and
solvency and capital position. After that, there's ample time for Q&A.
But before we start, I would like to mention that we have a disclaimer at the back of the
presentation, and I would like you to review that at the end whenever you have some time
today for that.
So, without further ado, Jos, can I give you the ﬂoor?

Page 1 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

Jos P. M. Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Michel, and good morning, everyone, happy to have you all here. Thank you
for joining on this call. And as you may have seen from the numbers, ladies and
gentlemen, which we have published this morning, 2018 was ﬁnancially a strong year with
overall, surpassed the record operating performance of 2017.
2018 concludes a string of three consecutive years since our IPO in 2016, during which we
showed consistent delivery against ambition – ambitious medium-term targets. All targets
have been met or exceeded. And as announced at our Capital Markets Day, we have
raised the bar further for the next plan period.
Also, from a strategic point of view, we are very pleased with the progress that we
delivered in 2018. We acquired Generali Nederland and the integration is running
smoothly and ahead of
plan. Generali is, as you may have seen in the numbers, also delivering higher results than
originally planned for this year.

Bloomberg Transcript

We're also quite excited about the acquisition of Loyalis, which we believe is a truly
promising transaction that enhances our unique position in the ﬁeld of sustainable
employability. Further strengthening our position is the exclusive corporation with
Discovery and agreement to introduce the Vitality program to the Netherlands. So in sum,
clear ﬁnancial success and disciplined execution of our strategy.
Now, without further ado, let's look into the ﬁnancial highlights of 2018, which you can
ﬁnd on page 2 of the presentation. As this dashboard shows, our performance in 2018 has
been really solid. Operating results amounted to €742 million, exceeding the already
record level of 2017 by €14 million, despite the €30 million impact on the severe January
storm in 2018, while 2017 had an exceptionally favorable claims experience.
Underlying, our Non-life performance continues to have very strong and – to be very
strong and each of the other segments reported higher results, reﬂecting higher
investment margin, particularly driven by the acquired business of Generali and good
momentum in the fee-based business segments. Our business yielded an operating
return of 14.2%, well over our targets of up to 12%. Combined ratio of ASR stood at 96.5%,
ahead of our target of 97%. This number includes the impact of the January storm of a
roughly 1% point and the Generali Nederland's portfolio with a combined ratio of
approximately 100% for 2018. We also remained sharply focused on our cost level.
Operating expenses declined 3% or €17 million, when adjusting for the cost base of the
acquired Generali business. Our Solvency II ratio remains robust at 197% after the
proposed full-year dividend.
And as you know, we are still using the standard formula. Organic capital generation
amounted to €372 million, being 10 solvency points (04:47). Our solvency ratio also takes
into account the 9 percentage point impact from the acquisition of Generali and roughly
6 percentage points impact from the forthcoming lower tax rates, which we decided to
Page 2 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

FINAL

take up front. There are a number of other items that impacted solvency in the past year.
And Chris will provide further details on this later on.
Our strong solvency position and ﬁnancial ﬂexibility enables us to remain entrepreneurial.
As we have said at our Capital Markets Day, we see good opportunities to be
entrepreneurial and to pursue proﬁtable growth for both organically and through
acquisitions, which we have proven to do so with the acquisition of Generali and the
announced acquisition of Loyalis.
Based on strong performance and our conﬁdence in the outlook for 2019, we proposed to
raise our dividends almost 7% to €1.74 per share. Taking into account the interim dividend,
which we paid in September, there remains a ﬁnal dividend of €1.09 per share. In line with
our dividend policy, we strive to oﬀer our shareholders a stable to moderately rising
dividends per share for the long-term.
So, let's now move to slide 3, which reports on the progress made in executing our
strategy. I will not discuss all the developments we listed here and which we have
reported in our press release, but let me just mention some key developments and
achievements in executing our strategy, starting with our solid back books in Box B.

Bloomberg Transcript

We ﬁnished last year the migration of three Individual Life books towards the Software-asa-Service platform making cost more variable and in line with the decline of that book.
The Generali Individual Life books are next in line for migration and this will be fully
realized in 2019. And the pension book of Generali will be completed early 2020, which
will be roughly 9 to 10 months ahead of our schedule.
We also completed the integration of the Funeral portfolio of Generali and the PC Hooft
Funeral book in October. Key message on this box is, we got a team that has actual
experience in buying and integrating books of business successfully and we are open for
business. New books will just be added to the queue for smooth integration.
In the top left, the Non-life business that provides the opportunity of growing cash ﬂows.
Very pleased to report that we have continued to deliver solid organic growth in gross
written premium of 4.7% overall in 2018. And this is business that generates proﬁtable
growth through attractive combined ratios. Key message in this box is, our products and
services clearly appeal to customers, allowing us, again, to outstrip overall market growth.
Also, not mentioned in this slide that we recently completed a major migration in our P&C
business, over 1 million policies have been migrated from the mainframe to a new
Software-as-a-Service platform, another step in simplifying our organization as this
business is now running on one single system.
In the Asset Management related growth business, we have made considerable progress
as well. Within DC pensions, we continue to see good momentum for the Werknemers
Pensioen. We have reached over 55,000 active participants, and assets under
management for this product rose to roughly €675 million, up from €480 million last year.

Page 3 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

FINAL

In new business, we are a clearly top three player, an another example of interesting
developments in Asset Management are our mortgage fund continues to appeal strongly
to institutional investors. Mortgage fund recorded an inﬂow of €1.3 billion, driven by thirdparty mandates and committed external assets under management exceeds in the
meantime €2.3 billion. Key message in this box is, we are gaining traction and a shift to
generating income from capital-light products.
Now, most recently, we announced the acquisition of Loyalis, and I can add, as said in the
introduction, the exclusive cooperation with South African Discovery. These two play very
well to our strategy and the disability ecosystem. Let me now show our unique
proposition in this domain on the next slide, being slide 4.
This graph depicts our unique coverage in the ﬁeld of sustainable employability. It
encompasses capabilities in four areas of expertise. First of all, distribution, we are able to
target the right customer with the right product. We have added prevention and added
services, which is aimed at enhancing employees' productivity and reducing absenteeism.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thirdly, claims management aimed to be short in the duration of absenteeism and to
provide income during absenteeism. And lastly, price and risk selection to optimize our
underwriting result. As you can see, both Loyalis and Vitality proposition of Discovery ﬁt
and complement our coverage in this area. This is another example of how we execute
our strategy, both to pursue proﬁtable growth and to remain socially relevant.
So, let's now move to slide 5 on our group operating results. This slide shows the
momentum in our operating results since the beginning of 2017. Despite the severe
January storm, we managed to surpass last year's results which beneﬁted from
exceptionally low level of claims. Comparison of the ﬁrst half of 2018 to the same periods
of the prior year shows the impact of the storm on Non-life.
Also, clearly visible to the performance in the second half of 2018 compared to the
second half of 2017, and this shows healthy recovery with an increase of 5.6%. Higher
results from Life, plus €31 million; Bank and Asset Management, plus €11 million; and
Distribution and Services, plus €8 million, more than oﬀset the decline in Non-life and
Holding. IFRS net proﬁt is above net operating proﬁt for – both for the full year and the
two half years. So, overall, also below the operating result line, there has been a positive
contribution from non-operating and incidental items to the net IFRS result.
Let's have a closer look at the business segments and let's start with Non-life on slide 6.
We are generally pleased with our performance in Non-life. While operating results shows
as such the impact of the storm in January and a higher level of large claims, the
underlying business performed strongly and better than previous year. The bulk of the
claims, so to speak, showed ongoing favorable developments. Claims frequency in bulk
improved from 43.1% to 42.7%.
The combined ratio of 96.5% beat the target of 97%. The Generali portfolio ran at a
combined ratio of approximately 100% and did not yet contribute to the operating result.
When adjusting for the exceptional impact of January storm and taking into account the
Page 4 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

FINAL

higher combined ratio from the acquired Generali portfolio, a normalized combined ratio
would be in the 95% range, so fairly stable to the prior year.
Our gross written premiums increased by almost 17%, driven by a solid 4.7% organic
growth by all business lines and the inclusion of Generali Nederland. And as mentioned
earlier, we continue to upbeat on the organic growth opportunities in the Non-life
segment. In the breakdown of the combined ratio, the uptick in the commission ratio is a
mix of business eﬀect as a consequence of inclusion of the Generali Nederlands portfolio.
This portfolio comprises mostly B and C products which, in general, come at a higher
commission ratio. Our cost ratio improved from last year's 7.6% to 7.3% in 2018.
If we were to look at the combined ratio for each of the diﬀerent business lines, you can
see continued strong performance in the Disability portfolio. Last year, however, we
experienced unfavorable claims development in the absenteeism portfolio, but we took
measures over there, resulting in margin expansions within this portfolio. Nonetheless, we
will continue to monitor claims experience in this business closely in order to keep pricing
appropriately in sync with the underwriting risks.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, let's now turn to slide 7 on Life. In Life, we saw a solid increase of operating results of
4.7% to €663 million. This increase was mainly driven by an increase of investment margin
of €37 million, mostly driven by the addition of the acquired Generali business. The
increase of investment margin was driven by a number of factors.
Firstly, our direct investment income beneﬁted from re-risking of the investment portfolio,
including the Generali portfolio. This more than oﬀset the impact of the decline of the
Individual Life portfolio on direct investment income. It also oﬀsets the decline in
amortized realized gains, i.e., from our shadow accounting.
Furthermore, as the Individual Life book runs oﬀ, there is also a decline of required
interest, which is positive for the investment margin. The addition of the Generali portfolio
had only limited impact on required interest. Generali Nederlands had a total contribution
to the operating result of approximately €40 million, mainly within the investment margin.
While there were some nonrecurring positives in the technical results, we believe that
going forward €30 million is a sustainable recurring number for the Generali portfolio.
Gross written premium is up almost 8% and reﬂects both organic growth and the addition
of Generali asset. I already mentioned our continued success in the DC pension products.
Currently, 73% of new business APE is for new DC solutions, which is a very positive
development from our perspective.
Let's now turn to the other segments where we are clearly gaining traction and that's on
slide 8. Operating results for the two fee-generating segments, Asset Management and
Distribution and Services, combined amounts to €41 million and it's now already adding a
full percentage point of organic capital creation on an annual basis. Asset Management
showed a very strong increase to €16 million. This was driven by strong inﬂows in the
mortgage funds and in the ESG-Funds, which resulted in additional fee income from third
parties for the asset manager and higher fee income from the real estate funds.
Page 5 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

FINAL

As bank has been classiﬁed as non-core, it's no longer included in these results.
Operating result of the Distribution and Services segment increased to €25 million. This
was driven by a strong contribution from Dutch ID, which we acquired two-and-a-half
years ago, and the contribution from the Generali Nederland distribution companies,
namely ANAC and Stoutenburgh. However, we anticipate some pressure on fees in 2019
as a result of lower commissions for mandated agents.
The operating result of the Holding amounted to a minus of €108 million. The decrease is
mainly due to a onetime alignment for – of personal beneﬁt schemes. In addition, interest
paid also increased due to the full year inclusion of the interest on the RT1, which we
issued in October 2017.
So, let's now move to slide 8 (sic) [slide 9] (00:18:32) and measure our performance
against our targets set at the IPO. Our performance has been strong on all key metrics in
2018. We've been able to keep – we've been able to keep our business momentum at a
high level, and our performance is better than our medium-term targets. The strong
ongoing operating performance of the various segments, the disciplined execution of our
strategy, and our robust capital position make us conﬁdent that we can continue to attain
the operating results of recent years throughout 2019.
And having said this, I would just like to hand over to Chris for further details on our
capital and solvency.

Bloomberg Transcript

Chris H. Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Thank you, Jos. Ladies and gentlemen, let me walk you through our solvency and capital
position. In order to speed up and quickly go to the Q&A, I'll take what I call a – it's a
magpie approach to presenting, taking just the nuggets, the shiny elements and not
going through each and every slide in the fullest detail.
Speaking of the key elements, let's move to slide number 11. You can see the
development of our Solvency II ratio moved up to 197%. Couple of points I'd like to make
irrespective of what's said on the right-hand side of the chart. The solvency number
includes the tax eﬀect, so we already implemented or reﬂected the lowering of the
corporate tax rate and the LAC DT that shaved oﬀ about 6 percentage points of our
solvency. So, if we had not done that our solvency would have been around 203%, 204%.
So, it obviously also includes the beneﬁt from the VA. Admittedly, the VA includes what I'll
call an Italy premium. From a VA perspective, we are short in Italy, so when Italy spreads
widen, our solvency is supported. We estimate the Italy eﬀect to about 4 points of 4 VA
points or 4 points of Solvency.
So, if you take that perspective, the 197%, you add that to tax takeout, the Italy eﬀect, your
underlying would end up around 200% after dividends. Interestingly, in the absence of
future M&A, that 200% and the ongoing capital generation brings us in spitting distance
of what we would call the capital distribution moment, as we communicated during our
Capital Markets event. And of course, we'll always try to deploy capital in the business
organically; or inorganically, if and when it meets our existing and unquestionable return

Page 6 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

FINAL

targets. But again, the solvency level moves closer and closer to the distribution threshold
that we have communicated.
Second point to make, we still have a net DTL position. I'm actually pretty proud of that.
It's a great asset to have. We have suﬃcient amount of tiering headroom. As you can see
on the page, the Tier 3 headroom itself was already €500 million. And if you actually
include Loyalis, which is not on the page with pro forma, we'd estimate that adding
Loyalis would add another 100 million to the Tier 2 headroom, another €50-odd-million to
the Tier 3 headroom, which actually means that if you think about funding the Loyalis
transaction with the hybrids, where we said we consider either Tier 1 or Tier 2, taking
potential transactions and capital synergies in mind, we estimate today with the amount of
Tier 3 capacity we have.
We could issue a Tier 2 hybrid instrument, still be left with well over €300 million of
surplus Tier 3 capacity after these instruments, which would give us more ample room to
absorb any ineligible capital of a potential acquisition. So, we're trying to say is, including
Loyalis, we have suﬃcient headroom to issue a Tier 2 and have remaining room for capital
synergies going forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

Final point on this chart I'd like to make is that we manage to still grow our own funds, the
eligible own funds grew about €100 million even after dividends. And after the rocky
second half of the year, the own funds and unrestricted Tier 1 both grew in absolute
amounts. And given the long run, looking at book value you're looking at market values
still is a good measure for performance.
Moving then to page number 12, the Solvency II ratio movements throughout the year.
The chart is by now well-known. The way we decompose or bucket the delta in solvency
in the various components, you can see the organic capital generation of €372 million for
the year. Then taking out dividends will leave you 197% solvency post-year. And again,
three things I'd like to point out on this chart. €372 million OCC for the year, if you
compare H1 to H2, actually we added €14 million of capital in H2 of – H1. So, OCC went up
by €14 million in the year and €9 million for the last year.
If you look at the business capital generation, the stuﬀ that the business generates
excluding book release, excluding UFR unwind was 283 for the year. Actually, that was up
signiﬁcantly. It was €130 million in HI, €153 million in H2, so the business cap gen actually
went up by €23 million during the year. So, in that perspective, we've seen an increase in
capital generation in the year, driven by an increase in business capital generation in
2018. So, business cap gen up €23 million for H1 and up €40 million versus same period
last year.
Second point I like to make is the market and operational developments. You can see
minus €59 million in EOF. Actually, the number in H1 was minus €53 million, which meant
that the other element of own funds accretion was ﬂat in the second half of the year and
I'm actually very proud of that, given the fact that we've seen ﬁnancial markets go down,
signiﬁcant movement there. We've been able to keep the own funds generation above

Page 7 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

FINAL

and beyond what's in the OCC, keep that ﬂat in a couple of months where we see still
rocky developments on the ﬁnancial markets.
Third point is to preempt the question that undoubtedly will come, what is the impact of
your long-term investment margins? As you know, we reported OCC based on long terminvestment margins. We conﬁrmed that stance again during our Capital Markets Day in
October. If we had actualized and to the actual end of year long-term investment actual
spreads, plotted them into the OCC, our OCC would have been roughly €30 million
higher.
If you look at the individual components, you'll see governments moving a bit away from
our long-term investment margins, but non-core sovereigns, credits, and mortgages
actually moving towards or even above our long-term investment pricing. So, at this point,
our mortgage assumption and credit assumption is actually conservative versus the
actuals that we have shared today. So, where we can move from a long-term investment
results to actual investment spreads, our OCC would have been €30 million higher.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then, if we – had we moved our equities and real estate to an absolute recurring
number to do a spread, indicatively, if we've locked in 7%, we would have add €130
million of additional OCC. And that's something we will not do ourselves, but for
comparison purposes, so it's good to have that in hand. No doubt, you can ask questions
on the further details on the OCC and business cap gen, we'll leave that to the Q&A.
Page 13 talks about the sensitivity of your Solvency II ratio. As you will understand, the UFR
is likely to decline, the formal decision is about to be announced. But we expect it to
decline by 15 basis points from €4.05 million to €3.09 million. That would take another 3
points to 4 points of our solvency. Similar as happened in this year, it will add about €8
million to our annual ﬂow, from stock to ﬂow, €8 million to our OCC.
And UFR at 2.4%, which we consider to be the most economic form of UFR, so a UFR that
is consistent with or in line with the actual cash returns we make on our investments. So
UFR, in line with the coupons, dividends, rental income and what have you at 2.4% gives a
solvency of 156%. And 156%, we actually didn't adjust any tiering impact of that level as
well. So, it's a fairly robust and kicked solvency ratio at 156%, safely above our risk
appetite of 120%. So, again, there, it gives you comfort on the robustness of our solvency.
Final point, if we were to strip out the UFR, altogether, our solvency ex-UFR is over 130%.
Actually it went up a few points during the year.
Page 14, strong balance sheet and ﬁnancial ﬂexibility. We show in a number of pages the
interest and debt capacity that we have. In our thinking, our balance sheet drives the
amount of debt capacity. Our solvency drives actually the amount, the instant we would
choose. Our balance sheet has suﬃcient amount of debt capacity, the leverage is about
26% points in the year, interest cover still safely above 10%. On an S&P leverage ratio, the
last time S&P lift was 2017, and 90% ratio, we think that number is broadly unchanged. We
have surplus capital compared to the AA and if any, how you look even AAA component
of the S&P model.

Page 8 of 32



FINAL

Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

So, suﬃcient room to absorb additional debt if we wanted to. Just for your perusal, a
26.7% leverage, if we wanted to move that leverage to 30%, we could add a net of €300
million of debt. If you wanted to move to 35%, we could add net €800 million of debt to
our balance sheet. Given the fact that we got two instruments up for call for €200 million,
and of course the call decision, we can and will only make at the time of call, but these are
10% coupon instruments, so we need to see humongous debt movements for us to make
another decision, assume that net €300 million or gross €500 million debt increase would
bring us towards a €500 million room. And as I said, we've got Tier 2 and Tier 3 eligibility.
And the pro forma analysis including Loyalis shows us that if we were to raise a Tier 2
instrument, we still have surplus Tier 3 capital available.
Final Point, ﬁnancial leverage at 26.7%, if we were to include our realized capital gains,
which is industry practice, but we didn't do that given our shadow accounting
methodology. If we were to include capital gains reserve in our leverage calculations that
ratio would drop to just over 20%. So on a like-for-like basis or more like-for-like basis, our
leverage ratio is more like 20% including the capital gains reserve.

Bloomberg Transcript

Page 15, our Holding cash. We take a very mechanical approach to Holding cash. It maybe
by German ancestry, but it's not. We take a model, Holding cost per annum plus
dividends is your Holding cash, aiming at €394 million and ending up at €394 million. We
upstreamed about €260 million in the second half year versus €179 million in the ﬁrst half,
so more upstreams in H2 than H1, not just on Life, but also for example in the
supplementary health business, we upstreamed tiny bit of capital to show that every
business unit in our business contributes to Holding cash. So, we upstreamed our capital
to the Holding and achieved our Holding cash targets.
You'll be able to see our Solvency II ratios of our legal entities. Life is very strong at 202%.
Non-life is 154%. We're a bit less pleased with that, to be quite frank. Five reasons why our
Solvency in Non-life is, I would say, temporarily lower than we would normally strive for.
Of course, the tax eﬀect, so we fast-forward implementation of tax, which aﬀected the LAC
DT in the Life business; market eﬀects where the VA – the corresponding VA eﬀect has
less impact on Non-Life than in Life; it is the growth of our book, we grew our Non-life
business substantially, organic growth was about €100 million of premiums in P&C and
disability; it is the impact of Generali, net-net the Generali acquisition was a positive. I
mean, we spent less capital on Generali than we originally anticipated, but all the pluses
were in Life and they drove actually additional reserves rotations were in Non-life for netnet less capital investments, but the pluses in Life and the additional reservations in Nonlife.
And ﬁnally, we made a small additional rotation on the absenteeism business, because we
see sickness leave actually growing across the board in the country. The trend is up and
we applied our trend. That, together, caused the Non-life Solvency to move to 154%. If I
look at the business today, I would expect it, I'm pretty conﬁdent it moves to something
north of 165% before the summer already. So, that will restore itself organically.
Page 16, asset and ﬁnancial leverage. Of course, we're living in an unstable environment
with lots of risks, lots of volatility, and volatile ﬁnancial markets. As we did in the Capital
Markets Day, present our leverage from a liability and an asset perspective. Our leverage
Page 9 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

FINAL

is actually stable; on a solvency basis, down a bit; on IFRS basis, up a bit, but eﬀectively
very stable low leverage. And on the asset side, reduced our market risks during the year
from 46% to 43% and the risky asset ratio, the asset leverage ratio, is eﬀectively stable. It's
a more old-fashioned approach (00:32:49) through market risk models.
But in time of the ﬂuctuation, I think we should move from market risks, move to nominal
exposures. We've given you lots of details in the Appendix H to L, you can see more
details on our investment portfolio before and also the calculation of the asset leverage,
which I think is increasingly an important metric for us to look at. It looks at the nominal
asset risks compared to the solvency cap that we have. It's eﬀectively stable. For those of
you (00:33:19), you can see it's slightly twisted, slightly amended towards the Capital
Markets Day. We made a little more deeper analysis of our nominal exposure on risky
assets.

Bloomberg Transcript

To remind you, it's the equity position. It's a real estate excluding lands, because we think
land is really not that risky asset. It's collateralized lending to farms. We took out, as
opposed to the Capital Markets Day, the real estate own use because our own oﬃce, our
own tenants, so that's a less risky position. We actually added mortgages with a loan-term
value of over 110% added back. And we speciﬁed we're going to be deeper into the
whole non-weighted ﬁxed income segment, almost a line-by-line item to estimate which
of those elements have a lower rating on us.
This includes equities, real estate excluding lands, and non-investment group debt. That is
about 100% of our unrestricted Tier 1 ratio that we feel comfortable with. We think it's very
important to look at nominal exposures in these volatile times as well. But the summary of
my perspective is, stable on – and low on ﬁnancial leverage; stable and very well
controlled on the asset leverage, which has allowed us to seal relatively well through the
volatile ﬁnancial markets.
So, we will get back to Jos for some ﬁnal perspectives from the CFO, good H2, capital
generation up from an organic perspective and a business perspective; operational proﬁt
up in H2; and underlying metrics have been good combined ratios in H2 have been
better than H1; production in DC better H2 than H1. So, solid underlying performance by
the business.
Secondly, I think we still do relatively well through the volatile ﬁnancial markets in H4. You
can see that we managed to still grow our own funds and our unrestricted Tier 1 during
the year. The solvency impact of those market ﬂuctuations were very well manageable, we
reduced our market risk and kept our nominal asset exposures very much in check and
given you more disclosure on the asset exposures in our appendix. And as Jos said, I can
only conﬁrm, comfort on the earnings outlook 2019. If I look at the way we ended last year
and the momentum that we have in the beginning of the year.
With this, I give back to Jos.

Jos P. M. Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Page 10 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

FINAL

Thanks, Chris. And if this is the less detailed fruition of the story, I would love to hear the
details later on. So, as you may have noticed, we are quite pleased with our ﬁnancial
results, the operational performance of our business, and the strength of our balance
sheet. This makes us, as Chris already reconﬁrmed, very conﬁdent that we can continue to
attain the operating results of recent years throughout 2019.
So, where does this lead us in terms of dividends for 2018? We propose a full year
dividend of €1.74 per share, which is an increase of almost 7%. This outstrips the growth of
the operating results and reﬂects our conﬁdence in the outlook for 2019. This provides us
the comfort to raise the payout ratio to 48%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Within the framework of the existing dividend policy, it's our intention to oﬀer
shareholders a stable, slightly growing ordinary dividend, capital that we generate in
excess of our ordinary dividend will be deployed for proﬁtable growth, and value creating
opportunities. As we've pointed out in our earlier meetings and on our Capital Markets
Day, we believe a very disciplined and rationale approach to capital management. Excess
capital that we cannot deploy, as I said before, will be returned to shareholders.
Now, before my ﬁnal conclusion, a remark on larger scale consolidation that may take
place in the Netherlands. As we have done in the past, and what we continue to do today
and in the future, our approach is a rational one and we will maintain in all cases our strict
ﬁnancial discipline when evaluating emerging opportunities. You all are well-informed on
our strategic priorities and our views and the importance of maintaining a strong balance
sheet post any transaction. And frankly, at this point, there's not much we can add to this. I
do not want to add to any speculation, or be in the way of any orderly process. As soon as
there is information to share, we of course, will do so.
Now, to wrap up this call, I would like to conclude that I am very pleased with the strong
set of results. We were able to surpass our record of operating results of 2017 despite the
impact of the severe storm in January. Our businesses all are very performing very well
and that enables us to remain entrepreneurial. We have shown that we put our excess
capital to work. And as said, we started 2019 with lots of conﬁdence and everything being
equal, we are convinced to be able to deliver strong results on this year.
And with that, I would like to conclude the presentation and to hand over to our operator.

Q&A
Operator
Thank you. We'll now take our ﬁrst question from Farooq Hanif of Credit Suisse. Please go
ahead, sir.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi, everybody. Thank you for that. I just want to go back, Chris, to what you said about
operational capital generation. So, all other things being equal, so ignoring UFR impact,
Page 11 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

ignoring Loyalis, are you basically indicating the second half, we can basically multiply by
2 as a basis? That's question one.

FINAL

Question two on the combined ratio, as you integrate and improve Generali, can we see
the P&C going back towards the sort of 95% to 96% level over time? How quickly will that
happen? And very lastly, if I may just say, on your – getting close to the distribution
threshold, what does that practically mean for us? Thank you.

A - Chris H. Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Thank you, Farooq. On your question, could we multiply this – OCC in the second half was
193% (00:40:28) 179%. Could we multiply it by 2? I think that's a reasonable approach. I
can make a very long story short, but the answer probably is, yes. I mean, what will
happen in the next year is that, if you look – now let me spend a few minutes on this, now
that we are talking on it. And Jos wanted to have more details, so I'll take it. No, if you
look at what happens during the year and during ﬁrst half of the year, I mean the UFR
unwind in our OCC was less than last year. H1 to H2 stable, but less than last year, given
the fact of the UFR declines, and that's actually that's going to continue probably into the
next year.

Bloomberg Transcript

If you then look at the release of capital, some changes happened in H1 to H2. We made a
small restatement during the Capital Markets Day. So, I'm referring to those ﬁgures. We
saw, in this year, a slightly higher release of SCR, a slightly lower release of risk margin,
but also a signiﬁcantly higher new business stream, because we actually wrote more new
business. Organic growth in Non-life was higher. Signiﬁcant release of capital buckets, H1
to H2.
Eﬀectively, the SCR release was roughly stable, the EUF release was less. Why is that? SCR
release is stable. SCR was up a bit, but new business stream was also up. Net-net, the
release of required capital was stable. The risk writing release was a bit less. And on the
new business, we also write more new business margin. So, the new business stream
actually takes out a bit of it additional release of book (00:42:08).
And then, on the business cap generation, we saw actually during the year gradually
moving up technical results in Non-life (00:42:18) in the second half of the year. So,
technically underwriting results up; investment results, relatively stable; holding cost, up a
bit because of one-oﬀs, I think we disclosed that I think in our press release; and ﬁnally,
fee-based business, up versus last year, ﬁrst half a bit higher than H2, but not really
meaningful.
So, in that number, we can see a gradual decline of the UFR unwind, gradual decline of a
risk margin release, captured by an increase in SCR release, but new business stream may
hold back cap gen at this point. Obviously, we think it's a good point, because our Nonlife business clearly is value-creating. So, a new business stream on Non-life to us is often
a prediction of good results to come in the future.
And thirdly, on the business side of things, gradually improving technical results towards a
level that you expect it to be, irrespective of any storms; investment results, stable;
Page 12 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

holding cost, up by a one-oﬀ. So, it's a long story short for saying, multiply the second half
by two, probably yes. But I wanted to give you a little bit more clarity and detail on that.

FINAL

A - Jos P. M. Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

And on your second question, Farooq, on the combined ratio, the main driver that
inﬂuenced the combined ratio this year was threefold. First of all, we had a storm that
inﬂuenced the P&C combined ratio, negative with 2.1 percentage points. So, if and when
we wouldn't have such a storm or a comparable event in this year, that would be a
positive.
Secondly, the combined ratio of Generali portfolio is still not to the level where we want to
have it. We're working on that. So, that will deﬁnitely add some positive trends. And the
third driver in the combined ratio for Non-life is in absenteeism. As Chris said, we have
added some reverse because of the trends – the underlying trends we have seen in
sickness leave in this area. If that doesn't need to happen again in the ongoing year, then
your assumption that we would return to the level within our targeted combined ratio, the
answer to that question is clearly, yes.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Chris H. Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Okay. Farooq, and to your dividend distribution point, we said in our Capital Markets Day,
the threshold at which we will distribute capital through a supplementary additional
distribution to shareholders is when the solvency ratio is 200 and something. That's kind
of where we got to. And that something depends on where the market is and what the
economic situation is. To that point, we will, of course, take out some of the, for example,
lesser economic factors like VA support by spread wide in Italy. A new government in Italy
should not improve our solvency, but actually it does.
So, when I say I adjust for Italy eﬀect, I adjust for the tax eﬀect, that means that the
underlying solvency, the kind of more economic solvency moves towards 200%, which
means in the absence of M&A, in the absence of deploying a capital to a large extent in
value-enhancing activities, we get to the point that we meet this 200-and-something mark
of economically justiﬁable capital. And then, I think it's fair to engage in a debate with our
shareholders whether we should deploy it and in what way.
So, I think we are getting there. But again, if there would be ways to deploy this capital on
a meaningful and value-creating way, in line with our investment philosophy and our
thresholds, that's probably a better use of capital to our shareholders. But again, I'm
looking at a situation where maybe in a year from now no M&A has happened and then
we might look at things diﬀerently.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Very candid. Thank you.

Operator
The next question will come from Cor Kluis of ABN AMRO. Please go ahead.
Page 13 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

FINAL

Good morning. Cor Kluis, ABN AMRO. Got a couple of questions. First of all, on your
investments in real estate, I think it went up by €0.5 billion approximately in half a year,
especially the category other funds. Could you elaborate a little bit on what the expansion
is there? And also related to that, if you've done some real estate revaluations in the
second half of the year? And if so, what was the size of that tuning that solvency ratio?
Second question is about the partial internal model, if you've been doing quite a few
acquisitions now, Generali, Loyalis, and who knows more, how actually are you looking to
paying that? I understand, of course, that you still believe the standard model is more
logical. You've been looking somewhat towards the PIM. The larger you are, it might have
more beneﬁts. Could you give some progress or what you think about it going forward
and if you have already some insights on that one?
And last question is about the solvency ratio. I thought that you said during your
performance that the solvency ratio of the market eﬀects rose by a few percentage points
year-to-date and the piece where you were talking about the ex-UFR of solvency ratio.
Could you elaborate a little bit on that, what's the solvency ratio was of markets eﬀects
separately year-to-date? Thank you.

A - Jos P. M. Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Chris?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Chris H. Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Yeah. On real estate – Cor, on real estate, yes, we are investing in real estate. If you recall,
the Investor Call we had in the summer, we said we think there's value or room to re-risk
and spend some money on capital on risky assets. The initial thinking now is possibly the
equities. We quickly adjusted of getting where equity markets were and given the real
estate opportunities that we saw. We are predominantly invested into Dutch domestic and
Dutch real estate, where we think those assets are in today's fundamentals, I think more or
less decoupled from global market generations.
I mean, never fully, of course, but trade wars, Brexit do not take away the shortage of
housing in the Netherlands. So, we're looking for asset classes that have their own
supply/demand dynamics in their own fundamentals. And if you allow me to walk you
quickly through where we are on real estate on the directs and the other funds, we invest
in high streets in our retail fund. Actually, we've got a very strict investment policy there.
We invest in high streets of the top 20 cities. And actually in those high streets, we look at
the best parts of those streets. And if you challenge our real estate people, they tell you
that the investible space in retail is less than 10% of the total retail space in Netherlands.
So, it's high streets in top 20 cities plus eﬀectively Albert Heijn supermarkets. And that is
kind of – our universe is about 10% of the universe in the Netherlands. Vacancy rate today
is 1.4% in those high streets.

Page 14 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

FINAL

Then, we've got an oﬃce strategy, again, very strict. We invest in oﬃces that are in walking
distance from train stations. So, it's actually literally 750 meters away from an intercity
station and 500 meters away from a non-intercity station, and that's literally the
investment guideline that we have. Vacancies are less than 5% in those oﬃces and ﬁlling
actually rapidly. And again, that investable universe, within walking distance from train
stations, obviously is less than 10,000 square meters is – or at 10% to 12% of the investable
oﬃce universe in the Netherlands, so again, a very focused strategy.
Then we have residential housing. We invest in middle-income housing meaning average
monthly rent is €922. The bulk of our business is between €700 and €1,200. So, it is
actually aﬀordable housing where there is real shortage. I mean, it's estimated that the
Netherlands has 230,000 too few houses at this point in time, 230,000 houses or
apartments. We're building 70,000 a year, and we need 100,000 a year. So, the shortage
is increasing by 30,000 a year.

Bloomberg Transcript

We didn't mean that house prices can't go down, but we think they're really well
protected. Vacancies are less than 2% as well. I know it's got a land portfolio which is 80%
agricultural positions. And eﬀectively, it is leased – it's leases to farmers with land as
collateral. That is the heart of the investment portfolio and our strategy is very core, very
disciplined on a very small focused investment universe and don't do anything outside.
That actually drives our investments in real estate.
On the sites, we do a couple of funds. We've invested in a few housing funds in the
Netherlands by some of the larger housing asset managers, simply because they came
available and we got to buy them relatively cheap and we want to add housing
experience in the Netherlands. And we've done a little bit in Europe, you can see we've
partnered with BlackRock on the European core funds where we can act as an anchor
investor in those funds. And as an anchor investor, you tend to have relatively good terms
in terms of fee, in terms of core decision rights, in terms of our co-investment rights.
So, we have a small portion of, what I call, other which is funds by other investment
managers. Often it's actually supplementary to our Dutch real estate business and there
are some European exposure to it. That is actually at the heart of our real estate portfolio.
And if you look at the total risky assets, the increase in real estate actually is a mirror
image of the decrease in equities. Eﬀectively, we moved out of equities into real estate.
And we think at this point in time that is a more protected, more robust investment
strategy.

A - Jos P. M. Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

And on your second question, Cor, where are we on the discussion on PIM. Let me put it
this way, PIM is a good friend, but still at a distance. We have added Generali and Loyalis,
but that actually didn't change the proﬁle of the company. So, from that perspective, there
is no direct reason to invite PIM to live with us. We, however, have said before that if and
when we would do a large transaction, that would be the ﬁrst moment to reconsider that
view. And from that point in time, we would need two to three years to implement it.

Page 15 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

So, currently, we prefer to implement the acquired businesses to get IFRS 17 done and not
spend too much time on implementing a partial internal model. However, if the future of
the company would – in terms of proﬁle, would become diﬀerent than it is today, then we
would reconsider that viewpoint.

FINAL

A - Chris H. Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Cor, to your point of what happens, what are the market movements that went through
our solvency, market movements, back to your solvency in a couple of points, you can see
declines in your own funds as the market value of your asset decline. You can also see a
compensating decline in required capital, because if your own funds – if your assets value
declines, the required capital also declines and then there is the VA.

Bloomberg Transcript

If you net own funds and requite capital, excluding the VA to adjust what happened to the
asset classes, and if the VA had moved, we probably would have lost around 5 points of
solvency, which is kind of minus 2% to 3% for equities, minus 2% in credits, minus 2% in
sovereigns. And then, on real estate, our valuations were plus 3% in the year. So, that
gives you a net of minus 3%, minus 4% on market movements. And that is then
compensated by an increase in the VA, of which a part is the equity eﬀect which we see.
We take it as it is. It's great to have solvency go up, but there is a known economic
component to it. But think about gross eﬀect minus 5%, which is minus 3%, minus 4%
which includes AR in the 3-percentage-point revaluation of our real estate business.
Now, how do we do real estate valuations? All our assets are physically revalued once a
year. So, basically, we have a quarterly process. Every quarter, we do a 25% of all our
buildings and objects are visited in person and the remaining three-quarters is – have a
desk revaluation based on the physical revaluations and based on market trends and in
the next quarter another around. So, every asset, every piece of brick and mortar is visited
in person by a valuator once a year. So, every asset is being revalued once in person
during the year.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

And the year-to-date developments?

A - Chris H. Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

On what, sorry, Cor, real estates?

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

No, on the market movements because you said...

A - Chris H. Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

2019, you mean.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Yeah. That's correct.
Page 16 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

A - Jos P. M. Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

FINAL

Relatively stable. Sorry. The market is up, so that's a plus. VA down, I think net-net neutral.
I mean, the VA moved down a bit. I think it's good that there's some area of the VA – some
of the Italy eﬀect actually appears to be disappearing. So, I think year-to-date, market
eﬀects were relatively neutral with the decline in VA countering the positive revaluations
on equity markets and the contracting spreads.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Wonderful. Thank you. Very clear.

Operator
Our next question will come from Ashik Musaddi of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi. This is Ashik here. I'm using Jackie's (00:56:29) line. I have a few question if I may. So,
ﬁrst of all, I mean Chris, you mentioned about the business operating capital generation,
just the ﬁrst bucket of the three. I mean, I look like that there's a signiﬁcant increase from
€118 million in the ﬁrst half to €289 million, that's like a 50% increase in second half. So,
what's driving that such a big jump, because I mean you have reduced your equity
exposure as well? So, any thoughts on that would be great.
Secondly is if I look at your remittance for the full year, it was €395 million, which if I look
on your full year operating proﬁt before Holding company costs, it's around 70%. How
shall we think about this remittance, I mean, because you're releasing capital from back
book as well, Non-life is all cash business, so shouldn't this number be more like 80%,
90% or even 100%? So, when shall we expect this number to move towards operating
earnings?
And thirdly, I think, Jos, you mentioned about you want to maintain a strong balance
sheet after M&A, but then at the same time you mentioned that going to PIM may take
two, three years. So, without PIM, how would you deﬁne a strong balance sheet
immediately after an M&A? I mean, any sort of metrics you can give like, okay, this is the
Solvency II ratio. It should be above this, et cetera, any thoughts on that would be great?
Thank you.

A - Chris H. Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Okay. On the ﬁrst one, on the business cap gen, you're right, it increased. There was a
small restatement, which we explained in the Capital Markets Day, Ashik.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Chris H. Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}
Page 17 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

It has to do with the reclassiﬁcation of risk margin, the €118 million moves to €130 million
on a restated basis, and €130 million is then comparable to €153million.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay.

A - Chris H. Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

The €23 million really is the improvement in underwriting results, by and large.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Then, it's okay, yeah.

A - Chris H. Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It's eﬀectively no storm, but a bit more larger claims in H2. And then that's what it is, yeah.
On the remittance, I mean, Ashik, our policy is, we don't need to hold cash at the Holding.
That's been our policy and I understand that it may deviate from some other market
practice, but we feel very strongly about it. Holding cash is a function of holding costs, so
you want to – what we keep at the holding is 1 times the operational holding cost of full
year holding cost plus the committed dividends. So, that means, if we were not able to
upstream cash at Holding, we could then pay Jos and my salary for a year, and other
Holding people as well.
So, it's one year Holding cost plus dividends. The remainder we keep in our business as
long as the business yields an attractive return. And if you look at the ROEs, the return on
equities of our business – and I may dwell a bit, but I think it's important. In Non-life, the
return on equity with around 10%, 10.3%, but excluding storm, if we haven't had the storm,
the Non-life ROE would have been about 13%, operating ROE. The Life operating ROE is
about 13%, 12.7% to be precise. So, our businesses create ROEs that exceed the cost of
capital.
So, we feel comfortable keeping the cash in those businesses. If we want to, if we need to,
we can upstream. So, every year, as I said, it's kind of mechanical. We say what – and are
your Holding costs plus dividend commitments. That's what we want to have at Holding. If
we were to, for example, distribute more cash to our shareholders through increased
dividends or special buybacks, then we'd upstream the cash, keep it at Holding until we
distribute. That's the model we work. So, there's no impediment to upstream in cash. It's
just our policy that we keep our cash in the business not at Holding.
As to your point, what does a strong balance sheet look like, or what do you want to have
for a strong balance sheet? I think today we have a strong balance sheet, and we said, in
terms of leverage, in the Capital Markets Day we outlined 35% is a ceiling that we could
live with. Not that we need to strive for where we would could live, we would leverage up
to 35%. Above 35%, you need to have a very good cost and you want to bring it back. So,
moving it to 30% would give you suﬃcient room to absorb an increase of 35%, but levers
at the 35% would be variable and consistent with a A rating.
Page 18 of 32



FINAL

Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

In terms of solvency, solvency today is very strong. We don't need to hold 197% per se,
but it depends a bit on the situation at hand. I think what we want to have is make sure
that solvency and UFR of 2.4% is safely and signiﬁcantly above the 120% and you want the
solvency as is to be able to absorb the decline in the UFR. The declines in the UFR to 3.6%
and then still be safely above 160%. So, I work my way back technically saying, hey, look,
our management lever is 160%, the UFR is going to decline, I want to make sure that I can
absorb this UFR decline, add that back to 160% because it's a small buﬀer, and that's kind
of the lower limits for which you want to run a standard model solvency and still claim to
have a robust balance sheet.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah. That's very clear. Thank you.

Operator
Our next question will come from Johnny Vo of Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. Hi, guys. Thanks for allowing me to ask my question. Just a ﬁrst question, I noticed
that there's an extra senior loan of a bit over €105 million that you've issued since the halfyear stage. Was that issued at the Holding company and what was the purpose of that?
The second question is, just can you give us an update on – I mean, I think you've given a
little bit of an indication on the reﬁnance of the bridge loan that you took out for Loyalis.
So, can you give us an update on when you hope to reﬁnance that bridge loan?
And the third question is, just in regards to the €200 million of debt that is due to mature
this year. Are you still committed to paying that oﬀ, or will you look to reﬁnance that? And
just one more ﬁnal question, just in regards to the dividend payout. I know you listed the
dividend payout now to 48%, but how do we determine where in the range of between
45% to 55% you're likely to go with that dividend payout? Thank you.

A - Chris H. Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

On the senior loan, that's actually very opportunistic. It's a holdco loan. At the end of last
year, we said that our Holding cash target is €394 million, so literally, Johnny, we had
ready to upstream on a push of a button €100 million from the Life business. And then we
found that a couple of banks who were really awash with cash wanted to oﬀer us Holding
ﬁnancing at negative yields. So then we felt, I can fund it myself at negative yields or I can
take out cash from the Life business where the ROI is north of 12%. And we thought
having a negative yield ﬁnancing could be hard to resist. Really opportunistic but negative
yields ﬁnancing at holdco, the beneﬁt from...

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Is that Chris?

Page 19 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

A - Chris H. Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

...the amount of cash – yeah.

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah. So, just on that then the remittance that you say is from the Life business of €300
million and whatever, €100 million of that is actually a senior loan that you've issued?

A - Jos P. M. Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

No, no, the remittance (01:03:51) is in the bucket other.

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Oh, it's in the other. Okay. Fine.

A - Chris H. Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Yeah. So, that's in there. So, the €395 million is actually what is really remitted from the
Life business. The bucket other – yeah, the bucket other contains a senior loan from
another bank minus holding cash payments, minus during the year the injections that we
made in the Generali businesses as well. But actually the €395 million is actually what is
actually upstream in cash from the Life business. Okay?

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thank you. Yeah.

A - Chris H. Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

On the bridge, I mean we haven't taken out the bridge yet, because the deal with Loyalis
needs to close. The terms and conditions are all committed, are aﬃrmed. If and when the
day comes Loyalis closes, we will take out that bridge, which I assume to be early May. If
we look at the timetable which we submitted the request for DNO by DNB at the normal
time period I think it's going to be early May for closing of the transaction and then we'll
take out the bridge.
In terms of reﬁnancing it, as I said, we have the option to use either Tier 1 or Tier 2
instruments. As we said at the Loyalis call, it requires a bit of a look-through on potential
M&A opportunity to determine which instruments you would want to use, because it
might be the case that you want to protect your Tier 3 eligibility for future capital synergy.
So, that means (01:05:20) Tier 1 or Tier 2.
However, Johnny, if you look at what happened in the second half of the year and you
asked us for formal Loyalis situation to it. We think that Tier 3 headwind that we have is
actually quite large, and it is estimated that if you were to issue a benchmark Tier 2
because they tend to come in benchmark sizes, you still have suﬃcient Tier 3 left.

Page 20 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

FINAL

So, we will keep our options open, but working hypothesis is that a Tier 2 at this point is
more likely than a Tier 1. It's cheaper, it's simpler to place and the Tier 3 headroom is
actually far insuﬃcient to capture any future capital synergies. So, base plan is Tier 2.
When will we do it? When the time suits, somewhere during the year, depends on market,
depends on preparation, and you need to be very opportunistic in it.
The bridge loan that Loyalis has a two-year maturity at reasonably attractive rates, so we're
not at all in a hurry to do that. When it comes to the tier 1s, Johnny, I can't commit to
conﬁrm whether we'll call them or not. That actually has a call date, an announcement
date at which we will make that formal decision.
Of course, it has a 10% coupon, so that call decision is probably relatively easy. But as
we've seen in the 81 markets, easy decision when it comes to calls no longer exists. But it's
fair to assume that we'll make the easy decision, but we can only make the decision, really,
when we get to that point. We have suﬃcient cash in the Life business to upstream and
reﬁnance at 202% solvency, it's so baked into our plans, so that's kind of what you
probably should expect us plan A, but we can only conﬁrm it when we get to that point in
October.

Bloomberg Transcript

As for the dividend payout ratio, interesting to note that our dividend payout ratio, there's
48% of our net operating proﬁt. It's about 65%, 66% of our OCC. It's about 80-something
percent of our business cap gen. If you look at our business today, it is not a law, but I
would think that you should be very careful not to commit to dividends that exceeds your
business cap gen, okay. If you want your capital to be supported by release of your book,
at some point, the release of book will be over, right.

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Chris H. Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

So, I think it's fair to assume that your business cap gen should – your business generate
should drive your dividends. Interestingly, which is pure coincidence, but sometimes
things work out nicely. If you were to move dividends today to €283 million, that will
exactly be a 55% payout ratio today. So, I think if you look at the business as it is today,
we're committed to €45 million. As ASR is today, you could move it to €283 million and be
still in line with your payout ratios. Where will the payout ratio move? We'll be very careful.
We want to make sure that our dividend never goes down. We want to be the quality
stock and behave it's a quality stock that are investors expect from us. So, we want to have
a safe and gradually moving-up dividend. And we'll set our payout ratio in line with that.

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator

Page 21 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

Thank you. We'll now take our next question from Albert Ploegh of ING Bank. Please go
ahead.

FINAL

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. Albert Ploegh, ING. A couple of questions, maybe coming a little bit
back also the previous questions on the dividends, and I heard what you said, Chris, on
linking it with cap generation. But when looking at your Capital Markets Day planned
2019-2021, in terms of operating earnings, it seems you're pointing towards something
like 2% to 5% growth, again, without any bolt-on M&A. And I think the OCC growth
probably, as of this year's basis, probably around 3% CAGR as well. So, stable and
growing, should we then link also your, let's say, base case dividend growth in line with
something like a 3% to 5% or, as you now already did 7% and you expressed quite some
conﬁdence in 2019, that would be a little bit on the conservative side. So, maybe you can
grow by 5%-plus. So, maybe a little bit of color there still.
And then, two small questions on outlook, if you like, on Life and Non-life. On the Life,
your operating earnings were €664 million, ﬂagging €10 million's kind of one-oﬀ but, I
guess, let's say, the Capital Markets Day guidance was some kind of ﬂattish outlook,
excluding this €10 million is still a reasonable starting point and again, excluding any bolton M&A impacts there? And on Non-life, I think if you add back the storm, you're basically
reporting something like €175 million operating earnings level. Is this also a good starting
point? So, is this reﬂecting, let's say, what you would say a normalized level of large claims
in that kind of ﬁgure as a starting point for our models? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jos P. M. Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Albert, this is Jos. Let me start with the last questions. That's the most simple one to
answer. And that yes, the €175 million, I think that's a number that we would recognize and
not argue that that you have seen it wrongly. On your ﬁrst question on dividends, I think
the scenario you painted is not an unrealistic one. Let's call it the debate scenario.
However, including your summary, you said, well, not counting with all kind of acquisitions
you do, in the meantime, we have done Loyalis.
So, we will add Loyalis to our potential dividend stream. So, I think the way you
mentioned it is the best-case scenario, but running the company based on the best-case
scenario is not as exciting as building a franchise. We keep on building the franchise and
looking how we can deploy capital in the most eﬃcient way to investors, but let's assume
your numbers could be the base case.

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

Okay. And then, on the Life outlook?

A - Chris H. Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Albert, on the Life outlook, I think our Life earnings were supported by the inclusion of
Generali. I mean, Generali really added a fair amount of proﬁt to Life business, both from
a re-risking, but also from a mortality and technical-result perspective. If you allow me to
give a little more color on Life, investment margin was up by €37 million, both actually in
Page 22 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

FINAL

absolute terms and in relative terms. The capital gains release was down a bit. We did
actually ﬁne. I mean, the quality of the earnings goes up. We think that is a reasonably
sustainable level.
Generali, the few one-oﬀs but I think your debt level is probably reasonably sustainable.
On the technical result, it was down from 99% to 90%, mostly due to the decline of the
book, some one-oﬀs, and reasonably okay on technical results, assuming to be relatively
stable here with the twist, a tendency to decline as the book runs oﬀ. Cost results, it was
24% to 26% stable. I think the movements that we see today in our cost base will allow us
to keep our cost base stable. I think both technical result on cost may have on the long
run some headwinds because the book that declines every year may have seen a bit up
from that. Although, the short-term outlook is relatively favorable and on the investments
income, the €37 million is probably really sustainable.
So, to make a long story short, I'm okay with keeping the Life earnings where it is. If you
want to be conservative, take the average that we have for 2017 and 2018. That's probably
a reasonable estimate for Life earnings going forward.

Q - Albert Ploegh

{BIO 3151309 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you for the details.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. We'll now take our next question from Robin van den Broek of Mediobanca.

Q - Robin Eduard van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning, everybody. My ﬁrst question is on the ﬁnancing of M&A. You basically
connect that to hybrids. I was just wondering also in the line of the remittance ﬂexibility
you seem to have. Surely, the excess capital within your units are not generating the
return on equity of the average, I was just wondering to what extent could the remittance
power of your subsidiaries become a ﬁnancing source. And at what cost would that
actually come? That's my ﬁrst question.
The second question is on Generali Nederlands. Could you give a little bit more
indication on the path – I think you mentioned €10 million, €20 million, €30 million from a
net perspective when you did the deal. I think you said that re-risking should come on
top. For Life, you have €30 million sustainable growth already. So, can you tell us what's
going right there and to what level should we expect this to grow on a revised basis?
Then, thirdly, I'm still a bit confused on the guidance for OCC. I think said 193 times 2
basically is reasonable. And in the answer to that question, I didn't get whether Loyalis
probably still needs to come on top of that and potentially also the further improvement
of Generali. Could you talk a little bit more about the operational building blocks rather
than the technical ones? Thank you.

Page 23 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

FINAL

A - Jos P. M. Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Robin, thanks. On the source of ﬁnancing, look, indeed we could remit cash out from our
operating entities and use it to ﬁnance acquisitions. The cash is not idle at the operating
entities, I mean, eﬀectively, it's invested. It supports the business, but eﬀectively, the
surplus cash is invested. At the Investor Day, asset classes that – we look at that surplus
capital and the investment, I want to make sure it's invested to do assets and asset class
add some value to our shareholders, value from a return perspective, and value from a
sourcing perspective.
Do you think about the Life business where surplus capital is mainly invested into
mortgages and real estate because those are assets that we can uniquely source, most of
our shareholders cannot source mortgages or Dutch real estate themselves. So, we add
value by sourcing those assets and we add value by creating value with the return of
those assets. So, I think it may be the simplest return on the marginal euro in the Life
business, not 12-point-something percent, but it's certainly above 10%.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, it would be very cost – it yield the investment in our Life business. Could we upstream
it? Yes. Honestly, Robin, any acquisition, I would need to look at the balance sheet of what
you acquire and take a NewCo approach. So, there is no impediment as such to upstream
cash from the Life business. But if you were to acquire, for example, a Life legal entity with
a solvency of 156%, if they can do it to countries, ultimately you want to merge it to Life
entities.
So, to me, it's more a function of what does NewCo look like and how do you construct a
balance sheet of NewCo that is robust, solid and can withstand any market generations.
And then, we'd solve around that. That means there is no impediment to upstream cash
for Life. But it starts with what do you want your target balance sheet to look like and then
work your way back?
On the OCC, any old numbers that we've guided to our ex-Loyalis, we still don't oﬃcially
own Loyalis. The ownership of Loyalis only come early May. So, the Loyalis results will
probably kick in and count for 7, 12 of the year. So, what we guide to today is ex-Loyalis in
93 times 2 is I think a reasonable guidance. There could be a bit of upside indeed if the
Generali Non-life performance growth could be improved, but also the renewal of the
Generali P&C portfolio takes place on commercial basis. So, we've double up technical
migrations like the Generali P&C portfolio, we will renew commercial.
We basically means that everybody with a Generali policy gets an ASR policy return,
which means it takes about 12 months for that to take place. So, some of it will happen
during the year, the ﬁrst half, some of it in the second half. So, the Generali Non-life
operating improvement will gradually kick in and fading during the year. So, I'll be
hesitant to add a huge number to that. So that's why I'm saying 193 times 2 is probably a
good estimate if you look at what's happening underlying.
Then, on the Generali earnings contribution, I think the operating result contribution
actually is quite large this year. It's around €40 million, to be quite precise. It contrasts
with the €10 million, €20 million, €30 million prediction that we had. Delta 1 is a core T
Page 24 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

FINAL

investment result, so the €10 million, €20 million, €30 million is the operating result
contribution, not so much the investment results. So, there isn't an investment element to
it.
Secondly, there's a one or two, what I'd say, non-recurring elements more PPA eﬀects,
purchase price accounting eﬀects in the Generali numbers that I would not see as
recurring. So, the recurring level of the Generali earnings contribution this year, exinvestment portfolio, is probably on the €25 million to €30 million mark. I think that's
reasonable to assume and that we should be able to grow, to grow further.
And I think, what this all tells is that the Generali beneﬁts will be achieved, certainly earlier
than planned and probably go up a bit higher than planned, not double. So, the idea of
€10 million, and €10 million expected, €40 million achieved, does not mean we're going
to go multiply the numbers by four, but it's earlier than planned and it's going to be a bit
more than planned.

Q - Robin Eduard van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Okay. And then, maybe on the OCC generation, I mean your market risk is still I think, at
43% compared to 50%, where you feel comfortable. I think your re-risking assessments
always takes place at the end of last year, I guess, any conclusions there?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Chris H. Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Conclusion for now is, we think our market risk is stable. I mean, we need to be a bit
opportunistic here. I think you expect our market risk to be broadly stable. I feel
comfortable in today's volatile markets with only 43% in market risk and be a bit away
from the 50% in today's environment.

Q - Robin Eduard van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

So, no new – no re-risking plans?

A - Chris H. Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Nothing major. Certainly less than what we did last year.

Q - Robin Eduard van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
We'll take our next question from Steven Haywood of HSBC. Please go ahead.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody. Thank you. On your 2019 to 2021 targets, which one of these
targets, do you think, is going to be the hardest medium-term target for you to achieve?

Page 25 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

And then secondly, I wondered if you can give us a update on the process or how you're
ﬁnding, getting a new member for the executive board? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Jos P. M. Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Thank you, Steven. I think all the targets we have set are realistic and doable. Otherwise,
we wouldn't have set them. I think the most challenging one will be combining proﬁtable
growth in the Non-life area and at the same time, keeping up the combined ratio in the
lower sides of the set target of 94% to 96%. I think that will be most challenging, because
that is all also set by market developments' competitive behavior, and I think that will be
the most challenging one from a managerial perspective.
The other ones like the €40 million in the in the capital light business, as reported, we are
close to delivering that in a sustainable way. We delivered a bit more this year, but said
also that in the business of the distribution, we already know that the commissions will go
down a little bit, because all the insurance companies like ourselves have lowered the
commissions on mandatory agents. That will inﬂuence that number a little bit, but it's not
going to be challenging to move towards the €40 million. So, all in one, we feel conﬁdent
that we are able to deliver on those targets. However, it will be hard work.

Bloomberg Transcript

On your second questions, where are we in selecting a new board member. We've seen a
number of candidates of which we are quite enthusiastic. We are in the middle of the
process. And hopefully, within a number of weeks, we can take a decision on the right
candidate. But as you may know, then we have to take DNB hurdle. And normally, a
process at DNB for new people takes around two to three months. So, hopefully
somewhere in May, we can be clear on this.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Okay. That's great. Thank you very much.

Operator
Our next question will come from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please state your name before
posing your question.

Q - Benoît Pétrarque
Benoît Pétrarque.

Operator
Your line is open.

Q - Benoît Pétrarque
Hello?

Page 26 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

A - Jos P. M. Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Benoît, go ahead.

Q - Benoît Pétrarque

FINAL

Yeah. Hi, guys. Sorry. First one on the side on business capital generation in H2. I think
you've done €163 million (01:24:19-01:24:25)

A - Chris H. Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Benoît, can you repeat your question? We could not hear your question actually. The line
is pretty bad. Benoît, can you please redial because perhaps you would have a better
connection and then we can hear you. So, operator, can we go to the next question
please?

Operator
We'll now take our next question from Mr. Andrew Baker of Citi. Please go ahead.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

My question. So, just on the debt side, can you give me a little bit more detail on how you
guys are thinking about interest coverage? So, I know you have the minimum level which
is 4 times, but what's the level that you'd actually be comfortable running the business out
there?
And then just on Solvency II, can you give a quick update on where we are on the
standard – Solvency II standards formula review. So there were three elements I think
impacted you guys, so the interest rate risk shock, the government guarantee mortgages
and LAC DT. I think the interest rate risk has been pushed out to 2020 review now. Are
you still expecting the beneﬁt from the government guarantee mortgages? And I don't
think you changed your LAC DT assumption in these results today, correct me if I'm wrong
there. So, is that still a potential beneﬁt to come through? Thank you.

A - Chris H. Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Okay, Andrew, it's Chris here. Thank you. On the interest cover, the A target rate is 4 times
to 7 times. We want to be safely A, so assuming we want to be at the upper end or above
the 4 times to 7 times. I think if you were to move to 4 times in today's environment, you'd
be pushing it in terms of your rating and I think at today's amount of debt, you'd have a
humungous amount of debt in order to get to a 4 times interest cover. So, I think north of
4 times to 7 times.
And allow me just to full clariﬁcation purposes on the debt and reﬁnancing side.
Although, yeah, as we said, we'll ﬁnance it with the hybrids, we'll pre-ﬁnance with the
bridge, we'll just issue a bridge which is a senior and then that gives us time to optimize
the hybrid capital situation, pick the instruments and pick the moment we need to issue
the instruments. And hybrid today can become relatively – or bridges can become
relatively cheap.
Page 27 of 32



FINAL

Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

On that, in terms of picking the instrument we chose, we will weigh potential future M&A
and protect our capital eligibility. We said (01:27:00) you wanted to have more clarity on
the (01:27:04) situation because that's why that we want to issue a Tier 1 or Tier 2. The new
insight we have this year is that our Tier 3 capital is actually quite large. Loyalis at Tier 3, so
actually we have less need to wait for that situation to evolve, because basically that we
can do with Tier 2 anyway and still have suﬃcient capital headroom to absorb ineligible
capital by someone we acquire. So, that means plan A is probably get Tier 2 instruments
and actually, we've gotten more ﬂexibility to do that.
On top of that, there is the call option under Tier 1 instruments which we have in October.
We can and will only make that decision at that point in time. It's fair to assume or to
expect that we could it if you look at the coupons, but we can only and will make a
decision at that time, and we have got plenty of cash in the Life business to upstream cash
to do that. So, in practice, think about Loyalis, is a hybrid with a bridge allowing us to pick
and choose the moment to issue the hybrid at the most attractive rates for our
shareholders and then there is the reﬁnancing of the Tier 1s, which we will do in principle
out of existing cash from the Life business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, that all together will be taken to one funding plan, but that's the way how we think
about it. I just want to make that very clear to all of you. And in terms of interest cover, 4
times to 7 times is what these A rating stipulates. We want to be on the upper end, we
want to be a very safe and sound A credit. So, think north of the 4% to 7% – or 4 times to 7
times cover.
When it comes to the Solvency II review, interest rate delta has been pushed out a bit. The
impact of that is limited. Our interest rate risk is small. Actually our rate exposure has
declined in the second half of the year. So, I think that is something that's going to be –
could be a small negative but relatively small because interest rate also has weak
exposure has declined. Movement to – recognizing that non sort of government
guarantees energy mortgages is a small plus.
And on LAC DT, it's kind of neutral to a plus in a sense that we've been very conservative
on our LAC DT assumptions, LAC DT usage. We have actually increased the life factor a
tiny bit from 70% of potential to 75% of the potential in this last half year, which is still not
full. I mean, we could take it further than that if we really wanted to max out the model.
We could take the life factor up by a fair amount.
Today, the use of what I would say the future proﬁt component in LAC DT substantiation is
still relatively small. It's less than a third of the potential that's included today. So, Life went
up to €75 million a tiny bit. We will be unaﬀected by the LAC DT review because the
element that the LAC DT review refers to are actually not used by us. So, that means LAC
DT neutral, upside left, government guaranteed mortgages plus interest rate risk could be
a small minus. But that's what we thought before because we've tightened interest rate
risk.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Very clear. Thank you.
Page 28 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

Operator
The next question will come from Matthias de Wit of Kempen. Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning. I've got two questions remaining, please. First one is on the 2019
earnings guidance. You mentioned that you want to obtain results similar compared to
the one in recent years. Just wonder does that include Loyalis? Also, yeah, I'm a bit
surprised by the ﬂattish guidance, because of the growth we see in Non-life, the Generali
synergies coming through, et cetera. So, can you be a bit more precise on that, please?
And then, the second question is on M&A. I think you mentioned in the past that you're
targeting return of at least 12%. Does that incorporate any beneﬁts you could get from an
internal model that could lower the requirements of the target, or would you not be
willing to share those in calculating these hurdle rates? Thanks.

A - Jos P. M. Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

On the earnings guidance, Matthias, I think the message we try to bring across is that we
are very conﬁdent that we can keep on running ASR as it is on the base on the healthy
business. So, as said, if and when we wouldn't have a storm like we had last year, that
would be a plus in our earnings. And the guidance we have given, that does not yet
include Loyalis. As Chris already said, we don't own that business yet, so we haven't
included that into our guidance.
On the 12%, the answer can be very brief and short. That's a no. That's based on how we
look at our solvency today and how we calculate our today's numbers. And I think we
have been clear on the partial internal model. If and when we would do a large
transaction, we would start to build that model and to add it to ASR. But in assessing
whether a transaction is a good transaction, we should not yet take into account any
potential further movements towards an internal model.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Okay. That's clear, Jos. Thank you.

Operator
We will now move to our ﬁnal question from Benoît Pétrarque of Kepler Cheuvreux.
Please go ahead.

Q - Benoît Pétrarque
Yes. I mean, thanks for taking my questions. The ﬁrst one was on the business capital
generation in H2, €153 billion. It's up only €4 million versus H2 2017, also despite the
consolidation of Generali, strong Non-life earnings in H2 2018, also better Asset
Management and Distribution earnings. So, I was wondering if you'd comment on the

Page 29 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

FINAL

kind of increase H2 2018 versus H2 2017, especially if there's any kind of one-oﬀs on the
Life capital generation, I would be interested by that.
The second one was on the premium growth outlook in Non-life for 2019. I think you've
done like (01:34:01) underlying this year. Could you talk a bit about your outlook on the
growth and also on pricing? And the last one was on the re-risking, since exposure to
ﬁnancials at €4 billion especially in H2, so it looks like you've taken opportunities in the
market in the fourth quarter. Could you maybe come back on that, what's your plan here
to re-risk going forward? Thanks.

A - Chris H. Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Yeah. Benoît, on the ﬁrst question, on your business cap gen, H2-to-H2, so the second half
of 2017 to second half of 2018, plus €14 million, basically what happened there is a
combination of things. So, technical result up, but also we had somewhat larger –
somewhat more large claims in the second half of the year. So, in our P&C business, we
see in the absence of storms, the bulk claims ratio falling, claims frequency is actually
below that of last year and going down, large claims were up, so we had a little bit more
higher large claims in the second half of the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Secondly, for that last year, we had slightly higher hybrid costs because of the RT1
ﬁnancing we did last year, and we had a slightly higher Holding cost, and those are oneoﬀs, as Jos said, a one-oﬀ Holding cost metric, one-oﬀ Holding costs that ﬁt in.
So, in the year-on-year comparison, for the last six months of the year, bulk claims ratio,
much better; excess returns, up a tiny bit, compensated by higher larger claims and
higher Holding cost and some higher hybrid cost. That explains the delta between
second half of last year and second half of this year.

A - Jos P. M. Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

And Benoît, on your question on growth and pricing, let me start oﬀ with pricing,
especially in the P&C and Non-life area. We still see price increases. The market still is
hardening and is getting better, but I don't think we're yet there, especially in car
insurance, I think the combined ratios are not at a level where they should be. So, we
expect and we will raise our prices ourselves also over the next few months we expect a
further price increase in the P&C business.
If I take out the storm and ﬁre insurance, then I think the results are satisfying, but still
room for improvement in terms of pricing. So, we expect that prices will go up slightly not
as fast and as high as we have seen over the last 18 months. But there will be continued
price increase in Non-life. In terms of growth, if I take a look at how the year started, we
are conﬁdent that we are able to deliver on our growth objectives, especially in the P&C
and Disability business.
P&C continued in the same pace as we closed the year, so still lots of new business. Same
for the Disability business, positive developments in terms of new projection there. And
also in the Pension DC, which we aim at – we still see the same trend as we have seen over
Page 30 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

the last year. So, we're conﬁdent that we will be able to deliver the growth base
organically that we have delivered over the last 12 months.

FINAL

A - Chris H. Figee

{BIO 18815839 <GO>}

Yeah. Benoît, to your third question, the investment portfolio, you indeed see some
increase in ﬁnancials. Actually, in the second half of the year, when spreads widened
especially on the banking sector, we added short-dated with others value in relatively
short duration ﬁnancials. All investment grade, as you can see, the non-investment grade
hasn't barely moved. So, it's basically it's short-dated, subordinated-paper quality banks.
That's exactly where it is. So, BBB and up, subordinated paper by quality banks in
relatively short durations we saw from a return of capital perspective. That's where we saw
value after the spread widening in the second half of the year and those don't consume
that much of a capital. So, that explains actually the movement in ﬁnancials.
Maybe one ﬁnal point to make on guidance on the coming year, we talked about our
business cap gen, we talked about our organic capital generation, we talked about
multiplying numbers, ultimately, there are a number of moving factors in this. Multiplying
H2 by H2 is a safe bet with all the rightly conservative way of looking at our solvency
generation. We know we'd like to under promise and over deliver. We will try to do that,
continue to do that. Multiplying H2 times is always a good idea. It gives you probably the
ﬂoor and the lower end of what we can deliver next year. That's the number we can
probably conﬁrm to you and you know as – when we conﬁrm to a number then often we
try to outperform that.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, I'll give back to Jos for some ﬁnal words of wisdom.

A - Jos P. M. Baeten

{BIO 2036695 <GO>}

Yeah. I think I couldn't spread more wisdom than you would have done in your last
comment. So, thanks for joining us and, hopefully, you'll feel that we are very conﬁdent in
how the company runs at the moment, the business is doing well. People at ASR are
happy, so we are very conﬁdent to keep on delivering the results as we have done before.
And we look forward to meet some of you in due time. Tomorrow, we will start our road
show in London, and I believe Michel and this team have invited some nice people to
have dinner with us tomorrow night. And then, we can continue to discuss ASR and the
market in a broader way. Thank you for being with us, and I wish you all a very nice and
good day.

Operator
This concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
Page 31 of 32



Company Name: ASR Nederland NV
Company Ticker: ASRNL NA Equity
Date: 2019-02-20

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 32 of 32

