Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2019-10-30

Q3 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Keith McCue , Senior Vice President, Finance and Investor Relations
Kevin J. O'Donnell, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Robert Qutub, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President

Other Participants
Joshua Shanker, Analyst
Meyer Shields , Analyst

Presentation
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the RenaissanceRe
Third Quarter 2019 Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a
listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer
session. (Operator Instructions)
I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Keith McCue. You
may begin your conference.

Keith McCue

{BIO 20595590 <GO>}

Thank you. Good morning. Thank you for joining our third quarter 2019 financial results
conference call. Yesterday after the market closed, we issued our quarterly release. If you
didn't receive a copy, please call me at 441-239-4830 and we'll make sure to provide you
with one. There will be an audio replay of the call available from about 1:00 PM Eastern
Time today through midnight on November 30th. The replay can be accessed by dialing
855-859-2056 US toll-free or 1-404-537-3406 internationally. The passcode you will need
for both numbers is 6787756. Today's call is also available through the Investor
Information section of www.renre.com and will be archived on RenaissanceRe's website
through midnight on November 30th, 2019.
Before we begin, I'm obliged to caution that today's discussion may contain forwardlooking statements and actual results may differ materially from those discussed.
Additional information regarding the factors shaping these outcomes can be found in
RenaissanceRe's SEC filings to which we direct you.
With us today to discuss results are Kevin O'Donnell, President and Chief Executive
Officer and Bob Qutub, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Page 1 of 14



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2019-10-30

I'd now like to turn the call over to Kevin. Kevin?

FINAL

Kevin J. O'Donnell
Thanks Keith. Good morning and thank you for joining today's call. I'll open with a
discussion of our third quarter performance. Bob will then highlight some of the quarterly
results. Finally, I will address our segments and the loss activity for the quarter before
taking your questions.
This was an active period for natural disasters globally. In September, Hurricane Dorian
devastated Bahamas which is still in early stages of recovery. In Japan, Typhoons Faxai and
Hagibis had caused widespread wind and flood damage throughout the Tokyo region. We
extend our sympathies to all those impacted by these catastrophes and are working
closely with our customers to quickly pay claims, which we hope will aid in rebuilding and
recovery efforts.

Bloomberg Transcript

We released our earnings last night and we performed well given the large loss events of
the third quarter, reporting annualized return on average common equity of 2.8% and
annualized operating return on average common equity of 1%. We grew our book value
per common share by a little less than 1% and tangible book value per common share plus
accumulated dividends by just over the same amount. Year-to-date, we have grown
tangible book value per common share, plus change in accumulated dividends by 17.1%.
Although this was an active quarter, I remain pleased with the growth and profitability that
we achieved so far this year. Looking forward, I remain optimistic about the market and
sustainability of recent rate increases. Bob will discuss the estimated net negative impact
of Typhoon Hagibis on our fourth quarter results and obviously I will touch on its impact
more extensively during our next call. (inaudible) Hagibis was somewhat weaker than
Faxai, but it's wind-field was much more extensive. While Hagibis tracked over much of
the same territories as Faxai, it's angle of incidence brought it further inland for a longer
period of time. It also dropped an enormous amount of rain on to mountainous territory
with some areas receiving over 37 inches in 24 hours. This resulted in extensive flooding,
devastating mudslides and multiple dam failures. We think Faxai will approach a $10 billion
industry event and Hagibis will be approximately $15 billion. In total, during the past two
years, 10 tropical cyclones that made landfall in Japan. So in aggregate, Japan has
experienced upwards of $50 billion of insured loss from the recent storms. I raised these
Japanese Typhoon losses now, because they highlight several issues our industry
continues to struggle with; climate change, deficient modeling, poor underwriting, lost
creep and trapped capital.
2017 and 2018 with the largest back to back loss years for insured natural catastrophes in
history. In 2019, it's continuing the trend. With Dorian coming within 90 miles of Southern
Florida landfall, it could have been much worse. We believe that the frequency and
severity of natural catastrophes has increased. Our team of scientists, meteorologists and
engineers at our weather predict subsidiary are studying this issue and while it is difficult
distinguish between permanent climate change from transient climate variability and over
ever expanding body of scientific research suggests that these trends are in fact manmade with each additional record breaking hurricane, typhoon, flood and fire, the
Page 2 of 14



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2019-10-30

FINAL

evidence continues to amount that we live in a world where climate change is influencing
the frequency and severity of catastrophes.
If correct, this trend will not revert to the mean, it will continue to worsen. The insurance
industry needs to adapt to this new reality. Climate change will make extreme events
more frequent and more severe. We can expect an increase in wind and rain risk from
tropical cyclones. A higher proportion of storms will reach extreme category four and five
wind levels. Sea level rise, driven by climate change will increased storm surge and as we
are currently experiencing the extraordinary trends in California wildfire will persist with an
expected increase in annual Northern California burn area.

Bloomberg Transcript

From my point of view, the market is missing the point on the mounting influence of
climate change on catastrophe risk, rather it remains focused on the impacts of social
inflation. Social inflation undoubtedly remains a problem, one which I have addressed on
multiple occasions and for the last several years that has materially increased on
(inaudible). Having had the cat, social inflation makes the loss worse, but it does not make
the cat any stronger or any more likely. Until recently the damage functions of most cat
models have not sufficiently captured the impact of social inflation and that is one of the
reasons for substantial post event loss. I believe the social inflation trend is now more
accurately reflected in increased dam functions and cat models.
On the other hand, it is becoming more and more evidence that the relatively inactive 10year period prior to 2017 was an extreme outlier. The current frequency and severity of
catastrophic events are more typical and are being driven by climate change. Unlike social
inflation, climate driven frequency and severity changes affect the hazard function of cat
models. They make the cat stronger and more likely. I'm not convinced that industry
hazard functions reflect this new reality. One of the advantages of having an independent
view of risk is that we are quickly able to adapt our proprietary models to reflect this
climate paradigm. For example, our internal models reflect storm surge and wildfire at
levels well above all vendor models.
Before handing the call over to Bob, I wanted to point out that it has been one year since
we announced the TMR acquisition. Bob will speak more about TMR. So when I think about
what we set out to do, I couldn't be happier with our progress against our goals in such a
short period of time. To-date, the renewal of the TMR book has gone as expected and
we are optimistic regarding our prospects for the January 1 renewal.
Moving on, I'll discuss our business segments, recent losses and future opportunities in
greater depth. But first I'd like to turn the call over to Bob to update us on our financial
performance. Bob?

Robert Qutub

{BIO 15269353 <GO>}

Thanks Kevin and good morning everyone. Today we'll discuss our consolidated financial
performance for the quarter, review our segment results, the investment portfolio returns
and then our capital activities. Starting with our consolidated results where annualized
return on average common equity was 2.8%, benefiting from mark-to-market gains in the

Page 3 of 14



FINAL

Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2019-10-30

investment portfolio, on an operating basis, we posted annualized operating return on
average common equity of 1%. We reported net income for the quarter of $37 million or
$0.83 per diluted common share. Our operating income was $13 million or $0.29 per
diluted common share, which excludes $32 million of net realized and unrealized gains on
investments attributable to shareholders and $4 million of transaction, integration and
compensation expenses associated with the TMR acquisition. We had underwriting loss
for the quarter of $3 million and reported an overall combined ratio of 100.4%. Net
premiums earned for the quarter were $907 million, up $375 million or 70% from the
comparable quarter last year. As with the second quarter, this growth is a combination of
organic growth and the impact of the TMR transaction. We recorded in operating income,
net foreign exchange losses of $8 million this quarter. While we do experience quarterly
volatility in our FX positions, our practices to hedge material exposures and year-to-date,
our FX losses in operating income are less than $2 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

As a reminder, we incurred non-controlling interest adjustments related to our fully
consolidated joint ventures, primarily DaVinciRe, Medici and Vermeer. This quarter, we
reported $62 million in profits attributable to non-controlling interests compared to $6
million in the comparable quarter last year. Of the $62 million, $31 million relates to
DaVinciRe, $15 million to Medici and $16 million to Vermeer. And Vermeer rights risk
remote US business, so it was not affected by losses this quarter. Medici is a cap owned
fund that enjoyed a strong quarter relative to last year. And finally, DaVinciRe experienced
$35 million of prior year favorable development, mostly from wildfire subrogation
recoveries.
Reinsurance recoverables were down $427 million versus the second quarter. This largely
reflects collections for prior year losses in the quarter. We accrued $4 million in income tax
expense this quarter, mostly related to capital gains in our investment portfolio. We now
have multiple balance sheets located in taxable jurisdictions and as these businesses
generate profit including investment income on their invested assets, they will be subject
to income tax.
Now before moving to our segment results, I'd like to briefly update you on our
operational efficiency. For our direct expenses, which are the sum of our operational and
corporate expenses, totaled $67 million for the quarter, which is down from $84 million in
the second quarter or a decrease of $17 million. This downturn expense trend
demonstrates our continued progress on synergies related to the TMR acquisition.
Adjusting for the impact of the $4 million in the transitional TMR costs incurred during the
quarter, direct expenses would have been $63 million.
Moving forward, once you back out transitional TMR costs, our corporate expenses are
running about $10 million per quarter. As I previously discussed, direct expenses have
been increasing as we invest in the business and integrate TMR. I am pleased to report
that the ratio of the direct expense to net premiums earned improved this quarter to 7%,
driven by higher levels of net premiums earned relative to our operational expense base.
And finally, there is a brief update on TMR where we remain on track to realize anticipated
synergies on TMR expense base. We continue to project an after-tax earnings run rate

Page 4 of 14



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2019-10-30

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

contribution from TMR of at least $100 million. And by January 1st, we will have renewed
more than $700 million of TMR premium.
Now moving to our segments and starting with our Property segment. Property gross
premiums written in the first quarter grew by $13 million or 4% over the comparative
quarter to $314 million. This growth was driven by an increase of $123 million from other
property with a large component of that amount from TMR. Gross premiums written in
property cat declined by $110 million due to timing differences and the renewal of the
large bespoke deal we booked in the third quarter last year. In total, our Property
segment reported an underwriting loss of $8 million on a combined ratio of 101.7% in the
third quarter with Property catastrophe reporting a 90% combined ratio, and other
Property reporting 116% combined ratio.
We reported $155 million in net negative impact due to the 2019 catastrophe events. This
broke down to $103 million from Typhoon Faxai and $52 million from Hurricane Dorian. Cat
losses has also impacted both current and prior year development in our other property
class of business with 20 points of the current year loss ratio attributable to Hurricane
Dorian and the 13 points of prior adverse development coming primarily from
catastrophes. We reported a low percentage of ceded written premium for the quarter.
This was largely driven by $26 million in negative premium adjustments related to a thirdparty capital fronting business we acquired from TMR, which serve to decrease both
growth and ceded premiums by that amount. After normalizing for this adjustment, we
ceded about 32% of net written property premiums for the quarter, which is consistent
with the comparable quarter last year. I should also briefly mention Typhoon Hagibis. We
currently estimate that it will have a net negative impact of $175 million on our Q4 financial
results. We also continue to monitor the California fire as well as the tornadoes in North
Texas.
Now moving on to the Casualty segment, where our gross premiums written were up
$222 million or 69% in the third quarter of 2019 over the comparative quarter. This reflects
a good mix of organic growth and the contribution from TMR. We reported underwriting
income of $4.5 million and a combined ratio of 99% for the quarter. The current accident
year loss ratio for the Casualty segment was 69%, which was 5.4 percentage points
higher than the prior year quarter. As you know, TMR brought us more traditional casualty
business with higher average loss ratios and you are seeing this reflected in the numbers.
As Kevin will discuss, we are seeing positive rate trend in this business as we renew.
And moving to fee income, where total fee income was $32 million for the quarter. We
had $25 million of management fees and $7 million in performance fees. Relative to the
second quarter, our fee income was down, which is due to the reduction of performance
fee income, driven primarily by the third quarter 2019 catastrophe events in the structured
reinsurance product.
Turning now to investments, where for the quarter, we posted total investment results of
$146 million, which includes mark-to-market gains of $32 million. The return on our fixed
maturity and short-term investments was $98 billion and overall net investment income
was $114 million. Net investment income was down $2 million from the second quarter due
to lower yields. Of the $114 million of net investment income, roughly one-quarter was
Page 5 of 14



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2019-10-30

FINAL

attributable to third-party investors. For example, the majority of the $23 million in other
investments relates to our Medici cat bond fund, but we fully consolidate the Medici given
our minority ownership we only benefit from 14% of its results were $3 million. We
distinguish our investment results between our managed investment portfolio and our
retained investment portfolio.
Our retained investment portfolio is a subset of our managed investment portfolio and
only includes those assets that contribute to our net income. As a reminder, our managed
and retained investment portfolios include our fixed maturities and short-term
investments, but exclude our equity investments and other investments, as well as
investments in other ventures. In the third quarter, our managed investment portfolio
reported yield to maturity of 2.2% and duration of 2.8 years on assets of $15.5 billion, while
our retained investment portfolio reported yield to maturity of 2.3% and duration of 3.5
years on assets of $11.1 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

The significant fall trade renewals in the first half of 2019 continued into the third quarter,
which has led to a decrease in the managed portfolio yield. of about 100 basis points
year-to-date. Our returns in 2019 have been strongly supported by the fall in treasury
yields. Unfortunately, this near-term relatively strong performance may act as a drag on
future earnings as the yield on the portfolio has declined. For the quarter, we grew our
total investment portfolio by $561 million. This growth was driven mainly by the $427
million of reinsurance collections for prior year losses.
And now ending with capital management. During the quarter, we increased the size of
our flagship balance sheet, Renaissance Reinsurance Limited by $250 million to bring total
phase capital to $2.25 billion. Increasing the size of this balance sheet following an M&A
transaction is consistent with past practices, such as following the Platinum acquisition as
in line with recent premium growth. We did not repurchase any of our shares during the
third quarter. Our priority has always been to deploy capital into the business. Moving
forward, I anticipate additional opportunities to deploy capital into the business, which is
consistent with our previously stated preference.
And with that, I'll now turn the call back to Kevin for more details on our segments.

Kevin J. O'Donnell
Thanks, Bob. I'll divide my comments between our Property segment of our Casualty
segment, starting with property. We have now passed all the major renewal dates for
2019 and the vast majority of the 2019 underwriting book has already been written.
Consequently, this is at the time of year, when we pivot to prepare for the January 1st
renewal season. On balance, we face a positive set of opportunities. Our client and
broker engagement remains strong due to the platforms and teams we have built. As
we've discussed, one of our key strategic advantages is our ability to continue to deliver
shareholder value under any market condition.
Bob touched briefly on the financial impact of the recent catastrophic events and I'd like
to provide some additional details related to these losses. Starting with Hurricane Dorian.

Page 6 of 14



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2019-10-30

In August, Dorian stalled-over the Bahamas with sustained winds speeds of 185 miles per
hour, making it possibly the strongest land-falling Atlantic hurricane on record. Dorian
subsequently tracked up the South East Coast, eventually making landfall in the Outer
Banks of North Carolina. It will take many years for the areas of the Bahamas worst hit by
the storm to recover and we currently estimate the industry loss will be around $5 billion.
Typhoon Faxai made landfall in Southern Tokyo on September 9th with wind speeds in the
range of a strong cat two. The wind (inaudible) measured during its passage were some
of the strongest recorded in Tokyo in modern times, because 930,000 power outages
with some lasting as long as two weeks, over 42,000 residences were damaged. And as I
mentioned, we currently estimate the industry loss will be around $10 billion. I should
highlight that we are in the early stages of our estimation process for the Japanese
events. As I've discussed in the past, we typically take both a top-down and a bottom-up
approach to loss estimation. Currently however, we have limited information from our
Japanese customers, restricting the bottom-up approach. We also expect that the
interaction between typhoons Faxai and Hagibis will exasperate demand surge and
complicate claims adjusting. Consequently, our estimates are subject to a higher degree
of uncertainty.
We continue to monitor development on prior year event, specifically those related to
2017 and 2018. As anticipated, there has been some movement with 2017 developing
favorably and 2018 adversely. But in the end, they were roughly offsetting and in
aggregate however, we saw a favorable development in the Property segment this
quarter. There has been a lot of speculation in the market about wildfire subrogation and
it's expected impact on results. We do not book recoveries in anticipation of possible
subrogation payments, but rather wait for such payments to be more definitive. Even if
we receive a subrogation recovery however, its impact on our financial results is likely to
be minimal. Our retrocessional benefit from subrogation payments just as we do and a
large fraction of each dollar recovered will likely belong to our partners.
A number of factors are positively impacting property insurance pricing. The primary
property insurance market is experiencing healthy rate increases due to enhanced
underwriting discipline, broadly deployed by primary end markets, recognizing the need
rate to improve results. Retro program losses combined with prior year adverse
development in trapped third-party capital are leading to a decrease in supply. Losses in
the second half of this year will only accelerate this trend. This will likely result in a higher
price retro market in 2020. The reinsurance market sits between these two spaces. Our
view is that reinsurance rates must increase as well. Reinsurance price increases are
lagging both primary and retro, ultimately however arbitrage opportunities do not persist
in competitive financial markets. Reinsurance will not lag the improving insurance markets
for long, because if it does, markets will further shift resources to writing better rated
retro in E&S until a new equilibrium is achieved.
Given these market dynamics, we expect that we will grow our invoice [ph] retro book, we
will grow access to E&S insurance and other property business. Our core reinsurance
business will realize price increases. And if rates start to move up, we will grow. We will
likely buy less outwards [ph] retro consistent with our past practices of exposing more of
our capital as rates improve. We continue to execute on our gross to net strategy and as
we contemplated our ceded placements we recognized we will need to pay more for our

Page 7 of 14



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2019-10-30

FINAL

coverage. While we maintain strong relationships with existing capacity, we are not in a
need to buy a position we will offer renewal with our retrocession areas, but we will do so
in a disciplined manner. We also have the option to sell protection and have access to
multiple forms of efficient capital to do so, such as our Upsilon joint venture. As I said, if
the rate environment develops as we expect, we are likely to shift to be a larger seller of
retro.
Our market leadership in third-party capital management is a large part of the reason we
can pivot effortlessly from buying to selling retro. We're one of the largest managers of
capital and have a long and successful track record. For us, the current environment is an
opportunity. We are already seeing a flight to quality with investors deploying [ph]
managers to demonstrate superior underwriting and modeling capabilities as well as
strong governance practices. I expect this trend will accelerate in 2020.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to other Property. We reported 116% combined ratio in other Property this quarter.
Year-to-date however, our other property business remains profitable. As Bob discussed,
our performance this quarter was due to catastrophes. Other Property is and always has
been exposed to catastrophic events. We distinguish between Property CAT and other
Property based primarily on how we take risk. Expected loss ratios in other Property are
also generally higher as we are taking both cat risk and attritional exposure as opposed to
just cat risk and the catastrophe class of business.
Moving now to Casualty. We grew our Casualty segment gross written premium by 69%
year-on-year in the third quarter. Well over half of this growth is due to the TMR
acquisition. The portfolio which we acquired from TMR has enabled us to increase our
participation on desirable business that is aligned to our risk appetite oftentimes
deepening our relationships with existing clients. The impact of social inflation on the
Casualty business has been receiving a lot of attention lately and deservingly so. It affects
many aspects of casualty. Although commercial auto and excess casualty have been
ground zero with med mal and public D&O also experiencing difficulties. For example, the
US commercial auto industry experienced adverse development of over $2 billion in 2018,
which was the seventh year in a row of aggregate adverse development. Similarly, the
excess the casualty market is seeing higher frequency of high severity losses. There has
been a trend towards large US jury verdict which have increased to unprecedented levels.
Individual jury awards between $100 million and $200 million are becoming increasingly
prevalent. Something has definitely changed for the worse and its impact is strongly
resonating in the casualty market.
From our perspective, we have largely avoided who have been reducing our exposure to
the classes of business that have been most impacted by social inflation. For example, we
have limited exposure to commercial auto except for what we acquired from TMR which
we have been actively and materially reducing. We have similarly reduced our relative
exposure to excess casualty and it constitutes less than 5% of our Casualty segment
premium. In 2015, we began shifting our professional liability portfolio away from public
D&O and more toward transaction liability. And as a result, we are more insulated from
the trends in the D&O market. In addition, approximately one-third of our casualty
reserves are from TMR and protected by the adverse development cover, providing us
additional layer of protection against both current and prior year adverse development.
Page 8 of 14



FINAL

Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2019-10-30

We approach casualty risks with the same focus on our three superiors as we have in the
Property segment, which has helped us to underwrite the most challenging business.
Superior risk selection in constructing our portfolio is particularly important as well as
diligence in how we monitor loss trends. Not all the casualty risks are creative equal, it
takes extensive underwriting expertise and robust benchmarking models to differentiate
among the best risks. Results are often not apparent for three to five years or even
longer. Because of this, we have invested in tools to track our performance at both the
individual deal as well as the portfolio level. These tools combined with the expertise of
our underwriters and actuaries have enabled us to spot trends early and as mentioned,
avoid the most troubling areas.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our integrated system is particularly critical as it takes coordination between underwriting,
pricing, claims and reserving to identify these trends early and act on them expeditiously.
It takes many years for differentiated results to emerge in a portfolio of long tail risk and
we believe our casualty portfolio will outperform over the long term. This portfolio is well
diversified but as such it is subject to risks for many types of losses. These losses range
from sharp losses from major disasters like Deepwater Horizon or the California wildfires
to systemic losses like opioids to changes in inflation, which can be correlated across
reserving classes. Our reserving actuaries use sophisticated monitoring tools to
determine our best estimate of reserves at any given time. While the ultimate effect of
social inflation will not be known for many years, we will continue to monitor loss
emergence across the portfolio and we'll make adjustments to IBNRs necessary to
maintain the balance of stability and responsiveness that is appropriate for actuarial
estimate. All of these proactive measures on our casualty book have resulted in stable
diversifying our earnings stream.
Supply and demand dynamics in Casualty look better now than in the previous quarter.
Supply is constrained with certain markets cutting back and fewer oversubscribed
programs. This is resulting in positive rate movement in the casualty market, double digit
in some cases and at least equal to trend if not exceeding it. We believe that we have the
scale and resources necessary to improve the profitability of our casualty portfolio going
forward and to take advantage of market opportunities that we are optimistic will present
themselves.
So I'm pleased with the overall performance this quarter. The bulk of the TMR integration
has been completed and the parts that remains continue to progress on target. While we
experienced multiple large catastrophe, these were earnings rather than capital events.
We are in a strong position going into one-one renewals and are approaching the market
as one company with a defined and consistent risk appetite. I'm extremely confident in
our talented team and our ability to capitalize on opportunities in the market. We remain
committed to executing our strategy as the most effective means to maximizing value.
Thank you.
And with that I will turn it over for questions.

Questions And Answers

Page 9 of 14



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2019-10-30

Operator
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Meyer Shields from
KBW. Your line is open.

FINAL

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

Great. Thanks. Kevin, I was hoping we could talk a little bit more about the worsening
trend in casualty lines in terms of when they actually started deteriorating and how much
exposure in let's say the pre-2015 public D&O book RenaissanceRe has?

A - Kevin J. O'Donnell

Bloomberg Transcript

Sure. Thanks for the question. It's difficult to put a specific time on when trends are
identified. These are first, they can look like just an early start on the curve. I would focus
our book with the growth that we were having in the book and the credibility we have
because of the size of the portfolios that we started noticing things probably as early as
2015. So I wouldn't say that there is a specific date that targeted and it's different by line
of business where if you look back, as I mentioned the classes that are most affected are
excess casualty and you know, I would say, excess casualty, was probably a little bit more
transparent in '15 but it was a couple of large events. So that was what I would say people
are referring to as the beginning of the higher frequency of high severity. Within the auto
and the D&O books. it's been a slower trend because the losses aren't as exceptional as
what we saw in '15. So I don't have a specific date, but it's not as if it's just in '17 and '18,
it's going back further than that.

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

Okay, that's very helpful. And I think (inaudible) really quickly. So there was more reserve
release in DaVinciRe than on a consolidated basis. Is there a different schedule for when
these vehicles reserves are reviewed?

A - Kevin J. O'Donnell
So, no for DaVinciRe. Remember that any risk that DaVinciRe and RenRe so by reviewing it
RenRe were the fact that we're reviewing it for DaVinciRe. The big difference in this
quarter is the subrogation payments that we received and the reason that those are
different is because we are within --those were specifically for California wildfire and we
are within a reinsurance protection layer within RenRe Limited, so our partners are
benefiting from the subrogation payment where in DaVinciRe our shareholders are
benefiting from the subrogation payment.

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

Okay, that's perfect. Thank you so much.

A - Kevin J. O'Donnell
Sure.

Page 10 of 14



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2019-10-30

Operator

FINAL

(Operator Instructions) There are no further questions at this time. I turn the call back over
to the presenters. We do have a question from Josh Shanker from Deutsche Bank. Your
line is open.

Q - Joshua Shanker

{BIO 5292022 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you very much. Thank you for taking my question. I was curious if I go back to
2004, 2005 when there was Charley, Ivan, Frances and Jeanne. And then next year, we
had Rita, Wilma and Katrina of course, it felt before the 2006 renewals that buyers felt
something had changed in the market. And I don't know, maybe it did, maybe it didn't. We
went through a decade without any hurricanes for a while, so who knows. Do you feel that
in conversations that there is a sensibility both with typhoons and maybe with wildfires
that something has changed in the market or at least I guess the fear factor, is there any - is it I guess in terms of the attitude on buyers?

A - Kevin J. O'Donnell

Bloomberg Transcript

It's a great question. I think let me talk a little bit about what happened in '04 and '05 and
I'll talk a little bit just to give my perspective. '04 and '05 are coming off a quiet period we
had obviously lots of storms in '04 and a couple of big ones in '05. With that the modeling
firms came out and substantially adjusted their hurricane models and that was reflected
through pricing and we all know what happened to the markets after those events.
What we're seeing now is increased frequency in the typhoon landfalls. There is always a
lot of typhoons going through the Pacific. I think the big difference is what you've touched
on is fear. I think there is an uncertainty as to why things feel different than they are and I
don't have a specific reason to point to. I think as time passes, the ability to see climate
change around the edges becomes more transparent. So I think that is a component of
the fear factor. I also think if you look at the wildfires and you look at what is forecast with
climate change and what is occurring in California, particularly the 2017 wildfires are kind of
a textbook example of future expectations. So I think there is just a general migration of
opinion from it being normal climate variability to this being something more substantial
and being man-made climate change. I think it's important for us to mention that it's manmade climate change because if it is just climate variability, one would expect that a
reversion to the mean for the curve. What we're seeing is or what we believe we are
seeing is that this is a permanent shift in the climate, a paradigm. And with that, there will
be no reversion to mean and what we're seeing now is likely to have normal variability, but
at an inflated rate.

Q - Joshua Shanker

{BIO 5292022 <GO>}

That's your view. Do you find that clients have that view as well? I mean obviously look you
have an incentive to want people to be concerned about these things. Do people want to
be concerned about these things?

A - Kevin J. O'Donnell

Page 11 of 14



FINAL

Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2019-10-30

I think everybody is concerned about these things. Whether it's reflected in the models,
this is a separate discussion. Two things I mentioned in my comments is that we hold our
wildfire curves and our surge curves associated with hurricane higher than any vendor
model. So yes, you can say that that is in our interest to do so, but ultimately we have one
view. We don't have near-term, medium-term views of risk. We have one view of risk that
we need to take into account when we think about exposing our capital and it's our best
estimate of where we think the world is and we think the world is at a higher level of risk
than what many of the vendor models are representing.

Q - Joshua Shanker

{BIO 5292022 <GO>}

Okay. And then one quick thing, you might have mentioned it earlier. I apologize there are
lot of calls this morning. Has your Jebi pick held over the past 12 months?

A - Kevin J. O'Donnell
So for the quarter, our Jebi pick, as mentioned there has been some movement. Our Jebi
was about flat on a net basis and going through time, our net Jebi numbers, our net
negative impact from Jebi has been -- there's always some movement, it's been
remarkably stable.

Q - Joshua Shanker

{BIO 5292022 <GO>}

Okay. I apologize for re-asking that question. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Kevin J. O'Donnell
No, that's fine. I appreciate the questions. Thanks, Josh.

Operator
(Operator Instructions). Your next question comes from the line of Meyer Shields from
KBW. Your line is open.

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

Thanks. This one is follow-up. And let me know if this is quantifiable. But given or -- is there
-- what is the catastrophe loss trend that emerges from your models currently on a global
basis or maybe in particularly vulnerable regions?

A - Kevin J. O'Donnell
Let me restate the question and see if that's what you're asking is, is when we look at
how our models have changed over-time, can we described that in the form of trend?

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

it's slightly different. When you look at what you -- I mean, looking at the current model
that I assume are the most updated, I assume that there is a level of assumed insured
loss increase because of the environmental factors. And I was hoping you could describe
that, you also quantify it.
Page 12 of 14



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2019-10-30

FINAL

A - Kevin J. O'Donnell
So it's a good question. It's a complicated question. So what I mentioned in my comments
is, if you break the model into the hazard and the damage function, the damage function
we think has done reasonably well, reflecting social inflation. So that means if my house is
damaged, how much is the cost to fix it and a component of that cost will be in Florida,
whether it's assignment of benefits (inaudible) we think that that's in the models. The
other side is, how likely is a catastrophe compared to the historic trend and then can you
measure the difference and assign it to climate change.
I think the way I would think about that it is it's difficult to parse between, as I mentioned
climate variability and climate change. What we do and built building our models is we
rather have false positives and false negatives in our model. So we are taking the view
that what we're seeing is likely to persist and we're adding non-historic components to
the model. So taking out a little bit more in a transparent and workable manner, if you take
Atlantic hurricane, we don't think Atlantic hurricane you can simply shift the curve higher or
move the curve to the right. What you need to do is think about how the variables
affecting storm will change the types of storm one expects to see. So as I mentioned, we
expect to see weather storms, we expect the frequency of cat fours and fives higher.
That doesn't mean the category one, twos and threes increase at the same rate as the
frequency of fours and fives. So it's a much more nuanced way to think about it, but it's
one in which I think recognizing if you're simply extrapolating from an historic curve, you're
-- we believe there is a miss-factor that doesn't contemplate the way the world is
changing with regard to climate change.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

Okay, that's very helpful. Thank you.

A - Kevin J. O'Donnell
Sure. Thanks.

Operator
There are no further questions at this time. I will turn the call back over to the presenters.

A - Kevin J. O'Donnell
I've done the call for many years and this is the first time we finished so quickly. So
hopefully we answered all your questions and provided the transparency you deserve. I'd
like to say thank you for joining the call and we look forward to speaking with you next
quarter.

Operator
This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

Page 13 of 14



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2019-10-30

Page 14 of 14

