Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

Q4 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Paul Norton, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Philipp Gmür, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Ralph-Thomas Honegger , Chief Investment Oﬃcer
Unveriﬁed Participant

Other Participants
Frank Kopﬁnger, Analyst
Jonny Urwin, Analyst
Kevin Ryan, Analyst
Peter D. Eliot, Analyst
René Locher, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Full Year 2018 Results Conference Call and Live
Webcast. I am Ira, the Chorus Call operator. I would like to remind you that all participants
will be in listen-only mode, and the conference has been recorded.
The presentation will be followed by a Q&A session. The conference must not be
recorded for publication or broadcast. At this time, it's my pleasure to hand over to Mr.
Philipp Gmür, Group CEO. Please go ahead, sir.

Philipp Gmür
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to our analyst conference and the results of
the 2018 ﬁnancial year. I am pleased to welcome you here today at MoneyPark oﬃces in
Zurich. I'm going to explain to you why we have chosen this venue when we go into the
agenda.
Within the next 45 minutes, we would like to give you detailed information on our
business development and the key ﬁnancials of the reporting period. Following my
introduction, our CFO, Paul Norton, will go through the ﬁnancial ﬁgures. Then I would like
to give you an update on the implementation of our strategy, helvetia 20.20. After my
presentation, Paul Norton and I, as well as our Chief Investment Oﬃcer, Ralph Honegger,
will be pleased to answer your questions as always.

Page 1 of 20



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

FINAL

For those of you who are here in Zurich, we have then prepared two (00:01:34) concrete
used cases to show how our strategy is being implemented. Together with Martin
Tschopp, our Head of Corporate Development; Stefan Heitmann, CEO of MoneyPark; and
Pier Campopiano, CEO of smile, we want to present our vision and the current status of
the "Home" ecosystem and the innovative oﬀerings of smile, our own digital insurance
company. That's why we meet here where the business is going on and it's not in a ﬁvestar hotel as usual.

Unveriﬁed Participant
We're not used to ﬁve-star (00:02:11).

Philipp Gmür
On slide 4, I would like to share with you a brief overview of the main performance
indicators. Paul, will give you detailed information on the developments of these ﬁgures
later on. For the 2018 ﬁnancial year, Helvetia reports pleasing growth in business volume,
very good underwriting results in non-life, and a solid proﬁt.

Bloomberg Transcript

In 2018, we achieved the business volume at group level of just over CHF 9 billion. On a
currency adjusted basis, this represents an increase of 3.9%. The main growth driver was
non-life business which achieved almost 6% higher premiums year-on-year. The European
units as well as the market unit, Active Reinsurance, signiﬁcantly contributed to this
pleasing growth.
In life business, the business volume increased by 2.1% in original currency. This was
mainly driven by higher volumes in investment-linked products in Switzerland and in
Germany and by the Swiss group life business. Here, periodic premium in the
occupational pensions business increased by 4%.
Particularly noteworthy is the development of new business in this area. A signiﬁcantly
large number of customers choose the so-called semi-autonomous solution from
Swisscanto. Those products might give the customers more upside potential regarding
the interest yield on their savings. At the same time, those products are much more
capital eﬃcient for Helvetia. At CHF 431 million, the IFRS result after tax was above the
IFRS result of CHF 400 million in 2017. That's below the respective underlying earnings of
CHF 502 million in 2017.
The main reason for this was the weaker performance of stock markets, which was
reﬂected in both non-life and life business. In non-life business, the quality of the portfolio
is very good overall as reﬂected by the solid net combined ratio of 91%. All segments
were able to improve the next combined ratio year-on-year. I'm also pleased with the
development of new business in life. The new business margin remains stable compared
to 2017 and stands at 1.7%.
Both, in terms of combined ratio and new business margin, we continue to meet our
targets for the current strategy period. Helvetia continues to have a solid capital base and
Page 2 of 20



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

FINAL

the strong dividends capacity. Our strong positioning in combination with our proﬁtable
growth strategy creates added value for our shareholders. Due to the robust operating
cash production of CHF 290 million, the board of directors will propose to this year's
shareholders meeting to increase the dividend by CHF 1 to CHF 24, which gives us an
attractive dividend yield of 4.2%.
Aside from Switzerland, the European entities as well as specialty markets also contribute
to the group dividend. Above all, we are also making good progress in implementing our
strategy. I will come back to this later in the second part of my presentation.
With that, I would like to hand over to our CFO, Paul Norton, who will now provide you
with the most important information about the ﬁnancial ﬁgures.

Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Philipp. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to welcome you to our analyst
conference today. Within the next 25 minutes, I will give you more detailed information on
our ﬁnancial performance in 2018.
I would like to start with slide 6. We achieved solid IFRS results of CHF 431 million against
underlying earnings of CHF 502 million in 2017. As in the ﬁrst half year, the full year result
was also impacted by the ongoing bond amortization to par which is a pure accounting
eﬀect from the 2014 acquisitions. The bond amortizations amounted to CHF 16.4 million in
2018 after policyholder participation and tax. And the main reason for the low results was
the exceptional volatility in the equity markets at the end of the year. Our technical results
remained very strong indeed.
I'd like to turn to slide 7 with more details on the business areas. In the non-life business,
IFRS earnings amounted to CHF 332 million, against CHF 363 million underlying earnings
in 2017. While the technical results improved signiﬁcantly compared to the previous year,
the decrease was mainly driven by considerably lower investment result. We will have a
closer look at the non-life proﬁts by source in a few minutes on slide 10.
IFRS earnings of the life business stood at CHF 148 million. In addition to a number of
other eﬀects and particularly the impact to lower investment returns, the amortization of
bonds I mentioned before has a negative impact of CHF 12 million after tax and
policyholder participation. I'll provide you with details on the income streams on slide 12
later.
The result from other activities, which includes the Corporate Center, the non-insurance
activities of Market Switzerland such as MoneyPark and Deﬀerrard & Lanz slightly
increased compared to 2017. The rise can mainly be attributed to consolidation eﬀects
from the funds allocated to this segment. We will have a more detailed look on the proﬁt
sources on slide 15.
Let's turn to the segment results on slide 8. All segments delivered good results despite
the impact of the ﬁnancial markets. In the Switzerland segment, the IFRS result for 2018
Page 3 of 20



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

FINAL

was CHF 321 million. This includes a total of CHF 14 million of bond amortization net to the
tax and policyholder participation. In the non-life business, we achieved a technical result
compared to the previous year which once more underpins the good quality of the
portfolio. Investment result, however, was impacted by the weak performance of the stock
markets.
In the life business, lower expenses for interest-related reserve strengthening and lower
expenses for policyholder participation only partly compensated for reduced technical
result margin after costs and signiﬁcantly lower gains on investments. The ongoing
amortization of bonds to par has additional (00:09:43) negative impact of nearly CHF 12
million after tax and policyholder participation.
The segment result for Europe, which comprises the market units of Germany, Italy, Spain
and Austria, amounts to CHF 117 million against CHF 120 million underlying earnings in
2017.
In non-life, the improved technical results is oﬀsetting a weaker investment result. In life, a
lower expenses for interest-related additional reserves strengthening as well as lower
expenses for policyholder participation only partly compensated for a lower technical
result and a considerably lower investment results.

Bloomberg Transcript

The segment result for Specialty Markets increased to CHF 35 million. The improvement
was due to better technical performance as the last year was aﬀected by NatCat events,
(00:10:36) storms which more than oﬀset the lower investment result.
The Corporate segment includes the corporate functions and Group Reinsurance, in
addition to the ﬁnancing companies and the holding company. Its slightly improved result
to CHF 42 million beneﬁted from positive consolidation eﬀects from the funds allocated
to this segment.
I will continue with our growth and business volume on slide 9. In 2018, Helvetia Group
achieved a business volume of just over CHF 9 billion. This equates to a currency-adjusted
increase of 3.9% over the previous year.
In the non-life business, we achieved increase in premium volume of 5.8% in original
currency. The growth was mainly driven by Active Reinsurance where premiums increased
by 25.6% in line with our strategy. In addition, the European entities achieved 6.8% higher
premiums during the year in original currency showing growth in all countries and all lines
of business.
In our Swiss home market, we are able to increase premiums eﬀectively by 2.4%
compared to the 0.5% reported growth, which was distorted due to a one-oﬀ accounting
adjustment in 2018. In the life business, business volume rose by 2.1% in original currency.
The increase was mainly driven by a very good development of investment-linked
products for individual life in Switzerland and Germany. Business volume for traditional
life products decreased in line with our strategy.

Page 4 of 20



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

FINAL

Helvetia also recorded growth in the group life business, which can mainly be attributed
to Swiss group life business rising by 2.4%. Periodic premium increase of 4% in the
occupational pension business was satisfactory. Single premiums rose by 0.9%, which
shows that we are still pursuing conservative underwriting in the occupational pension
business in view of the low interest rate environment. Particularly noteworthy, however, is
the development of new business. In this area, capital-eﬃcient products, for example,
Swisscanto and BVG Invest showed signiﬁcant growth over the previous year.
Now, I'd like to look at the proﬁt by sources of the non-life business on slide 10. In 2018,
the technical result improved signiﬁcantly over the previous year due to a better claims
environment in the second half year and higher volumes. The investment result, net,
however, decreased by 47% compared to 2017 and was, therefore, the major driver to the
total decrease in net income. While 2017 was an exceptionally good year for the stock
markets, in 2018, equities declined signiﬁcantly.

Bloomberg Transcript

I would now like to move to the net combined ratio on slide 11. Group net combined ratio
was 91% in 2018 which is exceptionally good level and once again underpins the good
quality of our portfolio. It also once more meets our ﬁnancial strategy target of a net
combined ratio below 93%. The claims ratio improved by 1 percentage point to 61.1%. The
main reason was a better NatCat ratio. As I said earlier, if you remember last year, we had
quite a signiﬁcant impact from the hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria, as well as a better
attritional claims development.
Looking at the cost ratio, we were able to reduce the admin cost ratio by 0.4% points. The
acquisition cost ratio was higher year-on-year. The increase resulted from opening up new
distribution channels and new corporation agreements. On a segment level, system
showed an improved net combined ratio of 82.7%, thanks to better attritional claims
development and better run-oﬀ. With 95.1%, Europe also recorded a better net combined
ratio compared to 2017. The improvement was also attributable to good attritional loss
trends. All European markets achieved combined ratios below 100%. In the Specialty
Markets segment, the net combined ratio improved to 96.2% driven by our lower claims
ratio, as the last year was probably aﬀected by the higher NatCat events.
On slide 12, we have a closer look at the life business. In 2018, net income for the life
business was CHF 25 million below the prior year's ﬁgures. Looking at the proﬁt by
sources, the margin after costs decreased. First, is we positively emphasized that the fee
result increased compared to 2017, albeit at a low level. All of our proﬁt sources, however,
declined. The decrease in the savings result was driven predominantly by Swiss group life
business as the mandatory interest rates for retirement assets remained unchanged while
market yields declined. The lower risk result was also mainly resulted from Swiss group
life business as a consequence of a poor mortality result in the ﬁrst half year. In addition,
we had a positive one-oﬀ eﬀect in individual life in Switzerland from the previous year
arising from the National Suisse integration.
The other result was impacted by ﬂuctuations in the valuation of options for investmentlinked products. Over the lifetime of the products, these ﬂuctuations will even their sales
out. It should also be emphasized that in the savings result, this is where the amortization

Page 5 of 20



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

FINAL

of the bonds come through. So, you can see a minus CHF 40 million eﬀect to the year. So,
they're minus CHF 60 million which will impact that eﬀect – that result.
The gains and losses decreased due to the poor stock market performance. The
extraordinary result was aﬀected by the following eﬀects: As a result of the persistent low
interest rate environment, additional interest rate-related reserves strengthening was
necessary in Switzerland and in Europe although on a lower level compared to the prior
year.
In Switzerland, the necessary reserves strengthening to be ﬁnanced by the ending of the
industry-wide Teuerungsfonds, which resulted in a one-oﬀ release. The excess reserve
release not utilized to ﬁnance the reserve strengthening had to be allocated to the
policyholder participation fund. Expenses of policyholder participation were lower in both
Switzerland and Europe mainly due to reduced investment result. The two
aforementioned factors had a compensating eﬀect on the net income.

Bloomberg Transcript

I would now like to switch to new business which has developed very positively as you can
see from slide 13. New business is developing well. The new business margin remained
broadly stable compared to 2017 at 1.7%. In 2017, it was 1.8%. Despite having had to adjust
the risk discount rate due to high capital market expectations, which resulted in reduction
of the new business margin. However, product measures and improved assumptions in
the future development of new business largely oﬀset the impact of discount rate
adjustments. We also made further progress in shifting from traditional savings products
with interest rate guarantees to modern, capital-light products. At 1.7 %, the new business
margin is also above our target set within the Helvetia 2020 strategy.
I would now like to continue with the development of the interest margin on slide 14.
Direct yield in Switzerland and the EU declined compared to last year because of low
interest rates. In Switzerland, the interest margin went down when comparing 2018 with
2017. This is attributable to the following reasons. The direct yield decreased on the one
hand because U.S. bonds with higher coupons, but also higher hedging costs, will
replace (00:19:08) the euro bonds with lower coupons but also lower hedging costs.
As hedging costs are not included in current income and are therefore not considered on
cap rates and direct yield, this shift had a negative eﬀect on the numbers shown, although
not economically. The average technical rate, or the rate that we need to (00:19:29), also
declined. The main drivers here were the successful revision of our traditional product
portfolio and the focused sales of modern, capital-light products. Maturing insurance
contracts with high guaranteed rates is replaced by modern, capital-light products and
ﬁnding additional reserve strengthening. However, as the direct yield declines at a faster
rate than the average technical rate, the interest margin went down.
In Europe, the interest margin shows an increase from 0.49% in 2017 to 0.59% in the
current year. Here we see a sharp drop in the average interest rate Helvetia has to
generate in order to meet its obligations due to additional reserve strengthening and new
contracts with low guarantees replacing the old ones with a higher guarantee. As the

Page 6 of 20



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

average technical rate was dropping faster than direct yield the interest margin improved.
On a group level, the interest rate – the interest margin remain more or less stable.

FINAL

On the following slide, I want to provide you with details on the proﬁt for other activities. If
we look at the proﬁt by sources, the net technical result in group reinsurance increased
(00:20:43), resulting from a few large loss events in Europe to the group reinsurance.
The investment and FX result was higher year-on-year due to positive consolidation eﬀect
from our own investment funds. The costs and other results declined slightly. This can be
attributed to planned investments in the new brand image and marketing campaign and
business transformation activities which are in line with our strategy.
Slightly higher ﬁnancing costs resulted from high interest expense with our euro bond. As
the bond was issued in March 2017, interest expenses were only included for nine months
in 2017 compared to the full year in 2018.

Bloomberg Transcript

If you look at slide 16 on investments, we can see that the current income of CHF 987
million remained at prior year's level despite the persistently low interest rates. Realized
and book losses amounted to CHF 193 million mainly reﬂecting weak equity markets. The
Group investment result recognized an income statement, therefore, stood at CHF 794
million. Unrealized gains and losses recorded in equity decreased CHF 639 million due to
weak performance by equity markets, higher interest rates in the U.S., and high credit
spreads. Total investment performance therefore was 0.3%.
As a result of the development of the capital markets, investments with market risk for the
policyholder decreased by CHF 216 million.
On slide 17, you can see the investment result broken down by asset class. The ﬁrst table
shows the performance of the total investment portfolio. About two-thirds of the current
income of CHF 987 million came from bonds and mortgages which contrary to CHF 537
million and CHF 86 million respectively in absolute terms. Dividends accounted for CHF
75 million, investment property for CHF 243 million. Realized and book losses and
investments amounted to CHF 193 million, reﬂecting weak equity markets. As already
mentioned, unrealized gains and losses decreased by CHF 639 million.
The lower half of the slide shows return on new and reinvestments. In 2018, the total new
or reinvestments amounted to CHF 4.8 billion. Almost 85% of the funds were allocated in
euro and Swiss franc ﬁxed income securities; the remainder (00:23:25), mortgages,
equities and real estate. Due to increased hedging cost reinvestments in U.S. dollars, as a
result of higher interest rates, the portfolio was partially reallocated to reduce the weight
of the American currency. The average return on new investments totaled 1.5%.
On slide 18, I'd like to provide you with some details on the SST ratio. As you can see on
that slide, we have revised our target range from formerly 140% to 180% to a new 180% to
240%. We will publish the 00:24:04 SST ratio as of 1st of January, 2019, with the disclosure
and the ﬁnancial condition report, the so-called (00:24:13) at the end of April. I can
already state today that the ratio as of 1st of January was about 200%.
Page 7 of 20



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

FINAL

The new SST models that have been introduced in 2019 will have no negative impact on
the SST ratio overall. They diﬀer in some important structural elements from our old
internal models. Therefore, we seem them to be more volatile in particular respect to
increases in credit spreads. The higher volatility, however, is reﬂected in the adjusted SST
target range.
The resilience of our capitalization will remain unchanged. We expect capital coverage to
increase and SST ratio to remain comfortably within the revised SST target range.
Slide 19 is the dividend per share. With regard to the dividend, our strategy, as I'm sure
you're aware, is to increase dividend year-on-year. Thus, the board of directors will
propose to the shareholders' meeting to raise the dividend to CHF 24 per share. This
corresponds to a dividend payout ratio of 58% based on the IFRS result which is above
our target ratio of 40% to 50%. The dividend yield is what we believe an attractive 4.2%.
On the next slide, you will see that the dividend is fully covered by our strong cash
production, which means it is ﬁnanced out of the operating business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Looking at slide 20. Helvetia passes virtually all operating cash production it is able
(00:25:52) to generate right through to its shareholders. We have the advantage that
many of our foreign operations are branches of Helvetia Insurance Company in St. Gallen,
which makes capital very fungible.
All operating companies are subsidiaries of Helvetia Insurance Company. It receives cash
remittance by the entities and passes the part designated as dividends for our external
shareholders on to Helvetia Holding, which pays the dividends out. You can see that on
an IFRS basis, the individual market units remit a substantial proportion of their IFRS
earnings to the Group.
I'd like to ﬁnish my presentation with our new disclosure on the net economic dividend
capacity on slide 21. On this slide, we really show you, for the ﬁrst time, what we call the
Net Economic Dividend Capacity, the NEDC. This number reﬂects free available capital at
the balance sheet date that can be used for dividends or growth purposes.
The NEDC is the free capital available to be dividend out to shareholders. It is primarily
deﬁned by a local statutory accounting distributable equity on the legal entity by a legal
entity basis. I would like to emphasize here that the Group IFRS equity and Group SST
surplus and, to some extent, individual market units' solvency surpluses are virtually
irrelevant in the calculation of what can or cannot be paid as dividends by the Group. This
is because these metrics include non-distributable valuations gains and other similar
items, and the deﬁning factor of the dividend capacity is usually local statutory
distributable equity at each legal entity. The NEDC is determined by the available free
local equity, net of dividends and other capital eﬀects such as capital decreases or
increases. Our available free tied assets over insurance technical liabilities, including a
small security buﬀer, in legal entities where such tied asset requirements still formally exist
or are required by the prudent person principle. Surpluses deﬁned by local solvency
requirements, i.e. SST in Switzerland or Solvency II in Europe, at each individual legal
Page 8 of 20



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

FINAL

entity level. Group considerations such as Group SST and S&P rating only play a minor
role. And ﬁnally, our own capital buﬀers on top of SST and Solvency II requirements in
order to balance volatility of own funds or required capital, e.g. from investments, as well
as additional buﬀers, e.g. to fund growth or to reﬂect restrictions in transferability of
funds.
Please note that on this slide, we discussed NEDC for the 2017 ﬁnancial year. The starting
basis to calculating this ﬁgure is as you can see SST risk bearing capital. 2018 numbers will
therefore only be available when the visual is published in April. We'll give you an update
on this ﬁgure with our visual presentation that will be available on our website at the end
of April. However, we can broadly say that we have approximately CHF 500 million of
additional dividend capacity above the dividend we're going to pay out this year and we
are continuously looking to optimize its capacity.
And on that note, I will now hand back to Philipp Gmür.

Philipp Gmür

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Paul. Ladies and gentlemen, let me add a word to our share. It's price in
absolute numbers is rather high. The board of directors will propose to the Annual
General Meeting of our shareholders to split our shares by one to ﬁve. Thus, we want to
make sure that Helvetia remains an attractive investment not only for institutional
shareholders but also for private persons.
Now, in the last part of the presentation, I would brieﬂy like to share with you what we
have already achieved last year with regard to our strategy implementation. I start on slide
23. With our strategy, helvetia 20.20, we aim to create value for our key stakeholder
groups, customers, employees and shareholders. We are achieving this by strengthening
our core business, expanding and tapping into new sources of revenues as well as
promoting targeted innovation.
As you can see on this slide, we have made good progress in strategy implementation
both in Switzerland and Europe. We successfully strengthened our core business by
launching new simple products that are tailored to the needs of our customers. I am
thinking in particular of cyber insurance coverage which we have introduced both in
Switzerland and in Germany or our own funds product in Switzerland which now enable
our clients to beneﬁt from our longstanding investment expertise.
In the sales area, we have further expanded the B2B2C channel via INZMO. Specialist
dealers can quickly and easily oﬀer suitable insurance coverage for their products in
Switzerland. In Italy, we successfully expanded our bank distribution channel. Finally, in
Spain, we are cooperating with a broker specializing in motorcycle insurance since 2018
covering around 10% of the Spanish market.
In addition, both in Switzerland and in Europe, our customers are beneﬁting from
simpliﬁcations in claims handling due to a higher level of automation. In Switzerland, for
example, damage to buildings may be handled very eﬃciently by an online tradesman
Page 9 of 20



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

FINAL

platform. Furthermore, we are tapping into new sources of income with smile death
leading Swiss online insurer.
At the end of 2018, smile launched the ﬁrst completely digitalized death insurance in
Switzerland, which can be concluded online with just a few clicks and without the
signature before your own death of course. In addition, we have further expanded our
"Home" ecosystem. With the start-ups, PriceHubble and Immoledo, we brought in two
additional partners. We will provide you with detailed information on smile and the
"Home" ecosystem during the showcase presentations later on.
Finally, we also use new innovative forms of interaction with customers in a targeted
manner. For example, in Switzerland, bicycle sets (00:32:50) can be easily reported by a
chatbot. In Spain, a chatbot acts as a virtual insurance assistant for the sale of burial
insurance policies. These examples demonstrate that we are successfully implementing
our brand promise simple, clear, Helvetia.

Bloomberg Transcript

Slide 24 demonstrates that we are well on track to reach our ﬁnancial targets. We are
pleased with the development of the individual ﬁnancial targets shown here on the right
hand side of the slide. With regards to the business volume of CHF 10 billion, I would like
to reiterate that this is not a ﬁxed goal, but an ambition. Our organic growth is proceeding
according to plan. In order to achieve the CHF 10 billion ambition, we would also have to
grow through M&A, which is diﬃcult to plan in advance and depends on targets being
available in the market. Overall, we are happy with what we have achieved so far and we
are conﬁdent that we are well-prepared to remain ﬁt for the future.
This brings us to the end of the presentation. For the participants on the phone, the
presentation of the showcases and two interviews with Stefan Heizmann and with Pierre
Angelo Campopiano (00:34:22), we will be available on the websites as of this afternoon.
My colleagues and I would now be pleased to answer your questions. I suggest that we
start with the questions of the participants on the phone and then turn over to the
participants in the room. Please go on.

Q&A
Operator
The ﬁrst question is from Peter Eliot from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thank you very much. The ﬁrst one was on solvency and I appreciate the sort of qualitative
guidance you gave us, Paul. I'm just wondering if you can give any sort of closer guidance
to how the ratio may be compared to that of last year. And speciﬁcally given your
comments on volatility, how the sensitivity to spread compared to last year. I mean, that
was 17 percentage points per 50 basis point move that you reported before. I'm just
wondering how that's changed under the new models, and whether there's anything that
Page 10 of 20



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

FINAL

you can do in that in terms of sort of investment strategy or other management actions to
limit that sensitivity if it has grown a lot?
The second one was on the life top line. I mean, we saw some very impressive growth in
life. I think the top line grew 10% in H2 in isolation. I'm just wondering if you could just
delve a little bit deeper into the drivers of that and whether there was anything in those
numbers already from any business you might be getting from the actions of one of the
market leaders recently?
And then maybe ﬁnally, just on cash, I guess, the remittance ratio for non-life, 52%, I'm just
wondering whether that can be increased at all? I guess, compared with some of your
non-life peers, maybe it looks like it could be some upside. And at Group level, I'm just
checking, basically from the CHF 290 million, we need to take oﬀ ﬁnancing costs. If I do
that, I get knocked very far oﬀ the dividend. I'm just wondering if I'm missing anything
there? Thank you very much.

A - Philipp Gmür
Thank you, Peter. I'll ask Paul to answer questions number one with regard to solvency
and three with regards to cash remittance. And I then turn to question number two, Paul?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Okay. I'll give you some – just a couple of broad comments on the solvency. I think we
should wait until the (00:37:03) will come out and we have a full presentation which
explains that. With the new models, we have more deterministic modeling in there and
much more short-term modeling because they're using a runoﬀ approach, as you're
probably aware, that (00:37:20) insisted on. So, that has an impact. There probably will be
more eﬀect from spreads, clearly more sensitivity to spreads. But at the moment, I don't
want to quantify that, I think I appreciate if you waited until April, we give you some full
details.
On the cash, yes, we are constantly looking to optimize the cash returns. I think we are
reasonably conservative. We don't want to -- certainly the ﬁrst year's disclosures be too
aggressive. As I said, the really deﬁning feature is local strategy. And so, IFRS in itself is
not a good guide, but clearly can be optimized, and we're working on that. In terms of the
ﬁnancing costs. I'm not sure what you mean there. I mean, basically, we passed through
virtually everything of the cash that we received from the operating units up to the
holding which then goes straight out to the policy – to the shareholders.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Okay. Now, I guess, I just want to – the CHF 290 million, basically, it's fully available for
distribution and (00:38:45)?
A – [09RLW5-E Paul Norton]>: Yeah. The CHF 290 million is fully available for distribution
[indiscernible] (00:38:49).

Page 11 of 20



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

Perfect. Thank you.

FINAL

A - Philipp Gmür
Now regarding the development of our life premiums. As you see, we have an increase of
our group life premiums by slightly 1% talking about single life premiums. That means
customers which changed their provider and came to Helvetia and roughly 4% of our
periodic premiums. What does that indicate? That indicates that we are still very cautious
in underwriting new risks, looking carefully at our capital position in the group life
business at our proﬁtability. However, it also indicates that with an increase of 4% in
periodic premiums, we have a portfolio in the group life business which is in good shape.
We have underwritten ﬁrms which have no problems with layoﬀs, for instance, of their
employees. So it's a really good portfolio.
Now, you might have talked about a main competitor in group life business, AXA, which
decided to give up the full coverage of their pension system coverage in their group life
business. The numbers and the contracts we got from AXA are not yet visible in the 2018
numbers. And I can tell you today that, of course, we've beneﬁted from the move of AXA
but at the same time we are still very cautious and we used to be very cautious in
underwriting new businesses whether they come from AXA or other competitors. We
have beneﬁted but we were not very aggressively underwriting new contracts, and we will
tell you and show you those numbers in due time.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much. I had a couple other questions, but I'll be patient and rejoin
the queue in case it's time oﬀ (00:41:15). Thank you.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Other questions on the phone?

Operator
The next question is from Jonny Urwin from UBS. Please go ahead.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. Good results today. So, ﬁrstly, I guess,
just what was the message you're trying to send here on dividends by disclosing the net
economic dividend capacity? That looks strong. But, I guess, on stat earnings which is the
binding constraint, the coverage is going to be lower. So, could you just tell us what the
coverage is on stat earnings? So, I guess, are you trying to say that continued gradual
dividend growth that's well underpinned? Are you trying to say signal that it could be a
slow step-up in the payout ratio? That's question number one. Question number two,
could you elaborate a little more on what your priorities might be to manage the SST if
you are in the fortunate position that the SST ratio rises above 240%? Thank you. That's
great.

Page 12 of 20



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

A - Philipp Gmür
Thanks. Jonny. I ask Paul to answer those two questions with regard to dividend coverage
payout ratio and the luxury (00:42:36) problem of an SST of above 240%.

FINAL

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

We haven't given the statutory coverage ratio because of the complexity dealing with lots
of diﬀerent statutory accounting. I mean, you asked what the message is. The message is
that we have several messages. The ﬁrst thing is, we've been criticized in the past from
you, I think, Jonny, in particular, that we haven't given enough disclosure on what our
dividend capacity is and how we manage the capital. And so we clearly said, look, this is
how we manage the capital. We have to do it from a bottom-up. We bring it together. So
now you understand our framework hopefully.

Bloomberg Transcript

The second message is, it is clearly deﬁned to a large extent by the statutory accounting,
but there are other elements too.
The third message is, look, we ﬁnanced our dividend every year through the cash
production generated each year, but we have additional capacity. We have roughly two
years dividend capacity in excess of what we pay out which we could pay. So, the
message is what is our policy? Our policy is – the fourth one, the message is, we will
continue to increase the dividend gradually. You have a set amount (00:43:57) of
satisfaction that we have capacity to do that. We're not stretching ourselves. And the last
message is, we are optimizing that capacity and there could be some time when we
consider that we can increase the dividends at a higher rate and we have a relatively
shallow path upwards and we could increase the steepness. We've mentioned several
times before over the years, we do not believe in share buybacks. We do not believe in
huge dividend payments having (00:44:30) one year only to ﬁnd that we then can't pay
dividends out in the following year. So, we're looking for a longer – medium to longer
term dividend capacity. And, I repeat, the message is that clearly exists and it's clearly
potential to optimize that.
In terms of managing the SST, if it gets to that luxury position of over 240% – I'd like to
repeat and repeat again, I think people seem to think that and (00:45:03) involves a
payment out of cash, of dividends. The connection between SST and dividends is
extremely low, it may be the result. If it was the case, we persistently see that our dividend
at SST ratio was persistently over 240%, and it was not due to what I call mathematical
ﬂuﬀ, which the regulators and actuaries and risk managers dream up, but it was real, hard
equity, then clearly we would consider an increased dividend.
If it's due to pure modeling, there's not a lot we can do. I say modeling is not in our hand.
It's out of our hands mainly. If it's due to our business proﬁle, then clearly we can also
consider changing the business proﬁle. But it's also a very remote situation I think that we
would have persistently high SST ratios over 240%.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Page 13 of 20



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

FINAL

Yes. Thanks for that. Fair enough. And thank you for the disclosures and the sort of
enhanced capital management framework. You're right. I have been critical in the past.
Much, much appreciated. I guess, just on the message on the dividends, that's very clear,
and is it – I mean, that is a good message. I think that's what the market's been looking for.
But the missing piece in the puzzle is why – in the puzzle is what's the – what is the
headroom on the stat earnings? So, I guess any disclosure or...

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

CHF 0.5 billion. (00:46:41) in the diagram -- on slide really is, we showed it (00:46:42), it's
the CHF 0.5 billion capacity.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Okay. Fine. All right. Great. Thank you very much. Thanks, Paul.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

More question? I guess one more question on the phone?

Operator
The next question is from Kevin Ryan from Bloomberg Intelligence. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Kevin Ryan

{BIO 1814771 <GO>}

Good morning. Thank you for taking my question. I'd just like to explore a little more
about your business volume targets. Do you have any particular focus on either insurance
or life for boosting the volume and could you explain a little bit about how you think
about trying to improve margins on the business you've got vis-à-vis buying in something
that you might not be familiar with and pushing those margins along? Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmür
You see as we tell again and again, we do not have a hard tough volume target. That CHF
10 billion ambition indicates that we want to be an active player on the insurance market
and playing an active role means that we have to take into account how are we able to
grow our business because it is important in our position that we grow our businesses be
it in Switzerland in the whole market and more important of course in our European units
where we have relatively small positions.
Now, when we are looking at portfolios, we would like to grow, then, of course, we take
into account their proﬁtability. And, if we have to look at our proﬁtability, the P&C
business of course is the most proﬁtable business. However, in Switzerland it's a saturated
market so it is already a very important task to keep our good margins in Switzerland. Life
on the other side is – might be not as proﬁtable as P&C. It's not as capital-eﬃcient, but it's
an area where we can realize growth throughout our country markets. That's why we
changed our life portfolio from pretty traditional, very capital-intensive products to rather
modern, capital-eﬃcient product lines. And as you can see in our 2018 numbers, we did
all that pretty successfully. We realized growth in non-life throughout our European
Page 14 of 20



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

countries, and we realized growth in life business in the modern, non-traditional new
product lines.

FINAL

And our hard targets for helvetia 20.20 remain a combined ratio below 93%. We are
standing at 91%, and the new business margin of above 1%, we are standing at 1.7%. So, all
that demonstrates that we are well on track steering our diﬀerent portfolios, be it in life or
non-life.

Q - Kevin Ryan

{BIO 1814771 <GO>}

Brilliant. Very clear. Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmür
If there are no more questions on the phone, I now ask the ﬁnancial analysts in the room
to ask their questions.
The ﬁrst question comes from Deutsche Bank from Frank Kopﬁnger.

Q - Frank Kopﬁnger

{BIO 16342277 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. Frank Kopﬁnger, Deutsche Bank. My ﬁrst question is on the current income on
the investment side. You said that – you pointed out it was stable. However, as we have
now a lower yield environment, would you expect that investment income, the regular
income is further coming down, or was this just really the problem now (00:51:26)?
And then, secondly, on your risk result within the life business, it was down by 5%. You
pointed out that there was a poor mortality experience. How disappointed were you
given also the fact that you're growing the book and despite you had this weaker risk
result?

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. Thanks. I ﬁrst ask Ralph Honegger, our Chief Investment Oﬃcer, to answer the
question regarding the current income, and then Paul to answer the second question with
regard to the life business.

A - Ralph-Thomas Honegger

{BIO 4932832 <GO>}

Okay. I mean, there is still some room for Q2 (00:52:11) interest rates that the result is
coming down a little bit more. I mean, we have seen for the last year as always about 0.1
point. And, obviously, there's still higher yielding (00:52:24) that are coming back at the
lab (00:52:27). And, obviously, the new investment rate about 1.5% which I believe should
be stable -- a little bit further down.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Going to the life result, the risk result, there was a one-oﬀ positive eﬀect in the prior year
which came from the integration of the Nationale Suisse portfolio. So that should be taken
into consideration. In the ﬁrst half of the year, the risk result was considerably worse and
Page 15 of 20



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

that was due to some one-oﬀ events, really just one loss, a couple of losses to be highvalue losses and that has stabilized out. So, in fact, actually, when you look at it, it's
probably pretty much stable. More questions in the room?

A - Philipp Gmür

FINAL

René Locher from MainFirst.

Q - René Locher
MainFirst, yes. René Locher, MainFirst. So just with a big picture question. This morning
when I saw this CHF 431 million net (00:53:25) when equity markets are going back to
normal we should see quite a strong result in 2019, yes? And so, perhaps you can just
comment a little bit any one-oﬀs in the technical results or is that just – that was the turn in
equity mark (00:53:48) that we should see substantially higher net proﬁt in 2019?

Bloomberg Transcript

Then just a follow-up here on slide 12. As it is extraordinary result, just a conﬁrmation, so
these are mainly reserve releases and reserve strengthening, right? Then perhaps very
quickly from (00:54:13), I guess Peter Eliot will ask again, you know what? Nevertheless,
on the cash generation if we'll agree with Peter, this non-life, this 52%, some of your peers
in Switzerland they have a cash out of the non-life IFRS result which is 80%, 90%. And
then on the life, it's a little bit lower than you know. So I'm just wondering, is there
something special within the Helvetia (00:54:46)?
If I may the last question, here again a big picture, I guess on slide 6, that you show
sensitivities to the asset fee. And here again very interesting to see that the credit spreads
and as this cost is now with a few insurance managers and I believe that FINMA look a
little bit (00:55:10) from the wrong angle, because at the end of the day, if you don't have
defaults in your bond portfolio, it's just accounting gimmicks. So, that means that you are
losing value on your corporate bond portfolio but when you get 100% back at maturity,
nothing else than accounting.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Yeah?

Q - René Locher
Okay. So, I'm wondering a little bit, where is always this big discussion about the SST ratio
on credit spreads?

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. Is that – I mean, you were going back and forth with between assumptions and
questions. I would now ask Paul the issue with the equity markets and are there any-oﬀs in
the technical result; and then the cash production and the remittance topic; and third, the
question with regard to the SST and accounting issues.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}
Page 16 of 20



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

On the extraordinary result, yeah (00:56:26).

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay.

FINAL

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Yeah. Maybe I can take the assumptions also. Yeah, the SST and the credit risks, the
spreads, whatever they are, you're looking at a mark-to-market which is a point, a landing
point of view. It's not over a period of time. So – and that's the FINMA (00:56:43)
approach outside of the other solvency models. They say, ﬁne, if the markets go up and
down, then it will go straight through into the SST and, you're right, assuming that the
companies behind or the sovereigns behind those debt instruments do not go bankrupt
in the event of a problem.
But, on a short-term basis, at that particular point in time, 1st of January and 1st of July,
FINMA (00:57:12) want to see what the potential loss would be and I agree with you. It
increases the volatility but it doesn't mean that we all going to actually lose that money.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the extraordinary result, yes it is. It is the reserves, particularly at the interest rate. So,
there is always (00:57:28).
So, if we go back to the questions which is when negative results go back to normal? It's
the same thing as the spreads. At the end of the year, particularly last December, when
you cut the day, the equity markets (00:57:40) rebound and we showed big losses. If you
cut the year-end now, we'll be back again and make proﬁts. So, unfortunately, you can't
see that out over a period. It's a question of when you want to choose that period. So, yes,
it should be back assuming of course (00:57:58) still carry on the same route that they've
done in the ﬁrst couple of months.
And then the 18% and 19%, yes, I think there are some companies that show that. As I said,
IFRS is not always the best indicator. One thing I will say is that in two areas in Specialty
Lines, Specialty Markets and in Europe, there were far less capital repatriation within the
prior year, mainly because of growth requirements in Specialty Markets and also in
Europe there were some regulatory buﬀers we wanted to build in.

A - Philipp Gmür
There's another question on the phone I think. Please go ahead.

Operator
The next question is from Peter Eliot from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thank you for taking my follow-up questions. (00:58:56) cash, but well – just one point of
clariﬁcation. The NEDC, Paul, you said the position now was at CHF 500 million as of the
Page 17 of 20



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

end of 2018 after the proposed dividend.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

(00:59:10).

FINAL

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Yeah. But, I thought you also commented on the position now and said that, as of the end
of 2018, it would also be about CHF 500 million?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Yeah. I said – no. I think I said – it was – we would give the ﬁnal ﬁgures for 2018 with the
(00:59:26), but It's roughly about that, yes.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Yes. Okay. So just to check that I've understood that correctly. So, it hasn't changed across
the year. I'm just checking that the deﬁnition is the same, they said after proposed
dividend in both cases?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. This is just the same – it will – there'll be changes to them as when we ﬁnalize them.
Put it this way, I can't expect – I can't imagine they'll be below the CHF 500 million.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Yeah. Okay. Great. Thank you. And the other one was just on the other results. I mean, I
guess the cost line was basically in line with the guidance that you gave, but if I look at H2
in isolation at minus CHF 38 million (01:00:14) much higher run-rate. Should we always
expect that sort of seasonality or is there anything -- just maybe could we have some help
into trying to (01:00:24) expect that and how that should develop in future years H1, H2, et
cetera?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

It's actually quite diﬃcult to predict the run rate. I mean, the costs will depend on large
projects or special costs. As I said, we have the – and the cost result was the advertising
and marketing campaign. It all depends when that starts. And the other one was some
developments in corporate development where we've increased the expenditure to
(01:00:57) strategic developments. So, it's diﬃcult to predict when those kind of things
will actually (01:01:02).

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks very much. (01:01:07). Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmür
Page 18 of 20



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

More questions in the room? René Locher?

Q - René Locher
Yes.

FINAL

A - Philipp Gmür
Okay. There is other question?

Q - René Locher
No. But I think given that we are going to see two showcases, but, ﬁrst of all, my question
is and I'm looking at the Swiss expense ratio, I would have argued that it should be a little
bit lower because you are selling more and more products via smile.direct?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Smile is a relatively small percentage. I mean, it's CHF 90 million of the overall premium.

Q - René Locher
CHF 90 million, okay, yes. And then the other question is on MoneyPark, where do I see
MoneyPark within the Group's P&L?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

You don't. It's too small at the moment.

Q - René Locher
Okay. Cheers.

A - Philipp Gmür
More questions in the room?
Okay. So, before concluding this conference, I would like to say a word with regards to
our Chief Investment Oﬃcer, Ralph Honegger, ever so young, but 60 years old. Ralph
Honegger is going to step down from his position by the end of March 2019. That's why
he's here, present in this room, for the last time. With Ralph Honegger, we have a
longstanding Helvetia manager leaving the company and enjoying his retirement, and
apart from that, other positions of course. Ralph and I would like to mention that in this
room especially with the ﬁnancial analysts, Ralph successfully helped to steer our balance
sheet through many ups and downs during the last roughly 17 years, he took over as the
Group Chief Investment Oﬃcer in 2002. And he saw quite a few and many diﬀerent
capital market situations during that time. Helvetia share is nowadays roughly 5 times
worse what it used to be when he took over when

Page 19 of 20



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-03-06

FINAL

And talking about dividends as we were before, I think it's true for Helvetia as well as for
many other insurance companies. Our dividends are earned by our technical results, of
course, but at the same time by our investment income. That's why Ralph, I think,
contributed a lot to the Helvetia equity story and its success during the last roughly 30
years. And, I wish him all the best. And I think we are going to see him again in the
ﬁnancial community. But today, it's time to say goodbye as Helvetia manager.
Now I would like to conclude.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Ladies and gentlemen, the conference is now over. Thank you for choosing Chorus Call
and thank you for participating in the conference. You may now disconnect your lines.
Goodbye.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 20 of 20

