Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

Shareholder/Analyst Meeting
Company Participants
FINAL

Alexander Andreas M. Berger, CEO of Corporate Solutions
Christian Mumenthaler, Group CEO
Edouard Schmid, Group Chief Underwriting Officer
Guido Farer, Group CIO
John Robert Dacey, Group CFO
Moses I. Ojeisekhoba, CEO of Reinsurance
Philippe Brahin, Head IR and Head Governmental Affairs & Sustainability
Thierry Leger, CEO of Life Capital

Other Participants
Andrew James Ritchie , Analyst
Edward Morris , Analyst
Farooq Hanif , Analyst
Heather Takahashi, Analyst
Ivan Bokhmat, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

James Austin Shuck, Analyst
Jonathan Peter Phillip Urwin, Analyst
Kamran Hossain, Analyst
Paris Hadjiantonis , Analyst
Sami Taipalus , Analyst
Simon Fassmeier, Analyst
Unidentified Participant, Analyst
Vinit Malhotra, Analyst

Presentation
Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Okay. We are a little bit ahead of schedule. But I suggest we start. Good morning,
everybody. Good morning. Welcome to Swiss Re Investors' Day. I'm Philippe Brahin, Head
of Investor Relations. It's a pleasure to welcome you all here today to our offices in
London in the Gherkin. Also a warm welcome for those of you following us on the web
today through our webcast.
So we have quite a full agenda we prepared for you today. I'd like to walk you through the
agenda quickly. We will start with a group view on Swiss Re with the CEO -- Group CEO,
Page 1 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

Christian Mumenthaler. He will open the day on an update with the group strategy where
we focus on our 3 differentiation factors: client access, risk knowledge and capital
strength. Then immediately after, we will have John Dacey, our Group CFO. He will
provide us an update on our very strong capital position, the flexibility of our financing.
You will hear about Alternative Capital Partners and as well as our capital management
actions. And after John would be immediately Guido, our Chief Investment Officer, on the
quality and the performance of our investment portfolio.
We will have a joint Q&A of Christian, John and Guido here on the podium for around 40
minutes. Then we break for lunch. And afterwards, it will be more the business unit
perspectives, starting with Moses Ojeisekhoba, the Reinsurance CEO. And Moses will talk
about the core business, transaction solutions of Reinsurance. Moses will be joined by Edi
Schmid, our Chief Underwriting Officer, also the Chairman of the Swiss Re Institute. And
Edi will talk about the growth strategy of Swiss Re on the nat cat side -- the more
defensive, cautious approach we have on casualty lines. And we will have a joint Q&A of
Moses and Edi on Reinsurance.
Then will be Andreas Berger, the CEO of Corporate Solutions. He will give us an update
on the management actions we announced earlier today this year and a little bit the
strategic priorities of Corporate Solutions.

Bloomberg Transcript

Finally, we'll have Thierry Leger, the CEO of Life Capital. And Thierry will focus more on
the open book in iptiQ, our B2B2C white labeling platform.
I just wanted also to mention that we have some booths open for you to go -- to go and
visit today. We did the same thing last year. It worked well. It gives you an opportunity to
engage with our colleagues and hear more about the solutions in Reinsurance, iptiQ,
Corporate Solutions platforms and also our commitment to ESG and responsible
investments. So I really invite you to go and meet the booth.
I wish you all a very good day. And with that, I give the floor to Christian Mumenthaler,
Group CEO.

Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Thank you, Philippe. Welcome, everyone. It's great to see so many familiar faces,
investors, analysts. Thank you very much for taking the time to come here. We very much
appreciate it. I know it's a busy time of the year for all of you. So we really appreciate you
took the time Monday morning to come here to the Gherkin.
So my 20 minutes are around the high-level view of Swiss Re. And I'd like to start with this
slide, where, on the bottom. And you have seen that before because I'm quite passionate
about this, are what I would call the 3 biggest strategic assets at the core of Swiss Re. So
all the businesses are built on those. But these are 3 differentiating strategic assets.
The first one, client access, you could also say brand, basically means that we have access
to all the insurance clients in the world, the C-suite of these clients that we know,
Page 2 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

thousands of corporates in the world through Corporate Solutions and that we basically
have the right to play.

FINAL

The second one, risk knowledge, is the accumulated knowledge around risk that we have
accumulated over decades, which allows us to have hopefully deeper insights into some
of the risks and to price the risk more adequately.
Then capital strengths, which used to be probably the most important one 20 years ago,
is now a bit less important in this low interest rate environment where there's plenty of
capital. But still a very important differentiator for our clients. Clients appreciate the capital
strength that we deliver.
So these are the 3 strengths. And I will go through each of them in a bit more detail. Then
based on those, we have 3 businesses, which are all in different states right now.
Reinsurance is clearly the foundation of our strengths. It's regaining and increasing the
earnings power in this environment that's slightly improving. So it's the core of what we
do.
We then have Corporate Solutions, which is clearly in a transitional phase, trying to get
back to profitability and doing a strategic refocus.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then Life Capital, also transitioning from a unit dominated by reassurer to a digital B2B2C
player. And Thierry this afternoon will tell more about that.
So I'll also go quickly through the 3 businesses and how I see them and where they are.
But first, let me go through the strategic assets. So first one, around client access. You
know that's some of my favorite charts. What do they show on the left side is a
visualization of a relationship with big insurance clients. So every time anybody at Swiss Re
has a meeting anywhere in the world with particular clients like Allianz, they write a
discussion note with who was there, what was discussed, et cetera.
And the client executive will get these notes. So they see everything that's going on
between the 2 entities. And this is the visualization of all these data. So we have all the
names of people on top, names from the clients on the bottom. And this shows who has
met with whom over time. And with these big clients, typically, 10 interactions a day is the
norm. So there's a massive interaction between Swiss Re and the client organizations at
many different levels, which yield some clear benefits, in my view.
What I haven't shown yet is the slide on the right. So there's an expansion of it to the
broader industry, to other industry players. And this one shows the different units within
Swiss Re and how they interact with other parts of the industry. So not insurers. But
technology company, real estate, OEMs, i.e., car manufacturers and finance. And what you
can see here is, obviously, you would expect Corporate Solutions here to have contact
with all of those and maybe group IT with the technology part.

Page 3 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

What is probably a bit more surprising is that Reinsurance has quite a lot of interactions
with those because in the solutions team we have a lot of things we're doing with some
of those, including, for example, the collaboration with BMW on ADAS, which is public. But
also many things that are not public. Then on top, you can see Life Capital, which is
basically iptiQ has a massive amount of interaction with a lot of these players. Very little is
visible yet in terms of outside announcement. But there's clearly a huge interest by those
company and by us to work together.
There's also a global diversification of the Swiss Re Group, which is quite unique, in my
view. You all know the U.S. GAAP figures in the regions. So $16 billion in Americas, $11 billion
in EMEA and $7 billion in Asia. But if you look at the EVM premiums, which is basically the
discounted future cash flows of the premiums. So in particular, in Life & Health, you take
the discount of all the future premiums that the current contract will yield, the picture
already looks quite different. It's $15 billion in the Americas, $13 billion EMEA and $16 billion
in Asia. So Asia is now the biggest one, particularly because of the Life & Health business.

Bloomberg Transcript

That's also, because of this global reach, that we say our purpose is to make the world
more resilient. And we measure all kinds of KPIs around that. We're active in more than
150 countries. There's more than 100,000 P&C clients supported, most of them,
Corporate Solutions, obviously. Then in Life & Health, we measure how many family
members we support, which is more than 175 million. So this is basically the client access
reach the firm has.
Then in terms of risk knowledge, two years ago, we founded the Swiss Re Institute, which
is -- was created to have an overview of all research activities at Swiss Re. We have about
450 people working on R&D, 13 R&D teams, 80 R&D programs. We can now structure
those in terms of what value they bring to Swiss Re and what the intent is of those. We
have this segmentation of 5 different categories here.
First one is market intelligence, which helps business steering. Second one, we call
insurance beta, which helps capital allocation here. So these are related. Then there's
insurance alpha, which is basically risk selection and pricing tools, which we have for all
kinds of lines of business. Then there's this commercialization, which is around data
solutions, publications and this includes tools like Magnum and Life Guide. By the way,
outside is a booth for Magnum, in case you're interested to want to see it live. Then
there's efficiencies, process reengineering. We also use all of our R&D to make ourselves
more effective. So this is the framework and how we steer now the different pockets. We
have made adaptations since we have the Swiss Re Institute to focus to the areas we
think are most important.
In that context, we have a tech strategy, which I showed to you, I think, April last year. It's
completely embedded into this SRI framework. Our tech strategy has 4 priorities. The first
one is increase our clients' competitiveness. So this is through tools like Magnum. This is
the whole commercialization aspect of what we try to achieve. Then we apply the tech to
improve our own value chain. So this is the efficiency bucket. Third one, get closer to risk
through digital platforms. That's the big bet we make on the iptiQ platform. Then finally,
there's one around data, harvest the full potential of our proprietary data, which supports
all of those.
Page 4 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

There's approximately $300 million we spend per annum on the whole technology side.
Half of that goes into iptiQ, which is really, from all the ideas we had, the one we believe
in most. Then there is a second biggest project is, we call it ATLAS. That's basically
creating a new general ledger for the whole Swiss Re Group based on the SAP HANA
technology. So that allows for a 5-day close. Because in memory, we also have done a coinnovation project with SAP.
And the reason they chose us is because we have this EVM knowledge for more than 20
years. And this was now crucial to create a product which can do IFRS 17. So this is a very
interesting co-innovation project. The product is actually out. This FPSL is already out. It is
marketed to companies who will use it for IFRS 17. Then one other area we're quite active
in is this whole automotive and mobility solutions.

Bloomberg Transcript

These technology initiatives have an impact on Swiss Re. And you will see it over time.
This is a graph that tries to show how much of the EVM premium is coming from or is
related to some of these technology initiatives. So you can see, over time, the biggest
one obviously is Magnum in Swiss Re in the Life & Health solutions. And we talked many
times about Magnum. So this is the business that is linked to Magnum. So Magnum is a
tool that is used for underwriting at the front end by our clients. Then in the back end, we
link to that, we have a share of the business. And this is the business that we get through
this Magnum platform.
Then you see P&C Re Solutions, which is relatively new where we have different solutions.
We have Corporate Solutions, very small. That's the new platform they have. So there's a
few clients on it. But this should grow quite a bit. Then iptiQ on top. Again, this is EVM
premium. So this is basically the discounted future premium of everything we have written
at this stage. And that's why life is dominating because you see all the future premiums
whereas P&C is a bit smaller. So it's becoming significant. And there's some real impact
for us.
On the capital strength, I probably don't need to spend much time on here. The figures
are all known to you. So the last SST ratio we published is 241%. We try to calculate the
Solvency II figure. I think this is a cautious approximation, which is why we say it's higher
than 260%. Then we have some data from competitors and peers, which are lower. So
this leads us to believe that, on a comparable basis, Swiss Re is one of the stronger
balance sheets out there in the market. And that's important, again, for our clients.
Let me now go through the 3 different businesses. So Reinsurance, clearly, in my view, is
in a very good state and has significant competitive advantages, several ones, actually.
The first one is global scale. You see the market shares here is 17% for Life & Health, 11%
for P&C. But scale just generally means you have some efficiencies of scale.
This is direct client access. Most people go all through brokers. We have 90% in Life &
Health without brokers and in P&C is about half.
There's a very high diversification, in particular with Life & Health. Many of our competitors
don't have a life and health business. We get significant benefits from having a Life &
Page 5 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

Health business.

FINAL

Then superior risk knowledge is not the focus of this presentation. But last April, there was
a presentation where we showed you in more detail how we measure the delta and value
we get from our risk knowledge and from the different things we do. And more than 50%
of profit is differentiated profit. So profit you get on top of what we would expect the
market to be able to get.
So Reinsurance also has a positioning, obviously, as a net risk taker. So we're a shock
absorber for society. We have net positions in nat cat that are bigger than most. And
that's basically based on the hypothesis that in good years you outperform the rest -- in
bad nat cat years, you underperform. But on average, you save the retro premium.

Bloomberg Transcript

And so if you look at the last five years, that might be -- I think it's quite a remarkable
result, 11.5% ROE and that includes 2017, which was the most costly year in nat cat ever
recorded in terms of market loss. It includes 2018, which is the fourth biggest nat cat loss
year. That includes the first nine months of this year, which clearly have been heavily
impacted by nat cat. So Reinsurance, overall, including Life & Health, obviously, is able to
absorb this volatility from the nat cat side and produce good returns.
If you look one level deeper, we also see this Reinsurance as the source of the more
immediate-term earnings growth, Life & Health Re. This is the costed view in EVM. So this
is basically when we write the business, how do we see it coming, including expected
loss, how do we see the profit growing. So Life & Health Re, you can see that in our
costed use, ex ante, we grew it about 50% since 2015. So we went to $1.2 billion EVM
profit.
You can see on the P&C Re side, we had a drop with the soft market to '16 and then a bit
of a bottom out. And then now we start to see more EVM profit being created through
growth and slightly better margins. So that, I guess, that picture makes us optimistic
because we don't really see a particular end to the Life & Health growth. Asia is still
growing. And on P&C, we clearly hope for the conditions, which seem to happen right
now to improve.
So CorSo. We talked a lot about CorSo this year, for obvious reasons, got stuck in a really
bad market. We talked a lot about the left part here at the half year results. So I'll call it the
fix it part, which has 4 components here. It says about pruning. It's about price increases,
improving productivity and optimizing reinsurance structure with the target to get to 98%
combined ratio by 2021. And yes, we're going to get the question, we're still confident to
achieve that.
But that's just the fix it part, it cannot be the only thing. Andreas today will also talk a bit
about the more strategic side of the whole thing. For now, it's strategic priorities, the
strategic directions we want to take on top of that because just fixing it is, in my view, not
good enough. We also need to fix the direction, which will make CorSo something more
unique than it used to be.

Page 6 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

And here are the components of that. The first one, in my view, extremely important
because it touches a lot is what I call decommoditize our core business. So not just look at
what is profitable or not. But also look at where do we think we have competitive
advantage, where can we claim that and to focus basically on those pockets.
The second one is grow with differentiating assets. CorSo has a few unique assets. For
example, for JV with Bradesco in Brazil, this is quite unique. We have a good name. So we
can do other JVs in other high-growth markets. We have the platform, PULSE, which we
also showed in April of last year, which is probably one of the best, if not the best, in the
market. The question is, can we leverage that? We also have a structure team that does
parametric transactions, which is quite unique. It's well hidden within CorSo. It's only
subpart. But it's quite unique and producing good profits. So it's really the question, do we
see differentiating assets? And can we leverage those going forward?

Bloomberg Transcript

And the third one is maybe a bit esoteric. But we still put it on here because there's real
demand by these ecosystems to talk to us, we call it here, expand through tech-driven
solutions. There are these ecosystems and they ask themselves, how can they include
insurance into the ecosystems? Are there different ways to distribute corporate insurance,
which overall is extremely ineffective in terms of a value chain currently. And we are on all
these discussions. I put it out there so that you're not surprised if something comes out.
But it's not a proved point at this stage. But I think it's an interesting strategic idea.
So I come to Life Capital. Based on popular demand, I guess I reiterate the question I get
at every investor meeting. So what's next for ReAssure? I'm still going to get the question
later, I'm sure. But here, the first version of it is, clearly, the -- what I say is the north star is
unchanged. So the direction is unchanged, right? Strategically, I think it's a great business.
But it doesn't fit with our balance sheet. And therefore, the priority must be to
deconsolidate it over time.
But we're not a forced seller. So I want to do it in a way that makes sense for
shareholders. And therefore, we continue to explore all kinds of routes to achieve that
goal. But under no circumstances, do we want to become a forced seller, which means
that in the meantime, the team has our full support. They can do acquisitions and we'll
support everything that increases the value of this asset.
Now 2 slides on iptiQ because I talked about it for the first time in April of last year. And I
think it's quite exciting and we put a lot of effort into it and attention. So why would we do
that? So iptiQ is our state-of-the-art digital white labeling B2B2C platform. So we work
with big brands, corporate brands who can sell to their clients. We have now -- by now 28
partners, insurers, insurance intermediary banks and ecosystems. But many more are
thinkable because it's basically the whole value chain you need to distribute life insurance
and now also P&C insurance.
The geographic reach is now the EU basically and the U.S. So quite a lot of consumers and
focus.

Page 7 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

The capabilities, you have 60 days to partner on-boarding. So it means that if you want to
sell life insurance under your name, we have all the capabilities. And within two months,
you're up and running with one of the best platforms. It's multichannel, it's end-to-end,
with customer insights, et cetera. So we try to learn from everything that is around the
best possible value chain step and we're also rearranging it. So we work also with some
start-ups if they're better than established players. So we work in a range of the value
chain than trying to program everything ourselves.
The products are -- we started all in life so term, whole life, accident, critical illness, health
add-ons. So these are all biometric products, which are, in our view, which are the piece of
the life and health market which we understand the best and I'd call it, the fillet of the
beef -- of the animal. So it's really the most attractive part of the life and health market.
Then P&C, we now have capabilities since a few months, travel, cyber, mobility and home.
So the platform can do a lot, it's scalable.

Bloomberg Transcript

And we have some beginning results that we can show here. The gross written premium
this year, that's estimate since we're not at full year-end, about $225 million. And the
annualized new business premium of $155 million. I'd say why bother since this is Swiss Re,
it's so big, right? And the reason to bother is that, first of all, it can grow much more,
obviously. Second, this is parametric risk where we know a lot and it's the best piece of
the life and health market. And you have to put it into context. So $155 million APN is
getting close to what leaders, right, in big markets like the U.K. is typically $200 million to
$300 million in the biometric risk spectrum.
Most of what people write is savings products. But in that space, it's already like a big local
player. And if you stopped growing at this stage here at $155 million, you just continue to
write $155 million every year, you get to about $1 billion of gross written premium in 10
years because it's multiyear premium and you have some lapse rates, et cetera. So I think
it's easy to see from that, that while it's still small now, if it continues to grow. It could
become something much more substantial for the Swiss Re Group. And that is obviously
our bet and our way to access some of that primary risk we don't get so much through
reinsurance.
Then, finally, a word on sustainability. We're very proud about what we have done at a
time where this was not so fashionable as it is now. We have on the investing side,
obviously, 2, three years ago, switched to ESG benchmarks. And Guido will show it. I think
the interesting thing for everybody here is that now we can see how it works in practice.
And in practice, it works better than what we thought and what the benchmark will be
without that. So it's an interesting difference between practice and what you expected.
Underwriting, we are one of the leaders in wind farms. We do many other things.
Then our own footprint. Since 2003, we're 100% greenhouse gas-neutral because we buy
certificates. Even within that, we have halved our footprint. So we made efforts within our
footprint to make buildings like this one, which are quite effective. So we have invested a

Page 8 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

lot in making ourselves as neutral as possible, which has been recognized also externally
through different indices in the world.

FINAL

And with that, thanks a lot for listening. That hopefully gives you an overview of the group.
And I'd like to hand over to our CFO, John Dacey.

John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Thanks, Christian. And thanks, everyone. And again, we'll have questions for the 3 of us
when Guido finishes his session.
I wanted to spend a little bit of time just reminding you of where we stand in terms of our
capital position, how that's developed over the period, our ability to repatriate profits not
only inside the organization. But to our shareholders along the way and then a couple of
slides on the ACP team that we've organized in September.

Bloomberg Transcript

The starting point is the macroeconomic conditions for the insurance industry remain
challenging, I don't have to tell you that. You've followed this industry very well. I'd argue
that our team on the investment side has done a great job of positioning itself to deal
with lower interest rates. The running yield continues to be at 2.9% through the first nine
months of this year. There will be pressure on reinvestment rates and that's likely to come
down slightly. But I think, overall, we can be very confident of the ability for us to continue
to earn large profits in the investment functions.
The slowing global growth is an issue for not just investments. But also for the demand for
insurance. At the same time, we think that the protection gap that we see, especially in
high-growth markets, is huge, unaddressed and Swiss Re is uniquely positioned to
support both the primary companies who want to get after this. But also with our iptiQ
business model to do some of it ourselves.
I would say that we're now in the third year of an industry with large P&C losses. To date,
the nat cat losses have been less than in 2017 and 2018. But you see some of the
pressure coming up on the casualty side. Obviously, everyone in the room wants to talk
about that, we've got Edi here to do that after lunch. But I will say that the hardening of
rates across geographies and across business lines makes us fairly optimistic, both for our
Reinsurance business but also the CorSo business for 2020.
The group capital position we announced with the Q3 results that at July 1 this year we've
moved down a little bit to 241% SST ratio. That compares to our target of 220%. And
maybe the one novelty on this slide that I'm not sure that we've disclosed explicitly. But to
reinforce the 220% is a target, not a limit. We have included the number 200%, which is
where we've got management authority within the executive team to bounce to if we see
good reasons to be below the 220%. But over time, that's our target. We expect to be
around that number.
I think what you see in the first six months of '19 that both the required capital and the
available capital have increased. It's just that the required on a proportional basis has
Page 9 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

increased a little more, which brings us down to the 241%.
We showed a slide similar to this earlier. But just to reiterate, there's a series of places
where the economic earnings of the group come from. On the left side of the slide, you
see the new business, what we're actually underwriting in the current year, has a strong
positive performance over this period. In 2017 and 2018, you see some negative
movements down. This is nat cat losses that we have booked. 2019 is just the first half of
the year. So the second half nat cat numbers are not in there. You can expect for the P&C
businesses then you'll see something that will be negative, decreasing the total number.
But I would say that one important thing. And Christian mentioned this earlier, the stability
of the Life & Health economic earnings, contributing $1 billion a year to new business
economic profits.
Then we've got the release of the current year capital cost for the underwriting side,
again, a strong and improving performance over the periods. And similarly, release of the
current capital costs for the investment side. And there, the lower interest rates probably
have muted a little bit that contribution. But on balance, a very strong performance.

Bloomberg Transcript

Economic earnings for the last eight years averaging $4.2 billion. And the reason this
matters is these economic earnings are the basis for our SST calculations, which then
drive our ability to talk about capital management.
And in particular, when we look at what we've been able to achieve, both through the
regular ordinary dividend, which has increased systematically over the period, up to $5.60
this year and the special dividends and share buybacks of recent years. What you see is
the total yield on our share price far in excess of our major peers. And even the ordinary
dividend by itself of 5.3% is peer-leading. There's one other firm which matches us.
The flows coming up through the businesses continue to be strong. Reinsurance is down
a little bit in '18 and '19 because of the losses in the nat cat side. But the underlying
balance sheets of these business units is robust.
You see in Life Capital, the cash that we've been getting in part are largely, frankly, from
the reshore [ph] business delivery and that continues in 2019.
We've been able to do this in the context of a capital structure, which is delevered over
the period. When you go back from '13 to '19, what you see is the top components of
these pillars of our capital are what we've been able to adjust. So the letters of credit
dramatically down, senior debt down. Subordinated debt remains an important part of the
capital structure. But the core capital, very stable over the period.
Our leverage ratios for both subordinated and senior down to 14%. We think that this is a
smart way to be managing our capital base.
Enormous flexibility going forward. We've got the $2.7 billion prefunded subordinated
debt. That's not included in the SST ratios. That's available at our discretion should we see
Page 10 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

the need for it.

FINAL

We've also included here the allusion to the Alternative Capital Partners. Alternative
Capital Partners is a team that we've assembled from the ILS team based between New
York and London, our retro and syndication teams. This is existing capabilities that we've
had in Swiss Re.
Between 1997 and today, we're the largest sponsor of nat cat bonds in the world. The
people behind us are typically the large brokers, which are coming on strong in this space.
But we continue to have unusual expertise that our clients rely on.
We've got our own portfolio of cat bonds where we actively trade. We find opportunities
where there are discontinuities in the market. Over some period of time, this has been
significantly profitable and sustainably profitable. It's not a big source of earnings for us.
But it allows us to get a pulse of the market on a daily basis.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then our sidecar, Sector Re, everyone in the room, I'm guessing, who's familiar with it,
allowing us to be able to flex the amount of retrocessions that we go into the market with.
In 2019, as we've increased our nat cat gross exposures, we've also put another $900
million of those exposures into alternative capital in what is increasingly a challenging
market spot. We maintain the majority of the underwriting risk on our own balance sheet.
We will continue to do that. We're not looking to lever out the way some of the
competitors have. We think that's the best way of making sure that we maintain an
alignment of interest with the investors who come into these vehicles.
The other thing on the right side of this page, dealing with our peak risks in this way allows
us a more efficient management of our capital position over time. We expect our
Reinsurance team. And over time, CorSo to be able to find opportunities where these
peak risks that we write could become challenging for us to fund with a normal capital
structure. Using ACP selectively on those risks gives us a chance to be able to manage
those tails with another set of tools.
I've mentioned the partnership approach. Over the last 20 years, we've been able to
establish strong partnerships along the way. We're looking to expand that with
opportunities for people that might not have been receiving great experiences in the last
2.5 years on the ILS market to spend more time with Swiss Re and potentially bring us into
their portfolios.
The differentiated approach. I mentioned we think there's a real ability for us to manage
this team together with the underwriting team of the nat cat side. But also with the
treasury team on the finance side. And it's one of the reasons why we've decided to take
this out of the Reinsurance business unit and into the group for the management of those
2 dimensions.

Page 11 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

Lastly. And I can finish here, I'd just like to reiterate what our capital management priorities
are. In the first case, our goal continues to have superior capital. Christian talked about
this. Our clients respect this. But also count on it. And their willingness to give us unusual
market shares and long-term contracts, in some cases, is a function of that capital
strength.
We expect to grow the regular dividend. We've demonstrated in the last five years our
ability to do that even through difficult market conditions on the P&C side specifically.
We deploy capital for business growth. Again, here, we've been able in 2019 to
demonstrate a strong growth capacity, leveraging our existing underwriting strengths. But
also bringing down the cost ratios as the volumes are increasing with a similar cost base.
And priority 4, which we have not forgotten, is to repatriate for the excess capital. We're
more than 50% through, almost 70%, I believe, at this point in time of our share buyback
for the year. When we finish the year with the Fourth Quarter, we'll have the discussions of
future capital actions with our Board and announce them in February in case anyone
wanted to ask the question already today.
And with that, I've been able to give Guido a little extra time for his session.

Bloomberg Transcript

Guido Farer
Thank you very much, John. It's a big pleasure to talk about the asset management side
of the house and show you a bit where we are relative on the value contribution. And you
see here on this slide, it's not only about producing investment results. But the team and
technologies also leverage for many other things.
Now starting with one figure, going to put this -- it into a historical context. The last five
years, the asset management side could produce $4 billion of net earnings, more or less
consistently, with raised -- more volatility. But we not only produce investment return, we
could also establish a very flexible investment platform, which should help in more stormy
times because we can easily manage assets externally, we can also easily manage assets
internally with the full flexibility and also capability.
We do a lot in the ALM context, again, together with my colleagues on the business unit.
But also with Edi on the group underwriting. That's a truly iterative process, which we
apply on both sides of the balance sheet, which again helps to extract extra value.
We're a big user of technology. Nowadays, financial market is not only about
fundamentals. We know there's many more things, which needs to be incorporated into
an investment strategy. That's why pattern recognition, particularly if we talk about credit
migration risk, it's a great tool, which we fully apply and invest into it.
Big data. Analyzing unstructured data is not only a topic in many consumer goods. It's also
a very big topic on the investment side. And again, we invest resources, time and
Page 12 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

capability to basically make something with data, which impacts the sentiment in financial
market.

FINAL

Ultimately, it's about scenario modeling, something which we have done for many years.
But we try to make it more and more sophisticated, also making sure that we understand
the full world and this is not only a financial market world, it's basically also the
environment. But ultimately, also the underwriting side.
Christian has mentioned, we continue to work on this ESG approach. I give you an update
afterwards where we are on the investment side.
And finally, our team and capabilities not only used on the asset side, we are an integral
part of the product offering to our clients on most of the tailor-made transaction. And
Moses will cover this afternoon. We have colleagues from asset management joining.
We've done the modeling of implied financial market risk. But also try to find out how
regulation drives the preference or the dislike of certain implied financial market risk and
basically how we handle them.

Bloomberg Transcript

Great. That's a few examples that you see the team has not only used to produce
investment return. But ultimately to the benefit of our clients, that we have a full
understanding of the value chain.
Now let me talk about the investment result for a second. This is a historical overview. And
what we can see, it's 3.6% return on investment the last five years, which is 30 basis
points better than our peers. Again, this should keep a bit of consistency that this is a
strong performance over a multiple year. And that's mainly fixed income, that's why you
are in the financial market. 30 basis point outperformance is a considerable piece. I will
explain afterwards how we did it.
Important is, basically, the running yield, which is an important phenomenon, particularly
for forecasting the sustainability of investment result. And John has mentioned, we are a
bit impacted, hopefully, less than the market. The main impact comes through the
denominator.
To give you one figure, you can also easily calculate yourself, if interest rates moving by
100 basis points, basically parallel shift, this has an impact of about 20 basis points on the
running yield. That means rates have come down on the 10-year. If we go back 1st of
January, we were around 2 70, now we are at 1 70, gives -- 1% has an impact of 20 basis
points. That's why probably we will show 2.8 for our Q4. Could be there's another 10 basis
point next year, 2.7. But it's mainly the denominator. That's why there is kind of onetime
effect. The denominator is relatively stable. And also coming back to that, why we could
keep that up.
Now if you look at the composition, it's basically less than a quarter, which comes from
gain realization over the last five years. There's one special. This is 2018 where you see
the unrealized gain -- or the realized gain is negative. And this was the introduction of the
new GAAP rule, as you all know, on the equity side, which goes now fully through the P&L.
Page 13 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

This was the exception. But again, if you look through that figure, it's very consistent in
respect of production.
How can we held up this relative high competence on the bottom line contribution? One
of the main reason is that the unrealized gain. And the area, a true differentiator, most of
our unrealized gain is at the very, very long-term bucket of the term structure. That means
2/3 is in the 10-year-plus maturities. And that's very sticky. That means if you don't touch it.
And we haven't touched it in the past, there's no intention to touch it, that remains. And
again, that's a true differentiator. I think there's not many who has so much unrealized gain
in that part of the bucket. That means even if rates are coming down, we should be less
exposed. And the things, which mature before the 10-year pocket, has a lower book yield
than what we basically hold in the 10-plus piece.
Also, if you look at Swiss Re's fixed income portfolio, we tend to have a lower -- sorry, a
longer maturity, has to do with the business which we are writing. We are fully matched on
an EVM basis. That means we have also the luxury to hold very long-term assets, which, of
course, if you had locked them in, in earlier days where yields were still decent, that's a
big plus. And this exactly happened in our shop. That's why having a longer kind of
maturity based on the ALM, not because we have long duration, makes you much less
exposed to a lower yield environment, which we forecast. And we don't hope that yield
will go back overnight. I think we will face lower for longer.

Bloomberg Transcript

But this gives you an idea how we can cope in this environment. I'm pretty sure some of
the features they will stay. And that's why I'm very happy to say I feel we can cope with
lower for longer even if it stays.
What have we done on the asset allocation? That's the main driver, I guess, of the
sustainability of the return. You see on the left-hand side the classic asset allocation. It's
about 41% credit instruments and equity and alternatives. And that piece increased by
about 10% the last three years. And you see that government bond actually is slightly
negative while the total balance sheet, which we managed, went up by 4%. And we know
lower yield, of course, has an impact, particularly also on the government bond portfolio.
Nevertheless, the major add-on happened on the higher-yielding piece.
Now the main question, which you should have, did we basically make compromise on the
credit quality, which other words is yield hunting a topic. And I can ensure you, it is not
because if you look at the credit bond slide, it's pretty much unchanged in respect of
composition. Average rating is A -- in the credit side. Now if we take the full fixed income
portfolio, very happy to report we have AA-, which is better than the market. Our peers
have an A+. That means we have higher-quality type of fixed income portfolio. And
probably our true differentiator in the amount of unrealized gain, in particular, where those
unrealized gains are in a term structure.
We massively increased in private debt. You see the last three years, we increased by
65%. Now how we have done this? It's through different channels. We have also direct
sourcing of private transactions. And you see we captured, we call it the so-called
compensation for liquidity risk, we captured 75 basis points on top of a kind of a

Page 14 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

comparable credit portfolio. That's considerably higher than any type of benchmark would
adjust. Benchmark in this area is around 20 to 35 basis points. We have more than double
captured. And that's locked in. And most of them are long-term loans with infrastructure
or CML.
Again, that's something which we will continue. And these are not funds. These are
directly sourced or together with our partner. Each transaction is an own one. And this is a
very successful activity, which we have built up over the last year, which we will continue.
That means the underwriting pen or the investment decision is with us. And that's why we
could capture such a nice premium without compromising on the credit quality.

Bloomberg Transcript

Of the real estate, I think it's good to show you what we have done. And it's also a
message we will continue. We don't invest into real estate fund. These are direct
investments which we do. Again, it has increased by almost 1/4 the last few years. And
these are core, core-plus type of real estate, unleveraged. And we show a net yield of
7.7%. Again, a very strong return, much better diversified than five years ago. Again, these
are directly on our balance sheet. We decide which building we buy. It's not a fund
investment. And this is something which we have started a few years ago. Now we
established a very nice network. And that's why you can expect this should help to sustain
nice returns even if yields stay low.
Let me come to the last slide. And also Christian and John has mentioned it. We have
done probably the most important decision, changing benchmark. And this has been
done in the end of 2017, beginning of 2018. And I think we are still the only insurance
company which fully applies ESG benchmark across all liquid markets. The good thing is
we haven't suffered on the return. It's the opposite. Equity, for example, we
outperformed.
If you have taken an ESG benchmark the last few years, we had a better performance.
And without a doubt, it's a much safer portfolio. And if you can express it, the information
ratio is one example, we took different time selection. It's true. It doesn't matter if you
look the last 12 months, the last 3, four years. It's a continually better portfolio clearly on a
risk-adjusted basis. But in our case, even on the yield side, we didn't suffer any foregone
return.
I show you one effect which is really impressive, at least for me, hopefully for you as well. I
show you on the bottom basically our so-called carbon intensity of the portfolio. Before
we switched, I took 2015, that means how many millions of CO2 you have per million
revenue of our underlying securities. And you see what happened since we introduced
this benchmark. On the corporate credit side, the drop was 42% -- and on the equity side,
it was 52%. So almost half, which is an incredible achievement just within three years. And
now it's not only good for ESG and maybe some inclusion in certain benchmark. This is a
portfolio which is far less exposed to any stranded asset discussion. Or if a regulator kicks
in with extra penalty, we are prepared. And I think, better prepared than many others.
That's why we continue on this soft leadership from the ESG side. And another example
of that. We were one of the co-initiator of this United Nations Asset Owner Alliance. We

Page 15 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

committed, together with a few colleagues, to have a net-zero emission portfolio by
2050. It's long away. But we will define milestones between today and then. And I feel
confident because of what they have seen the last three years, basically reducing by 50%,
I think we can go further than that. That's why we did, after we really looked at our own
portfolio, after we looked what it means, that we can commit to such things.
PRI again asked us to join the so-called Leaders Group, also in recognition of the work
which we have done. We had the best rating ever in 2019 based on portfolio action but
also engagement. These are a few examples which matter, matter particularly in respect
of the sustainability of our investment return.
With that, I would like to ask Christian and John to join me for the Q&A. Thank you.

Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Thank you, Guido. Okay. Yes. All right. We'll start the Q&A session. I'll -- maybe I'll ask you
to introduce yourself and restrict yourself to 2 questions each, please.

Questions And Answers
A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So maybe Kamran first. And there is a microphone to help you.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

It's Kamran Hossain from RBC. Two questions. The first one is just coming back to the, I
guess, the 3 strengths of Swiss Re. It sounds like to me that you're getting paid or you've
got a differentiated terms from, I guess, the access you've got to people and the
knowledge. The balance sheet is less important. If you're to roll this forward into the
future, especially with something like Alternative Capital Partners, is it unthinkable that
Swiss Re moves away from having a AA rating in the future? Would you ever reach that
point? That's the first question.
And the second question, one for Guido. There's been some discussion around where
there might be some investments in other parts of the world. Could you maybe run us
through what the strategy for principal investments is, particularly around trigger points? I
know you sold Swiss America. FWD sounds like there's going to be a transaction in the
press in the coming years. Maybe some more color around what you're thinking there.

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Okay. Happy to take the first one. So I think you're right. And I alluded to that, right?
Capital strength has become less relevant. I don't think in the past 20 years, 30 years
ago, people came to us just for capital strength, certainly a little bit for the rest. So there's
clearly a shift to the others. Whether that remains true for the next 50 years, I'm not so
sure, right? There are scenarios where capital comes back into fashion.

Page 16 of 68



FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

I think in terms of relative strength, in the past, everybody was AAA, I mean, the big ones.
Now that's gone. I don't think we'll ever get back to AAA. Even if we technically are AAA, I
don't think our clients expect that or would want to pay for that. So I think the clients
expect a strong balance sheet. If you want to do a long-term business, then even strong
as AA, I think, is useful at this stage. But in end, it's all a relative game, right? I wouldn't
want to go lower if my main competitors stay at AA. If everybody is A+ and that's the new
standard, we will have to adapt to that, right? But at this stage, I think -- I don't think the
next 2, three years, that's a big discussion point. Yes.

A - Guido Farer

Bloomberg Transcript

Maybe on the global investment side, as we continue to be a global investor, one piece is
driven by our insurance activity. Again, if we sell more insurance or reinsurance in China,
our portfolio will grow. We try to be matching in respect of currency as far as this is
suggested by the liability. And outside of that, we are opportunistic. And PRI is an
investment activity. It's different than if I look at our liquid equity portfolio. And you see
most of our investments are in high-growth markets. And that means it's another way to
improve or increase our footprint. We had a very successful story, as we mentioned with
New China Life but also ReAssure. Then we continue to do that. That means it's a
bespoke transaction into a market which we believe in, where we can add value, not only
providing funding but also knowledge transfer.
A good example also, in Africa, we have 6 different holdings. These are long-term shots.
And I think the 2 examples I showed you, it can be applied very successfully. And again,
not only helping an investee but also basically add bottom line value for our own
shareholders. That's why -- FWD is another example, where we're fully engaged as a
shareholder and help the company to increase the footprint in Asia. And I presume there
will be other examples coming.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

All right. Thank you. Vinit, you are next.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

So Vinit from Mediobanca. Just so my 2 questions. First is on the nat cat strategy,
Christian. And so you -- I mean, I'm a bit surprised that given where you are coming from
in the marketplace, you've chosen to bring in more and more of alternative third-party
capital when, in theory, you could have said, Hi. this is really the opportunity we've been
waiting for. We want to grow. Because when we see the growth numbers, they are so
strong. Then we have to remind ourselves not to get too excited about them because
some of that are just fees that is for a fronting kind of thing. So just why bringing these
people now into this party? So that's the first question.
Second question is just on the Solvency II equivalence. And apologies, I might have missed
some earlier comments. But the last time I remember, this number was well north of
300%, 310% relative to SST being, say, 270% in range. And there seems to be quite a
difference in this 260% versus the 240% now. I mean maybe it's just not that important. As

Page 17 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

you just said, capital is not really the main ingredient. But if there anything to point out, I'd
be pretty happy to take that.

FINAL

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Happy to do the nat cats, right? Overall at the end though, we're going to have Edi, the
expert, obviously tell us a bit more. I think nat cat is obviously a growing risk pool and one
we can very successfully compete with our own R&D tools. We had very good results over
time. So we have fundamentally high confidence, right? It's fits very much our strategy.
And we have some peak exposures but some others where we have much less.
So the most efficient portfolio will be to grow most of the non peak exposures but to
keep the peak, the very big peak capped. And that, you cannot do by choosing clients
because a lot of clients want to see -- have an unbalanced portfolio. So the only way to do
that is to grow the overall and then hedge more -- some of the peak exposure, which is
some of the capabilities we had but we're now putting more to the front. So -- and all of
that is in the context of increasing cat rates obviously right now. So this is attractive.

Bloomberg Transcript

The capabilities we have with this ACP, I think, are very useful because there's a potential
world out there. There's different worlds out there, right? But I think one potential world is
capital is plentiful. People will find ways to play as much as they want. And that's a world
where our clients will demand -- instead of them doing a lot of this alternative capital
thing, I can see more and more of them saying, Why don't you do it, all right ? I'll give you
a bigger share. But then you share some of it in the back end so I don't have to care
about all of that. Now if -- so that's the strategy, right?
I think it's really good to have all these elements for the full machinery in place, which we
have in terms of tactics. If rates were to fall down, or if retro rates were to go much higher
up, then on a tactical basis, for next year, we would steer the portfolio differently, right?
We can choose not to grow too much. Or a lot of the retro we have is actually not in the
retro market, right? You will see from a chart in Edi's team, it's swaps of Japanese, it's
sidecar where people get the same price we have and things like that. So we're less
dependent on the retro market.
But still you could have situations where the prices there are too high, which is a pricing
signal to the front. And then we don't write as much. So I think it's more about the
strategic establishment of the full machine. And so nobody has the impression that we
cannot provide what other reinsurance players are providing to the market. We can
actually do the same if necessary.

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

And I just -- I'd reinforce that last point of Christian's. We are not dependent on this
market to be able to continue to grow our business. We see the ability to grow faster
facilitated by a bigger capability out there. But I think what you see in 2019 is obviously the
gross premium is growing very, very strong and net premium is also growing strong, just a
little bit of a differentiation between the 2. So I was -- and I apologize, the second?

Page 18 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

The difference on the Solvency II current figure.

FINAL

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Yes. So here, I'd say 2 things. One is on the July 1 number, it's both an estimate under the
SST regime, a very good estimate. But it's not a full year audited set of numbers. And we
probably included a little more leeway in the transitional calculation of our Solvency II. So
the point is 241% doesn't equal 260%. 241% is above 260%. And I'd say you should not
read anything particular into a closing of the gap from the Solvency II ratio to the SST ratio.
Both numbers are lower than they were when we previously -- when we did this the first
time. But we're comfortable that we remain on a Solvency II basis above the high end of
the range of most of our competitors.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Thank you. Maybe here, Farooq?

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Farooq Hanif, Credit Suisse. On ReAssure, are you waiting for a particular set of conditions
or proof of concept. So further deals? Because obviously, there was a hiatus. And there
will be more deals before you come back. Question one, I guess.
Question two, can you characterize what you mean in asset management by a moderate
decline? Because obviously, there's a decline that we can mathematically try and estimate
from the current yield environment or your investment yield and then there's what you do
to offset that. So are you going to, for example, half the decline? Or can you give us some
idea?

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Maybe I'll take the ReAssure question, right? So I can assure you, we are not waiting. So
once the North Star is set, obviously you'll look at all your options you have. And these
options change over time, right, every quarter. There's different options we have to
achieve our goal. And there's no particular need to wait. It could be that the market
conditions improve and certain avenues become more attractive. It could also be that we
get approached by somebody who's willing to pay the right price, in which case, it's faster.
So there's really no need to wait in our minds, right? This is a goal we have set ourselves.
And we'll execute when it makes sense for shareholders.

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

I would say the -- our ability to transact on the Quilter deal in the second -- in the autumn
of this year, I think, explain to the market a capability that we have to continue to find
attractively priced opportunities to bring onto this book of business. It was one of the
questions around the IPO. Is there a pipeline and can we execute across our pipeline? And
that transaction itself, I think, reinforce the view that the answer to both those is yes. The
other thing we did say publicly is we weren't going to start the IPO process until 2020. I
think we can safely confirm that.
Page 19 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

A - Guido Farer
Okay. Maybe addressing the yield question which you raised. We have official forecast,
again, done by the colleagues, Nestor Ray, chief economist. He believes that rates will
stay be low for longer. He assumes 1.4% until year-end and not much higher for the next
few years. And it's also linked to global growth outlook. I think -- I only see downward
revision, whatever you look, with OECD, IMF, whatever. That means we can expect lower
growth. We have uncertainty, which we all know, which I don't need to mention. That's why
the environment is different. And you still see very accommodative Central Bank policy.
The good thing is some recognition. It can't be the only game in town. It has some side
benefit, which can be costly. That's why I think there's some reluctance to take rates much
lower. But I think we have to get used that the levels which we see here will not disappear
soon. And that means, from a long-term perspective, I have to be even more careful in
portfolio turnover. That's why what I referred before, which is a true differentiator in our
balance sheet, is even more valuable.

Bloomberg Transcript

We try to compensate it a bit through growing in private markets. And the reason why I
showed you the slides is to also give you comfort that we'll not just grow for the sake of
growth. We do it very bespoke, very careful. For us, if we deploy capital in those markets,
we know it's illiquid. Secondly, most of the things are long term. That's why we want to
lock in yields which are attractive, always on a relative pace.
Of course, five years ago, it was more attractive. But if you look where our government
bond is and most likely will stay, the private market capability is a key piece. And what I
showed you shows we can really differentiate and can capture some of the yield, which is
otherwise not possible. And it's done by Swiss Re. This is not that we invest into existing
funds. It's done by the own team. This should mitigate the low-yield environment. And
again, the main impact comes through the denominator effect, which we described
before.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

All right. Next question, maybe Ivan.

Q - Ivan Bokhmat

{BIO 15378004 <GO>}

All right. Ivan Bokhmat both from Barclays. I've got 2 questions. The first one would be on
the interplay between your investment yield and the pricing you're getting on the P&C Re
side. Just wondering, with the lower level of rates -- lower level of yields, do you feel that
the rate you're getting offsets that pressure? And if not, how much more rate you need?
Putting this in context, you have been able to produce $1.2 billion of EVM profit in 2015.
How much further do we need to get back there?
Then the second question is on the buyback. From the discussions with investors you've
been having over the past few months, it's become clear that the $1 billion buyback is
being viewed more and more as an ordinary buyback as opposed to the $1 billion that was
canceled at special. I know that you may not agree with this assessment. But I'm just
wondering if you would put some more of your framework around it and how much you
Page 20 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

could possibly tolerate having the payout externally higher than what you generate
internally from dividends from business units.

FINAL

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

I think I'll take the first question, right, since I'm probably closest to the business. So the
way it works in the P&C underwriting universe is that everybody who writes a piece of
business does so in these EVM terms. So discounted cash flow terms. And the discount is
the so-called TPF rate, right, the transfer price of fund. And that's a risk-free rate and it's
set before the renewal. It's actually up -- it's actually reset several times a year.
And if it changes a lot, even more frequently. So it means the practical challenge is,
somebody who's writing longer tail lines of business, when they look at the same piece of
business, with the new TPF curve, if that person gets the same price, it's going to be a
significant hit on the EVM compared to what they had last year, right? So -- and that's
mostly for the longer tail of line. It's not for nat cat or so. But for casualty, that will be, for
example, a big issue.

Bloomberg Transcript

So starting in Monte Carlo, we have started to communicate with all clients that lower
rates means higher nominal prices just to compensate, right, just to get to the same
expected EVM profit. So some fully understand, some maybe don't. Some pretend not to
understand. So it's the usual, I guess, negotiation because the nominal rates still play a
role, right, psychologically for people. But the decisive thing is that nobody will be
motivated in our troops to write something at negative EVM.
So the pressure will be entirely there. And if clients don't come in with the right increases,
we're going to write less of the business. That's going to be the consequence of this
framework. So at least, I think, we always have a rational view around that. But you're
absolutely right, that psychologically, people struggle much more with this direction than
the other one. I think in the other one, we got some tailwinds because people felt that
paying the same price is good where economic profit had increased. Yes.

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

And maybe with respect to the question on the buyback. The -- you're right to identify
that we didn't think about the second tranche of the 2019 buyback different than the first
tranche. And we were explicit in saying it would depend on the excess capital in the
second half of this year. And 2 of the important dimensions of that excess capital are
going to be, in the first case, the success or nonsuccess of reducing our stake in the
ReAssure business -- and secondly, the benignness or non-benignness of the nat cat
season. So on both of those cases, we found we didn't get what we thought was the
adequate pricing for the ReAssure transaction in the summer. We -- the cash did not
come in the door. And secondly, I think it's fair to say that this year's nat cat season, while
not terrible, has been robust. And it's delivering losses in -- also through the Fourth
Quarter.
We've separated the capital returns to shareholders into the ordinary dividend and the
share buyback. That share buyback, or previously the special dividends, have been an

Page 21 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

important part of moving us down towards our target capitalization on an SST basis. And
as I said, when we close the year and have our final accounts both under EVM and U.S.
GAAP, we'll evaluate our ability to deliver capital to shareholders in multiple forms. So I
don't think you should read across that by not doing the second tranche, that it has
necessarily implications for future capital actions other than we've got $1 billion more than
we otherwise would have had.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Thank you. Heather?

Q - Unidentified Participant
So just following up on the ReAssure question. You've been clear that you won't be a
forced seller of it. But do you think about potential use of proceeds of any transaction?
For example, what's your strategic thinking on, for example, growing in the U.S. specialty
lines, property casualty market or doing other transactions with the proceeds? How -what's the big picture view that you take on what you could do with those proceeds?

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

M&A, right? You're talking about M&A?

Q - Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, M&A.

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Yes. Because, I mean, investing in the business, we have done this year. As you know,
about $2 billion, we invested in the business. So that's not M&A. I think it will be highly
unlikely to link it one on one to a transaction, right, how do you get the timing right and
everything at the same stage. So I think we focus on ReAssure on its own. And then once
we have the proceeds, we can think what's the most appropriate way to use them. M&A,
generally, I think within reinsurance, it's hard to see anything strategic. So you could only
do something if the prices are extremely low. And it would -- typically, you have some
significant dis-synergies, right, on the business side. You would have huge synergies on
the capital side and on the cost side. But it's not the -- certainly, in the current environment
with the prices where they are, it doesn't seem like an attractive proposition.
Corporate Solutions, we have done bolt-on acquisitions all the way through. It's hard to
see something big and exciting that will completely fit and add something strategic to
Corporate Solutions. There's just a limited number of available targets at this stage. But if
there's ever something that completely makes sense, we'd consider that. Then in Life
Capital, I think if we find something that makes sense, that adds to the digital businesses,
we would absolutely consider that. But again, I don't think you need to think in terms of
automatic redeployment into something, yes?

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Page 22 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

Maybe Heather, if you pass the microphone to Sami behind you. Thank you.

FINAL

Q - Sami Taipalus

{BIO 17452234 <GO>}

Sami Taipalus from Goldman Sachs. My first question is on capital management. All your
communication around capital management is based effectively on the economic view of
capital. But if you look at that, you're still in a very strong position both on stock with
significant excess capital and flow. So above $4 billion of annual capital generation on
average. So it's very difficult to reconcile that with the fact that you couldn't execute on
the second buyback this year. And I appreciate there was obviously some specific things
you would link to that. But it's still hard to see why not. So I'm interested to know what is
actually the binding -- or sorry, the constraining factor on your capital management. Is it
rating agent capital? Is it debt leverage? I guess it must be something else.
Then the second question is on R&D and underwriting culture. I read a very interesting
paper recently from your APAC colleagues about typhoon risk and the fact that the
market models on the typhoon risk significantly underestimate the risk versus historical
averages, which surprised me a little bit given that you're the largest writer of cat
reinsurance in Japan and that you've grown this peril quite a lot in the last couple of years.
So I'm wondering, are you fully integrating what you're generating in terms of your
research into the business? And are you giving your local underwriters enough sort of, I
guess, authority to take their own decisions?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

So let me answer the first one. And then we'll figure out the response for the second. I'd
actually probably change your question. It wasn't that we couldn't do the second tranche.
We chose not to. And I think that's an important difference. What we saw was an
environment where. And the first slide that I presented, the macroeconomic conditions
remain uncertain. I think there's an election coming up in this country. There's an election
coming up in the United States. There's a trade war, which is either going to go ballistic or
moderate. But I don't think anybody has a good view of which of those 2 is more likely.
And in that context, moving into the second half of this year and early next year with a
very powerful capital position seem to be in our relative interest. And that's where we are.
There are multiple dimensions which we look at. Regulatory capital is one of them. The
rating agencies is a second. Overall liquidity, a third. I've mentioned how far we've
deleveraged the balance sheet, the access that we have for contingent capital at our call.
So I'd say our goal is, over time, to maintain this very robust balance sheet and evaluate
on a -- at any point of time, how much true excess we have that we're prepared to
redeliver to the shareholders. So I'm not -- I don't think you should view that there's some
secret hidden we don't tell you, constraint on us. So I think we've been reasonably
transparent when we say our target is 220%. We've got a glide path in that direction. We
remained at July 1 well above it. And the economic earnings are massively important to us.
We think they will derive GAAP earnings over time, especially out of the Life & Health
portfolio but not only. And so the value we're building up there, we'll earn out in our GAAP
results.

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}
Page 23 of 68



FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

I think we have been extremely clear and consistent, right, on this second buyback. We
were last year looking at towards end-year of 280% in the SST ratio, which -- that was Q3,
I think, which is definitely too high. And when we projected going forward, it could have
gone above 300%, right? So that's where I asked the Board we need a second buyback
just in case some of these conditions are fulfilled. And I think they clearly were not fulfilled.
I already see that were going down towards this gliding path that John said. So to me, the
second buyback was, I think, was very clear what kind of conditionality we had around that.
But as John said, it's not that we can't do it. It's just we chose not to. Yes.
I think on the typhoon risk, it makes much more sense to have Edi, right, to -- I mean, if
you can pass the mic maybe, our Chief Underwriting Officer, Edi Schmid.

A - Edouard Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Oops. Hard to get out of these seats. So on typhoon Japanese risk. First one, you kind of
hinted that the local team may not have done a proper job and to say the nat cat business
is written in a very, let's say, robust framework. So the models have to be used on the
ground there that are calibrated on the group level. And also, when it comes to the
authority levels, all the bigger transactions, they would be referred up to a very senior
level. There's a lot of controls around how we write that business.
Then obviously, it's important to point out that nat cat models, we have significant
expertise over many decades. But these models are not perfect. And whenever we have
significant events, we obviously take all the learnings and adjust the models. And that's
what we're doing right now. So reviewing viewing all the evidence from a scientific
perspective, including things like climate change. But also the claims strengths, we then
calibrate these models. And not just for the last few years. But we also go back many
decades. And clearly, we think, at this point, it's fair to say that the Japanese typhoon risk
has been rather underestimated.
I would not say that we see something like a significant climate change impact. If you look
at typhoon frequency over maybe 100 years, you don't see a trend. You see certain
cycles of increased activity. And we're maybe now again in a phase where you see a bit
more typhoons going to Japan. But it's important to point out, every year, there's 10 to 15
typhoons reaching the Japanese mainland. And some of them obviously hit densely
populated areas, like last year, Jebi in Osaka.
And now this year in Tokyo. But clearly, the markets, also with the competitive pressure
and how some of the players use the models, they obviously tend to present a bit of an
optimistic view of risk and really try to step back and look at all the scientific evidence, all
the last experience. And at any point in time, come up with the best view of this risk. And
all we can see at this point, there -- clearly, there's underestimation. And we'll push a lot
obviously then to make sure that we get compensated for the appropriate level of risk
also in Japan.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Thanks, Edi. James, in the back.

Page 24 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

Q - James Austin Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

FINAL

So James Shuck from Citi. Both of my questions are really around the capital generation.
So the EVM, you gave us a slide that showed an average across the period of $4 billion or
so. Obviously, that's been impacted by a high level of nat cats in that period and various
other things. You have an expected generation that you would think one year in advance
will come through. And it's really that number I want to get at. Are you saying $4 billion is
the expected EVM generation under normal environment scenarios?
Then secondly, kind of linked to that, what's the cash conversion on the EVM that you
expect? Life and Health Re, in particular, it looks like only a dividend of about $500 million
is paid up. But the EVM is obviously much stronger than that.

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. So on the -- I think if you reach back into the 2018 full year annual report
documentation, we gave a fairly explicit discussion about EVM generation. And the
number that was there, I believe, is $3.4 billion of something that looks to be a, with the
current book of business, a sustainable number for this business. And so while we didn't
make a prediction or forecast, I think that's the number that we have explicitly said is a
relevant starting point when you think about capital generation for us.
The economic earnings we've gotten today is the -- includes a number of very good years
for us. And we've got no reason to think that we don't rebound to that. But the -- there
will be some variations because of our nat cat portfolio over to what, in any one year, we
actually deliver. One of the things I tried to explain in the chart I showed was the unlocking
of the capital in the existing book of business will continue a pace. And so it's the new
business component which will show some variations.
The other thing that was not on that slide was a -- over that period, we're talking about
from '13 to the first half of '19, Guido and his team actually delivered another $400 million
per annum outperformance on the investment side. And that will get to, if you went
through and added the numbers, you get to $3.8 billion across the top. And the $4.2
billion is the number that we've shown for the average for the period. So I think net-net,
we're comfortable with a very strong economic performance of the business that we
have. And again, we won't make a forecast. But that, I think, triangulates in.
Your second question is, well, when does that show up in U.S. GAAP earnings and cash? It
depends dramatically by line of business and by the activities, where we are growing. But I
think you do see, because of the nature of the risks in the Life & Health business we write
on morbidity and mortality, some of the contracts are long-dated contracts. But the
savings risks are not there and you would expect profit recognition on the U.S. GAAP basis
with some certainty and timeliness. So I think the Life & Health businesses needed new
capital for its expansion. That's affected the dividend capacity. But I'm confident of the
earnings that we've got embedded in this business. And we'll continue to deliver a strong
performance over the next years.

Q - James Austin Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}
Page 25 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

If you don't mind me just following up on that. So the -- if $3.4 billion is the expected EVM
in one period, leaving aside investment outperformance or underperformance, the
special dividend cost $1 billion, the ordinary dividend $1.7 billion. So that's $2.7 billion. Of
that $3.4 billion, not all of that can be cash upstreams. I mean Life Capital looks like it's
about 50% of the EVM. So on free cash flow, it looks like you're distributing nearly
everything. Would you disagree with that?

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

I think in the context of 2017, which was, as Christian mentioned, the largest nat cat year
ever. And '18 to a lesser degree, we've been distributing a considerable amount of it. I
think in a normal year, we believe we've got a very comfortable cover.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. Jonny from UBS.

Q - Jonathan Peter Phillip Urwin

{BIO 6126952 <GO>}

Jonny Urwin, UBS. Just one question around volatility. So obviously, we've had 3 choppy
years driven by losses. But my main question, has there been any change in your appetite
for the net risk that you take relative to peers? It doesn't sound like -- it sounds like you're
more interested in rebalancing away from peak to nonpeak. But any comments there
would be great.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

No. I think -- well, we get a section with Edi Schmid. But our belief is that this is a field that
makes sense, that is understood by our shareholder, that has delivered good returns
overall over time. And so we're not afraid of the volatility. I mean the returns can only
come if you're able and willing to take some of that volatility. So clearly, volatility is
increasing with the amount of nat cat we're taking. If you look at our share price reaction -or the reaction by investors with large nat cat losses, I think that would strengthen my view
that this is a good line of business. Generally, people understand that every event is NPVpositive more or less for Swiss Re if you stay in, right? And you get compensated over
time. So I think clearly, compared to other lines of business, this is one of the most
compelling ones. Yes.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Ed, you're next.

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

Two questions. Firstly, just interested in your view on where you think we are in the point in
the cycle. So your 2 central group targets are on an over-the-cycle basis. Obviously, you've
had quite a difficult few years. I remember the Swiss Re Institute. Just over a year ago, I
think, it was saying that you didn't think the industry was meeting its cost of capital.
Clearly, pricing has been improving in some business lines. Do you think, based on where
we are today at the current point in the cycle, you can hit these 2 group targets?

Page 26 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

The second question relates to some press articles a few weeks ago regarding a
potential banker shareholder taking a stake in Swiss Re. Just wondering how you think
about things like that. Are there anything that you sort of -- do you see it as being
something that potentially could be positive for Swiss Re? And how do you make sure
existing shareholders are not disadvantaged by anything like that?

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

So the -- I'll take the second one.

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Yes. Okay.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

The -- look, I think the Bloomberg article you referred to talked specifically about a
potential investment in and around the Chinese company, CPIC. We put out our own
press release saying, yes, there have been some preliminary discussions about us
potentially making an investment into this company, preliminary and not in any way
confirmed. There was a second part of the Bloomberg article which we didn't comment
on because frankly, it's not our business to comment on, that suggested that CPIC might
be interested in investing in Swiss Re shares as well. I think for anybody that wants to
invest in Swiss Re shares, in general, we welcome. We think it's good value for -- at
current price levels. And what I would say is we don't -- we haven't been in any specific
strategic discussions as a core shareholder and our stock that would require any special
treatment or behavior. So I don't think we're disadvantaging in any way the existing
shareholders.
And we would be very cautious before engaging in any sorts of agreements with outside
investors to do that. You'd be keenly aware that 1.5 years ago, we were in certain
discussions with SoftBank, where the nature of shareholding might have looked a little
different. And there, the leadership of the company decided it was not in our interest to
have any -- to have SoftBank as a major shareholder at whatever conditions they might
have been looking for.

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Yes. On the targets, right, it's a question of probability. Can we reach a certain probability?
Because there's so much volatility, you can, although it's a bad year, reach it. But just with
a lower probability. So I think we can currently if we look at 2020. But the tightest one is
clearly the ROE one, which is more challenging. Reinsurance has no problem at all, right,
to achieve that. So it's more a question of all the other things, which you, I guess, you see
us very proactive on other fronts.
So one front is the excess capital, which I think we have been successful in deploying. But
that makes it harder. And the other one is ReAssure, a big block with low ROE, more or
less locked in, in a low-interest rate environment. That's 2 very big blocks. I think CorSo is
a smaller block of equity and it can be fixed within this 2-year framework. And that is less

Page 27 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

than two years now. So I think the overall makes it harder. And you need to work on these
2 pieces, right?

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

FINAL

So next question? Sure, Michael.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Two questions on ACP. First question, you sourced $900 million alternative capital, you
mentioned in the presentation. Can you give us an overall or comprehensive overview of
your alternative capital? So how much you have in cat bonds, how much is capital you have
in sidecars, maybe it's part of Edi's presentation, then forget about the question. And also
the structure of your retro protection.
Second question, on your motivation to buy retro protection. Apparently, your P&L seems
to be more volatile than the P&L of peers. Maybe this goes along with your philosophy of
being the ultimate risk -- the residual risk taker. But do you buy retro for limiting your
overall risk exposure or just for steering? Or do you also see a component of arbitrage in
buying retro protection?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

So to your last question, I think we can safely say that over the years, the purchasing of
retro protection has systematically been a positive event for us, that our ability to
generate adequate pricing on the front end has been able to allow us to make these
placements at reasonable covers. I can take you on the slide deck, on Page 89, in the
appendix, we've got a little bit of additional information with respect to the sidecar
platform. And there, you can see the relative growth of the sidecar between 2018 and
2019.
Which explains the majority of that $900 million increase but not all of it. And when Edi
comes back, he'll be able to talk a little bit more about it, if that's okay.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Okay. Maybe we'll take the last question?

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Sure. Andrew.

Q - Andrew James Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

It's Andrew Ritchie from Autonomous. Firstly, for John, in your leverage calculations, you
always include the subordinated debt that has been funded but not drawn down but
that's now included in your SST ratio. But I guess it's a bit harsh if that's how -- you include
it as leverage even though it's not actually being used. What -- under what circumstances
would you use it or draw it down in SST? I guess I'm asking, would it be used for sort of
funding general growth? Or is this a really sort of last resort kind of facility? And obviously,
Page 28 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

you could actually issue new debt cheaper than that facility because I think it was issued
when spreads were a lot higher. So I'm just curious as to why -- how you would like us to
think about that facility and why you treat it in leverage. But you don't actually use it.
The second question for Christian, when do you think about reviewing the risk-free -- this
is the ROE target. Because I think one could argue -- I mean you have met it over 20
years. I think, Swiss Re has done about 700, 670 basis points over 10-year risk-free ROE.
It's been challenging recently. But you -- the business is becoming a bit less capitalintensive by your own admission. You're saying capital is less relevant. ReAssure, you
don't want to own all of. You're happy to use more third-party capital. You're also flagging
more volatility. So 700 basis points, frankly, enough as a compensation for that. When
would you review that target?

A - John Robert Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

So I'll answer the first one. The CHF 2.7 billion is not last resort funding. It's there precisely
to make it relatively simple for us to achieve it. I do think where there's some other
contingent capital positions with other triggers, which are not included in that number, I'd
also say that we do have ability, as we've shown this year, to access the market in ways
that is well received by the debt investors.

Bloomberg Transcript

So the fact that we don't include this in the SST calculation probably has some historical
roots to it. It doesn't mean that it's not secure. It just means that it's in addition to the inplace accessed funding. And whether we should rethink that or not, fair comment. I don't
see any necessary trigger to change the categorization. But one of the reasons we put it
out there explicitly is to let everyone know that we do have that access.
What it would take to utilize it, I think, in the context of either something specific within
business units in terms of important new opportunities for organic growth, in the first
case, where the pricing environment makes us believe that upping the leverage modestly
could be justified in supporting that growth. Then frankly, if the 100 -- and 200-year storm
really does hit and we see an environment where pricing would become massively
different than it is today, we're prepared to move into it, I think, with a certain level of
controlled aggression, if that's the right word. And take advantage of those situations.
And here's CHF 2.7 billion sitting on the sideline that we can deploy.

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

On the ROE target, I guess, this is the first time I hear that question in the last few years.
So it's refreshing because most of the time, people ask me how we're going to reach the
current targets. So thank you for looking past the last three years over the longer period,
because I think it makes a lot of -- your question makes a lot of sense if you think about
the longer term. Clearly, the current target is challenging. We also have the U.S. risk-free
rate, right, not the average or something. We have half of our business not the U.S.. And
we have some significantly lower interest rates in some other parts.
I think the question will come on the -- I mean the question will come up on our table once
we achieve it, right? I think you should set targets where we have a plan. I don't want to

Page 29 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

set the target where we don't have visibility through that. So I guess, the first goal will be
to achieve comfortably, hopefully, the 700 plus. And then we can discuss about that. So I
hope you're right that we will start to discuss that at some stage. But it's not imminent.

FINAL

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Okay. So we've come to the end of our first Q&A session. Thank you very much. I know we
had some questions online. So I think the IR team will follow up, if we have not actually
answered these questions. Right now, we will be back at 1:30 for lunch. And lunch is right
behind us in the room where -- when you arrive there today. Thank you. Thank you, John,
Chris and Guido.
Break
Visit some of the booth we organized for you today. It's my pleasure to introduce Moses
for the Reinsurance session. Thank you. Thank you, Moses.

A - Moses I. Ojeisekhoba

{BIO 17934789 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Philippe. Good afternoon. So together with Edi, we'll cover Reinsurance for this
segment. I'll take a little time to cover the context in which the business operates and
some of the things we're trying to do in Reinsurance to ensure that we're the winners in
this space, while Edi covers in greater detail portfolio steering, with a focus on nat cats as
well as the casualty business.
So similar slide to what Christian showed all of you, the 3 key assets in terms of how we
look at it. For us in Reinsurance, we look at them as what drives the differentiation that
we're able to generate as a business. So if I take client access, our footprint is extensive.
But beyond just the issue of the footprint is the access to that
(technical difficulty)
information about their needs. And you're then able to try and find a way to match those
needs. So it's a critical part of what we do.
On the risk knowledge side, focus clearly on what we apply, making sure that the
knowledge that we have, we convert that into what we do in the underlying portfolio but
also apply that in terms of trying to serve the needs of our clients.
I think enough has been said about capital. I just want to underline from our standpoint,
capital still remains relevant because in a number of the transactions that we have to deal
with, while others may have capital, the scale of the capital or the size of your balance
sheet still matters and gives you access to
(technical difficulty)

Page 30 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

still a real factor. And I think applying those things over the last five years within the
Reinsurance franchise, we saw a look at our return for the reinsurance business alone,
measuring it in terms of the ROE as well as the capital that's repatriated. When you look
at capital repatriation in John's slide, you could see Reinsurance has repatriated over $11
billion to Group and ROE is also market-leading from a reinsurance standpoint in the midst
of 2 of the worst nat cat years that the P&C market has experienced.
And on the Life & Health side, most of the outperformance comes from the underwriting
side and not from the investment side, driven again by knowledge and the discipline that
we exercise when we prosecute business on the Life & Health side of our business.
But the industry is clearly changing. In side bars during launch, one of you also raised this
point up around access cycle management and the ability to deploy capital. Advantages
came from those 2 things, primarily if you take the last 10 years. But the reality of the
matter is we're in an environment that's changing. And I think the chart on the left-hand
side simply shows that to you. You look at the amount of capital that come in over the last
25 years, especially the

Bloomberg Transcript

(technical difficulty)
change. Now 2 things to say about that. One, I don't think the capital has come in only
because it's seeking returns. I think part of the capital has come in also because exposure
continues to grow. So I think that's something that we should keep in mind when we look
at the Reinsurance business. And in that environment, buyers are much more costconscious in terms of what they are willing to pay for reinsurance. And also an
environment where you see technology beginning to have a more prominent role in the
entire value chain and how you deploy that.
And our view is that for the future, the winners will be who are able to actually deploy
technology much better and in a very innovative way and come up with alternate sources
of income rather than just providing capacity alone. And in the core of the business, which
is much more competitive, clearly, efficiency becomes much more important as well. And
there, scale clearly gives you also an element of advantage.
So taking the prevailing business environment into consideration, we've sort of like
developed, we showed this to you last year, our strategic framework, which has 3 main
pillars around it. The core of the business, which is the most competitive part. And you'd
say even certain parts of it are commoditized, where in our view, the main thing that
matters in this space is your ability to actually have presence and have the right scale. I
mean selecting the right risk and pricing is important. But scale and presence is important
as well as the brand that you develop.
But also in the transaction space, we spent some time talking about transactions, the way
you structure the risk or tailor them in multiple ways. The number of competitors you face
in this space is different, a different set of competitors altogether. And what makes you
win is your ability to actually execute in this particular space as well as the size of your

Page 31 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

balance sheet. The execution piece, I'll come back to you a little bit later because that's
an important point to point out on transactions.
And on solutions, which is where we try to come alongside our clients and help them in
their -- in the actual business, the original business, as we will refer to it. You face
competition that are traditional and also nontraditional competitors as well. So the
professional services firms, some of the technology firms, some of the consulting firms,
you compete against them. And in our view, your ability to actually take part of the risk. So
joint risk sharing stands us apart as well as the significant amount of work we do on the
knowledge side and applying technology -- technological advancements.
So when we take all of that and we have a view of where we want to take the portfolio for
Reinsurance over the midterm, our clear expectation and clear view is that we can grow
the portfolio. And growing the portfolio also includes growing the profits in the business in
a way that rebalances the entire portfolio. If you look at it across those 3 strategic pillars,
the clear goal is we want to grow all 3 of them. But more growth will come from solutions
and from transactions but also growing the core part of the portfolio
(technical difficulty)

Bloomberg Transcript

different lines of business. We also seek to have balance in that portfolio over the
midterm. So this is the road map that we are working towards as a business unit.
But the growth that we're trying to grow is not just growth for the sake of growing only.
We have a fairly tight framework that we work within. I present a simplistic version here.
Edi will go into far greater detail on 2 components of it. But we look at the portfolio and
look at where -- which parts of the portfolio do we want to grow, which parts we're trying
to seek far greater profitability in and where do we want to also reduce potentially
exposure.
Here, we map the main 8 sublines that we have. But in reality and in practice, there's far
greater granularity to what we handle. So if you take for example, the specialty line. Within
specialty, you'll have aviation, you have marine, you have engineering, you have
agriculture, you have credit and surety. Or if you take a motor, you have commercial
motor, you have personal auto. Or you take liability, there's general liability, there's
products liability, whether it's primary or whether it's excess and across all lines of
business, whether you're writing on a proportional basis or non-proportional. Then you
also overlay on top of that the geographical component.
So it's not exactly the same thing for each geography. And within geographies itself, you
have countries that have significant weightage. So agriculture in France versus agriculture
in Brazil. So while the main line maybe grow our profits, sublines may have completely
different indications in terms of where we want to take the portfolio. So that's the level of
granularity that we apply to try and determine exactly where we should be deploying
capital within the Reinsurance business.

Page 32 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

And when we look at the short to midterm, the table to the left-hand side just gives you a
sense of where we expect our portfolio to move towards. So the 8 main lines, looking at
pricing and our view of what we're trying to achieve from a pricing standpoint and
exposure in certain areas we're looking to reduce exposure, which then gives you an
overall sense of what will happen with the premiums by the period of time that we're
talking about and implied also what happens to profitability.
And you can look at a line like motor, where we expect pricing to go up but we are looking
to reduce exposure. But premium increases. And the reason premium increases is the
underlying pricing that we expect to generate is far higher than what you expect to shrink
in terms of the exposure. That's why you still see a situation where premium rises in the
line of business where you are reducing exposure.

Bloomberg Transcript

And now coming to the 3 pillars and looking at the core of our business. Generally, I think
as Christian mentioned, we tend to look at this from an EVM standpoint. But we also look
at it from a U.S. GAAP standpoint and a measure of profitability for us is a combined ratio.
And when we look at the P&C portfolio over a certain period of time, we've spent most of
our time focusing on the risk selection side as well as making sure that we have the right
pricing relative to the risk that we actually take. That's been where we focused on for the
most part.
But more recently, we begin to also look at the other component of your combined ratio,
which is the expense ratio. And focusing on how we reduce the expense ratio through 2
levels primarily. One, simply reducing the expenses that we allocate to business, looking
at resources and figuring out whether the resources are generating the right returns or
not. And the other is growing the portfolio as well. And we gave 2 examples by growing
the P&C portfolio by 10percentage points, we reduced the combined ratio by
0.5percentage point. If we grow the nat cat portfolio by 10percentage points, we reduced
the combined ratio by 30 basis points. Most of that's driven by the lower loss ratio that
you see in nat cat.
But you see clearly an improved combined ratio trend over the last three years for the
P&C portfolio. And our plans moving forward is claim to also continue to see that
combined ratio decrease. We'll give you the numbers for 2018, I think, usually in February,
when we have -- we've gone through our January 1 renewals.
Then going to Life & Health, where we've continued to grow. And we've continued to
diversify that portfolio nicely. And the chart shows mostly the value of new business that
we've generated in the Life & Health business. And you can see across all geographies,
okay, Asia shows clearly a more prominent growth over the last five years. But you also
see that we continue to generate new business, EVM profit from new business in EMEA as
well as in the Americas as well, which leads to a situation where you see the value of new
business almost double over the last five years in terms of what we've been able to
generate with still the majority of that coming from Life and not Health.
Health clearly beginning to grow as we grow the portfolio in Asia far more. But mostly still
on the Life side. And in John's slide, he showed you something similar, where we saw --

Page 33 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

like look at the release of capital cost from the in-force portfolio, which helps grow the
balance sheet of the Life & Health business. And the combination of that as well as what
we do on the new business ultimately creates a far greater economic net worth in the Life
& Health portfolio. And our expectation is we will continue to grow that moving forward as
well.
Then on the transaction side, demand drivers for us from everything that we can see into
the midterm continue to be in place. So we don't see any reason for demands to abate.
Some of those main drivers are what's happening on the accounting standard side as well
as from the regulatory standpoint, what statutorily most regulators are expecting life
companies to do. And also what other stakeholders, primarily shareholders, are expecting
in terms of the efficiency of utilization of capital as well as trying to find ways to reduce
volatility ultimately in earnings. But beyond that, we also have management teams
generally who are trying to change the profile of earnings that they have in their portfolio.
And that's another major reason why we see transactions coming through.

Bloomberg Transcript

And our experience in this space puts us in a really good position. I think the access we
have again to the C-suite because most of the decisions around transactions for most
companies comes from the C-suite. And the access we have gives us access to the Csuite. They give us a good sense of what they want to be able to do. And we find a way
to partner with them, utilizing, again, the strength of the balance sheet that we have as
well as the knowledge.
Execution certainty is very important when you deal with large transactions because most
of your counterparties want to know whether you've done it before. They want to know
whether you've gone to the regulator. And the regulator knows the structure that you're
trying to put in place and will approve it or not approve it. So all these things matter when
you're trying to do a large transaction.
And I think the last five years, the track record also shows it's a bit lumpy. But
unmistakably, you see that the revenues that we generate in terms of the cost value of
new business that we see is actually increasing in the last transaction space with a large
proportion of that coming from Life & Health because they are much larger in terms of
the size of the transactions that we see on the Life & Health side.
I think -- while not on this slide, I think another point I should make is if we just look at the
last 10 years, since 2010, the number of large transactions that we've written, we look at
what we expected. So what we costed versus what actually happened. The gap between
those 2 is negligible from our standpoint in terms of the portfolio separately for Life &
Health as well as for P&C. Even though each particular transaction may not be exactly as
you expected. But across the portfolio, they're incredibly close in terms of what happened
versus what we actually expected.
When we look at 2018 and we deconstruct that, as I mentioned, Life & Health sort of
dominates about 60% of the value of new business profits that we see and about 40%

Page 34 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

from P&C. And within P&C, the majority of the transactions that we do both in terms of
volume as well as in terms of value comes from property and actually not from casualty.

FINAL

The number of transactions we did in 2018, roughly 200 is probably typical for any single
year that we effect transactions. So that's around what we would expect yearly. But I think
the main point is we see demand. The drivers are still there, they are not changing. And
we will continue to see opportunities for transactions moving forward.
And I come to solutions, which is the newest of the pillars in terms of how we organize
them. With us, again, coming back to our clients and trying to help them in the original
business and trying to find ways to create long-term partnerships, the nature of the
solutions that we put in place, most of them are tech-enabled by major platforms you
embed in the processes of the primary company's business, which means they're
extremely sticky because you embed them in the process, not so easy to take out. And
the nature in which payment that we take being reinsurance, which means we're willing to
eat our own cooking, it's not just that we give you the advice and we walk away.

Bloomberg Transcript

What we say is we actually take the risk alongside you makes us a really strong partner
because that alignment of interest is extremely strong. And a number of our -- most of
our clients see value in the solutions that we've put in place. And we now see at least 1 in
4 clients using at least 1 of the solutions that we have put in place. And we expect that,
that proportion will continue to grow.
The main reasons for stuff like coming to us to try and put in place solutions are driven by
basic things: trying to improve growth, trying to improve profitability of existing portfolios.
And I will go through the 2 live examples on the profitability piece. But on the growth
piece, it's simply new products, new distribution. If we look at metrics, for instance,
whether it's flawed in the U.S. in terms of the products we've developed, the rating
engines, which we embed in our client system. Or if we look at earthquake in China, we
continue to develop solutions that help our clients. Or telematics, trying to access a group
of drivers who are uninsurable [ph] today.
But they want to be able to insure them in a way that does not destroy the loss ratio, we
partner with them to bring telematics solutions in place. Then iptiQ, working with our sister
company. Thierry will spend a lot of time talking about iptiQ.
But the end-to-end platform that they've developed, digital platform, a lot of our
customers, clients, see this of tremendous value because they have either legacy
systems or they don't quite have the knowledge or they don't have the investments to be
able to put in place to create that sort of product for themselves. They partner with us to
be able to gain the capabilities. And in return, we generate new business profit as well as
premiums from our clients.
The efficiency piece, Magnum, you're familiar with as well as Swiss Re. It's probably the
equivalent of Magnum on the single-risk P&C side where we help our clients in terms of
underwriting risk on an automated basis. And you can almost say even though I put it on
the efficiency. I mean it's much broader than that. It's sort of like modernizing some of
Page 35 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

their business and in a lot of cases, also helping them grow as well as helping them
improve profitability as well.
Behavioral economics. We probably have the -- one of the largest teams in the insurance
industry of behavioral economics. And over at last count that I looked at, about 160 use
cases, where we try to change the experience of the end consumer using the resources
that we have in-house. Whether that's in trying to improve lapse rates or trying to improve
take-up rates or trying to improve cross-sell capabilities within an organization, behavioral
economies come alongside primary clients.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the first example, real-life example I give you, which is -- relates to Life & Health
customer retention is a real-life example of our client where it's a post-level term. So that
gives the geography away to the U.S. where post-level term, the premium increases
significantly. And because the premium increases significantly, most clients lapse the
policy. In the case of this particular client, the lapse rate was 86%. So within two years, the
entire cohort of clients lapse. We came alongside them to look at, one, the risk premiums,
define the risk premiums and then we define the curve of premiums in post-level term.
And on the basis of that redefinition, we're able to improve the lapse rate from 81% down
to 26%. So 55percentage point improvement, which generates $36 million for the client in
this case. And because we reinsure a large proportion of that treaty, the value to Swiss Re
is $29 million.
On the P&C data analytics side, the client with a nonperforming portfolio, loss ratio way
too high. Using their data, using our own proprietary data, using models that exist with the
data and smart analytics team within Swiss Re, coming up with a combination of risk
selection -- new risk selection rules plus changes in the pricing, we're able to improve the
loss ratio by 6percentage points. Sales declined $9 million. In this particular case, we were
not the reinsurer on that portfolio. But for the work that we did, they ceded a portion of
that portfolio to us and it generates $2 million in EVM value to Swiss Re. So those are
examples. And we'll continue to do much more of that. It becomes a more important part
of the revenues that we generate at Swiss Re.
But I think in conclusion, I think the franchise from a reinsurance standpoint has a strong
track record of delivering results. To Andrew's point a little bit earlier, while we haven't
changed the 700 basis points, we still commit to the targets that we have for both Life &
Health and P&C. Even though risk-free is clearly less and will not necessarily arrive at those
numbers, we still arrive by the 10 to 15 for P&C and 10 to 12 for Life & Health. And we
recognize clearly that the environment is changing. We've retold our strategy to ensure
that we succeed in this particular environment with the respective pillars. That then allows
us to grow. And in growing P&C, we get a scaling effect, which improves our combined
ratio. And for Life & Health, we just -- we expect it to continue to deliver the exact way
that is delivered until now.
And so I'll invite Edi to come up and spend a little bit more time talking about steering the
portfolio itself and also greater detail in nat cat and casualty. Edi?

A - Edouard Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}
Page 36 of 68



FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

Thank you, Moses. Good afternoon. Welcome also from my side. As Moses already
explained, we run a quite decisive portfolio management approach actually across the
group, also within Reinsurance. I will dig deeper into 2 key portfolios. On the one hand
side, natural catastrophe, a business where we have demonstrated a strong track record
and where we believe we can actually continue to grow the contribution to sustainable
earnings. And on the other hand side, I will dig into U.S. Casualty, clearly a business that
has been more challenged over the last couple of years, which we have put on what we
call kind of an exposure management priority already two years ago. So I will show a bit
more of what we're doing there.
This kind of triangle, where we actually put every portfolio on a clear priority, whether it's
sustainable growth, enhancing profitability margin or addressing risk concerns, we use a
lot these days throughout the company, not just in reinsurance, also actually in Corporate
Solution. Andreas will later show a bit more of what we're doing in these regards in the
Corporate Solutions segment.

Bloomberg Transcript

But now let's dig into the nat cat business. I mean first, it's important to describe the nat
cat risk pool. The Swiss Re Institute estimates we have about $30 billion of reinsurance
premium in that space. Obviously, a significant part is North America. But it's spread quite
well around the world. If you look back, this has actually been a big growth business. Nat
cat business has been growing above GDP, 6% to 6.5% over the last 20 years. And we
also think it will continue to grow at significant rates going forward, still above GDP.
And I think there's quite some obvious underlying trends that explain this growth. You
have continuous urbanization, you have more dense assets and people in nat catexposed areas along the coastlines. You have -- in emerging markets, you have more
prosperity. So insurance penetration will go up. I think these are all the reasons why this
risk pool is going to grow in the future.
And on the right-hand side, as we have pointed out many times, it has still a huge
protection yet out there. Again in '18, 3 quarters of the losses were not insured. And the
institute estimates that in total per year, on an expected basis, more than $200 billion of
nat cat losses are actually not insured. So that's why we think this is a growing pool where
we want to play a leading role in.
This slide show that we have been and are a leading player in this business. It shows our
market share on the reinsurance side. We had some 12% on the global business back in
2012, '13, a little bit less for Hurricane North Atlantic because this is a clear peak risk. Then
obviously in a very softening market, we reduced our market share to some extent. But
again, more recently, '18, '19, we -- we are back at similar levels, close to 12% on the global
average and about 11% in Hurricane North Atlantic. On the right-hand side, you also see
our portfolio is quite diversified, obviously, 40% in North America. But then we have
significant businesses also in the other continents.
I would point out in Hurricane North Atlantic, still in Florida, we are a bit underweight
compared to the rest of the U.S. Where we are more overweight is in Japan and in
Australia. These are very concentrated markets with both markets dominated by 3 strong

Page 37 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

ceding companies where we're very well positioned. So that's why we have quite a
significant market share there. Obviously, there have been some losses over the last
years. But over time, we are also confident in these markets, we can make a decent
margin.
Now I think that's a very important slide. So it really compares to the nat cat loss burden
we anticipate we cost before we put the business on our balance sheet and then
compare to what actually has happened in terms of loss activities. On the left-hand side.
So the loss levels per year and the premium and our expected losses and obviously
there's significant year-on-year volatility. 2005 Katrina, Rita, Wilma -- 2011 were the
earthquakes in Tohoku, Japan. And then Christchurch. Then '17 was the big hurricanes. So
a lot of volatility.

Bloomberg Transcript

But what is important, if we look over a period of time, whether we go 20 years back or
10 years back, the losses we actually anticipate in our cat portfolio match very closely what
we actually see. So we think we have a very strong skill to anticipate the loss burden in this
business. And that's what we call costing accuracy and it's very important to give us the
confidence to grow further in this business.
Now why do we have this strong track record? And I think it's mainly based on a
substantial R&D effort we have been putting in for more than 30 years to have the best
possible views on the nat cat risk. We have 190-plus models in place. And so different
perils, which also shows the broad diversification of this portfolio. We have more than 40
scientists in-house that work on these perils. But we also work with leading scientific
institutions outside to make sure we always have the latest scientific evidence. But then of
course, we always need to look into what new insights we get from the latest claim
events.
We think it's an important competitive advantage to always update these models as
quickly as possible. So for example, after the hurricanes in '17, we quickly had some
learnings around vulnerability for some occupancies. And already for next renewals, we
are ready then with an updated model. And already as we speak, with all the typhoon
activity in Japan, we're reviewing also all the evidence, the scientific state-of-the-art plus
what we now learned from the claims to again update these models. So we have the best
possible view of risk. So these rapid feedback loops are very important to make sure we
really reflect the latest state of the art.
Maybe to a question asked earlier. What we have implemented is a very robust
framework based on technology across the whole company. So any policy in Corporate
Solution, any reinsurance treaty somewhere is run through the same platforms. So these
nat cat models are on the cloud these days. Then it will be quite online aggregating up. So
we can also manage the capacity and ultimately put it into our group risk model. So we
can again determine the capital allocation to these different risks. So this gives us a lot of
control and also transparency on the book of business we have in place.
And also linking a bit to the solutions piece, Moses explained more real so use our nat cat
proprietary expertise to help our clients. So out of the cloud via an API service, clients can

Page 38 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

access our cat modeling and write the original policies on that basis and then obviously
cede a quota share back to us. So that's really what we think is our competitive advantage
in terms of the proprietary knowledge on nat cat.
Now this slide explains a bit why nat cat is such an attractive business for us, for the
shareholder. It has a lot to do with diversification. On the left-hand side, we show the
return on economic capital of the nat cat business over the last couple of years. And the
first thing to point out even at, let's say, a low point in the pricing cycle, '16, '17, this
business was still at an attractive level. It has improved again a little bit '18, '19 with
increasing prices.
And what we also show here to compare the attractiveness of this business on our
balance sheet versus an undiversified player. So let's take a collateralized reinsurer writing
the same business as we have. The return on capital would be much lower. And obviously,
that has to do with the diversification our balance sheet brings to bear. And the
explanation is really given on the right-hand side. We show the individual perils as we call
them, Hurricane North Atlantic, California Quake and so forth. And their tail risks.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now if you put these tail risks together and diversify the contribution of each factor gets
much lower. That's what you see with the blue chart. Then obviously, you can add the
diversification with other underwriting risks, particularly the Life & Health side, which
further reduces the contribution of nat cat. Then in, let's say, as we saw on the test view,
you can even then bring in the diversification with financial market risks. And that's what's
shown at the bottom there. So there, the nat cat risk actually becomes quite a small
contribution to the total risk.
So to give an example, if you look at our peak exposure, Hurricane North Atlantic, if we
deploy $1 billion of tail risk capacity, we would only have to back this up with some $100
million. So it shows we have a multiple of 10 in terms of capital efficiency versus an
undiversified or under reserved player. I think that's really our efficiency and to bring cat
business on our book. Then in addition, I would also point out the strong franchise vis-vis the ceding companies that actually like to have their risk with a reliable partner. And
also from a regulatory perspective, I think it's an advantage to have a very solid balance
sheet to take on these risks.
Obviously, with the growth in nat cat, also our, what we call the budget, is increasing. So
we expect more losses to happen. That's only natural. So last year, we had a budget
disclosed about $1.15 billion. For this year, we received more than $1.3 billion. Actually, the
budget has grown a bit less than what we call the tail risk or the capital allocation. We have
grown quite a bit in what we call the peak perils, particularly Hurricane North Atlantic. So
these allocate more capital. So the growth there was even above that level. I think what's
important to point out that obviously with the growth in exposure, we grow the premium.
And we have grown and will grow the business at, at least the same, I think, even better
margins or the absolute level of earnings will continue to grow with this exposure of
growth.

Page 39 of 68



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

Then the question is asked, well, what does this do to our earnings volatility? I think it
depends a bit on how you measure volatility. But if you look at the absolute earnings,
which will grow versus the volatility of these earnings, the ratio should be about the same.
And what I will explain later again is the use of alternative capital partners. It will actually
lead to somewhat more diversified portfolio as we grow the whole book. But we cede a
bit more to our sort of third-party capital providers for the peak risk. So the overall
portfolio will become a bit more diversified. For this year, we actually think the growth in
nat cat business will add some $150 million of pretax earnings to our GAAP bottom line.
Now Alternative Capital Partners. As John already alluded to you, we have always been a
leading player. We have created insurance-linked securities more than 20 years ago. We
may have not been as outspoken as others. But we have used it in the past. But clearly,
with the growth, we think it's better to be ready and also have third-party capital to share
with them some of our particularly peak risks.
So if you look at a session ratio in terms of tail risk session on the chart, on the left-hand
upper side. So last year, we ceded about 13% of this tail risk. This year, it has increased to
about 20%. What is very important. And John also mentioned it, we still write most of the
business on our own balance sheet. And we want to have close alignment of interest. So
we write this business using our client franchise, using our proprietary knowledge and
make sure this business is attractive for our own shareholders. But it also is an attractive
long-term business for our third-party capital providers. As mentioned before, we cede a
bit more of the tail risk that it makes more sense. And we have obviously set some risk
tolerance limits. We don't want too much concentration just in one risk factor. So it makes
sense for this really outstanding peaks like Hurricane North Atlantic to share a bit more
with Alternative Capital Partners.
Then maybe also some comments on what does our hedging portfolio look like. At this
point, a significant part is via sidecars. So over many years, we have established
relationships with long-term investors, pension funds who have been with us for a long
period of time and also continue to be with us after some losses because they also had
very good years, obviously, before that.
And the whole hedging portfolio is really designed for quality and sustainability. So we
make sure it comes with little basis risk. So it matches closely our incoming business, which
is the case with sidecar because it's basically a quota share. But also the other instruments
are with little basis risk. And also most of the coverage is collateralized. So we don't want
to really replace the underwriting risk with credit risk. So we make sure this is, to a large
extent, collateralized. And we will continue to grow this platform with quality and longterm third-party capital. And obviously, in addition to the risk-taking, there will be then
some commission. So our partners will pay us a commission to use our franchise and our
risk knowledge to bring this business in.
So that's really the nat cat story. And I'll switch now to a more challenged business, to be
frank, on the U.S. Casualty market. What I would say at the highest level, the challenges
really come from 2 factors. The first one, a very soft market the last few years. And the
other one is much more aggressive tort environment in the United States. So on the lefthand side is the commercial rate development in the U.S. The blue line at the bottom is
Page 40 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

the large commercial risks. And what you can actually see the price level, the rate level '18,
'19 is actually close to 1999, which was the worst soft market ever. It just shows that we are
at a very low rate level in the commercial -- in the large commercial business.
Then on the right-hand side is really what happened in terms of a more aggressive tort
system. So what we show here is the average median verdict value of the 50 largest tort
verdicts. And there was a significant increase in these settlements over the last few years.
If you really try to understand the underlying factors, there's a lot to do with much more
litigation funding. So more aggressive plaintiff lawyers fund it with money going after
these cases.
Then on the other hand side, you have a much more, let's say, negative perception of the
corporates in the U.S., in the general public, which also influences standard insurers who
are very much inclined to decide in favor of the plaintiff and against the corporate. So
these are really the underlying factors that explain this increase. And that's really what we
call then together social inflation and clearly, something the industry has underestimated
over the last couple of years.

Bloomberg Transcript

As I said, Swiss Re has put U.S. Casualty already on what we call an exposure
management priority and improving profitability priority since two years. And we took
several actions across the various casualty portfolios. We started to lose appetite for U.S.
liability and commercial motor. We also pushed a lot for commission increases. You can
actually see that the economic combined ratio improved over the last two years. We also
introduced a load in the costing to reflect the increased social inflation when we write the
business.
And we started also to monitor the large corporate risk much more closely because that's
really the segment most affected by the social inflation. We request detailed policy-level
board role from the clients. And we get that in most cases. And we also have developed
analytics tools where we can identify large corporate risks. So we understand really what
are the most effective pockets of business in our ceding companies portfolios and then
we can work actively with them to address these problematic areas. Last but not least,
also over the last couple of years, we have reflected these trends in our reserves. So we
added close to $1 billion into our U.S. cash reserves over the last couple of years.
Now if you look at our total casualty reinsurance portfolio, it's important to point out that
this is quite a diverse pool of businesses, both in terms of geography but also in terms of
lines of business. So we write more than $9 billion of casualty business and about $4 billion
of that is really U.S. casualty. The rest is Europe, is EMEA. And these are businesses that
actually are performing quite well in line with our expectations.
Then if you zoom in a bit more into the U.S. Casualty business. And there is about 1/3 is
really U.S. liability but then also you have workers' comp. Under Accident & Health, you
have a motor business. So the liability is about 1/3. Then with this analytics tool in the client
portal we're also looking at all the limits, we estimate that only about 3% of the business
is really exposed to what we call large corporate risks. And that's why we think the most
affected business is quite a manageable portion of the total U.S. liability business.

Page 41 of 68



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

This is obviously the picture on the incoming new business sites. I would also point out
maybe to complete that picture, you may have noted and we also disclosed earlier in the
year, we grew the liability or the U.S. Casualty business quite a bit into 2019. But it's
important that this was very much targeted. So it was regional business with no ancillary
exposure. And also it was some transactions mainly around small and medium-sized
enterprises. Very low limits, first dollar coverage, which is very much a short duration and
then much more predictable. So we clearly have kept a very careful stance on the large
corporate liability risk.
So now turning more to the reserve side. So we have, again, also on the reserve side,
quite a diversified pool of reserves. For Casualty business and Reinsurance in totality,
year-end '18, it's $28 billion of reserves. And about $14 billion of that relates to U.S.
casualty. Again, then you can break this down to different lines of business. Accident &
Health actually has performed rather favorably. More recently, motor, we had some issues
a couple of years ago, which we took decisive actions on. Then if you look more closely
into U.S. liability, the $8 billion reserve base, within that, we estimate that about $1.5 billion
is exposed to what we call the large corporate risk business. So also in that respect, the
business most exposed to social inflation is quite a manageable part of our total reserve
book.
Now we explained our reserving approach. In many occasions in the past, it's really robust
bottom-up around all the reserving portfolios. There's very close feedback loops with
underwriting with the claims teams. So we really make sure we always reflect the latest
trends we see in the various portfolios. What I show on the left-hand side here is a chart
on our initial loss picks on the reserving side for U.S. liability basis. And what we can see
that our loss picks, compared to what the industry reserve, that has always been a little bit
higher, which shows that we have been proactive in reflecting some of these trends. In
some of the liability portfolios in the U.S., the reserving actuaries actually put the loss peak
some 10 points ahead of the initial costing peak, again, to reflect some of these
developments.
Now on the right-hand side, again, what we show is the total casual reserves where still
from an actuarial control perspective, is this additional view on the reserves from a group
basis. We are confident that the reserves are set at a prudent level. So obviously, if you
look at U.S. liability more specifically, clearly, there's uncertainty. But if you put that into the
overall U.S. cash reserves also assessed by our independent actual control assessment,
we are still confident that the reserves are set at an adequate level.
Then I'm running out of time. So I will finish with just 1 or 2 more slides. Actually, more
recently, there's been much more dramatic actions by many carriers in the United States.
On the right-hand side, you see the rate development charts. So if you look at general
liability umbrella, pricing has increased since '18. But it's now going up quite significantly.
Excess liability, you see many carriers taking down limits, increasing attachment points. So
the market is reacting now much more decisively.
So the good news of this is that our book in the U.S. is, to a large extent, proportional. So
we'll benefit from all these improvements. But I would still point out that U.S. casualty and
particularly liability piece will, in our portfolio management approach, stay on a strict
Page 42 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

exposure management and profitability improvement focus as clearly in this environment
of elevated social inflation, we need to take a cautious stance.
And to close off, again, our portfolio management triangle. So nat cat, clearly, a portfolio
where we're confident we can grow earnings further, now enhanced with alternative
capital partners to manage our peak exposures in a risk controlled way. And on the other
hand, U.S. Casualty, where clearly we'll keep a focus on exposure management and push
for further rate increases. And when it comes to these most exposed large corporate
risks, we'll clearly also not hesitate to reduce exposure further. And in addition, as was
also mentioned earlier, we have lower interest rates. So it's an additional reason to push
even more for price increases as you need a better nominal margin if you lose on the
discounting factor.
So that's on these 2 key portfolios. And I think with this, we'll switch now again to Q&A.
And I think Moses will join me on stage for that one.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Thank you, Edi. So we have, I believe, 15, 20 minutes for the Q&A. And I will also, again,
this time, ask you to restrict yourself to 2 questions each. So maybe, Paris, do you want to
start.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Paris Hadjiantonis

{BIO 19703051 <GO>}

Yes. It's Paris Hadjiantonis from Exane. I have a question for each one of you. So the first
one will be on U.S. casualty. You seem to suggest that when it comes to social inflation,
the trends you are seeing are mainly on large corporate risks. What we have been seeing
from several other players in the past quarters is a trickle-down effect or a spillover effect
into more SME business. Are these trends that you are also seeing or not really? And if
not, why? Is there a difference versus the others?
Then the other question will be for Moses. When it comes to the need to leverage
technology to generate alternative sources of income, as you've said it, we are seeing
basically your biggest competitor taking a different approach from you, which is
cooperate with insurtechs, try to find partners. You seem to be taking a slightly different
approach, which is developing a lot of the things in-house or trying to partner with industry
players. Why do you think your approach is better than your competitors?

A - Edouard Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

I'll take the first one on social inflation, also, let's say, affecting SME type of business. We
clearly don't see that trend going down into these smaller businesses. I think there was
one carrier that announced some issues with some SME portfolios. But I think these are
specific factors. So typical SME businesses that are not part of this, let's say, social
sentiment against large corporates. And I'm not aware of, let's say, any big worries
against these smaller types of companies, the SME businesses. We have written, this year,
they performed actually quite well in line with expectations.

Page 43 of 68



FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

So it may not be limited to the largest corporates. There may be other corporates that
have deep pockets. But I would really not see this go down to the SME level. But still, I
think the issue is big enough at the large corporate risk level to -- for the industry now to
take a really serious action there to improve the pricing situation but also the terms and
conditions massively on this segment. We actually have serious concerns that liability for
large corporates will get to sustainable levels anytime soon. And that's also high on the
Corporate Solutions side. We take very dramatic reductions of this exposure. And we also
keep it very controlled on the Reinsurance side. But SME, I cannot see a similar pattern.

A - Moses I. Ojeisekhoba

{BIO 17934789 <GO>}

The only other thing to maybe add to Edi's comments is if -- I think if you also look at the
limits profile for the SME customers that we see, the typical limits that they purchase
versus the limits that you see in the large corporate segment, that's the other reason why
you'd be far more worried about the large Corporate Risk segment rather than the SME
segment.

Bloomberg Transcript

Coming back to your question on tech investments versus sort of like building, I think
Christian showed the chart which talks about our approach to technology and the 4 main
areas where we choose to focus. If I go back to 2012, 2013, we also started -- we had a
tech investment fund. We invested in a number of companies. And I think we quickly came
to the view that this -- in order to be able to serve like cover the entire universe and pick
the right risk, you needed a ton of money to say you were going to invest.
And it was far better in our own view to actually do 2 things. One is we partnered with a
number of our VC firms globally. They have portfolio companies. Then we take use cases
to those portfolio companies. In that way, we get exposure to the best and emerging
technology that comes through. The second is we sort of like look at our own selves to
say, Okay, what are the things that we need to do? And working on our own selves, we
come up with technological advancements, which we then know our clients also need.
And then we partner with them as a way to try and generate income. Yes. It's a different
model. But we have greater conviction about what we are doing in this space in terms of
the hit rate and the return versus yourself -- like making investment and not really knowing
which one's going to succeed or which one will not succeed.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

All right. Next question, Andrew? Yes.

Q - Unidentified Participant
A question for each. But it's mostly Edi, sorry. Edi, just trying to relate. On the large
corporate risks, the implied premium is about $120 million based on Slide 56. The implied
reserves you say are $1.5 billion. That's actually quite a big difference. I mean obviously, I
would expect reserves behind the premium. But it's a lot of large corporate business -excess business. Hence, there's going to be a much higher -- I'm just trying to understand.
Is that large corporate business, is the premium you show actually any useful -- is it useful
as a guide at all because it's all excess business?

Page 44 of 68



FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

And on the topic of excess, just tell us again, how do you get comfortable with the
underlying trend before your attachment, if you understand what I mean? And on nat cat,
one risk model that says that the worldwide 1-in-200 tail is about $300 billion. And the
expected sort of annual cat loss, whatever the average is, is about $85 billion. You say
you've got a 10% market share. But your cap budget is obviously a lot less than that would
imply. Is that purely the diversification effect? Would you recognize those numbers and
say, well, it's just because we're so diversified, we'd end up with a fraction of that? And
what work have you done to further assess the nat cat budget sort of realism, given some
of the underlying trends?

A - Edouard Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

Yes. Thanks, Andrew, for these 2 questions. On the first one, let's say, the exposure in the
reserves versus the exposure on the premium side. Actually, when we estimated this 3%,
we not only looked at the premium. But we really looked at the limit profile. So in the
policy board roles of the clients, we look at all the limits and which part is really exposed
to LCR and not -- and as explained, obviously the reserves are much bigger because it's
the accumulated exposure over a number of years. So I think the ratio sounds about right
to me.

Bloomberg Transcript

How can we get comfortable with this risk? I mean it's fair to say the tort system is quite
aggressive. And we don't know when this is going to end. It's just what we have done. We
have really tried to reflect all the things we have seen. So all these larger worries are
reflected in the cost. We added a loading to the costing for liability business. We reflected
it on the reserves. But it's clear there is more uncertainty at this point in time.
And that's also, as I said, particularly for large corporate risks, where it's the strong
sentiment against corporates where these limits out there. It's really very hard to make
this business sustainable. And that's why we really take a very cautious stance. And we'll
work with clients to reduce that exposure. And on the corporate solutions side, also shy
very much away from these very exposed limit. So this is going to be a challenge for the
industry over the next couple of years.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Maybe can I add -- is there bias to the LCR business?

A - Edouard Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

Sorry?

Q - Unidentified Participant
Is there an excess versus -- excess of loss bias to the LCR business?

A - Edouard Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

So there was in Corporate Solutions. Yes. There was a lot of excess business. In the
Reinsurance business, it's a broad mix because we have participations with different
companies, some excess, some also primaries there. It's clearly much less exposed to the
Page 45 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

excess. But it was the case on the Corporate Solutions side. And it's the nature of LCR
there.

FINAL

A - Moses I. Ojeisekhoba

{BIO 17934789 <GO>}

Yes. I think the only thing I just wanted to add, Andrew, real quick is, I mean, where we
tend to write excess as in excess in the primary world, where you put a treaty on top of
that, we also tend to have the proportional treaty in place as well.

Q - Unidentified Participant
As well?

A - Moses I. Ojeisekhoba

{BIO 17934789 <GO>}

Yes. I mean it's rare that we'll just go and write excess on and excess as well and then
excess policy.

A - Edouard Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Then the second question was more around the cat budget and how we get comfortable
that this is the, let's say, good estimate for the mean losses we expect. As I said, we do
the spec testing on a very regular basis. It shows a very good picture on a global basis.
But we obviously do it also on a regional, on a perils and also on a different layer basis to
make sure we always take appropriate actions if we see too much deviation.
The $85 billion. And your calculation was the 10% share, I think it's very important that it
really depends on how these cat markets are structured. So the $85 billion referred to is
the total insured loss. So reinsured that's ceded and what's kept with the insurance
company. And you would really have to dig into each of the markets, how the losses are
split between the primary market and the reinsurance market. And this can go from 5050 in some markets to some, whatever -- Chile, you would have 90% reinsured and 10%
retained by the primary market. So it's very hard to give one number.
Then obviously, our market share, as I pointed out, can be quite different. So it is an
average 12%, 11%. But it can easily be below that. But it can also go up to 20% in some of
the markets. So it's not so easy to get from this $85 billion, which is not an unreasonable
number, to what is our share. So we feel confident with our models, which also goes into
the budget. So on wildfire, we make the models move. And as we speak, we are updating
the typhoon Japanese models that will also add to that budget and in the next year.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Heather. You're next.

Q - Heather Takahashi

{BIO 17304791 <GO>}

Heather Takahashi. Two questions. Do you have a view on opioids exposure? So if you
follow people that cover the health care industry, there seems to be a range that people
throw around for approximate industry economic exposure to the issue. So do you guys
Page 46 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

have your own view? Then within that, how much is the industry insured exposure? Then
below that, do you have a view on what Swiss Re's exposure would be?

FINAL

Then second question, you talked about litigation financing. So one of these firms has
recently had some issues, one of the publicly traded firms. And I'm wondering if you have
seen any impact from the other investor appetite for the asset class. Or do you expect
there to be any impact from that?

A - Moses I. Ojeisekhoba

{BIO 17934789 <GO>}

Edi, you want to take the first? I can take the second.

A - Edouard Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

Yes. Let's split like this. I was kind of expecting questions on opioids since we talk about
the U.S. liability market. I mean first, I would start with this opiate thing is a very sad story
for the U.S. society. 40,000 people killed every year. But I think it's far too early to talk
about the numbers.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we have all these lawsuits now in the courts. There's thousands of municipalities, of
counties, of states that have 5 lawsuits. There have been some verdicts that are under
appeal now. But it's really far from having a real view where this may end up. What is very
important to point out at this point in time, that all these lawsuits, they are for what you
call economic losses. So it's these municipalities, these counties just having increased
social costs due to policing costs to take care of this problem. And the other lawsuits are
what you refer to as injunctive relief or relief for actually known events.
And the other lawsuits are what you refer to as injunctive relief or it is for actually known
events. And none of these things that are now in the courts and where there may be
actually quite significant settlements with the big manufacturers and the big distributors,
none of these things that are being discussed is actually covered on the reliability policy.
So it's -- there's no coverage for an economic loss. There needs to be a bodily injury.
So I don't say there's no exposure. But it's far too early to see the total impact this will
have on the company's accused and then what may come to the insurance industry. But
from what we see today, the big numbers talked about, that's for issues that are not
covered on the reliability policy. Obviously, there will be attempts from those who have to
then pay big clients to recover some of that from the insurance company. But this will take
quite some time to unfold. But at this point, we don't see real coverage for what is
discussed in the courts.

A - Moses I. Ojeisekhoba

{BIO 17934789 <GO>}

And on the topic of litigation funding, I mean, I think you know it's been around forever. It's
not new. It's just taking different forms. And I think more recently, it's become far more
organized. And from what we can track, we've seen increased investment in this space
because it's been presented as a slightly different asset class. The U.K. company that
you're speaking about and the issues, I think it's too early to tell whether that dents the

Page 47 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

amount of flow of money that goes into this space or not. I mean we haven't seen any
impact yet.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Next question. Farooq?

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Farooq Hanif from Credit Suisse. Just a quick question on the -- on Slide 58, where you
show that 2percentage point gap in your initial loss picks. One way of looking at it is that
2% is not a lot because you could argue that maybe some other players in the industry
are just catching up recently. That's why we've had a lot of headlines. So how should we
think about this? Should we think about it as sort of the cumulative effect? Should we be
thinking about pre-2014, where there's a bigger gap? How can you sort of give us a bit
more comfort around that for people who are really sort of negative on this issue?
And the second question, more on the solutions business. So to what extent is the
solutions business going to depend on new digital players, primary insurers that you
support rather like one of your big peers that we talked about earlier? To what extent is
your vision that, that's really enabling competitive primary assurance is going to be your
strategy?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Edouard Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

Yes. So actually, part of the answer is that this is cumulative. So in each of these years, our
reserving actuaries have set an initial loss pick 2% higher than the industry average. So the
reserves are built across all these years.
Then in addition to these points, more recently, as also indicated on the slide on some
pockets in the U.S. liability portfolio, actuaries have actually set a loss peak, a loss ratio of
10% above the initial costing just to reflect the more recent trends we have seen as I
explained on the increased verdicts and the social inflation topic.
So it's cumulative over these years. So which means we have built in quite a bit of
additional reserves to reflect the recent trends. I think on one other chart, I showed that if
you add it up over the last few years, it's close to $1 billion that we put into U.S. liability
reserves in addition. So that just shows we have taken significant measures to bring the
reserves to a level where we feel comfortable.

A - Moses I. Ojeisekhoba

{BIO 17934789 <GO>}

Okay. And on solutions, I mean, I think if I take the midterm, at least, I think we still
continue to see the traditional players as, by far, the largest source of revenues for us, I
mean, because that installed base, the in-force space that they have and the ability to do
things like managing labs within it and the value it generates is so much more significant
than anything that you start to do newly.

Page 48 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

But on the new side, it's why I was talking about iptiQ. I think there, we serve like -- use the
iptiQ model to partner both on the life as well as in the non-life side to work with new
players, pipelines, distribution pipelines, OEMs, different people who can give us different
source of access to risk. And we serve as the insurer or reinsurer behind them. So from
Swiss Re's perspective, those are the 2 ways in which we look at it.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Maybe we take the last question. Jonny?

Q - Jonathan Peter Phillip Urwin

{BIO 6126952 <GO>}

Jonny Urwin, UBS. So just 2 on the U.S. casualty. I guess the essence of the question is,
how much worse can the 2014 to '17 underwriting is -- gets and how do you think about
the most recent underwriting years? So on '14 to '17, you've obviously strengthened
significantly already. Can you give us an indication of where that's taking you to and -from and to in the range of the 60th to 80th? Then on the most recent underwriting
years, can you give us an indication of where you are? I mean it sounds like you're
opening up very conservatively. So presumably at the top end or even above.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Edouard Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

Sorry, in the end -- just to reiterate some of the explanations I've already given. If you look
at just the U.S. liability more narrowly, particularly the LCR business, clearly, there is risk. So
if we look at the U.S. casualty overall, there, we are very comfortable that the reserves are
still within the 60 to 80 range because this is assessed from an independent actuarial
control level at higher portfolio aggregation, looking at all the experience, the triangles
over the last 30 years. So the total reserves, we are very comfortable that they are
prudently reserved at the 60 to 80.
If you zoom in into U.S. casualty and then more narrowly into U.S. liability, clearly, there is
risk. We have taken these measures, we increased the loss picks, we added close to $1
billion. So we see these reserves at what we call a best estimate. So that means there is
50-50 chance. It can go either way. So I would not deny that there is more risk around this.
But if you put it into the total pool of casualty reserves, which are $28 billion, we think
within that, there is room to absorb volatility. And that's why we feel comfortable that the
total reserve basis is reserved very prudently. But on the U.S. liability, specifically, there is
clearly more uncertainty at this point in time.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Moses. Thank you, Edi. We'll take a very short break. Let's try to be back
in 10 minutes. And then we'll finish the day. Thank you.
Okay. Welcome back, everyone. It was a short break. Apologies for that. But thanks for
being back on time. Just FYI, we put a little survey on your seat. If you could think about
filling out at the end of the day, that will be fantastic. With that, I give the floor to Andreas
Berger for Corporate Solution update. Thank you, Andreas.
Page 49 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

A - Alexander Andreas M. Berger

{BIO 3962013 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. Thanks, Philippe. Good afternoon, everybody. The last time I was speaking, that was
on the 31st of July. And I said the good news is more than 65% of the portfolio is healthy,
very good. The bad news is we're going to address the other bit. And then we came up
with our management actions.
Now I'm glad to say, today, the good news is we're really addressing it. And I would like to
give you an update today, the progress update, where we stand because I think that's the
most critical question that needs to be answered. Where do we stand? Are we really on
track? Do we restore profitability and how are we achieving our target that we set out
very clearly for 2021 on a 98% combined ratio?
Coming back to Christian's slide, the 3 differentiating aspects of Swiss Re also apply to
Swiss Re Corporate Solutions. And I will go through my little presentations along those 3
elements, Christian already mentioned those. And I'd like to really highlight that the
implementing management actions piece is the key focus. That's a key priority. Then you
shouldn't see it as sequential, you should see it really working in parallel on all the other
aspects of those changes.

Bloomberg Transcript

We work in a very large premium pool, risk pool. The commercial insurance market is
estimated at USD 800 billion. And the Swiss Re Institute still estimated it to grow at
6percentage points and I think that's quite interesting. So it is a very large and growing
premium or risk pool, as you can see. You see here the segmentation, we looked at the
excess layers, the international programs and the primary lead. And that's exactly the
segmentation that we mentioned because this is relevant for our business.
We then broke it down to the addressable target market. So we took out everything that
we don't look at, the motor, for instance. And other parts of the business. Then we come
to a USD 300 billion roughly that is really the addressable target market for a corporate
solutions.
And if you go then further to the right, you see that the excess layer, the international
program business and the primary lead were the key terminologies, the keywords that
you were listening in the past and this is still valid. This is still where we play. The SME and
the workers' comp, commercial auto, this is not an area where we play.
So I think that's very important for you to know that workers' comp for us is not a market
that we don't feel that we have a differentiating aspect to offer here. And also, on the
motor market, that's not in commercial auto, it's not the market that we're in.
SME, it requires specific DNA. It's a scale game. And it's a process-driven game,
automation game for very small businesses, a distribution game. And that's not our DNA.
We come actually from a very large corporate end and now dropping down to the midmarket. And now we introduced the new terminology here, large corporates as the top
end of the market and then the mid corporate.

Page 50 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

And we are much more aligning to the market terminology, brokers are using this
terminology. Other insurance companies are using the terminology. And the cut-off, the
segmentation criteria, $500 million upwards, that is sort of a market definition, you will
see that with other pieces as well.

FINAL

So that makes us a bit more comparable. So when we talk about market segmentation,
we're focusing -- internally, we're focusing -- we're all using the same language.
When it comes to SMEs, we only do it where we have access to markets via, for instance,
bancassurance channels, we have bank distribution channels like Bradesco. So in highgrowth markets like Bradesco in Brazil, our joint venture partner, they offer us a whole
distribution chain, their whole banking -- branch network. And through that network, we
have access to those customer segments. And here, purely by default, we go on
automated platforms. So no bespoke or manual underwriting. And that's the game that
we are on in these markets.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'd like to talk today about those elements here, four strategic priorities or pillars. #1 is the
key focus, is the implementation of the management actions. It's about pruning, it's about
expense savings, it's about creating a more effective organization and obviously, it's
about protecting our downside risk, our balance sheet.
Secondly, I would like to look at after pruning, at the decommoditized core of our
business. So after we have sort of exited or re-underwritten the types of business that we
were not happy with, then the remaining bit, that's the healthy part. And we actually did a
backward simulation, we said if we had applied those management actions before, how
would that healthier core look like in the -- in hindsight. And I think we would have
outperformed the market. Obviously, in hindsight, everybody's smarter. But I think it gives
us so much credibility and confidence internally also to go down that route going forward.
So we look at the decommoditized core where we look at differentiating assets and that
differentiation, I think, we will continue with differentiating assets that support the core.
And here, I'll give you a few examples. Christian already mentioned the international
business platform as one example. And I'm sure, during the lunch break, you could have a
chance to look at the booth to see it real life and also maybe have some questions
answered by our experts.
And the last element is expanding through tech-driven solutions. Obviously, this is sort of
the wider shot. But we have some very promising proof points already. And we can talk
about this along this presentation.
So coming to the first bit, it is about rebalancing our portfolio. And if you look at the lefthand side, we were very heavily North American driven, basically U.S.-driven. And EMEA, in
comparison, was completely underweight. Then if you then go to the lower part, you will
see that casualty was also an element that was, in my view, overweight. And we're going
to reduce it.

Page 51 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

This is only showing you the 9-month figures. But if you go through then the walk at the
pruning activities. And we'll discuss that a bit later, you will see that this element will
reduce significantly as well as the North American bit. So if you look at the pruning
activities overall, they're obviously pretty much spread around the globe.
But the hot spot, the focus, is North America. And within North America, very clearly, U.S. If
you take out Canada, U.S. is really the hot spot. Canada is one of our most profitable
markets. It's actually the number fifth -- #5 country premium size wise. And I think we're
quite happy with the development in Canada.
On the right-hand side, you see the walk, the development of the premium, the pruning
and the price increases and then, obviously, also some exposure growth, which bring us
to the $3.6 billion at 9-month 2019 numbers. It's fair to say that the pruning does only
reflect those businesses that we exited this year in May or prior May. The rest will
obviously be earned later. And you will see it on the next slide.

Bloomberg Transcript

The price increases, we're going to have a separate slide on this one. I think we're quite
happy with the price increases so far. We still think there's more to come. And I think we're
going to push in now for the year-end for additional price increase because I think now is
the moment to do it. Now is the opportunity in the market that brokers and customers will
look for capacity and will accept certain price increases. And I think we're going to push
towards that.
The exposure growth, this is desired growth. The market is turning at the moment. So you
will see definitely much more submission flow coming through. And we see that
customers and brokers, they look for new opportunities, they look for new offerings and
they look for new capacity.
Capacity is scarce and it has its price. So we see more and more differential pricing. So for
the same risk, we can push through higher rating -- rates for the same price in comparison
to some of our peers. Apparently, customers value the brand but also the expertise, the
claims handling, et cetera, that comes with it.
Now this is a critical slide. And you might remember, on the 31st of July, we showed this
slide. We walked you through all aspects until the 2021 target combined ratio of 98%.
Today, I can -- I think we can give you an update on the portfolio pruning. All the activities
that we laid out in playbooks, very detailed activities under what, meaning what portfolios
are we going to address, how does it play out over the quarters, that's all done in
playbooks for each executive committee member with a personal signature and a
personal commitment that gives us the confidence that everybody stands behind those
activities and behind those measures and implements it.
So far this year, 25% of all actions will be seen in U.S. GAAP. Very clearly, this is what has
been done before, in particular, on the U.S. casualty side. We were early in addressing
those elements, E&S casualty exit, excess U.S. liability umbrella. Those were the works
that we communicated in May this year. And this has been shown partially already this
year.
Page 52 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

If you go into next year, you will see that all the other activities we introduced now will be
shown by 2020. So 90% of all actions should be seen by 2020. The rest are long-term
agreements, multiyear contracts. And those will be seen then by 2021. So very clearly,
there's a walk. There's not any surprise or so. There's no miracle. It's hard work, very quick
and very painful initial activities. And that goes, obviously, also for the expense ratio.
The expense savings are going to be addressed along the portfolio pruning. So you've
probably heard and seen the news in, yes, the newspapers or also in the publications.
Consecutively, we were addressing those portfolios. And every time then, the news came
up and then teams were affected by this. We were lucky the Reinsurance BU, business
unit, could also absorb some of those individuals that were impacted. But other than that,
the market was absorbing it.
We also have seen some portfolios that we could sell. We could sell portfolios to some of
our competitors, in particular, on the general aviation side but also on the FinPro, health
care side. The 1% on the adjusted reinsurance structure, this is the ADC that we
concluded. But in addition, we have had a tactical reinsurance solution for the remainder
of 2019 for the second half. And then we're entering into a more systematic, also
strategic reinsurance approach going forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we significantly reduced our net exposure, our net on property, for instance. But also
most lines of businesses, we dropped down to $35 million net versus $75 million before.
On the nat cat side, we dropped from the $300 million to $200 million. So we're quite
confident that with all these actions and with the walk that we can see will happen, we'll
come to the 98% combined ratio. So that's the good news on our side.
As far as the rate increases are concerned, you can see on the left-hand side the market
figures. The right bar, this is 8%, represents 8% of rate increases. In comparison to the
market, we look very, very good. 9-month figures showed a 10% rate increase. Now
partially, it's because the market 8% is basically across all market segments. And as we
had the discussion around large corporates before, we are very much at the top end of
the market. And this is obviously a market that reacts more heavily as far as rate increases
are concerned. And on the casualty side, as you can read here, this is a bit more modest
because actually, we're exiting this element in North America.
Property is a driver and in particular, loss-prone accounts are the driver and naturally, also
nat cat. In comparison to peers, we still believe that we're pushing through more rate
increases. We see it now as we get more inquiries around quoting businesses. And
brokers and clients insist that our quote shows up on their list.
And in at least nat cat, we can see that our quote is used as a reference point to, at this
point, the very technical approach, very data-driven approach and the robustness over
consecutive years of underwriting, technical underwriting in nat cat. And property also
gives the market a confidence that this is a reference.
We might not get the business because we're still too high in rate increases. But we're
not compromising here. So either there's a differential pricing so we get it or not. We think
Page 53 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

the markets will come back. If others are writing it at a lower rate increase, I think that's
their decision. We believe that still today, you see rate increases that are not sufficient.
After our pruning activities and addressing the underperforming portfolios, we have a
remaining core of the portfolio that is healthy. That's the business that I was talking about
and we try to decommoditize it. We -- in certain areas, we're following a me-too strategy.
So we were following big risk pools with basically everybody in the market being present
in that pool. So competitiveness was fierce. And we couldn't add any additional value to
that market.
So we will basically address a pure commodity provider, capacity provider. We said to our
markets, we don't want to be just a pure capacity provider. If you look for capacity purely,
there are enough markets for that. If you want to play and work with Swiss Re and Swiss
Re CorSo then there's more to offer here.
So if we can't offer anything in addition, we stay out of it. That's the kind of discipline that
we really will apply in these days. And here, you will see some examples where we could
demonstrate over the years that we had differentiating assets to offer.

Bloomberg Transcript

Property, energy, in particular, engineering is a very, very nice line of business where we
still have room for growth. And FinPro, interestingly enough, we were making money all
those years. In comparison to our peers, that's an area where we stayed away from very,
very difficult areas in FinPro financial lines.
Aviation, after we have now proven the general aviation bit, that's a line of business, the
remaining part, where we feel comfortable, we have had individual hits. Yes. That's what
we're there for. But overall, I think we have had a very good risk selection. And we could
outperform the market over the years.
Now the differentiating assets that we want to focus on are here, the following:
international program leads -- innovative risk solutions -- joint venture plays in high-growth
markets rather than individual organic growth, planting the flags and organically lowering -and last but not least, we have the very -- weather derivative business as well.
On the international program business, we decided not to purely compete on the
underwriting side because we felt there's not enough differentiation that you can show on
the underwriting side. We're not better than a Zurich, an XL, an Allianz on the underwriting
side. But to deliver the project -- rather the product, that was the problem. And that's
what we're going to address. And that's why we developed a state-of-the-art platform.
And through that platform, by simplifying the process, we influence the underwriting. So
that's a new product that we came up with. And I'll talk about that in a second, that ONE
Form, we call it. It's a simplified product for property with master cover international
business plus the local policies that mirror the international business.

Page 54 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

What is different? We take away all the complications, all the differentiation that
underwriters add to a product just to show differentiation. But those differentiations that
they add to the product caused a lot of complication and workaround in the process and
the delivery. So through the platform, we try to address the simplification and
underwriting.
So innovative risk solution, that's -- those are the typical parametric solutions that Moses
was mentioning in his reinsurance part. That's something we're really proud of. We are
market leaders in the primary insurance space and we'd like to grow this business.
Currently, we sit at $325 million to $350 million. And we'd like to grow it with additional
business cases that we're going to sign off very soon, in particular, in structured solutions
for fronting for captives.
We think that as the market is hardening, in particular, the complex underwriting purchase
community, they will go away from -- slightly away from risk transfer and will focus more
on structured solutions and captive solutions. I think that's something that we're going to
see going forward. And that's an area where we're going to be more than happy to
explore.

Bloomberg Transcript

This slide here is the future. But the future happens already today. We'd like to use
technology and data. And we'd like to address the inefficiencies in the industry. We have
addressed it with the international business platform. But we'd like to go a step further
and to offer it as an open platform to white-label it.
So we've got the first example with Brokerslink. Brokerslink is the fifth largest broker
network in the world. And they were struggling because they try to build the platform
themselves twice, they failed. Then they try to team up with a Silicon Valley start-up
company to build that platform. It didn't work. They sold the platform and now, as we
speak, we're customizing it. So this is purely a fee-based business where Brokerslink put
all the cross-border business on that platform and use our fee, it's a white-label platform.
And on top of it, they offer us a share of the business that is sitting on that platform.
I think it can be a solution going forward towards a more standardized approach in that
industry because the problem is really the fragmentation. And everybody tries to work
with different systems and platforms and portals. I think we have to address it. We get a
lot of requests from other broker networks, even the larger ones. But also from insurance
carriers. And here, we can work together with the solutions entity from the business unit
reinsurance to see whether or not that could be another offering like iptiQ that is quite
interesting for the scenes. That's something we're working on.
And the second one is marine. Marine, as you have read, marine cargo insurance marine,
we exited because we believe we can't influence that market to bring the expense ratio
down to a meaningful level.
So we say the problem is still there. And here, we're trying to team up with ecosystems,
with corporate partners to offer digital propositions on the marine side. Again, it's a bet.
So let's see if that works. So we have reduced the number of staff in the marine team
Page 55 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

because we're not actively writing anymore. And the small core of the staff, composed of
traditional, very experienced underwriters plus data scientists, data experts, they're
working now in an agile form, agile way to come up with a digital solution. And we have
got already some use cases in place. So let's see what that brings.
So all in all, with the focus on the improvement actions, we feel very comfortable that we'll
get to a 98% combined ratio. And this will translate into about 10% ROE. That's the lower
end of our range. Obviously, going forward, I personally expect the combined ratio to
improve, to be comfortably within the range of 10% to 15% ROE. Thank you very much.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Thanks, Andreas. Thank you. So let's start the Q&A and take the time for at least a good
10 minutes of Q&A. So who wants to start? So maybe James in the back?

Q - James Austin Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

James Shuck from Citi. So on Corporate Solutions. So you talk about the solutions side of
things and the technology and the platforms that you're developing. There's obviously
quite a lot of overlap with the P&C Re side. We heard earlier about the solutions side. And
that's going to grow quite significantly. Is it fully loaded within Corporate Solutions? Or
what's the degree of sharing of information and digital costs within those, please?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Alexander Andreas M. Berger

{BIO 3962013 <GO>}

Yes. So it's fair to say the Reinsurance business unit, they're further advanced, obviously,
because they're working on solutions for quite some time. We have focused on areas
where we already have assets that we could use. So the international platform is there.
So we don't want to wait until we develop something. It's there. We have underutilized it.
So that's why we said the strategic focus should be to look at our assets that are there
already and see, is there a market, is there a pain point to be addressed. And that -- can
that be monetized? I think consistently, we should really see whether we could use that.
In addition, we're working together with Anette Bronder, our Chief Operating Officer of
the group. And we would like to leverage the group much more on the data side and on
the technology side. So you shouldn't see it as a stand-alone Corporate Solutions unit or
effort. You should really see it as a group effort. And Corporate Solutions has the access
to their corporate customer base and then can offer those solutions leveraging the group.
On the Reinsurance side, wherever there is an overlap on customers. And we have some
very clear examples, that's where we then work together. We -- because those are
common customers. And those are customers where a Chinese wall is not required
because it's not a treaty business, et cetera. So those are services. So they will then sort
of coordinate much better those customer accesses.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Do you have a follow-up question or...
Page 56 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

Q - James Austin Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

My second question is on -- would you allow us 2 questions?

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

FINAL

Sure. Go ahead, James.

Q - James Austin Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

So just on the -- so the reserve addition that was taken in CorSo at H1, that seemed to be
mostly due to man-made losses. I wasn't entirely clear where the extent to which that
includes some of the casualty reserving trends that we've seen. Then kind of linked to
that, obviously, things had moved on since July. To what extent are your loss picks and
your reserving situation within CorSo reflecting the new norm on casualty in particular?

A - Alexander Andreas M. Berger

{BIO 3962013 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. As you can imagine, we went through a comprehensive review. We looked at old
portfolios. But with a specific focus, obviously, on the most distressed portfolios. We were
using also group support from the group Chief Underwriting Officer unit. We have done
what we saw.
Obviously, we stay very closely to the markets and monitor. So you've seen, obviously, in
the course of the year then also news coming up and then trends being identified. So we
were not immune of -- to that. So we looked at it and together with the group colleagues
and then with the actuaries, we're looking at it on a consistent basis and continuous basis
every quarter. We look into it. And if there's a need, we'll act. And that's the situation. So
we were pretty comprehensive at the Second Quarter. But I think we're observing the
market continuously.
That's probably one of the reasons why we said, as Edi correctly said before, we exited
this business because we felt we were not big enough to be anytime influential in this
business to make it work. We believe this is a bigger problem of the U.S. market. And we
believe that the incumbents, the market leaders, should actually take the lead. We were
too small in that market. We could not influence it. And why deploy capacity into a market
that is not healthy and where you can't influence it as a Corporate Solutions entity?

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

All right. Next question. I saw Andrew on the front.

Q - Andrew James Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

It's Andrew Ritchie from Autonomous. Andreas, I mean since you came up with the half
year, the famous walk in the combined ratio, I guess, the pricing environment has got
even better. But I'm wondering, has your view of the normalized starting point changed as
well? I think you were handed the 110% by kind of your predecessor, I suppose.

Page 57 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

What's your view of what the actual starting point is for the normalized combined ratio as
of today based on -- you've still got some current loss trends on the casualty book. I know
the reserves belong to the reinsurance business. But you still got some current. So what's
the normalized starting point?
I guess the other thing just to address, when you talk to your competitors who are
international program, large corporate insurers, they all sort of dismiss CorSo as ever
likely to make an impact in the international program business partly because you've been
concentrated at excess layers, less familiarity with the nitty-gritty of boring stuff like claims
payments, regulation, all that kind of stuff. And you don't have the infrastructure to do the
captive solutions business that they've been doing for years. What do you say when you
hear that criticism as an observer, also having worked for one of those large competitors?

A - Alexander Andreas M. Berger

{BIO 3962013 <GO>}

Yes. I mean coming to your first question, normalized 110%. Look, that's the number we
worked off. We looked at the 2018 numbers. You can argue -- changing the numbers
always. That was the base where we started from. Then we did the walk and we looked at
all the aspects that I went through. We looked at reserving obviously, yes. And this is
continuous work.

Bloomberg Transcript

So what we did is we intensified the loops between claims, actuarial, finance and
underwriting, in particular in underwriting. So we were much closer in addressing the
costing, the calibration of the costing tools because you could argue, are the costing tools
fit for purpose in that environment? So what we did was be much faster and much more
accurate in bringing the rating levels up and be -- that being reflected in the costing tools.
And as we speak, Ashley Hirst, he's sitting in the back, he's our Chief Underwriting Officer
for standard and digital. And he's overlooking that aspect of pricing actuaries and then
also costing tool calibration. And this is a very important message. It's not that we've done
-- haven't done it before. But we saw that we were too slow in reacting. And if we -- and
when we reacted, it was not decisive enough. So people -- like the whole market, we're
still hoping that maybe that market is turning and then we get that rate increase. But it
didn't happen. And I think that's something that we're quite proud of to make that much
more robust and much more decisive and quicker going forward.
As far as the second question is concerned on international programs and the
competitive landscape, this is a market where you probably have 5 to maximum -absolute maximum 8 players who can provide lead solutions for international insurance
programs, in particular, for the large corporate space. But also for the mid corporate
space.
The argument was always that you have to have an international network to issue local
policies. But the reality was. And that's something that I already saw in my old job. But also
in my new job, is the performance of a network, it doesn't matter if it's your own network
or not. So the property network does not always perform better than a partner network.

Page 58 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

And I think at Swiss Re, we have the beauty to use not network partners that are also
reinsurance clients. So we know them, we have a face to them. And we have very clear
KPIs. And the beauty is, there's no workarounds, no Excel sheets that are sent around.
They work on our platform. And I think that's the beauty. So it's painless and that's the
difference. So that's the network aspect.
All the other aspects, I would argue, there's no reason why we shouldn't compete. We
have capacity. We have limits that we can offer that others can offer. We have underwriters
who can handle the business. We've got claims management and we've got a very nice
operations team. So overall, I think the times are changing. We might actually be the
forward-thinking carrier using modern tools, technology plus simplified underwriting. And I
think that's the future.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Okay. Maybe one last question. Maybe Simon?

Q - Simon Fassmeier
Simon from Vontobel. I'm just wondering how much can you provide when -- until the
reinsurance clients will complain about you competing with them? And could you
elaborate a little bit on the reinsurance policy that you will implement in '21 and beyond?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Alexander Andreas M. Berger

{BIO 3962013 <GO>}

Okay. On the first one, I think we've got very clear policies internally. The market needs
capacity. So at the moment, I don't -- I think nobody should complain because it's a nice
market for insurance companies if they do their homework.
So what we see now is we're actually being approached by markets through brokers or
directly through customers to team up combined capacity and expertise. I think that's a
normal way of doing things at the moment. So I haven't heard any complaints so far. If
there are complaints, we try to avoid it. I can tell you, there was one specific one in an
area where we were even as Corporate Solutions subscale and we were playing in a
market -- a specific market where we felt we can't differentiate, again, to that point. But
our sister company, Reinsurance, had a very strong relationship with a player in that
market. So we said, Look, choose your battles. Discontinue that business. Hand it over to
Reinsurance. It's in a better place, and I think that was a good solution.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

All right. Thank you, Andreas. Thank you very much for the Q&A session.

A - Alexander Andreas M. Berger

{BIO 3962013 <GO>}

There was a second question?

Q - Simon Fassmeier
Reinsurance program.
Page 59 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

A - Alexander Andreas M. Berger

{BIO 3962013 <GO>}

Yes. There was a second question.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

FINAL

Reinsurance, it's beyond 2020.

A - Alexander Andreas M. Berger

{BIO 3962013 <GO>}

Okay. Yes. Just very briefly, I think what we set in place now, the parameters that I
mentioned are in place now. What we do is we observed consistently now are net and
what we're writing. So I wouldn't rule out that there will be slight changes there. But I think
we feel very comfortable with the solution we have in place now. We also look at fac [ph]
reinsurance. But again, technical underwriting, a risk doesn't get better if you fac it out. So
again, that should be our philosophy.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

All right. Thanks, again.

A - Alexander Andreas M. Berger

{BIO 3962013 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I give the floor to Thierry for Life Capital. Thank you.

A - Thierry Leger

{BIO 16674977 <GO>}

Thank you, Philippe. Good afternoon, everyone. Last but not least, I hope, Life Capital. So
Life Capital was created in 2016 and basically, it consisted of all the primary life and health
businesses of Swiss Re.
We have since sharpened the profile of those businesses and created 3 businesses with
3 brands. The first is ReAssure. ReAssure is a leading player in the consolidation market in
the U.K. The second is elipsLife, an international player in the employee benefits business.
And the third is iptiQ, a global leader in the B2B2C space.
Whilst these businesses all have their distinct leadership, their distinct cultures and
targets, they actually all build on the 3 Swiss Re strengths. So they all live from the client
access of Swiss Re, its risk knowledge and its capital strength.
Let me start with ReAssure, still with Life Capital and still its largest business. Obviously,
the management team has gone through a lot of work early in the year in the months
before the planned IPO. And when the IPO actually was suspended, obviously, the
disappointment in the team was big. So it was even more a pleasure that just a few
weeks later, they were able to announce a new deal with the acquisition of the Quilter UK
Heritage business.
Page 60 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

So for a consideration of GBP 425 million, we got 200,000 policies more and GBP 12
billion of assets under management. The surplus that we expect to be generated, to
emerge over the lifetime of this deal is more than GBP 500 million. This is based on
synergies of more than GBP 200 million. Now GBP 200 million of synergies for a deal with
a consideration of GBP 425 million is very considerable. And it actually is the metric behind
this deal. So all of this leads to an IRR of above -- well above 11%. It's actually even well
above 15% for this deal.
When you look at public figures and you look at the price to adjusted UT1, you will get a
ratio of 120%. I'm sure you have made those calculations. But if you adjust the UT1 for the
new costs that we apply to this business and if you adjust it for the transitionals on the
technical provisions that we apply to this business, the ratio actually goes down to 80%,
which actually brings the deal very much in line with other deals in the market.
And last but not least, the payback period, the cash payback period with four years is
extremely short on this deal. So overall, an excellent deal, excellent addition to
ReAssure's book and obviously, as I said, a motivational boost for the team.

Bloomberg Transcript

As from 2020, we have decided on Life Capital level to not communicate or report on
cost cash generation anymore. We will, however, instead, focus on surplus generation at
the ReAssure level. And there, the target is a surplus generation of GBP 2.1 billion in the
years '19 to '23.
If we look at many other KPIs. But mainly at 2 other ones, one is customer satisfaction,
currently very high at 88.6%, that's market-leading. And we will also measure the Solvency
II ratio that is strong at 148% currently. The teams are very busy currently with the LNG
integration that is going well under the circumstances and also busy to adjust the asset
portfolio to actually move it to a state where the risk return of that asset portfolio is better
than what it is today.
Let me move to elipsLife. As I said, elipsLife is an international player in the employee
benefit market that is around $160 billion premium on a global basis. elipsLife is active in a
few countries in Europe and in the U.S. since this year. Their strategic pillars are built
around 3 elements: the first, they're entirely and only biometric risk focused -- they are
broker distributed only. So there is no channel conflict for elipsLife -- and thirdly, they are in
the market leading with service and costs. And this is actually enabled by their state-ofthe-art platform.
So on this basis, elipsLife has been able to grow very successfully into this market and
generate a premium today of almost $0.5 billion. And this deal at the loss ratio below 18%.
And why do I say this? 18% is still a market-leading loss ratio. But it does actually include
the costs of expansion into countries such as Italy, Germany and the U.S. Obviously,
without those countries, the loss ratio would be below -- well below 15%.
In terms of access to risk pools, which is so important when we talk about the elipsLife,
you can look at the 2 core markets of elipsLife, Switzerland and the Netherlands. And you
can see that the market share has grown by now to 5% and 6% for those 2 countries. This
Page 61 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

is considerable considering that so far, Swiss Re's access to this risk pool in those 2
countries has been well below 1%. It is actually well below 1% for this risk pool as a whole.
So we think that with elipsLife, we have a very good business in place to access the
employee benefit market.
Let me move to the third business, iptiQ, as I said, a leading global B2B2C player. Again,
just to remind people, it's always the same speech. B2B is the access to our distribution
partners, brands and corporates -- and B2C means together with that brand, together
with that distribution partner, sell policies, individual life and health or P&C policies to their
customer base. So that's what we mean with this model.
iptiQ's success is based on 3 things. As you would expect, the most important one first is
the B2B access to all these customers' distribution partners. The combination of Swiss Re
and iptiQ together actually is a very powerful combination there.
The second element is the leading-edge digital platform, operating platform of iptiQ,
which is really market-leading and provides us with the flexibility and capability to connect
to any partner and any consumer out there.

Bloomberg Transcript

The third is really the combination of 150 years of Swiss Re's underwriting knowledge,
together with the new data, new capabilities that we acquire in iptiQ around data, that we
get data analytics, which allows us together to provide best-in-class customer journeys,
better underwriting, faster underwriting as well and also allows us to automate claims in a
way that has not been possible before.
Underwriting knowledge, together with the new data, new capabilities that we acquire in
iptiQ around data that you get, data analytics, which allows us together to provide best-inclass customer journeys, better underwriting, faster underwriting as well and also allows
us to automate claims in a way that has not been possible before.
It has allowed us today to be live with 28 partners. Each time I speak to this community.
There are obviously many more partners. Now we had 28. Through these 28 partners, we
access almost 100 million consumers. We now have an in-force portfolio of 360,000
policies with an average policy premium of $700.
Now Swiss iptiQ is still growing at a very rapid pace. So as I speak, we sell about 5,000
policies per week. So that corresponds to 250,000 policies run rate a year. And this
explains as well why this unit is developing so fast, right? So we have an in-force customer
base of 360,000 and sell actually 250,000 of new policies a year. And obviously, debt
growth, again, is expected to accelerate next year.
What we sell are individual, as I said, Life & Health and P&C policies. These are simple
products and transparent products that are adding value to the consumers. And we sell
them in a fair, transparent way as well. And this explains why already today, the NPS score
is 10 points above the market average for similar companies.

Page 62 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

And we continue to invest $40 million every year in innovation. So I have given here a few
examples of what we are adding, just again, to make the customer journey even more
engaging. But also to learn more about our consumers. And again, improve our
underwriting.
I get 2 questions constantly with iptiQ. The first I get is, is it even possible to have such a
tech start-up growing so dynamically within Swiss Re? And this is trying to answer this
question. So as you can see, we have obviously anonymized some famous InsurTechs to
the right. But as you can see here, we have invested $475 million capital in iptiQ so far.
With this, we have generated $225 million of premium. So for $2 of capital, we have
created $1 of premium. And if you compare this with other so-called dynamic insurer startups, you can actually see that iptiQ compares really well and really shows that we do
actually have this ability to -- with iptiQ to grow very dynamically into this market.

Bloomberg Transcript

If you look at absolute size that we have achieved. And it's not on this slide. So in absolute
terms, if we compare ourselves to major U.K. players or U.S. players, just for the biometric
risk. They have an APN about of $250 million to $350 million. And we expect iptiQ at the
end of this year to be at $150 million of APN for their business. So that's just about half of
some of the largest players in the U.S. and in the U.K. So it shows not only is it growing
dynamically, it also, in terms of APN, not in force yet. But in terms of APN, has reached a
considerable size.
And last but not least, the concern that this could be all bad business and that we get this
growth only because we sell these products cheaply. Every policy we sell is, let's say, in
the mix price at an ROE of at least 12%. So the chance for us is not to get higher margins.
For us, it's actually to sell as many policies as we can at those margins. And when
somebody sells a policy, that person cannot deviate individually, for an individual, from the
price. So all these prices are set. So the more we sell, the more we have profits.
So here comes the second question, when will this be U.S. GAAP profit making? And I
hope that this is going to be helpful for all those who have this question. So you see in the
graph 2 lines, the green line and the red line. So the green line shows emergence of EVM
profit. And the red line shows the emergence of U.S. GAAP profit. So you can see on this
chart that the expected EVM breakeven for the iptiQs we create is between 3 and five
years. And you can also see that the estimated breakeven for U.S. GAAP actually happens
several years later, typically 5 to eight years after the creation of an iptiQ.
So if you go one level below, you can see different iptiQs that we have put there. And you
can see that iptiQ ANZ, for example, has been created, obviously, first and is already in
the profitable zone.
You can also see that the 2 Life & Health businesses, iptiQs, in the U.S. and EMEA, are
around EVM breakeven this year. Actually, we expect them next year to be well beyond
breakeven in EVM terms. So really, to march towards the U.S. get breakeven. But in the
meantime, generating very nice EVM profits.

Page 63 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

But you can also see, to the left, the iptiQ, the new iptiQ, joiner iptiQ P&C and any other
iptiQ that we will create, where we see opportunities for iptiQ will actually be a drag
through the iptiQ overall. So as we exactly monitor and know where the individual iptiQs
are. And we held management accountable for reaching breakeven and all financial
targets individually for the individual, iptiQ as the overall picture will be always a mixture of
all the different iptiQs. So every new iptiQ we create will help back profits. But will be an
investment into an even brighter future.
In terms of valuation, we look at it in 2 different ways. So I'm here just focused on iptiQ.
We look at 2 ways. One is how Life & Health companies in high-growth markets are being
valued. So typically, as a multiple of their value of new business. And the second way is a
multiple of premium. This is how many InsurTech start-ups are being valued. So if you
apply average medium values to -- or multiples to our numbers on the iptiQ side, you can
see that today already, we get to a valuation of iptiQ of between $1 billion and $1.5 billion.
And this is without adding elipsLife, obviously, that we value also at something between
$0.5 billion and $1 billion. So we think that today, we have already created north of $2
billion of value with these 2 businesses together.

Bloomberg Transcript

With this, in conclusion, Life Capital remains on the journey from a closed book provider to
an open book provider. We remain fully committed to ReAssure whilst also actually looking
for a different shareholding and looking to deconsolidate that business. The target for
ReAssure is set at surplus generation of $2.1 billion from '19 to '23. And we remain fully
focused on growing our elips and iptiQ Life businesses and in the attempt to create
billions of economic value for Swiss Re and for its shareholders. Thank you.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

All right. Thank you, Thierry. Let's go through the last Q&A the next 10 minutes or so.
There we go. So please, Farooq?

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Farooq from Credit Suisse. I just had 2 clarification questions on ReAssure, if I may. So the
148% Solvency II ratio, that does not presumably include the uplift from LNG. Is that
correct?
Then, secondly, when you talk about a 4-year payback on the Quilter deal. So is that
basically the GBP 425 million that you paid, essentially, you get that back over four years?

A - Thierry Leger

{BIO 16674977 <GO>}

Yes. So the 148% does actually include the LNG, plus some transitionals that we have to
recalculate, if we do such deals. But then I won't go into the details. It does actually include
it.
The quilter payback, the four years, it's a very attractive deal because actually, around 3/4
of the cash you were referring to, the GBP 425 million, comes already back on the day of
closing. So the cash flow is back extremely fast. So the remainder of just 1/4 of that cash is

Page 64 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

then flowing through a few years only. So that's how this payback works. Quite an extreme
payback that we see.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

FINAL

Another question. James in the back.

Q - James Austin Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

It's James Shuck from Citi, again. So just on iptiQ. So the -- you showed us $400 million of
capital has been invested in that, the EVMs around $600 million. I think one of the
previous slides showed that you had $300 million of kind of tech spend, of which half of
that goes to iptiQ. So if I kind of -- you launched iptiQ around 2015. You're spending that
kind of run rate on the tax spend and you've got that much of capital in that business. It
doesn't seem like there's a lot of value creation. But maybe I'm missing something.

A - Thierry Leger

{BIO 16674977 <GO>}

Yes. Maybe we have to go into the UMS more in detail. But I -- you refer particularly to the
600 billion economic networks that we've created?

Q - James Austin Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Tell me just basically what you've spent on iptiQ so far versus what you -- how much
new business value you're generating now relative to what the book value is. It doesn't
seem like there's been a big uplift.

A - Thierry Leger

{BIO 16674977 <GO>}

So the chart, for example, say, $425 million of -- or $475 million of capital for $225 million
of premium. Is that not -- I mean, it's one measure, right? I mean, there are many other
measures to look at.

Q - James Austin Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Well presume it's $425 million of capital and there's $300 million of tech spend, of which
about half has gone into iptiQ across multiple years. So it's that bridge towards -- or even
towards the $1 billion or so that you're kind of harnessing as additional value there?

A - Thierry Leger

{BIO 16674977 <GO>}

Yes. I mean -- okay. Yes. You can look at it. When you look at the evolution of businesses,
that's at least my view, particularly the first years requiring a particular push in terms of
capital, right? Then the more mature your business gets, the less actually you need capital
to provide that additional value generation.
So one iptiQ here is just about 4, five years old. The other one is about three years old.
And the other one even younger. So I think 4 businesses of that age. I view this as actually
very attractive value generation. And I would wonder which insurer start-up out there really
would have better numbers.

Page 65 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

If you can show me examples of others that are much better, I'd be interested, because
we actually always keen to learn to have benchmarks.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

FINAL

Any other question in the room? Vinit?

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Vinit from Mediobanca. Just on the change of the target communication from Life Capital
GCG to just ReAssure surplus generation. I mean, given the chart you showed us that
iptiQ seems to have some breakeven entities or very close. Wouldn't -- I mean, I'm just
wondering the motivation to narrow down this target to just the ReAssure? Because on
the one hand, you want the market to pay $1 billion to $1.5 billion on that. And obviously,
we can't see the full math on the -- I mean, we can see today more clarity. But if the target
has been narrowed down, that may or may not help this cause. I'm just curious to know
your thinking on that.

A - Thierry Leger

{BIO 16674977 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. I understand your questioning and concern. Obviously, we feel that the whole
business model, isn't it, of ReAssure, is geared towards surplus generation or cash
generation. So it was always the starting point for Life Capital to measure this metric,
right? And we really feel that for the iptiQ and elipsLife, where they are today, they're
actually consuming, obviously, cash. They are consuming surplus. It actually makes little
sense to communicate a number that is negative.
One day, in many years, we think it's going to make sense. But right now, we would prefer
to focus on other metrics that are more relevant to these open book businesses.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

All right. Next question. Andrew?

Q - Andrew James Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

I think it was last year, Thierry, you talked about iptiQ and you were asked about adverse
selection. And you said there was an adverse selection problem for the underwriting. Are
you experiencing a bit of adverse selection? It sounds like you've changed your mind on
that. Is that correct?

A - Thierry Leger

{BIO 16674977 <GO>}

Yes. So we are acutely aware that the distribution channels that are more digital for iptiQ
are very prone to anti-selection. Much, much more so than, obviously, an agent that would
-- or a doctor assessment, for example, of a person that would detect anti-selection. So
you can anti-select digital distribution in many different ways, obviously. And we are
acutely aware so we are monitoring this very, very closely. And we have detected or we
do detect that on a very regular basis and take immediate action.

Page 66 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

FINAL

So given the monitoring system we have, you should not forget that we do have
distribution data. We have all the data. So we can look at distribution of age, can look at
regional distribution, male, female distribution and all of that. And it tells you or us very
fast whether there is something strange. We can go down to agent level where when we
see a sudden uptick with a particular agent on a particular product. It already signals us
that there's maybe, maybe something wrong going on.
So I think we have, again, thanks to the platform and our analytics, created a very tight
network around it. So we are actually forced to overprice our businesses. Every -- every
insurance company in the world, when they go into these highly anti-selective products
sold digitally, they have to ask for a higher price because they know they will be antiselected against. And there will be higher lapses as well.
So we can go lower than those because we have a tighter monitoring. And as we learn.
And as we move. And as we can actually detect forward earlier, we can then, again, lower
the price and become even more competitive in the market.
So we are in no way comfortable around this. We are just comfortable with our monitoring.
But we are very aware of the risk.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thank you, Thierry. I think we can close the Q&A. Thank you very much. And I give
the floor to Christian for the closing remarks and wrap-up.

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Thank you. So I mean, I don't want to hold you up. I know that was a long day for
everybody. I'd like to thank you very much for coming here, taking the time in your busy
schedule in December.
I hope it was useful. We tried to give you an overview of the business and how we see it.
And in particular, the 3 strategic assets we think Swiss Re is built on and the businesses
we currently have, which all are in transition in different phases.
We tried to adapt a little bit to the concerns we heard the last few weeks in investor
communities. So we had a bit of a special around casualty and nat cat. I hope that was
useful. And in any case, again, thanks a lot for joining us and see you next year at Investor
Day. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
Page 67 of 68



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2019-11-25

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 68 of 68

