Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-30

S1 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Adam Westwood, CFO and Chief Risk Oﬃcer
Geoﬀrey Carter, CEO
James Ockenden, Chief Actuary
Unidentiﬁed Speaker

Other Participants
Analyst
Ben Thomas
Ming Zhu

Presentation
Geoﬀrey Carter

{BIO 20386629 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. I think we're live and good to go. Good morning, everyone. A very warm welcome
to those people in the room and on the phone. I think it's probably our 4th or 5th version
is now. We're gradually getting the hang of what we have to do here now.
Firstly, a bit of housekeeping on who's presenting. Myself, Geoﬀ Carter, and Adam will be
presenting; and Trevor Webb, the Claims Director; and James Ockenden, the Chief
Actuary. We're here to take any questions at the end.
A quick look at the agenda. The sharp-eyed amongst you will notice this looks very similar
to the full year presentation, and our approach really is to update our thoughts from that
point. So a quick look through the highlights -- the ﬁnancial highlights, a look at the
market context. We'll probably spend some time talking about our view on where the
market is. A very brief reminder of our strategy, and then our thoughts on the summary
and outlook from the things we said as we've gone through.
So ﬁnancial highlights. First oﬀ, we're pleased with these results, very much in line with
our hope and expectations at this point. Our continued focus is absolutely on proﬁtability,
and it's not on managing volume, as you know, we see volume as an output, not a target.
Key points here. Pretty good loss ratio performance, 48%. Our combined ratio, exactly
where we'd hoped at around 72%, and our expense ratio is in line with plan. While the
ratio is up a little bit, we're not really spending more. It's more that the top line's come
down a bit.

Page 1 of 17



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-30

FINAL

We're very pleased and perhaps slightly surprised that our year-on-year premium position
is in line with the AGM statement. We've been putting through pretty extensive price
increases that we'll talk about later. So I wouldn't have been surprised to have seen a
somewhat further down on premium than the position we're reporting today. And over
the last few weeks, actually, we've seen maybe some encouraging signs on trading over
the last -- the last few weeks as well.
We're continuing to cover claims inﬂation. We'll talk later about where we see the claims
inﬂation projections. So whilst the fact that our premium is staying consistent suggest to
us, that comprises on starting to put through some price increase, maybe at a 0.5% a
month, along those lines, and that would be consistent
(technical diﬃculty)
What does this mean in terms of dividend? We're very pleased to declare an interim
dividend of 4.7p a share. Just for clarity, looking at the year-on-year comparison, last year
was an exceptional interim dividend because we haven't paid anything on the full year
coming out of the IPO.

Bloomberg Transcript

Very good solvency coverage, 200% predividend, 181% post our interim dividend
payment. And I guess I'm also pleased to say that the impact of the Ogden rate discount
is pretty much immaterial to our results.
On the operational highlights. This is intentionally quite a short list. Our focus continues to
be on 3 things: to understand and cover claims inﬂation, continue in constant evolution of
our core processes in rating and claims; and at the moment, a lot of focus on
understanding the potential impacts in the whiplash reforms, of which we'll go into much
more detail later.
We're actually reviewing our investment management approach, we're not going to do
anything wildly adventurous here. We are looking at whether we can squeeze a little bit
more out on the investment return without a material impact on our capital or risk.
The Direct Brand policy is developing very nicely, I would say. It's been rolled out onto the
remainder of the price comparison websites and started to generate some quite
interesting volume. We can see one's driving the boat. It's not changing the game yet, but
it's doing exactly as we would hope. The initial performance from a claims perspective
looks absolutely ﬁne on that, as well.
I guess when -- not big on strategy statements in Sabre really, but although I would share
one of our sort of watchwords to the line at the bottom of this slide: to do less, and
obsess. Do less and obsess. What that really means is being as expert and focused as we
can, on the things that really matter and not being distracted by exciting-looking or shiny
new toys. We view this obsessive focus on the things that matter, is really key to our past
and future success. This is an intentionally quite a short kind of focus list on operational
highlights.

Page 2 of 17



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-30

On that note, I will now hand over to someone who's really been accused of being shiny
or exciting, and Adam will go through the ﬁnances.

Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

FINAL

Thanks, Geoﬀ. Well, it says, "Thanks, Geoﬀ" on here. I'm not sure, yet. Good morning,
everyone. Let's take a look at some of those numbers in a little more detail.
So as ever, our sources of income and our cost base are incredibly straightforward. We
continue to generate the majority of our income through written premium, with some
additional income through fees, primarily income on the direct account.
Having maintained pricing discipline through 2019, and being unafraid to increase prices
to conserve our margins in the soft market, we've naturally seen some decline in our
premium against the same period in 2018. As such, our GWP is around 7% down year-onyear. This has had a knock-on eﬀect on earned premium, which is down by around 2%
against the same period in 2018, as the lower premium starts to run through.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our combined ratio has come in at 71.5% for the period, a slight increase over 2018, but
well below our long-run mid-70s target. Our investment strategy was unchanged in half
one 2019 and as such, in-period investment return is driven by market value movements
on U.K. Government bonds.
The result of all this is our proﬁt after tax of GBP24.7 million for the period. And as Geoﬀ
mentioned, we're declaring an interim dividend of 4.7p per share, where we applied this
strategy, which you did by able [ph] IPO, which states that our interim dividend will be
equal to 1/3 of the prior year's ordinary dividend.
And just again to note, last year's interim dividend was unique, in that we've set out at
IPO, within that instance, only pay a larger interim dividend due to not having paid a full
year in respect to 2017.
So through our solvency coverage, that continues to beneﬁt from strong organic growth
in capital, set against a pretty stable capital requirement. The interim dividend will of
course reduce the available capital a little but will remain well above our preferred
operating of 140% to 160% range and there's a bit more on the capital management later.
So taking a look at our underwriting performance in a little more detail. We can see that
the uptick in combined ratio was impacted by a 1.2% increase in expense ratio against the
full year 2018 with a very consistent loss ratio. On an absolute basis, annualized costs have
been pretty consistent year-on-year but as net earned premium's low, the expense ratio
has increased. This is in part due to an increased level of ﬁxed cost post-IPO, although
they still form a relatively small part of our overall cost base.
As in previous periods, the loss ratio consists of a current year charge, oﬀset against runoﬀ releases from prior accident years. We always expect the current year loss ratios to be
Page 3 of 17



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-30

FINAL

volatile, particularly at the half year stage. And along with the level of prudence attached
to open reserves, the current year loss ratio, at this point, is generally not fully reﬂective of
the expected outrun for the 2019 accident year.
The impact of higher current year loss ratio has, as usual, been somewhat countered by
the level of prior year reserve movements during 2019 strength. The combined impact of
the strength of prior year reserve movements and current year trading lead us to maintain
our current outlook, as to the combined ratio performance for 2019, which we still expect
to come in between the 2018 full year combined ratio and the long-run mid-70s target.
Our investment portfolio remains almost entirely invested in U.K. Government bonds, all
held at market value through the P&L.
This slide shows the current mix of gilts and cash. While we've no ﬁrm plans to change the
portfolio in the current months, we are -- as Geoﬀ mentioned, reviewing our investment
strategy. We're considering engaging an asset manager to allow us the ﬂexibility to
increase our yield through carefully considered tweaks to the portfolio, whilst maintaining
our overall conservative philosophy.

Bloomberg Transcript

So on to capital. Sabre is still all about generating capital organically, through careful and
consistent underwriting. We've continued to do so through 2019, as such, as we
mentioned, we've announced an interim dividend of 4.7p per share, clearly sticking to our
interim dividend policy these considerable excess capital in the group.
As we did in respect to 2018, we'll consider how best to utilize any excess capital year-end
generally, of course, we aim to return excess capital to shareholders by way of dividends.
As previously communicated, the level of excess capital would help support an attractive
special dividend at year-end.
And a quick reminder on our approach to capital management. Our overall approach
remains prudent, which means we continue to hold a minimum capital level of 140% of
our capital requirement. In targeting a mid-70s combined ratio, we can be comfortable
that on average, every policy we write increases our capital surplus.
While we've undertaken minimal capital expenditure in recent years, holding excess
capital above the ﬂoor allows us to do so, if and when required. Our overriding view of
capital remains to retain within the business, only what we need to support our
underwriting activities, with an appropriate buﬀer to protect the business from any
reasonably foreseeable adverse capital shocks. We've set a preferred operating range
above our capital ﬂow, 160%, which facilitates more stable returns of capital to investors
by supporting dividends during cycle downturns or periods of rapid growth.
As such, we aim to return excess capital to our shareholders through a steady ﬂow of
dividends. This was demonstrated in 2018, where we paid a special dividend, returning all
of our earnings for the year to shareholders and still retained capital at the top of our
preferred operating range, as you can see from the graph.

Page 4 of 17



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-30

In 2019, we've already built up an excess of capital during the year. And on that note, I'll
hand back to Geoﬀ for an update on our strategy in the market.

Geoﬀrey Carter

{BIO 20386629 <GO>}

FINAL

Thanks, Adam. So let's start with perhaps one of the more controversial slides in this pack,
which is our view of claims inﬂation.
At the full year, we spoke about our view being 6% to 7%, we've now moved that on to 7%
to 8%. That really means we've moved from a realistic view of high 6s to low 7s at this
point. Now why do we say that? This slide looks, again very similar to the slide we showed
at the year-end, bent metal costs, being a key driver of inﬂation. Theft, still an epidemic, I
would say, in certain parts of the country, PI frequency is ﬂat as severity continues to
inﬂate.
Within the bent metal, we've highlighted credit higher and credit repair. We think these 2
things are inﬂating signiﬁcantly, and Trevor maybe -- can talk more about this in the Q&A
at the end.

Bloomberg Transcript

We think as we get towards the whiplash reforms, you may see this becoming a bigger
factor, even from the position today, which we'll discuss later.
We can't see any reason to reduce our view from 7% must say, if anything, it feels a little
on the light size on what we see as current market inﬂation, we don't think we're
particularly outstep with any claim spend that will be being suﬀered in the market. Our
portfolio is not that diﬀerent that our inﬂation ﬁgures should look massively diﬀerent.
We're fully encouraged that many of our competitors are now talking up. Claims inﬂation
ﬁgures slightly over the last year or so -- so it feels like there is more of a market
acknowledgment that claims inﬂation exist, and there seems to be -- from our point of
view, that's encouraging. It probably helps our growth plans in the medium term.
There's some interesting stats on the ABI that's came out yesterday, I think, which is theft
claims are up 22% year-on-year, for the ﬁrst 3 months and a home oﬃce that -- this has
been a 50% increase in theft claims over the last 5 years. As we know, a lot of this is driven
by key-less entry, those stats don't surprise us at all and are very much in line with our own
analysis. So we very deﬁnitely see inﬂation up and around that 7 maybe-slightly-higher
percent. Premium inﬂation, on the other hand, our view is that rates are now gently
increasing in the market.
As we've discussed earlier, our premium shortfall year-on-year has been pretty consistent
over the last few months. That suggest to us that given we're taking pretty extensive
pricing action monthly to cover inﬂation rates in the market must be moving by enough -to allow us to maintain our competitive position.

Page 5 of 17



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-30

FINAL

So the delta is our -- or the non-moving delta is the main way, we would assess that
premium inﬂation, backed up by feedback from our insurance broker colleagues, who
would also talk about inconsistent price increases going through monthly, but a deﬁnite
trend upwards at this point.
And Ogden might have an impact here. Again, initial feedback from some of our broker
partners is there's perhaps an initial 0.5 point impact on competitive pricing from the
Ogden change coming through a diﬀerent level than perhaps expected, we'll talk about
that more in a minute.
I guess importantly, while we think the market might be starting to cover ongoing claims
inﬂation, we don't yet see evidence of the jaws closing, but they're probably being
generated over the last 12 to 18 months between claims and premium inﬂation. So I guess
my view is the jaws are not opening any further, but I'm not sure there's much evidence
that they're closing out at this stage.

Bloomberg Transcript

You may recall this slide, from the full year but we said our view is the market was pretty
well balanced, pretty ﬁnely balanced between premium inﬂation and deﬂation factors
over the next few months. We have updated our thoughts on this. So the shape of the
seesaw -- try saying that quickly, I have to tell you. We've had quite some debate on this, I
would say, which way they should point this seesaw. Adam tells me he's got a Physics
degree and I haven't, and this is the way it should point.
What we're really saying here is, the market is now tilted in favor of rate increases. So if we
just talk through a few of the drivers of that. The ﬁrst one is continued claims inﬂation, that
should be, all other things being equal, inﬂation on price. That should logically lead to -compared to the margin squeeze, we think that's an increased likelihood. I am
increasingly pessimistic about the impact of whiplash reforms, which we'll discuss in a
minute.
The loyal, legal response to those performance, we've been concerned about for a while,
and we'll talk about that more in a minute. The FCA pricing review is still due out the end
of the summer and the open rate change has clearly not been helpful for people's pricing
assumptions. So that may drive more propensity to increase prices.
On the other side, whiplash reforms clearly -- they're going to generate the beneﬁt that
had been calculated, new MGAs that are launched, don't seem to have a material impact
on our business.
Overall, our strategy is exactly the same. We'll continue to price at the mid-70s combined
ratio, we'll reﬂect any changes as they emerge and we won't speculate.
To unpack a few of those inﬂation factors. The FCA review is still anticipated late summer,
there's quite a lot stakeholders around this review. My view is the FCA are looking to a
sensible, commercial, but a customer-focused course through this. There are some strong
stakeholders like the CMA, some of the consumer groups and I think the FCA are -- going
to be looking over their shoulder at recommendation for this. Some of the government
Page 6 of 17



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-30

FINAL

messages suggest an expectation of fairly ﬁrm evidence, there was a no, a month or so
ago talking about a need to focus on lead loyalty penalty across a range of industries.
As a reminder, Sabre doesn't utilize any dual pricing or loyalty penalty type techniques in
our business. On premium inﬂation, it does rule out the markets on hardening views on
claims assumptions. So, we do not need to take any step change on rates and we already
told you, we covered inﬂation as we've gone through the last 18 months. So any
widespread rate increase should work to our beneﬁt.
How it looks to revised Ogden discount rate, I suppose, given the recent announcement
to restate, our approach is to base on the basis of facts, not speculation. As a result, a very
modest impact on our ﬁnancial results for this period, GBP300,000 beneﬁt, as we haven't
moved away from the 0.75% position in rating or reserving.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think the key thing here is that while there's been a lot of talk about the impacts on
reserves, there may have been less talk about the impacts on price and assumptions.
Logically, some competitors will have had a similar assumption on pricing and reserving.
It may now be as a need to increase the pricing assumption in the market as well in some
parts of the market.
On the Civil Liability Act, the whiplash reforms, I think it's worth spending a few minutes
on this given the importance we see on this -- on pricing over the next few months. As a
reminder of the key bits of the reforms, signiﬁcant reduced tariﬀ-based damages, small
claims limit increased from GBP1,000 to GBP5,000, no premedical oﬀers, a new portal to
be utilized by litigants in person and vulnerable claimants and infants excluded from the
reforms. If you calculate that -- all that through, that should be worth something like a
GBP35 policy beneﬁt.
At the start of the year, I described that we're driving through the fog, we didn't really
know what's ahead of us. It feels like that fog is starting to lift. But as probably highlighted,
the road's got a number of dangerous blind bends in it and we don't really know what's
around the other side of them. So I'll spend a few minutes talking about why we think that.
On the implementation side, the target implementation is still looked -- still scheduled for
April 2020 and the MIB, the Motor Insurers' Bureau are doing a really good job in trying
to build that portal is my view. But there is a severe lack of clarity on many of the issues
that support those reforms, there's a lack of clarity on some of the rules and in our view, a
continued risk that reforms aren't going to deliver anywhere near the forecast savings.
There could be an actual impact anywhere between a small saving and potentially
inﬂationary position.
Now why do we say that? There's still a risk on two halves. One is on the implementation
side. One is on the behavior side. On the implementation side, I'm no expert on politics
but a change of government is unlikely to see these reforms follow through, being my
interpretation.

Page 7 of 17



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-30

FINAL

The rules and policy decisions haven't yet emerged for this legislation, so the IT builders
having to be built on assumptions of what the rules will look like. The testing of the portal
is going to be tight. I think test is due to start around October, November, with this due to
go live in April, that doesn't leave much time to test such a signiﬁcant piece of IT change.
And there's some more techie bits and those are the ones we'll be going to now, but I
think there's some signiﬁcant risk on the implementation side, really more interesting is
the change to behaviors. I think there's a signiﬁcant chance that there'll be a change in
behaviors by certain of the claims management companies. It's quite possible, if not likely,
there'll be an emergence of new representation models, including unregulated type
claims management companies. My view is you could see some pretty unpleasant
creatures crawling out from under the rocks once these reforms are known, once we know
what the rules are, you can work on how to work around them. So we are wary of what
might happen on behaviors here.

Bloomberg Transcript

Linked to that as a customer detriment as the fees might not be proportionate to the
services being charged. We're almost certain claims stacking will occur. So to get out of
the GBP5,000 small claims limit, adding together a personal injury claim, a property
damage claim, a credit hire claim and a credit repair claim will be a really good way of
busting out the top of the new GBP5,000 limit.
I've been saying for a while, I had a fear of a shopping list being created, which a Sabre
customer would -- might like to claim for whiplash, PTSD, here is that place, what might it
be? It feels to me that, that's increasingly likely to come through and I think there's a real
diﬃcult balance between ensuring the customers, I would be paying for all the things that
generally -- should be able to claim for and not allowing people to see a shopping list
and just ticking every box on there. So that's going to be really interesting to see how that
develops. That might reduce or reverse some of the previous claims frequency that was
there.
The last point is a really interesting one. As part of these reforms, there's a dispute
resolution process put in place. The cost of that dispute resolution process are entirely
borne by the compensator or the insurer.
So as Trevor would describe it, this is a no-risk pump for people to put in a speculative
claim. So we could see some signiﬁcant behavioral changes come through on this. But
also any of those will happen, but we're saying there's reason to be cautious around all of
these things.
And probably a key thing for me is, it's going to take some time for those behaviors to
emerge. This is not reform that's going to go live on the 1st of April, and by the 5th of
April, we know what the impact is. This could take many months for the behaviors and the
impacts on claims to emerge. So our view would -- to be cautious on this until we get
conﬁdence in what the new world looks like.
Okay. What's our approach been year-to-date? It's pretty simple really. We're pricing on
things we can see, we're planning the ball as it lies and the way it lies at the moment, as
Page 8 of 17



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-30

FINAL

we have very high claims inﬂation, and we are pricing to address that. Our continued
focus, being a bit of a scratch record here is that we'll continue to look to pricing in our
mid- 70s range.
Reinsurance, a brief word on this. As you know, we have a 1/7 renewal. So that item was
quite good with Ogden but we expected that. We were pretty pleased to renew on an
almost identical panel of insurers and identical terms in return for a small discount on, our
reinsurance rate. Reinsurers are probably as focused on individual portfolio performance
as they are on the Ogden rate. Having said that, some reinsurers will have a more
optimistic Ogden assumption so there might be some pressure on reinsurance pricing
next year, which will start to reﬂect as we go through the end of this year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our strategy hasn't and won't change at all, but we're going to maintain a wide
underwriting footprint. We'll continue to develop our nonstandard positioning. We're
going to continue on the strongly leading focus on mid-70s combined operating target
approach. We're going to continue to look to generate cash and return that to investors.
Our base dividend payment doesn't change, 70% and a 140% to 160% solvency range.
And we believe very strongly that there'll be premium growth across the cycle, but at the
right time.
Our scenarios, again we put this slide up at the full year. There's no change in our thinking
here, I would say either our cautious approach is correct, in which case, the market will
move towards us and perhaps Ogden claims inﬂation assumptions of some signs. This
has happened in some places, which will allow us to naturally grow as we become more
competitive or our data view is too cautious, which allow us to reduce prices in which case
out stimulate growth at that point. Either way, our priorities are exactly the same, to make
sure we hit the mid-70s combined.
Summary. We're very focused on maintaining our existing and well-established strategy.
We're going continue -- in fact, our approach to the year-on-year reduction improvement
has been to increase our pricing, as we go through and to accelerate the price increases.
As we've said before, volume is an output, not a target for us, the target is proﬁtability.
We're probably slightly better oﬀ with premium than we expected, but we'll continue to
push price wherever that premium level goes.
So it feels like the fog is lifting a bit in terms of where the market is going but the road
looks pretty dangerous. There's lots of blind bends, there's lots of potholes that we need
to stay at through. So we're going to maintain a cautious approach, which leads to an
outlook.
Premium out turn for the year, I broadly don't know. In terms of what the market does, it's
not unreasonable at this point for saying if the market doesn't change at all, it will be
similar to the half year position. We're very much on track to deliver existing full year
guidance of a combined ratio better on our long-term target and generate strong capital
to pay an attractive dividend. To reiterate from the full year, we're very committed and
happy to use our capital range to support the paramount dividend in certain market
sectors, that could be shrinkage, it could be growth. The capital range is there to be used,

Page 9 of 17



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-30

not just to be looked at. At having covered claims inﬂation, we are well positioned for
growth as the market turns.

FINAL

So overall, I think we're feeling reasonably cheaper. At the moment I would say, a no, we
don't see any ﬁres that we're not preempted. And we feel okay, but the future despite
feels good.
And at that point, I'm very happy to take any questions on anything at all. I've been
straightening, why do I suspect a claims inﬂation question?

Questions And Answers
A - Geoﬀrey Carter

{BIO 20386629 <GO>}

(Question And Answer)

Q - Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

(inaudible) And probably strong, you're attesting to this 7% to 8% higher inﬂation clearly
higher than what the markets -- clearly higher than what the peers have been speaking
about. And now that we're seeing some signs of hardening of pricing, I don't know,
maybe it's too early to call it hardening, but where do you think the market is right now in
closing those jaws [ph]? Because I think you're saying that they haven't changed since that
since the bottom of the market, they haven't changed. How should we think about it?

A - Geoﬀrey Carter

{BIO 20386629 <GO>}

The way do I think about it, I think about the jaws not particularly closing at this point, but
the jaws are not getting any wider. So if I look at the market, it feels to me like an
inﬂationary increase going through by many competitors on a monthly basis. Inﬂation,
you can get a big 0.5%, 0.6% a month. That's sort of a view of what was going on. It could
be as a combination of that all other underwriting action. So it could be people are
moving away from our competitive footprint, that maybe their question for the less young
drivers, less nonstandard risks. The feedback I get from some of our broker partners is it
feels like there is right going on about that 0.5%, 0.6%. Not many, if any, people have
taken big action to close out the jaws there.

Q - Analyst
And what level of jaws do you think is there at the moment?

A - Geoﬀrey Carter

{BIO 20386629 <GO>}

Diﬃcult question to ask. I mean if we can put a few concentration, which drains at 7%, 8%
over the last 1.5 years and now these haven't, you could have 6%, at this point, jaws
maybe.

Q - Analyst
Page 10 of 17



FINAL

Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-30

A couple of questions, please. It's been a surprise to see the accident year loss ratio
increased from 59% to 64%, given what you said about moving rates up in line with claims
inﬂation, I might have been expecting that to be ﬂat year-on-year. So perhaps you could
just talk a bit about that, please, in terms of what the moving parts within that might be?
And secondly, it sounds as though you think all is possible that the market could change
quite signiﬁcantly in the next 12 to 18 months. I was wondering if you could just give us a
feel for what capacity you've got in the business to support increased policy count. Are
there any constraints around that perhaps in the claims department?

A - Geoﬀrey Carter

{BIO 20386629 <GO>}

Yes, sure. Passively, answer that, and then reverse order then, James, you can pick up with
Trevor the accident year loss ratio. I think in terms of capacity, we've been deliberately not
straining cast oﬀ numbers at all as we've written less premium. So we have, I think,
probably 10% capacity in the claims department, Trevor, the growth for that and the strain
as all.

Bloomberg Transcript

Important to remember, we outsource, well, we outsourced the EBIT already, for the new
business now and mostly brokers, which is still 80% of our business. The broker handle
sales and service. So we have no capacity limitations there. On the direct side, we
outsource the customer service part of that. So the broker, whether pretty heavy staﬀ,
pretty big business, so they can accommodate those being any reasonable increase in
sales.
And on the claim side to ﬁrst notiﬁcation of loss, we outsource that to innovation group,
motor care. But again, we're a big business and accommodate -- can accommodate
increases. So that really leaves the technical claims department as being a bit more careful
on it. And I think for the realistically 10% to 15% where our view is, we run a capacity of
circa 10%, but we're continuing to invest in our own technology as well to increase
productivity.

A - Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

Yes. So, for example, software -- for example, software robots should allow us to take on
more work without an increase in headcount. And, James, what's about attritional loss
ratio?

A - James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

Sure. So yes, I think it's a really good point and net, I'm talk about the current loss ratio. So
I think the ﬁrst thing I'd say is when we view inﬂation, we view it as a long-run claims
inﬂation, so not saying individual year. We're looking -- we take -- we look all the dates
over the several years to the last 2 to 3 years, and that's our view of where we believe
claims inﬂations at. We operate our pricing within a range, and so we will see periods
where the claims inﬂation is slightly lower than that long-run average inﬂation slightly
higher.
I think, obviously, this is a cyclical market. And I think we're seeing that the inﬂation has
pretty been a little bit higher than that in the last 12 months, but again, we're addressing
Page 11 of 17



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-30

our pricing over the long run. And so we work within that range, and so that's why the
kind of action here was -- is slightly higher than it would have versus the last year.
Basically, it is just part of the cycle.

FINAL

Q - Analyst
So following on from the attritional loss ratio question on the reserve releases, obviously,
that's oﬀset the sort of attritional loss ratio headwind. Is there anything exceptional, which
should reﬂect it and ﬂagging? And then also on -- you talked about sort of seeing
diﬀerent levels of competition in certain areas of the market. Can you give us a little bit
more detail on the areas of the market where you're seeing yourselves become more or
less competitive? That would be really useful.

A - Geoﬀrey Carter

{BIO 20386629 <GO>}

Okay. I mean, I guess, the ﬁrst on reserve releases -- and James, you can chip in. I think
there's been no change to our reserving philosophy at all or indeed our case reserving
philosophy. So this is really a natural ﬂow-through of the claims development. We
certainly haven't turned James upside down and shaken if there's any changes out of his
pockets. James, if you want to sort of answer that?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

No, I think the pricing of philosophy is exactly the same. It's -- I think we've continued to
see good guys from the oﬀ -- more consistency of the triangles but really, it is just much at
the same. So there's nothing that one-oﬀ massive release that we're kind of seeing. I think
it's worth noting on reserves that -- and pricing, that the third-party damage inﬂation,
which has obviously, slightly shorter tail. But actually, damage inﬂation is now bigger, a
high proportion of claims has been in the injury, which is the ﬁrst time in quite for many
years. So that's been the case. So I think this level of inﬂation that we are seeing, I mean,
it's real. We're seeing it within the market is seeing it, but it's really changing the dynamic.

A - Geoﬀrey Carter

{BIO 20386629 <GO>}

And, Trevor, on the case reserves? There's been no diﬀerence, so I think we've had some
good results on some large claims?

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker
Yes. So we've enjoyed strong case reserve releases year-to-date. But absolutely, we've not
changed anything in the way that we do it, so it's consistent. I think sort of really need to
look reserve releases across the full year as well there. So there is some cycles in there.

A - Geoﬀrey Carter

{BIO 20386629 <GO>}

I think on your second question is that where we are becoming more or less competitive, I
mean, I think our average premium has increased a bit over the half year. So that would
suggest, logically, we may be writing slightly less mass market, slightly more in the higher
average premium. And -- which is exactly what we expect to happen in this point of the
cycle. Not particularly, Mark, there's no areas we're suddenly dropped out the market
completely.
Page 12 of 17



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-30

FINAL

A - James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

Right, there's a lot of moving parts here, things like, depending on how your pricing
broke will depend on if you were pricing at above 0 and you're going to have prices up
potentially more young drivers. And so there's actually a lot of moving parts within that.
And we just continue to reﬁne our rates. We've implemented the new rating factor this
year. We're trying to get something else over the line, which we think is pretty strong. But
yes, we're just reacting to what we're seeing in terms of being able to better deﬁne the -and understand the risk and, hence, price accurately.

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker
Pricing in any market share. There's nothing in the -- through our overview on that one.

Q - Ming Zhu

{BIO 17001429 <GO>}

Ming Zhu from Panmure Gordon. Two questions, please. You have one slide, sorry, I don't
have that page number on the slide, it says approach to capital management. And
exactly, words here is at year-end, consider distribution of surplus capital beyond top of
SCR range of 160%. Could you please clarify this a bit more, please?

Bloomberg Transcript

And my second question is given your approach to your pricing and what you currently
are seeing in both of the market changes given that ABI yesterday and your claims
inﬂation. Is there any guidance you'll be able to give for the top line number for next year,
please?

A - Geoﬀrey Carter

{BIO 20386629 <GO>}

Okay. Passively, I'll start on both of those, then Adam, you can -- or James, you can pick
up. Our, ﬁrst, capital management, I think, is fairly simple, really. We got the 140% to 160%
range. We're really clear at the year-end that we're very happy to use that capital range.
We think what our shareholders want is a sustainable paramount dividend, and the capital
range gives us the ability for some periods to sustain that paramount dividend by each
and a little bit into that capital range. And that's exactly what we have prepared, and we're
more than happy to do at certain points in the cycle. I don't know what to say Adam can
say.

A - Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

No. That's right. I mean, really, we talked about a capital ﬂow at 140%. And I'm not saying
we want to get too close to that at this point, but we're certainly happy to operate
somewhere between 140% and 160%. But bear in mind, I suppose that when we say
operate, what we really mean is we would pay a dividend down to a point within that
range, but the reality is by the time we do that because we generate so much capital
organically, we're probably operating some way north of that. And we're at 180% now, for
example. So yes, we would pay down to within that range in order to support the
dividend the right things to do year-end.

A - Geoﬀrey Carter

{BIO 20386629 <GO>}

Page 13 of 17



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-30

Yes. And I think on the top line projections for next year, I think, and I'll stick to my line,
which is sort of volume is an output, not a target for us. Volume will be what volume will
be once we've taken the appropriate price and actions to hit our proﬁt targets.

FINAL

A - James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

And if I can add to that, Geoﬀ, yes. And it takes one person in the market to price
irrationally, which will impact our top line. So we have to focus on making sure our rates
are right, and we are pricing according to the relative elasticity within the market, and
therefore, be able to optimize our proﬁt.

Q - Ben Thomas

{BIO 17330110 <GO>}

I know you've talked in some detail in terms of the inﬂationary trends that you see and
clearly talking about a higher rate than at the start of the year. I just wonder what
conﬁdence you would have in 6 months' time whenever you next address as to whether
you would see that rate in inﬂation worsening versus improving. Are -- do you see some
things in here which are sort of maybe need to run through the system? I don't know,
maybe it's the theft -- the threat, the theft trends or whatever it is? Or as we come through,
would you expect it to improve?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Geoﬀrey Carter

{BIO 20386629 <GO>}

So I guess on theft, hopefully, isn't bad -- as bad as it's going to get, although we have
hotels left in London to stay in anyway. So I think theft is clearly at this low point. There's -I think the reason we highlighted whiplash reforms is that we think we've thought through
what could happen, but we don't know what will happen. Now it could be the intentional
whiplash reforms with the deﬂationary. We haven't taken that in our pricing. And we
generally don't know where that's going to be. We can see the rest of it not delivering the
full beneﬁt of that range. Where it's going to go? We genuinely don't know. So to use my
phrase, we'll be playing the balls as it lies and we'll use the data that's in front of us.

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker
Yes. I think I would add in terms of inﬂations, we've seen signiﬁcant movement yesterday
in FX rates. So that in itself will be having an inﬂationary impact on our repair costs, if that
trend continues.

A - Geoﬀrey Carter

{BIO 20386629 <GO>}

And, Trevor, parts of things we are doing with our supply network in the event of a nodeal Brexit?

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker
Yes. So we're readying our suppliers, and we've been ready with our supplier. But what
we want to do is we see that there's going to be reduced capacity in the repair network,
so we want to make ourselves easy to deal with. So that we can actually, whilst we've got a
huge volume, but with our repair network partner, we can make sure that we've got the
available capacity that we need.

Page 14 of 17



FINAL

Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-30

One of the issues that we're facing, particularly on third-party repairs is the credit higher
side. And obviously, that's -- there where two factors are there, how much you pay a day
to rent a vehicle, but more importantly, how long it takes to repair the car. So how long
that vehicle has been vented for. So anything we can do to compress that repair period,
we see is helping us or assisting us in managing those higher claims. Now at the moment,
the third-party inﬂation is really a blend of three things. One is the absolute repair cost;
two is the further movement that we've seen between ensure repair models and credit
repair models, so year-on-year, there's an increase in credit repair; and then the impact of
more complex repairs in repair period, pushing our credit high costs.

A - Geoﬀrey Carter

{BIO 20386629 <GO>}

Do we have anything else?

Q - Analyst
Just one follow-up. On the claims inﬂation, I'm just wondering some of the drivers that
you speak about, the theft or the credit higher cost. In my mind, can -- to some parts
relates to the more niche component of your portfolio, like the expensive cars, et cetera.
So I'm just wondering how much you think the rest of the market is experiencing the same
7% to 8% claims inﬂation versus what's speciﬁc to you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Geoﬀrey Carter

{BIO 20386629 <GO>}

Yes. I mean, perhaps, I've felt more nervous about at the year-end than I do now. If you
look at the ABI stats, yes, they were 1% of the market. So we're not going to be the biggest
move with the dial on that. And the ABI is talking about theft clams 23% up. So I don't
think our -- we've caught at 25%, ABI at 22%, doesn't rule out, we're miles away through
an industry view here so -- or even a view industry facts at that point.

A - Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

And I will add to that in relation to the third-party costs where people were hitting and
then people everybody's hitting. So that's not to do with the mix of our policyholders.

A - James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

Yes. I would say 70% or 80%. So the remainder is the third-party costs and now we can
control all the equations here.

A - Geoﬀrey Carter

{BIO 20386629 <GO>}

I think to highlight in that, James, is because it's a point that I think gets missed
sometimes. Was it, I think, 20%, you said it was, roughly?

A - James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

Yes roughly.

A - Geoﬀrey Carter

{BIO 20386629 <GO>}

Page 15 of 17



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-30

Yes.

FINAL

Q - Analyst
You're taking quite a lot more bearish view than probably what the market would be
taking. And there's also quite a lot of government pressure to pass on, I mean, the policy
savings to customers. So is it fair to say that we're probably not expecting growth in 2020
if you're going to be taking a more bearish view on this? And then also on Ogden, with
the rate going sort of below expectations, is it your view that claims will now start settling
in line with the sort if minus 0.25% rate? Or are we still expecting that claims will settle at a
higher implied rate as we saw it when the rate went to minus 0.75%?

A - Geoﬀrey Carter

{BIO 20386629 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Okay. Yes. A good question. I think there's a couple of it, sir. In terms of the driver of
the inﬂation obviously, these whiplash reforms are ﬁrst smoothened. The driver of inﬂation
has now moved to a property damage. So on a static state or I would think we would have
seen a deﬂationary impact. In any event, that might be neutralized by the property
damage claims. I'm not sure we are -- I think we've been -- we all being a bit gloomy on
the whiplash reforms, but I think if you talk to other people in the market, where we
involved in the same working parties other people are, the fact that we don't know what
the rules are is noting to anybody else that nobody knows what the rules are.
I think the MIB are doing a great job trying to build their system. We've been pretty
closely involved for the last 6 weeks, couple of months now, Trevor? But they are building
a bit of a vacuum still from the former rules. So I don't think our view is any -- their view as
facts. We'll say, "Watch the other people view, we'll be view it."
I think the important thing is on the risks side of the -- on the behavior side of the risks,
that is going to take a while to be known. So I don't think you can reasonably calculate
now how lawyers and claims management companies for less reputable ones might
respond to those changes. That's going to take a little while to roll through. So we have to
be cautious until the claims patterns have settled down a bit anyway.
On Ogden -- sorry, I slightly missed the question on the Ogden, please?

Q - Analyst
Whether we're expecting in a rate -- sorry, when the rate went to minus 0.75%, I think most
people are seeing in the market rate implied claim settlement rates were sort of much
higher than that. Are we still expecting that to be the case now we've got a sort of longterm rate in place?

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker
And yes. Sure, I'll take that. So got a rate that's in place for 5 years. The average life of
these catastrophic claims is a bit over 5 years. So there will be some gaining in terms of
settlement opportunities and settlement times. I think it's fair to say that the market
experience has been settling claims at about 0.5% against the uncertainty of where the
Page 16 of 17



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-07-30

discount rate might lie and eﬀectively a brieﬁng that the discount rate would be between
0% and 1%. The fact that it's now in minus territory, absolutely, I think, does diminish the
opportunity to settle below 0.5%. Against that, the propensity for PPOs will reduce.

FINAL

Q - Ming Zhu

{BIO 17001429 <GO>}

Sorry, just a follow-up question on your claims proﬁle. What does your claims proﬁle
actually sort of look like in terms of the percentage of split between third-party external
damage theft, please?

A - Geoﬀrey Carter

{BIO 20386629 <GO>}

James, can you give us a high level...

A - James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

Very roughly, it's something like probably around half but it's 20% AD, 30% TPD.

A - Geoﬀrey Carter

{BIO 20386629 <GO>}

30% property third party damage.

A - James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Third party damage, sorry, and 50% injury -- all right, it's actually glued more towards 45%
injury, roughly. Theft, I can't actually remember what the proportion rate is that, I'll have to
go in with that one out.

A - Geoﬀrey Carter

{BIO 20386629 <GO>}

Anything else? No? If not, thank you very much for your time, both in the room and on the
phone. If you have any other questions, just get in touch with one of us. We'll be more
than happy to follow-up. Thanks very much.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 17 of 17

