Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

S1 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Mark FitzPatrick, Group Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer
Michael Falcon, Chairman and Chief Executive, Jackson Holdings LLC
Mike Wells , Group Chief Executive
Nic Nicandrou, Chief Executive, Prudential Corporation Asia
P. Chad Myers , Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Jackson National
Life Insurance Company
Patrick Bowes , Investor Relations
Unidentified Speaker

Other Participants
Andrew Baker, Analyst
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Blair Stewart, Analyst
David Motemaden, Analyst
Greig Paterson, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Johnny Vo, Analyst
Jon Hocking, Analyst
Nick Holmes , Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst

Presentation
Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody. Thank you for coming out on this warm and sunny London
summer day. For those of you -- first off, thank you for joining us, a little more serious
note. And those of you via telecast and also I know on the phone, thank you for joining us.
I'm Mike Wells, Group Chief Executive of Prudential. Our structure today is going to be a
little different format than we've used previously. So I'm going to do a quick overview of
the strategy and a demerger update; then we're going to ask Nic to do an update on Asia
and the success we've had in the first half of the year in quality, quantity, all the various
metrics; Michael Falcon will come up to walk you through Jackson's success and also his
view of some strategic challenges and where he wants to go with that business,
opportunities it has; Mark will walk you through some of the financial highlights; and then
I'll come back and make some closing remarks. And we should do this in less than an hour
and leave you plenty of time for any questions you have.

Page 1 of 32



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

But we think it's important a shift to have the business heads discussing the business
performance with you more directly and so we'll get your feedback on the format after
we're done. So, I guess key message is we're moving forward with the demerger this
year fourth quarter. That tells you what's done and the amount of work that went into
unwinding a 170-plus years of relationships inside the Company and structure and things
and I couldn't be prouder of the work that was done. But also the -- we told you originally
we're doing this from a position of strength and that was one of the key drivers and that
was a -- we had to maintain that. So the businesses themselves had to continue to
perform, grow, add dimensions, and all the things that you see in these first-half results
while we were doing the work on the demerger. And I'm incredibly proud of the team for
getting all of that done at the same time.

Bloomberg Transcript

As I've told a number of you, I've always believed the bandwidth in this organization is
unique and I think you've seen that. So, done from a position of strength. What does the
financial performance look like? Well, it's broad, it's high quality, it's Asian led. All of the
key metrics in Asia, let's start there, and I must -- for John's benefit and Clare's with us
too here in the front row; from a standard accounting procedure point of view, the UK
businesses from this point will be considered discontinued. It's a fairly harsh term for
businesses that quality that are growing and doing well so my apologies to my colleagues
of many years, but that is the framing. So we talk about continuous operation that refers
to the United States, Asia, and Africa. So, the results of continuing operations. Asia growth
up 10%; Asia value the new business metric up 10%; earnings up 14%, cash again a free
surplus generation, one of our favorite metrics up. At the Group level; dividend up 5% in
line with our policy and at this point -- this stage effectively a mechanical calculation.
And then at the Group level again including our colleagues at M&GPrudential, embedded
value up GBP53 -- to GBP53 billion. So, all key metrics strong. Again as we've said many
times up here, all of the metrics that we think are critical going up, similar slope, similar
growth rates, and the kind of performance we would like to think you expect from us.
What's behind that and I'll let the CEOs get into the specifics, but eight out of 10 markets
in Asia with double-digit growth of earnings, US up 14%. Mike will get in -- and Mark will get
into the calculation where that comes from. Eastspring, outstanding performance in
earnings and in flows. The US, you're going to see diversification of product on the
organic side, the integration of their last bolt-on Hancock transaction and so -- and then
quality wise, I'll let Nic get to the specifics, but both in regular premium and in recurring
premium, the client relationships, these metrics are in the 90%s.
So, the absolute quality of the earnings that we're producing have never been better. So,
we're continuing to invest in organic as you see from the materials. And again I
appreciate, there's a ton of materials you've been given today in a new format given the
change. So, we'll try and give you some guidance on where to look and then obviously
take a little while to go through them. But the inorganic and organic investments we're
continuing to make are material and they're paying off. On the organic side, you saw
GBP500 million invested in new business in the first half of the year. I often get the
question does Asia need more capital. There is no market we have in Asia that doesn't
have all the capital it needs for organic growth, okay. And then the inorganic activity is
driving a number of objectives. It is extending and broadening distribution relationships.

Page 2 of 32



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

So in the case of United Overseas Bank, we renewed that partnership. It's not only the
400-plus branches they have in five markets, but it's also we're working with them on
TMRW, their new digital bank platform, that's the name of it, and brings another
dimension to that relationship. On the -- I think a number of you saw is we launched Pulse
and Nic and I and a number of us were in the front row. We were in Malaysia last week
with the Minister of Health and his team launching our new health ecosystem platform and
again that's going to be rolled out across 10 markets in the next year. It's got a -- we met
with our key agents in the morning and the leaders of our largest businesses there in
Malaysia and they understand the dimensions it brings, the brand recognition, the client
acquisition, the positioning, and of course from a social point of view, they see the value
of something with that capability coming to the market that addresses prevention,
postponement of illness, better information, those sorts of things.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, the investment in that is to the point now where it is actionable and in the field. We
continue to upgrade the value chain across the globe of the businesses. 80%-plus of the
business written in Asia came in electronically in the first half of the year. Again this is
efficiency of agency operation, this is the tools they have, this is our ability to process
faster and to interact with clients in the ways they want to be interacted with. And then
modernizing some of our distribution capabilities, you may have seen, with the
partnership with OVO we announced. That's the largest payment provider digitally in
Indonesia. So, it's 115 million devices that their technology reaches and again I'll let Nic give
you a little more color on that. So modernization of what's already working, broadening,
deepening, all of it. And this gets to the decisions on how we allocate capital. So, we're
continuing to grow these businesses organically.
We are looking first and foremost at markets with structural growth. That will be the first
lens for any business in the international group.
So second is risk-adjusted returns, a variety of other metrics that we're going to keep a
little closer to the vest, but at the end of the day, the portfolio needs to include markets
or the products that we produce are in demand. Now that sounds simple, but for insurers
that's a finite number of markets globally, and we think we have leadership positions in
those markets, and we think we're demonstrating, we're broadening those positions with
a variety of initiatives. Again I'm going to let Nic give you a little color on the types of
things we're doing and testing. And I've never seen this organization better at moving
good ideas across business units. So that's part of our scale and what we expect a benefit
to come from our scale.
So risk-adjusted, high-quality returns, you can't say that and not be willing to exit
businesses. So you see some of the businesses that we've invested heavily in and the
types of returns we're getting on the right. That's organic. You also see some of the
businesses we've exited. Isn't necessarily a reflection on the quality of the business, but
it's a reflection of our view of where it fits inside the Group. So to that, a very high-quality
business that will no longer be part of the group is M&GM&GPrudential.
So there's a number of things going on around the demerger, just going to come back to
from a position of strength, why are we doing it? It's a great business. It's alignment, so
capital, investor base, currency, regulatory model, shape of the earnings, cash flows, all
Page 3 of 32



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

those sorts of things are getting very different, and the synergies as we discussed at the
time, more and more limited. So we think this gives you, as a shareholder, the ability to
decide if you want to hold or if you want to sell or buy more, it'll be dividended to our
existing shareholders in the fourth quarter, so they can decide the combination of the
investment characteristics of these two companies that they think is appropriate for their
portfolio.
And again we think that's a decision you should make. So there's no IPO, there's no equity
raise. I can tell you if you talk to these teams before -- excuse me, after the session today,
what you'll find is this sort of exercise brings a level of focus that's unique. You look at
everything. I was commenting to a friend in the weekend, it's the opposite of M&A. M&A
you present an idea to your Board and your shareholders and say this is what we're going
to buy and this is what we think we can do with it 18 months after, and this is what we think
the finished product will look like. In this case, we said to you this is what the finished
product has to look like. We did the work first, okay. So these businesses are tuned up,
are in great shape. The management teams are focused and they've never been more
competitive in their marketplaces, and I say that with 24 years of being with the Group.

Bloomberg Transcript

So the final steps involved there's a process where we have to produce the prospectus
and other documentation available to you in the marketplace. John's team will do a
market's day again with this numerically centric to give you more detail and get really
comfortable with what the demerged entity will look like. We'll have an Extraordinary
General Meeting, an EGM. That's -- and then with, of course, a vote with the shareholders
to approve the demerger, and we (inaudible) having all of that done again in the fourth
quarter.
So with that I'm going to turn it over to Nic to give you an update on some of the success
we're having in Asia.

Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Mike, for the opportunity to present on the business. Good morning,
everyone. It feels a little like old times presenting to you during interim results.
Now, in my presentation I will provide an update on the progress that we're making in
delivering our strategic priorities and cover how these are driving our current financial
performance while building a platform for sustainable high-quality growth.
Prudential Corporation remains focused on the four clear strategic priorities shown here,
which we first outlined in 2017. Through these, we're looking to extend our reach and build
on our established business strengths through a broader range of products, wider market
access, and seamless customer experience. Let me step through a few operational
highlights.
Starting with enhancing the core in the top part of this slide. Our new product initiatives
such as the launch of group insurance and the high-net-worth propositions in Singapore,

Page 4 of 32



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

our entry into retail pensions in Hong Kong, and our enhanced non-linked offering in
Indonesia have contributed around half of the NBP increase in the first half of this year.
On distribution, our renewal of UOB for another 15 years across five markets in our region
has reenergized this partnership delivering our best-ever performance for a six-month
period with sales up 27%. Our joint teams are hard at work to make our offering
accessible to a wider UOB customer set, both in branch and digitally. Meanwhile, our
increased emphasis on high-end agency has seen our MDRT qualifies across the region
rise by 11% to over 8,000 for the first time.
Moving next to health. Mike and I were in Kuala Lumpur last week for the official launch of
our AI-powered digital health platform branded Pulse by Prudential. This offers Babylon's
health services alongside telemedicine, wellness, and other bespoke services to 32
million Malaysians. Pulse will be available in 10 markets by this time next year, with
Singapore, Hong Kong, and Indonesia launching the app in the fourth quarter. To support
this regional-wide rollout, we have secured digital services from 10 partners so far, with
more to come as we look to enrich the Pulse offering.

Bloomberg Transcript

The Pulse platform significantly broadens our current business [ph] remit through
developing new customer solutions which cover the entire spectrum from wellness,
diagnosis and treatment, to recovery, Pulse marks Prudential's move towards taking a
more preventive role alongside our established protection role. With over 20,000
registered users already, we're off to a very good start.
At Eastspring, we're beginning to see the benefit of the investment made across multiple
business dimensions over the last 18 months: a geographic expansion through TMB Asset
Management in Thailand and the WFOE in China has delivered a positive start. In Thailand,
Southeast Asia's largest and fastest-growing mutual fund market last year, we have an
opportunity to further consolidate our market entry through the acquisition of a controlling
stake in Thanachart Fund Management Company, the ninth largest player with AUM of
GBP5.4 billion. In China our expanded presence, build out of distribution, and new product
launches have delivered a strong first half for new business sales and profits in both
absolute and relative terms. More on this later in my presentation.
So in summary, we're not only building accelerants to sustain our current performance.
We're also looking to build new future growth engines at the same time. This is good
news for shareholders as the power of our brand, customer propositions, broad
distribution reach, and proven execution track record position us exceptionally well to
deliver on our sector's multi-decade opportunity in Asia.
Now delivering results is in PCA's DNA and the first half provided yet another proof point.
APE and NBP were both up 10% on constant currency, the latter despite a two percentage
point drag from lower rates and up 14% and 15%, respectively, on a reported basis. IFRS
operating profit and free surplus generation were also up 14% and 13%, respectively, on
constant currency. And finally on this slide, both AUM and EV rose by 23% compared to a
year ago, a clearly positive development for our future earnings momentum.

Page 5 of 32



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

Our strong headline performance continues to be underpinned by three key attributes,
namely: diversity, quality, and momentum. The power of our diverse business platform is
evident in multiple ways. Firstly, through the number of markets delivering double-digit
APE growth in both quarters this year; secondly, and more importantly, through NBP where
performance was broad-based, both geographically and by distribution channel.
As you can see, both agency and bank-sourced NBP grew strongly and seven of our life
markets grew NBP at a double-digit rate, producing a 17% increase outside Hong Kong,
while Hong Kong's underlying increase of 10% was dampened by the effect of lower
rates. And lastly, the power of diversity is also evident through nine businesses delivering
double-digit growth in IFRS operating profit.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our focus on quality, which provides low correlation to investment markets, is evident
through the high regular premium content of our sales at 93%, through our strong
customer retention rate of 95%, and through our continued emphasis on driving health
and protection where NBP was up 8%, premiums received were up 12%, and IFRS
insurance margin was up 14%. And finally, on this slide, our forward momentum is evident
through the increase in our recurring revenue base, which benefited from the addition of
another regular premium cohort and sustained high customer retention. The
compounding nature of this growth delivered through thick and thin over many years also
brings us considerable earnings resilience to go along with our capital resilience with the
aggregate local solvency position of our policyholder and shareholder funds at 30 June
staying roughly level at 312% relative to the equivalent position at end 2018.
The growing level of recurring premium revenue and high consumer loyalty delivered a
23% rise in our total liability base year-on-year to a new high of GBP94.6 billion. As we
have said before, this liability base is a good proxy for our IFRS earnings base. The
combination of a higher balance sheet and the rich protection content of our business has
driven total life IFRS earnings 14% higher with eight life businesses growing at a doubledigit rate, led by Hong Kong up 29%, Singapore up 18%, Malaysia up 10%, China up 28%
on an after-tax basis, with only Indonesia seeing a fall in earnings, reflecting the impact of
declining sales in recent periods. And finally, our earnings exposure to interest rates
remains de minimis given our health and protection product bias and modest reliance on
spread business.
I will now give you some market color on the four largest contributors to our life results,
starting with Hong Kong. This business has developed a playbook that we want all our
businesses to follow. On products, Hong Kong continues to leverage its with-profit
strengths and to innovate in health. It successfully launched a tax-deferred retirement
offering on April 1st which contributed 14% of sales in the second quarter. Prudential Hong
Kong has maintained its market leadership in agency growing sales by 9% through this
channel and headcount by 16% to over 23,000 agents.
Our business has benefited from resilient and rising mainland China consumer demand,
supported by a 16% increase in visitor numbers in the first half of this year to over 27
million. Local sales have also grown through success enjoyed in the government-led
annuity and VHIS initiatives. All of Hong Kong's key lead earnings indicators are growing at
a double-digit rate, supported by a 98% regular premium new business mix and a 99%
Page 6 of 32



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

customer retention rate. As a result, customer numbers are 10% higher, renewal premium
is 16% higher, and embedded value is 29% higher than a year ago. All these factors
contributed to the 29% increase in Hong Kong's IFRS operating profit.
Now I'm sure that you're all familiar with recent developments in Hong Kong. We did not
see an impact in our July sales which maintained the positive growth trajectory, but of
course we're monitoring developments on a daily basis. The earnings dynamic of a
strongly compounding revenue base here immunizes our business from any potential
short-term sales fluctuations.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning next to our China joint venture operations. In the last 12 months, we continued to
broaden our presence by entering two new provinces, Hunan and Shaanxi, and opening
offices in another 12 cities. At the same time we have deepened our presence within our
current footprint with both channels delivering NBP growth in excess of 25%. Post-tax IFRS
profit was up 28%, supported by a 27% increase in regular premium sales and 97%
customer retention. Like Hong Kong, the key lead indicators of our China JV point to
strong future earnings growth track with year-on-year customer numbers up 14% to 1.4
million, total assets up 35% to GBP10.5 billion, and EEV up 37% to GBP3 billion on a 100%
basis. I believe that we remain uniquely positioned amongst the foreign players to benefit
from both operational delivery, given a low penetration and our access to over 80% of
China's GDP and from strategic tailwinds given the foreign ownership relaxation.
Moving next to Indonesia, the team here has been working hard to drive a return to
growth by addressing both the lack of product diversification an agency channel
effectiveness. A broader product suite was introduced over the last year including a new
non-linked savings product in January, an upgraded medical offering for the mass market
in April, supplemented by our entry into the employee benefit insurance space in June
using the digitally-enabled PRUworks platform.
Additionally, we've made progress in segmenting and retooling our agency with good
early results from the Elite segment. Encouragingly sales rebounded in the second quarter
once these initiatives took attraction, increasing by 48% compared to the same period of
2018 with sales from the Elite agents more than doubling.
Our product pipeline in the second half we'll see us introduce a new Shariah non-linked
savings product and an affluent version of our flagship linked protection product. Our
agency modernization initiatives will continue as we equip leaders [ph] core and rookie
agents with new tools and pursue greater productivity from the Elite segment.
As Mike referenced earlier, we have also entered into a strategic partnership with OVO,
Indonesia's leading mobile payments platform present in over a 115 million devices. We're
working jointly to develop new digital propositions for all those platform users,
encompassing both savings and protection products, and we're targeting an end 2019
launch date. There is still a lot that we need to do in Indonesia to realize the full potential
of this business, but the team has notched up some encouraging early wins.

Page 7 of 32



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

Finally, on this slide, as I mentioned at the start, Singapore has led the way amongst our
businesses in expanding our reach to new customer segments, such as the high-networth individuals and group insurance for large corporates and SMEs. These new offerings
contributed 11% of our first half sales in this market. Our focus on quality and innovation
saw Prudential lead the way in Singapore in introducing flexible premium terms on saving
products and no claims features in retail protection products ahead of regulatory changes.
These initiatives have driven a market-leading 13% increase in regular premium in new
business and a 12% rise in individual health and protection sales. Importantly, NBP
increased by 13% in the first half with both channels delivering double-digit growth on this
measure and IFRS profit was also higher by 18%. Singapore is therefore well on the way to
support a regional growth agenda.

Bloomberg Transcript

At Eastspring, the work initiated in the last 18 months to improve performance, broaden
offering, expand geographic reach, and reenergize distribution is beginning to pay off.
The GBP3.1 billion of net third-party inflows represent a high-water mark for a six-month
period with six markets, namely Thailand, Singapore, Korea, India, Japan, and Taiwan
producing over GBP0.25 in net inflows. Around 45% of these inflows came from
strategies not available 18 months ago with a further 23% coming from institutional client
top-ups on the back of strong investment performance. These positive third-party flows,
combined with the more reliable, structural flows from our life businesses, positive market
movements, and the acquisition of TMB Asset Management drove Eastspring's AUM 23%
higher than a year ago to GBP169.5 billion. Consequently, profits rose by 12% to GBP103
million, in line with average AUM as the more muted revenue growth following changes in
asset and client mix was offset by action on costs. I believe this performance makes
Eastspring stand apart from its global and regional peers in what has been a difficult
operating environment for asset managers.
So in conclusion, we have extended a double-digit growth trajectory for our key profit and
value metrics supported by strong new business and net flow momentum. Our new
segment, product, channel, and digital initiatives are broadening our capabilities and are
beginning to contribute meaningfully to our results with much more to come. The
structural drivers of demand across Asia remain intact, and notwithstanding cyclical
headwinds, a proven execution record coupled with the power of our diverse portfolio,
our focus on quality, and our strong business momentum, will see us continue to deliver
relative outperformance.
With this, I will now hand you to Michael for an update on Jackson.

Michael Falcon

{BIO 17026942 <GO>}

Morning. Thank you, Nic. I'm pleased to be here with all of you today. My name is Michael
Falcon and I joined Prudential and Jackson at the start of the year. I've had almost eight
months in the business, meeting associates across our company, regulators, distributors,
and customers. When I accepted the role, one of the things -- the key things that Mike
and the Executive Committee were looking for was a fresh and in-depth review of
Jackson's business and strategy. There remains I think a broad consensus that Jackson, as
strong and dominant as we've been in the market, can be more than it is today and that
we still somehow punch below our weight.
Page 8 of 32



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Our challenge -- my challenge is to find the opportunities to unleash value and capability
and realize a more robust and fully-valued Jackson. Our review, while ongoing, is fulsome,
it's without limitation in scope and without preconceived outcome or conclusion, and as
my leadership team and I move past initial assessment stages, I want to share some
relevant observations as well as covering the first half 2019 results. I'll include thoughts on
indicated actions throughout and conclude with a roadmap on how we expect to go
forward.
So let's start. Strategically, I would summarize my assessment in three simple points. First,
Jackson is an outstanding business with even greater demonstrated capabilities than are
usually noted; second, the US retirement market where we remain committed and
focused is large, growing, and offers tremendous opportunities for us; and third, Jackson I
believe can deliver a step change in value by more actively diversifying our business mix. I
think this reduces requisite hedge cost and thereby increases free cash surplus
generation, this to support both growth and increased remittances.
Jackson is a great business with a long and strong history of success. We have a history of
innovation, including the modern annuity product where we continue to lead, but we're
also leading in new product initiatives such as advisory. Jackson I think was well-placed to
grow rapidly in the withdrawal benefit part of the annuity market a decade ago, growing
our share to 17%, and we remain well-positioned today given our pricing discipline and risk
management approach. Our sales, distribution capacity, and capabilities are outstanding.
Advisors, customers, and platforms rate our sales teams, products, and service deliveries
very highly, and they all want to do more with us. We're operationally efficient and
excellent with best-in-class industry cost structure, quality, and a single-stack technology.
We're scalable and we've demonstrated this through numerous bolt-ons.
Our regulatory operational and risk management record I believe is strong and it's highly
respected, and we've proven resilient through numerous market cycles and market
conditions. Finally, we operate in a massive, fast-growing, albeit complex US retirement
market. But understand that people want what we provide, guaranteed lifetime income
and protection of principal to and through retirement.
The industry is certainly going through a disruptive change, but I believe that in general it's
changing for the better. We see a clearing of the regulatory fog. The SEC regulatory Best
Interest rule has been issued. We have bipartisan legislation pending with Safe Harbor
rules for insurance and retirement plans. And the most problematic aspects of the
previous DoL initiative are less likely, while benefits I think of a smarter and better
regulatory framework are being enhanced.
Further, media sentiment towards annuities is softening, even warming, and the customer
sentiment towards well-run and trusted financial partners is improving. Most importantly,
the direction of intermediary distribution in the US advisory markets are changing,
recognizing the benefits that our products can provide. This I believe is being driven by
technology and the ability to integrate the benefit of guarantees and to client portfolio
outcomes, in planning, in portfolio construction, and in analysis. It's still early days, but the
integration of annuities, it's a core advice, asset allocation, and operating systems is finally

Page 9 of 32



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

happening. For the first time advisors are increasingly able to model the cost-benefit for
clients and then execute all within their core workstation.
There are, of course, still some headwinds. We remain a relatively high friction product in
terms of complexity and the selling, contracting process, but that's improving and I think
it's going to continue to improve. We also are deep into the longest expansion in modern
US history and a period of, dare I say, even lower for even longer interest rates. The
economics of these risks and volatility actually speak quite well to the benefits our
products provide, but the behavioral finance results, of course, can vary in terms of endclient behavior, especially in the near-term.

Bloomberg Transcript

So where does that leave us in terms of strategic assessment and priorities? Jackson has
become highly concentrated in variable annuity, driven by the higher returns and lower
capital requirements of the VA product. Additionally, over the last few years, companies
with what I'll call challenged GMIB, Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefit, back books have
come to market. There are big differences in the economic risk profile and accounting
dynamics between GMIB and GMWB risks. Fairly or not, I think these elements combine,
and today I feel they negatively impact our valuation.
That said, we have an opportunity to increase value through more accelerated
diversification which will serve many benefits, both commercially as well as from a capital
return perspective. We have a strong business with organic growth that includes non-VA
products, plus we are an experienced and logical consolidator and operator of life
insurance and annuity blocks. To be clear, Jackson understands and likes VA risks and
returns. They represent attractive, long-term through-cycle returns, and we are
comfortable and capable to manage the associated risks.
Also to be clear, today Jackson is well capitalized for its current book of business. Still we
have opportunities to improve shareholder returns with increasing remittances, by
growing into a more diverse book. This can happen organically, as has already been
started, but also inorganically through more active stance on bolt-ons. Organic and
inorganic growth will require investment, which might at times outpace statutory capital
generation. Statutory capital generation is, of course, the constraining factor on
remittances which are important for Jackson and the group.
To meet potential needs, we are flexible as to funding options, including, but not limited
to, third-party financing within the US corporate structure. This could also include
reinsurance deals and structures similar to others that exist which are not uncommon in
our market. As a practical matter, given the size of our book, natural aging, attrition, and
the current market trends, we do not expect significant organic net growth from VA flows
in the near-term. However, we remain bullish on the longer-term VA growth opportunities
in the US market. We are not looking to shrink our VA exposure. But we do want to reset
the mix of business going forward. This will diversify the calls on capital and free up cash
flow by reducing hedging needs executing the strategy while maintaining our current risk
appetite. Again, we like Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit risk profile. It's often the
best solution for investors. The liquidity is supported by NAV. The claims are deferred, and
it's a high-value product with fees and fee accumulation that supports the risk transfer.

Page 10 of 32



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

Now let's take a look at mid-year results and I'll start with sales. After a weak second half
last year, further impacted by fourth quarter markets and an even more depressed
January, our commercial results are improving. We've seen month-on-month performance
build in year-to-date sales for the first half finish only 4% below prior year and 15% above
the second half of 2018. This improvement actually has continued year-to-date. We've
launched a competitive FIA product early in the year and volume built steadily through the
first quarter and continues on pace, despite the recent cap reductions we took in
response to lower rates. Again I'd remind all of you of our pricing discipline. And while
competitive, we're not the price or cap leader. We sell based on the quality of our product
and service and not teaser or loss leader pricing or features.

Bloomberg Transcript

Fixed index and fixed annuities now make up year to date roughly 20% of sales and that's
up from about 5% last year. That said, this change in current year sales does not
meaningfully impact our overall business mix yet, given the size of our in-force separate
account block. It's important to remember that the VA business will grow with markets and
the S&P was up 17% in the first half of the year. Of course, I'll note the margins on VA
business are fundamentally more attractive than other product lines as well as less capital
intensive, and we see this reflected in new business profit being down this year, which
includes both the shift in mix but also the impact of interest rate decline during the period.
We have details of that in the EEV disclosures.
Turning to 2019 first half income metrics. Our first half IFRS operating profit grew 14%
primarily due to the DAC amortization slowing related to the 17% increase in US equity
markets. The drop in equity markets at the end of 2018 reduced our separate account
balances at the start of the period and therefore fee income in the current period.
Improving markets through June and the performance of our underlying funds had
allowed asset values to fully recover at mid-year resulting in fee income close to flat to
the current period.
Current interest rates, however, drove a reduction in spread income. As Jackson has
experienced before, the significant drop in interest rates in the first half caused a belowthe-line IFRS loss. As a reminder, the IFRS equity drift rate is based on current risk-free
rates, without a risk premium or mean reversion. So sudden rate drops are notably
punitive to below-the-line results. Despite the impact of IFRS methodology on VA
reserves, overall IFRS shareholder equity was actually up, both on a six and 12-month
basis.
Moving to the middle column, stat operating capital generation was up over prior year,
this due to the release of reserves from the John Hancock bolt-on transaction in late 2018.
Adjusting for this impact operating capital generation was down slightly, but generally in
line with that of the first half of 2018.
Stable operating capital formation along with continued effective hedging supported a
17% increase in remittances to GBP400 million despite these volatile markets. Including
the impact of the dividend remittance, stat capital was slightly lower at mid-year reflecting
the net impact of reserves and hedging. Again, the 17% increase in US equity markets,
given that increase in US equity markets, the net hedging result was negative due to the
liability starting to floor out. Additionally, the first half saw an increase in the non-admitted
Page 11 of 32



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

deferred tax asset of close to $200 million. As a result -- I'm sorry, as a reminder, stat
capital is very conservative and it restricts admission of the deferred tax asset. Despite
these headwinds, June RBC, including the impact of permitted practice, held above
400%, and we expect it to remain in the range of 400% to 450%.
Turning to EEV, which we think captures a more complete and economic view of VA cash
flows, net income of GBP900 million was flat to prior year. More importantly, overall, the
EEV of shareholder funds, a representation of our market value in-force, increased 9%
from a year ago to GBP15.3 billion, this even after paying the increased dividend.
Notwithstanding the importance of stat capital metrics, we see EEV as the best relative
indicator of long-term value creation.

Bloomberg Transcript

So bringing this all together, Jackson delivered strong business performance in the first
half of 2019. Top line growth has recovered since the second half of '18 on the strength of
our diversification efforts. We're well positioned for growth with improved regulatory
clarity, better market narrative, and growing distribution. We understand price and
manage annuity risks effectively, and we have a proven history of delivering consistent
operating returns. Jackson is well capitalized for its current book of business, and we're
managing risk accordingly.
To that end, we have already paid the full expected 2019 remittance. As noted, we have
opportunities to improve shareholder returns by growing into a more diversified book.
The opportunity now is to accelerate Jackson's pace of diversification and to use the
resulting natural hedge to reduce external hedge costs. By reducing requisite third-party
hedge cost, we can improve cash surplus generation to self-fund growth and increase
remittances.
Diversification will be organic, as we've already started, as well as inorganic with a more
active approach to bolt-ons. As the investment required to fund our growth, specifically
through bolt-ons might at times outpace organic free stat capital generation, we are
flexible as to funding options, including third-party financing and reinsurance. The goal is a
more diversified and balanced Jackson with more growth, well-managed risk, and
increasing remittances.
I'll now turn it over to Mark FitzPatrick.

Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

Thank you, Michael, and good afternoon to you all. I'd like to cover three main topics
today. Firstly, as you have just heard from the CEOs on the performance of their
businesses, I'll start by taking you through how the financial performance of PCA and
Jackson rolls up into the Group results. Secondly, I'll cover capital and will introduce the
new Group regulatory capital framework that will apply after the demerger. And finally, I
will update you on the final stages of the demerger process.
Our strong performance in the first half was achieved after a mixed market backdrop.
While we generally benefited from the increase in equity markets, we saw the S&P 500
Page 12 of 32



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

up 17% in the first half of 2019. Rates saw a sharp pullback particularly in the US where the
10-year government bond yields fell nearly 70 basis points. Over time, we have taken
actions to position the business to succeed across the economic cycle.
In Asia, regular premium contracts continued to account for 93% of APE sales and their
earnings profile is far less correlated to investment markets. In addition, the proportion of
new sales represented by health and protection products remained significant. However,
lower rates are a headwind, most notably in the US, in respect of spread margins. From a
financial as well as a strategic perspective, our businesses are strong and are very well
placed for the demerger.

Bloomberg Transcript

I would draw your attention to the following: Asia new business profits of GBP1.3 billion is
up 10% from a high base and driven by higher sales in almost every market. In the US new
business profit was 30% below the prior year at just under GBP350 million. About half the
reduction in new business profits is a result of the negative impact of economic
assumptions using lower period-end rates. Lower variable annuity volumes and changes in
business mix explain the remainder. Both the US and Asian businesses delivered 14%
growth in IFRS operating profit and both are strong cash generators, each delivering a
healthy increase in the period. After the demerger, we will consider the phasing of
remittances across the calendar year as we look to optimize capital generation.
In Asia our investment for the future has been significant. Over the past 18 months, this
has included the renewal of our regional strategic bancassurance alliance with UOB for a
total initial fee of GBP662 million, the acquisition of a 65% stake in TMB Asset
Management in Thailand for GBP197 million, and investing GBP738 million of free surplus in
new business. This investment to grow value in the business has been achieved whilst
retaining strong local and group solvency.
As we said in March, our dividend policy will remain unchanged until demerger. As in
previous years, the first interim dividend has been set equal to a third of the preceding
full-year ordinary dividend. This equates to a mechanical increase of 5%. Looking forward,
the individual dividend policies of Prudential plc and M&GPrudential will be included in the
demerger documentation.
Moving into the IFRS results in more detail. The first thing to note is that our headline
group IFRS statements look rather different for this reporting period, as Mike has said. You
should also note that while the profit from continuing operations includes only our Asia
and US businesses, it reflects the full interest costs of our current pre-demerger group
structure.
Walking down this page, I'd like to pull out a number of points. Starting with our business
unit results, as you've heard from Nic, in Asia, the 14% growth in IFRS operating profit
reflects our focus on recurring premium health and protection products. This builds our
stock of in-force business and in turn drives a steadily increasing contribution from highquality insurance margin, which is now over 70% of Asia IFRS income.

Page 13 of 32



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

In the US, IFRS operating profit also grew by 14% with a positive DAC outcome as a result
of strong equity markets, offsetting largely stable fee income and a reduction in spread
income. Now this reduction in US spread income reflects the same three drivers we've
discussed on number of occasions, namely: the contribution from swaps continues to
become less material; the impact of lower reinvestment rates over recent yields on
portfolio yield; and we were also impacted by portfolio mix including the John Hancock
acquisition.
Assuming market interest rates and business mix remains stable at end June levels, we
would expect the overall spread margin to remain in the region of a 100 basis points.
Clearly if rates stay materially below end June levels, this would lead to further downward
pressure on spread margins.
Moving to interest expense. We issued a GBP300 million note in July, bringing the total
debt that can be substituted to M&GPrudential to GBP3.2 billion. The annualized interest
cost of core structural borrowings which will remain with the Group post-demerger is
estimated at approximately GBP230 million based on end June Forex rates.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to corporate expenditure. This essentially relates to Group head office and Asia
regional head office costs. We are assessing the efficiency and effectiveness of our
Group-wide functions to ensure that they better reflect the future needs of the business.
Updates on this process and an overview of expected benefits and costs to be incurred
will be given in due course.
Moving down to short-term fluctuations, which are largely driven by the US, where higher
equity markets resulted in equity hedge losses. These were only partially offset by a
reduction in policyholder liabilities as the full benefit of the uplift in equity markets was
limited by lower long-term interest rates and accounting mismatch effects.
And finally, a few words on M&GPrudential. M&GPrudential's performance over the first
half was consistent with the dynamics and trading conditions outlined at the Investor Day
in July. PruFund was again a highlight with positive net flows of GBP3.5 billion in the period,
which helped mitigate a tougher asset management market environment. Collectively, the
core life and asset management pre-tax operating profits were up 11% as stronger
annuity-related earnings offset a lower contribution from asset management. M&G
revenues fell as a result of lower average assets under management compared with the
prior period. Non-core life earnings included GBP127 million benefit of updates to
annuitant mortality assumptions and the adoption of the CMI 2017 model.
Now having made the update to assumptions in the first half, further developments are
not anticipated in the second half of the year, unless experience materially deviates from
assumptions. Overall the resilience of M&GPrudential's results in the first half show the
benefits of diversification and a strategic positioning as both asset owner and as asset
manager. I'll come back to M&GPrudential's capital positions shortly, but you can expect to
hear more from John and his team once we move into the next stage of the demerger
process. So to conclude this section, standing back, our businesses have delivered a
positive performance for the period driven by Asia-led growth.

Page 14 of 32



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

Turning to my second main topic this afternoon, which is capital, where I will cover our
Solvency II and our new capital basis set by the Hong Kong Insurance Authority. Assuming
completion of the demerger in quarter four, this is the last occasion on which Prudential
plc will report on a Solvency II basis. The movement in the Group position over the period
remains underpinned by continued strong operational capital formation, consistent with
the circa 20 percentage points of annual capital generation reported over recent periods.
This is offset by the payment of the 2018 second interim dividend in May and the net
impact of market movements in the period.
In addition, we redeemed subordinated debt and continued to invest in our franchise
notably with the renewal of the UOB distribution agreement, which I mentioned earlier.
This, combined with small model changes, led to a modest 3 percentage point reduction
in the Group solvency ratio. With the Solvency II surplus of GBP16.7 billion and a cover ratio
of 222%, this is a very good place from which to begin the final stage of the demerger
process. As we look post-demerger, the Hong Kong Insurance Authority will assume the
role of the Group-wide supervisor. Our Regulatory Pillar 1 capital basis from the point of
demerger will be the Local Capital Summation Method, the LCSM, rather than Solvency II
as agreed with the HKIA. the LCSM is expected to transition to a new Group-wide
supervision framework in due course.
The LCSM approach really is what it says, a summation of the available capital and
required local capital of each business for regulated entities and IFRS net assets with
adjustments for non-regulated entities. Some of the key calibration components are
highlighted here on the slide. We have agreed with the HKIA that the subordinated debt
expected to be retained by Prudential postie merger will contribute to the LCSM capital
resources. On a pro-forma basis, we expect this to be around GBP3.4 billion. Senior debt
of GBP0.8 billion is excluded from our LCM capital resources. Our internal economic
capital metric will be retained as Pillar 2 within this regulatory framework, and continues to
be an important component of our Group Risk Framework.
As I just mentioned, the regulatory framework for all Hong Kong-based groups is
expected to transition to a new Group-wide supervisory standard in due course. This is
subject to further industry consultation and is not expected to come into force until the
second half of 2020 at the earliest, subject to Hong Kong legislative process. So what
does all this really mean? So on this LCSM basis, at the end of June, excluding
M&GPrudential and after demerger adjustments, the Group would have a strong solvency
surplus of GBP7.7 billion with a cover ratio of 340%. This pro forma Group result reflects
strong capital positions with Jackson's RBC ratio remaining above 400%.
The Group LCSM measure aligns relatively closely with our established free surplus
generation framework on which we have been reporting for many years. The key
difference is that the LCSM basis reflects surplus over MCRs within our free surplus
measure we allow for additional capital requirements. For example in the US, our free
surplus measure uses a 250% RBC capital requirement, whereas we use a 100% in the
LCSM. Local solvency positions are the key driver of remittance capacity, and therefore
the Group LCSM will deliver closer alignment between capital and cash management. To
conclude on Group capital, whichever lens you look at our business through, we have a
robust and resilient capital position.
Page 15 of 32



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

So a few words on M&GPrudential's Solvency II position. As you can see, this is in good
shape with a cover ratio of around 170%, both at the end of June and on a pro forma
basis. We have updated and condensed the waterfall charts we shared with you
previously. These illustrate the adjustments from the end of June to the pro forma
position. Based on the market conditions at the end of June, we expect to transfer
GBP3.2 billion of debt to M&GPrudential compared with the circa GBP3.5 billion previously
indicated. Despite recent volatility in markets and in particular significant movement in
interest rates, we expect M&GPrudential's capital position to remain relatively resilient.
And finally onto my third topic that of the demerger. Agreement of the new regulatory
framework with the HKIA is just one of the many steps we have taken since we last met in
March. In particular, we now have GBP3.2 billion of debt with substitution clauses that
enable transfer to M&GPrudential, its head office functions are on track to standalone, and
you've heard directly from the M&GPrudential executives at their showcase in July. We are
in the final stages of preparing the completion of the transaction and Mike has highlighted
our indicative demerger timetable to you.
I look forward to meeting many of you again after we publish the demerger
documentation, and with that I will hand back to Mike. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Thank you, Mark. So to wrap up here, we think the businesses are positioned extremely
well to grow across the cycle, which I think changed in the intermediate term is their ability
to execute on more than one axis. You're seeing expansion of distribution, expansion of
geographic footprint, you're seeing expansion of product segments we're in, and success
in each market at executing at those again.
So how we grow now has more dimensions than it did just a few years ago, and I think
that's a key reason we believe looking forward that we have -- that we're uniquely
positioned with John's team with M&GPrudential, the ability that -- if you look at those
first-half results that with profit product to act in completely different manner than the
asset management business in the UK in Europe to bring a -- you're bringing -- you have a
series of growth engines embedded in that business that appeal to consumers across
different cycles. And again, that's going to be the key for both these companies going
forward is to not try and play cycles, to benefit from them when they're appropriate, but
they have a product line and products that consumers want and need across cycle, and
again I think both businesses are set up to capture that moving forward.
I hope you see we're doing this from a position of strength. The breadth and quality of
the earnings in the first half of the year, the sales growth, the expansion and capabilities,
the new relationships and distribution, the invigorating some of the existing relationships
on distribution, the change in political headwinds in the US on policy and advice and
commission, all these things, again, we like the direction of all of them, and we think it
puts us in a position to demerge this firm from a position of strength and give us a unique
position in the future.

Page 16 of 32



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

So I'm going to wrap up with this one, and we've had a lot of conversation as a
management team about what it is we think we have to be good at going forward, what
is it that separates us from other teams, what is it that separates the Company, and
there's attributes we all inherited. There's the brand, there's the existing portfolio of
businesses, there's regulatory relationships we've had for decades in markets that when
you look at something like Pulse that's an example of something that I don't believe
another firm could have done because the number of stakeholders you had to bring
together, plus the technology, plus the brand, plus the relationships with the governments
in 10 markets in Asia, our execution on that was unique to us. And again, it puts us in a
situation where customer acquisition and our social role and responsibility changes in a
way that's geometric, okay.
It's those sorts of things are where this group is now in capability wise, okay. The
technology the US business has, if the advice channel, if RIA is how retirement products
and their broadest definition is sold, you'd better have a good back-office, you better
have a single-stack technology model, you better be able to connect with the most
sophisticated broker-dealer platforms in the United States to distribute those products,
because that's how those advisors want to do business.

Bloomberg Transcript

So again, this is meeting client and distributor needs, advice provider needs where they
are, and we think we're demonstrating that across all of our businesses. So structural
demand, as I said earlier, absolutely a key lens. All of these markets we're in clients want
and need products that we're providing.
We have leading positions. So as markets evolve, we're a logical partner for new
relationships, be it distribution, technology, even governments to extend into those
markets and new directions. Capital allocation discipline, I think we've shown you that and
the demerger is a prime example of the fact we will look at any part of this group carefully
into its fit and its capability and when it's best owned as part of Prudential. And when it's
not and how to maximize the value and future success of that entity, and that's again no
part of the portfolio, nothing in Asia, no market we're in Africa, no market or in period,
okay, doesn't get that same lens applied to it, okay. That discipline needs to be there in a
way. We will be active portfolio managers.
Risk management across cycles, you're now looking at a business with 80% of the results
you're seeing with little to no correlation to interest rates, okay. This is a good, wellpositioned business for whatever might come in rates. You all have your own views if rates
are going higher or lower, in what markets, positive, negative, et cetera, okay. But again,
the recurring revenue, the quality of the sources of earnings and the type of earnings are
less and less correlated every year to capital markets, and I think that's a key driver.
And then finally, we're good at leveraging our scale. You're seeing that. You're seeing
good ideas taken from one market and shared across others. And that's a relatively
recent development in our firm. We tended to be a bit siloed historically and there was
some of that informally, but now it's a core discipline. And you're seeing that across the
organization, and again I challenge you to talk to our people around the Group. M&GPru
you're seeing it and you're certainly seeing it in Prudential itself.

Page 17 of 32



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

So let me stop there and we'll open it up to questions. We're pretty close to the time we
promised you. Patrick?

Questions And Answers
FINAL

A - Patrick Bowes

{BIO 16444249 <GO>}

Thank you, Mike. Good morning. We're going to do some questions here in the room and
then we have some calls coming in on the phones and then we'll come back to the room.
Who wants to go first? John.

Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good afternoon, everybody. Yes, Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. I've got three
questions, please. Firstly, starting with Jackson. Can you talk a little bit about what
firepower you see for inorganic opportunities? And it sounds from the way you're talking,
Michael, that you've ruled out getting any capital from the Group. So, could you talk a little
bit more about the sort of full suite of options and is there any circumstances where you'd
consider selling an equity stake in Jackson at the subsidiary level? That's the first question.
And then secondly also on Jackson. Am I right to think that you said the risk appetite for
Jackson wouldn't change? So I think one of the problems that we've all got with valuing
the business is trying to find a sort of a steady-state number. So at the moment you've
got this hedging program which protects the economic balance sheet, but it's hard to sort
of see the benefit of that in any of the reported numbers. So, is the risk appetite the
same or is there a balancing point where you could hedge less and produce more
earnings pre the diversification? And then just finally, Nic, on the Chinese operations. You
mentioned the sort of foreign ownership changes are a sort of tailwind I think you said.
What is the current state of thinking in terms of the stake with CITIC? And absent
changing the equity ownership, what is the sort of benefit for PRU from the change in
regs? Thank you.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Great. So, I can start. First, from the acquisition standpoint, I don't think we rule out or in
anything. There are a number of properties that trade in the US marketplace and around
the life space that we're comfortable with. We've participated that more actively at certain
times than others, as you've seen with the Hancock acquisition late last year. And I see a
number of properties that are either in market now or that we would expect to be able to
come to market to be available. So, I don't want to sort of tip my hand or front run
anything in the marketplace, but we're interested in a lot of things and obviously we're
aware it's a pretty transparent marketplace.
In terms of the expectation from Group, I mean obviously our wording is very intense. I
don't feel that the investor base or from a Group perspective we're looking at increasing
Group capital against the existing profile of Jackson. That's why I emphasize I think from
our current book of business we're well capitalized to manage that. I think there is an
opportunity -- it relates to your second point around I guess the question around risk
appetite. But I think there's an opportunity for us to improve the call it the remittance
Page 18 of 32



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

profile and the growth of remittances by diversifying the base. And the thesis to that is by
diversifying the risk, if you will, or the calls on capital deployed albeit more capital
deployed, we can lower that external hedge cost and free up cash for return.
So, I don't see that it would preclude capital coming from Group though more importantly,
I think we have access to third-party financing that could help us do things faster to create
that change and free up cash remittance to Group. And I think that's the measure that you
and others are looking for and it's certainly an important measure. It's not the only
measure that we look at, but it's an important measure in what we're looking at. From the
risk appetite perspective, I think what I mean to say is that we're not looking to change
the return profile by taking on more risk, not looking -- there's a lot of debate and
wordsmithing around hedge costs or lowering hedge cost or hedge efficiency. I actually
think our hedge efficiency effectiveness is very, very good. It's been proven long before I
got here through market cycles and conditions that have been stressed.
I think it's extremely efficient and when I sanity-check that against other market players
and against market counterparts, that's the feedback that I get I think openly and directly.
So -- and we're going to hedge as much as we need to protect ourselves because of the
risk appetite and the control environment that we run. That said, if we have less requisite
hedging need, we'll hedge less and experience less cost. So, what I'm meaning to say is
that we're not going to drive return by taking more risk in investment portfolios or
exposure. We maintain our risk appetite, but we think we can reduce the demand, if you
will, for third-party hedging.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Patrick Bowes

{BIO 16444249 <GO>}

Nic? Nic had a question.

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Okay. So on this strategic point, look, I mean we've said this before. Before we had two
hurdles to overcome; one was the regulation precluded ownership of a controlling stake
and -- so that was hurdle number one. And the second hurdle was the appetite of a
partner to sell a proportion of that business to us. The first hurdle has been removed, and
if anything, the timing which full ownership will now be allowed has in fact been brought
forward by the Chinese government, but there is no change in the position and the
relationship we have with CITIC at this moment. It simply introduces kind of the option to
do so at some point in the future.
The other development of course on the asset management side, again announcements
earlier in July where they said that wholly foreign-owned entities no longer have to have a
three-year track record as a private fund management company before they can operate
into the retail space. So again, we have the optionality of using that new vehicle to access
a better -- a bigger part of the asset management space. So whilst no change in the -- in
the 50-50 and the relationship with CITIC, the option is there on our relationship.
And as we've said before, really the value and what we're focusing on is on the
operational leverage of this business. We have now 63.63% of the market. If we can

Page 19 of 32



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

increase that by 10 basis points a year and you can -- you overlay that the projected
growth in gross written premiums in that market of 12%-plus, then this business five years
from now will produce 3.5 times the NBP. And the first six months of this year, we
increased our market share by 16 basis points. So, that's what we're focused on and on
the ownership it's just -- it's future optionality.

A - Patrick Bowes

{BIO 16444249 <GO>}

Thanks, Jon. Blair -- Blair Stewart.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Thank you. It's Blair Stewart from BofAML. Two questions please. First one for Michael.
Just maybe a little bit more color on what you mean by use of reinsurance third-party cap?
So, maybe give us a theoretical example of how that might work. One of the issues, and
Jon alluded to this, is the -- I guess the tail risk on the existing VA book. And would
reinsurance be a solution to that potentially or are you just looking to diversify the risk and
therefore lower the hedging cost? So, do you see reinsurance as a way to facilitate a bolton deal or is it a way to perhaps swap some of the earning stream from the existing book
into a new earning stream from a bolt-on? Hopefully that makes sense. And secondly, just
on the Asian solvency, how should we contextualize the 260%? Mark, is there any way to
do that? And what's the outlook for the risk-based model that the Hong Kong authorities
are looking at? Presumably then on a risk-based approach you would get some credit for
your in-force book or such like. Just a bit more color on the outlook for that. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Michael Falcon

{BIO 17026942 <GO>}

Okay. So again, I'll go first. So, I see reinsurance and third-party financing as a way to
execute bolt-on transaction where the -- where the size or relative size of what we might
want to do to step change the balance in book would outpace short-term free capital
generation in a period. And so you saw with the Hancock, which I think the Hancock
acquisition represented roughly about 10% increase in general account balance. We're
able to handle that with basically within the organic capital generation of the business last
year. So things of similar size can maybe be handled based on market environment and
current year flow, but others might require third-party financing and reinsurance would be
a way to bring some of that risk in either overtime or to make something smaller that
would otherwise be larger by transferring risk.
I don't see right now reinsurance as a strategic path on laying off risk in the current VA
book. I think we understand and manage that VA risk I think quite well, and any of the
other buyers and the market are going to be looking -- there's an economic return profile
and there's a scale and a cost advantage in terms of hedging and managing that risk. And
anybody that we would transfer part of that risk to is going to want a return on that
transfer, and they're going to arguably be subscale or sub-efficient or effective in terms of
the hedging component. I would have to believe that a buyer would have to be able to
add more value than we could to it to sort of have a market value on that would be
interesting from us remember to return standpoint. So I think shrinking is expensive in that
regard. Our preference is to grow and diversify the book going forward, not offload the
current risk. Mark?

Page 20 of 32



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

A - Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

FINAL

And then in terms of the LCSM, it'll roll off your tongue soon enough -- in terms of the
LCSM, unfortunately, Blair, that's just us, as in it's a bespoke arrangement with the HKIA
and until such time as the new Group-wide capital standards come in, the new Groupwide supervisory regime comes in through Hong Kong that will affect our whole industry
at the states that will continue to be a regime -- the LCSM will continue to be a regime
that applies to us that has been agreed individually with the HKIA.
As for the Hong Kong solo, their risk-based capital work that the HKIA is undertaking for
that continues to go through, quiz, interactions with the industry. We're expecting another
quiz to come out later on this year and that'll give -- I think when the feedback from that
comes out, it'll give us the industry and the HKIA a sense of where that might land and
where that might go, but there's a number of years yet before that actually comes into
effect.

A - Patrick Bowes

{BIO 16444249 <GO>}

Okay. Oliver?

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank. I'm sorry, I'm going to start with another question for Michael.
I wonder if you can give us some sort of indications about sort of relative sensitivities. So
sort of what sort of deals, what sort of size deals do you need to do or what sort of type
of deals you need to do to save what proportion of hedging costs, or improve the capital
base by so much? Anything you can give on that would be helpful.
Secondly for Nic. Indonesia sales plus 48% in the second quarter but only plus 4% overall
in the first half. So was the first quarter impacted by retraining onto the new products?
Does that therefore sort of nullify the 48% growth in the second quarter, if that was just a
catch-up? Anything you want to give on that would be helpful.
And thirdly for Mark. You talked about phasing of remittances changing. Can you expand?

A - Michael Falcon

{BIO 17026942 <GO>}

So I get to start again, which is fine. The honeymoon's over (inaudible). I've been here
eight years now, it's perfect. Look, I -- we have done and continue to do a lot of analysis
relative to the types of assets that might be available in the market and the dynamics of
how that would affect our book and risk and hedging. I'm not going to share specific
trade-offs or rule-of-thumbs, because it's very, very property dependent and, two, we're
going to have to buy these -- anything that we do in an M&A sense, in a bolt-on sense is
competitive in a market and goes to the underlying evaluation. But I can tell you that we -I think we understand pretty well the dynamics. When I say we, I mean me, I'm informed
by people who have fortunately decades of very, very good experience to all this.
We're not -- what I can tell you is we're looking at things that are that are close to home.
They're within the product sets that we already sell and/or service within our book, and
Page 21 of 32



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

there are a number of different ways and paths that we can do this. We're not under any
particular time pressure or constraint, though, I do think through market cycles we're
going to see opportunities in the market. We want to be positioned to act on those
opportunistically. But there's no -- there's no single path, and I don't think there's any
shortage of aggregation that we could do to affect the type of change we want to see.

A - Patrick Bowes

{BIO 16444249 <GO>}

Nic, do you want to comment on Indonesia.

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Yeah, on Indonesia, I mean let me answer the question and then give you some
color. No, the second quarter performance really coincides with putting in place many of
those new products and some of the early benefits of retooling are at the high end of our
-- of our agency force. So it's not substitution for a low quarter -- first quarter.
Now, in terms of a little more color, and we see this from market statistics that are made
available. The first quarter was a slow quarter across the whole interest in Indonesia. I've
said before that there are broadly four buckets of market in Indonesia. There is the linked
agency which across Indonesia has been in decline and that continued to decline through
the first quarter, indeed through the second quarter. The second bucket -- and that's
about 22% of the market. There's a 12% part of the market that is agency traditional,
which also declined in the -- in the first quarter across the market, and we weren't present
in that. The bancassurance is another 30% of that market, also in decline in the first
quarter. And the only part of the market that was rising was the 30-odd percent that
comes from the Group insurance. And again we weren't in that.
So what's happened as we went into the second quarter, we launched a new flagship
product that was in the linked agency space. It takes a while when you have 260,000
agents to properly train them. That took through most of the fourth quarter into -- last
year into the first quarter of this year. That's now gaining traction. And coupled with the
medical product, the rider that we put on, we bucked the trend. So our agency linked is
now up when as I said the market is coming down.
We now have a foothold in the -- in the traditional space, which we didn't have before
through the very simple product that we launched, and we've done a little better than
everyone else in banca and again through some interesting new ideas that we brought in
and we now have an entry into the employee benefit space through the PRUworks
platform.
So market is down. We're beating -- we beat the market both in Q1 and Q2 on the back of
all these propositions that are -- that are coming in. And the retooling of the agency,
particularly with the high-end, the MDRTs, the Elite has started and we're seeing some
early benefits. So as I said, it's early days, but so far so good. And we're pleased with the
performance in the second quarter and many of the ingredients that drove that clearly are
in place and in play.

Page 22 of 32



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

A - Patrick Bowes

{BIO 16444249 <GO>}

Mark, on remittances.

FINAL

A - Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

And Oliver, on the remittances, effectively the element of rebalancing, effectively what
that is looking at is traditionally we've taken pretty much the lion's share of the US
remittances in the first half. And what it is that's trying effectively balance them out
throughout the calendar year? It's effectively trying to balance capital efficiency and cash
flow needs at the center.

A - Patrick Bowes

{BIO 16444249 <GO>}

Johnny?

Q - Johnny Vo

{BIO 5509843 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, hi. It's Johnny Vo from Goldman Sachs. Just three questions, if I may. Just in terms of
the US business in particular, I guess the statutory reserves don't use market interest rate
assumptions, and I'm pretty sure you don't hedge for interest rates. So is the effect of low
rates on your business the effect on the drift rate, is that -- is that how I should think about
it?
The second thing is in terms of assumptions with regards to surrender rates as well, given
the low-rate environment, you'll have an assumption with regard to how many
policyholders are in the money that would surrender. Do you need to think about
reviewing surrender rates at some point if interest rates remain very low?
And a third question, again, just in terms of diversification, again, if you're moving into
fixed annuities and fixed indexed annuities, as far as I understand, that's a credit game. So
are you just swapping out equity risk and policyholder behavior risk for credit risk?
And last question, just on China as well. The volumes were up quite substantially but the
margins were down. So could you just explain that movement? Thank you.

A - Michael Falcon

{BIO 17026942 <GO>}

Okay. So I'll go in reverse order on the Jackson question. In terms of the diversification to
FIA and FA risk there, we are -- we would be adding in a sense rate risk as opposed to the
equity risk component, but the deployment of that against a common capital base
creates advantages in the hedging. Also we're not exclusive to spread business. There's
also a mortality risk that's available in the market and that's something else that we would
look at, which has different dynamics relative to the efficiency in hedging. Though Chad
can speak better to that.
In terms of the assumptions around surrenders and all the actuarial assumptions, it's not
that we would like need to go back and do review of the actuarial team, which over 70
people is constantly reviewing policyholder behaviors and expected sensitivities

Page 23 of 32



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

(inaudible) relative to behaviors and outcomes from an actuarial perspective. And again, I
can ask Chet to comment on some of that as well. But to date we haven't -- we haven't
seen big changes in those behaviors, nor have we seen them through prior financial
shocks or crises. So they tend to move -- I don't want to say predictably, because we're all
sort of circular, but they haven't moved suddenly. But we obviously do sensitize for those
moves and risks.
And from a lower rate perspective, I think my comments, if I understand the question
correctly, were less related to stat and more talking about the asymmetry of the IFRS
reporting. And so IFRS is particularly punitive in short-term relative to fast rate drops,
because you're getting all of the pain and none of the benefit and no assumption on any
sort of risk premium on equity return or mean reversion on equity return, both of which
we would expect from a long-term capital market view. Again it's why we think structurally
EEV is a better lens relative to value creation. But Chad, why don't I -- if there were
comments on the FIA, FA, or behavior.

A - P. Chad Myers

{BIO 15469831 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, I guess just to pick up on that. On the -- specifically on the VA stat and just how we - think about how we hedge the -- how we're thinking about hedging the interest rates
there. It's not the market consistence type of view that IFRS takes. So what we're looking
at there is any payments that we're making under VA is going to be contingent on equity
market returns. So if you get bad equities, you then generate claims in the out years,
you'll have a discounting mechanism with that. That's the part that we hedge.
So you'll see -- you'll see in the accounts that we do have interest rate hedges -- actually
fairly substantial interest rate hedges and that's what that's -- that's what that's going
against, but you are correct that stat, generally speaking, is not super interest rate
sensitive. It does get more interest rate sensitive in extreme low rate scenarios, especially
where equities are lower, because you do get the discounting mechanism that comes in.
Just with respect to the surrender rates, I would just add that we've seen low rates
before, as fun as this is right now going back precipitously, we did see this back in '16, and
I'd say the surrender rates that we saw back then would be consistent with what we would
have assumed, and we haven't had to retool anything off of that. We generally are going
to be expecting pretty low lapse rates for those types of policies in low-rate
environments, but I would also mention them that this is not a -- because of the way
people use these products, they need the cash flow. So I mean they're using this for
retirement. They're using it to support their lifestyle. So it's not something they can
necessarily hold on to and definitely you will see surrenders, you will see withdrawals
coming through.

A - Patrick Bowes

{BIO 16444249 <GO>}

Thank you. Just (inaudible) we'll go to Nic and then I'll take a call from -- on the phones.

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Page 24 of 32



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

On China, no, we haven't secured the sales by lowering the economics of what we sell.
We've held on to the economics. The effect that you see coming through is simply a
question of mix. So in the first half of this year we sold a little more savings and we sold a
little more through banks. And that's what's coming through.
So 45 up -- 45% up on sales, 29% up on NBP. Interestingly that's the flip of what we saw
last year. We had flat sales and NBP up 15%. When the markets were slow particularly on
the savings in 2018, we used our proprietary distribution to go after quality, which is -which is what the shape of sales and NBP we had last year. This year appetite for savings
returned in the market, so we captured that, and we pushed on the accelerator for health
and protection as well.
So if you like over a two-year horizon, our sales were up 45% and 47% and our NBP was
up 49%, so that kind of tells you -- tells you what you want to -- tells you what's happened
vis-a-vis mix, but the economics are intact.

A - Patrick Bowes

{BIO 16444249 <GO>}

Thank you, Nic. Can we go to the -- there is a call on the phone line. Who is it from? Can
you put it through please?

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

We have -- we have a question from David Motemaden from Evercore ISI. David, please
go ahead. Your line is now open.

Q - David Motemaden

{BIO 18818634 <GO>}

Hi, good morning. I just had a few questions (inaudible) Michael and maybe Chad. Firstly,
just on the change in the business mix that you're looking to diversify away from VA. Just
wondering what's the optimal mix that you're targeting maybe two years, three years
down the line?
And then secondly, just on the remittances out of the US, the remittance levels have been
around 20% to 40% of IFRS earnings over the past five years. Is there a specific target in
terms of where you want to sell?
And then finally, just -- could you just talk about your comfort level under the new
(inaudible) considering where interest rates are versus when you gave guidance of the
40-point to 50-point hit from adopting the new framework? Thank you.

A - Patrick Bowes

{BIO 16444249 <GO>}

Thank you, David. Sorry the line was a bit messy there, but I think there were three -- did
you manage to get them ...?

A - Michael Falcon

{BIO 17026942 <GO>}

Page 25 of 32



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

I think optimal mix -- first two I think was what's the optimal mix. The second was the -regarding the 20% to 40% remittance of IFRS, would we have a target for going forward?

A - Patrick Bowes

{BIO 16444249 <GO>}

FINAL

And the last one was on impact of interest rates on regulatory capital.

A - Michael Falcon

{BIO 17026942 <GO>}

Okay so we're -- I would say we have -- we have a range of where I think we could get -we want to get to in the current environment, but I'm not going to disclose it this time. But
I think the direction of travel is more balance of the book. I don't know that the
percentage of IFRS remittances, what we would anchor on in terms of going forward,
because of all of sort of the shortcomings relative to economics as well as stat capital. So I
think the better constraints or indicators to look at rather are the EEV and value creation
within the book and how we're growing as well as the stat capital generation, because I
think stat capital is more of the constraining mix on that. And relative to the rates, I'll turn
to Chad.

A - P. Chad Myers

{BIO 15469831 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So, David, the dynamic right now with VA and low rates in the new -- in the new model, I
think what I mentioned before in previous conversations was that we saw a -- we thought
we would see a modest hit to RBC within that, and that it would be less sensitive to
market levels. And as we're kind of parallel testing that right now, I'd say those are coming
true. We do see less sensitivity. So we expect there'll be less sensitivity to rates in the tails
under the new methodology which is -- which is good.
And I would say that based on what we're seeing, it's hard at this point to necessarily
reconfirm exactly what the -- what the hit will be on RBC. What I'd say is because one's
moving, the other one's moving at the same time, and not quite the same dynamics given
the low-rate scenario. And so what I'd say is we're still comfortable, as I've said before, in
that 400% to 450% range post paying dividends, post having gone through the NAIC
regime. So we're -- I think we're reasonably happy with where the -- where the model
came out. And that should be pretty tractable for us going forward.

A - Patrick Bowes

{BIO 16444249 <GO>}

Okay, thank you. Just conscious we've got a few more minutes. Greig?

Q - Greig Paterson
Greig Paterson, KBW. Just three questions one is given where we are with spreads,
wondering if you could talk about the Jackson BBB book and this whole theme of fallen
angels and whether there's a potential for downgrades then hitting the numbers?
Second, in terms of the Pulse rollout that we're seeing now, I'm just trying to understand
from Nic whether it's going to result in a spike in APE or it's more like an evolutionary type
in terms of timing when you'll see the benefits thereof ?

Page 26 of 32



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

And then the third thing is you mentioned on the FIA you changed the caps recently. I was
wondering does that mean that you're going to expect a slowdown in the trajectory of
your moving to FIA space or the industry moved their caps as well proportionately and
your pricing relativity that didn't change.

FINAL

A - Patrick Bowes

{BIO 16444249 <GO>}

Thanks, Greig. Should we -- should we go with Nic first then?

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Patrick Bowes

{BIO 16444249 <GO>}

Just to make it up.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

So we're -- and I think you ask me the same question last time, Greig. We are in the very
early roll out phase of what we're doing on Pulse. The Malaysia was our first market. As I
said in my prepared remarks, Hong Kong and Indonesia and Singapore will follow. Really
our focus and our priorities in the next -- in the next year are to get this out to 10 markets
across the region where we are contracted to work with Babylon exclusively to ramp up
the number of users. We want people downloading it, we want people registering, in
other words giving us their details in terms of how to contact them, and then we want
them to use it on a regular basis. And through that we'll get to understand more about
the users, and in time provide them with products, propositions, either through offline or
online channels.
So that's where we are. That's where we're focused as opposed to necessarily counting
on this to give us a spike of APE in the immediate future. There's many other things in the
-- we have kind of many other initiatives going on at the moment across high net worth,
employee benefit, retirement, and other health initiatives on the critical illness side that
will drive our growth in both top line and profitability. Pulse will come in, but it'll be a slower
burn.

A - Patrick Bowes

{BIO 16444249 <GO>}

Thank you, Nic. Michael, your turn next.

A - Michael Falcon

{BIO 17026942 <GO>}

Great. So on the FIA cap reduction, I think that was aligned with market rates and
competitor moves as well. And so I don't think -- and we haven't seen a slowing in the FIA
flow or the forward book. The market doesn't move quite that fast, but it does move, and
we move with competitors. We're not leading or lagging I don't think materially in that
case.

Page 27 of 32



FINAL

Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

In terms of the underlying credit book and BBB exposure, it's obviously important and
again we're long and late and in an expansionary cycle. At some point there'll be credit
cycle and contraction in credit markets. I think we have really good policies, controls, and
analytics in place around that, and the quality of the book has actually been improved over
the past several quarters. We hold less BBB minus, we restrict and limit, we're way
underweight, the financials within the BBB where we would see probably more
vulnerability in the types of market conditions that could cause stress in credit markets, we
have limits on positions and holdings with single issuers. So I think there's a lot of
prudence in that -- in the management of that book.
We also within the framework of the larger portfolio, we steer clear or relative to
competitors under-index, high-yield, and lower credit qualities. We play in mortgage and
asset-backed and in safer parts of the market. Our CLO exposure is substantially less
than others and higher in the stack. I don't know if there's anything else you would add to
that (inaudible)?

A - Unidentified Speaker
The only thing that I would say, Michael, in addition is that kind of 85% of the book is BBB
or BBB plus. It's very conservatively positioned and very well reserved for downgrades
and default shocks. And as you say, it's tightly controlled and monitored.

A - Patrick Bowes

{BIO 16444249 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Right. Conscious of time. Andrew is next and then Andrew and then (inaudible).

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Hi. Andrew Baker, Citi. I have three questions please. First, so as part of demerger for
M&GPru, we'll get an update in terms of numbers, presumably targets. Is there any plan
during the same process to come out with new Group targets for PLC in terms of
earnings growth, capital targets, sales, or anything of that nature?
Second, Hong Kong, I appreciate the comment that no impact on July sales. If you look at
second quarter year-over-year growth versus first quarter, there was some slowing there.
Is that just a base effect or is there anything else that we should be aware of ?
And then third, just on the Group capital, so going from LCSM transitioning to the Groupwide supervision by second half 2020, this transition and sort of any uncertainty during
that transition, does that have any impact on the way that you think about capital
deployment during that timeframe? Thank you.

A - Patrick Bowes

{BIO 16444249 <GO>}

Should we get Mark to get the first one? He is scribbling.

A - Michael Falcon

{BIO 17026942 <GO>}

I'd like to thank you for not asking me.

Page 28 of 32



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

A - Patrick Bowes

{BIO 16444249 <GO>}

Mark, do you want to get the first one?

FINAL

A - Mark FitzPatrick

{BIO 20178326 <GO>}

Right. So on the -- on the Group capital piece, in the -- over the transition period, we're
going to be working and talking very tightly and very closely to HKAI. So what we have at
the moment in terms of the LCSM is what we're going to be using, what we're going to
be deploying against, and how we're going to be managing and running the business.
And as we've said for quite some time, it's -- when we talk about Solvency II, the thing
that truly bites is the underlying capital level in terms of the underlying businesses,
especially around Asia and effectively the LCSM gives us a more direct read across on
that particular piece. So we're looking to use that on, yeah, for the foreseeable future.

A - Patrick Bowes

{BIO 16444249 <GO>}

Nic?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nic Nicandrou

{BIO 15589153 <GO>}

On Hong Kong, yes, it is a -- it is a base effect. If we look back in 2018, we had a slow first
quarter, and then what we did back then is we brought forward new product launch
initiatives, particularly around critical illness and new marketing campaigns into the second
quarter. We didn't, as I said, the momentum that we carried coming into this year was
strong. We were balancing out the campaigns, we were balancing out the timing of
product initiatives, and therefore what you're seeing is the outworking of that.
And to give you one other data point, if you took June alone, 30% of our first half sales in
2018, 30% came in June. So that was the emphasis that we had put into these campaigns
last year, whereas this year 22% of our sales -- the first six months' sales came in June. So
much more -- much more, even much more normal pattern in 2019.

A - Patrick Bowes

{BIO 16444249 <GO>}

Right. Very quickly ...

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

And Andrew, on target, I think the -- I'll do that one (inaudible) pick that. No, on the Group
side you won't -- it's M&G's board and management teams to determine, but we did
them as sort of proof of concept multiple times, particularly out of Asia, to prove that the
businesses could generate cash flow. There's generally -- there's some very good things
about targets and this organization tends -- has hit them. There are some negatives to
them, in that they tend to be the only thing the organization focuses on if we -- if we put
them in place.
So knowing the culture well, our intent going forward is to keep giving you a more
granular look at the key businesses so you can see the depth and breadth of the success
Page 29 of 32



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

versus trying to give you a rounded up number that says this is how it looks. And again we
will -- we'll watch that. But I think the majority of the businesses, I mean Indonesia,
Singapore, Malaysia, Eastspring, Hong Kong, all could be listed entities at this point. So for
us the -- I think we're think we're past the proof-of-concept stage and it's more of a show
us how each one's working and will continue, like we did today, to give you more granular
look at the core businesses and so you have a -- you have a better feeling for the
environment as well as the depth and breadth of the performance.

A - Patrick Bowes

{BIO 16444249 <GO>}

Thank you. Andrew?

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Good morning. This is Andrew Crean at Autonomous. Michael, sorry to come back to you.

A - Michael Falcon

{BIO 17026942 <GO>}

That's fine (inaudible).

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Which Mike? Oh that Mike.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

I'm still a bit confused. You don't want to write more VAs and in fact you're in net outflows,
but they're the highest return lowest capital requirement business you do. You want to
write more FIAs and FAs which are lower return but higher capital intensity, and you'll fund
some of that -- the inorganic with third parties. Why does that lead to higher remittances
from the Group and why does that lead to a higher valuation of the Group by analysts? I
suppose what I'm really going to is it's so complicated with EV, IFRS, and stat, all going in
different directions, why don't you give us a target for what you think remittances will do
from your you US business over the next five years?

A - Michael Falcon

{BIO 17026942 <GO>}

Okay. So it's a fair question and let me clarify the first point part of the premise. We are
interested in writing more VA business and we're in slight outflow based on the size of
the book and where the VA market is today in the US. So long term I'm bullish on it. I'm
trying to give an outlook to set a baseline in terms of expectations. We're continuing to
write. We're a leader in VA. We think long-term there's growth, but in the short term, the
VA market has generally been contracting. That contraction has slowed. Total VA market is
actually growing from the last half of last year and in through the first half of this year, but
a lot of that growth is in what we would term the structured VA or registered product, and
those are more spread products in a VA wrapper than a -- than what we would see as a
traditional VA. It's also not a part of the market that we've participated in yet. So I wouldn't
want the message to be that we don't want or don't expect to write more VA, and I don't
see the book in run-off at all, and over time I do think we can grow -- grow opportunity.

Page 30 of 32



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

From an operating of return standpoint, from strictly a product, you're right, VA has better
operating cash flow generation and lower capital requirement from stat standpoint. The
issue with that is against the hedging dynamics and sort of those below-the-line costs.
And the objective of having a more -- the benefit of having a more diversified book is to
reduce those external hedge costs by having an additional return -- asynchronous return
on capital with an asynchronous call, right.
And so the payoff if you -- if we raise financing to buy a stream of income from spread
block, and you assume that we buy effectively and manage that effectively, and you're
using that return to support that financing and actually pay it down, so you keep the value
that you bought, that is going to reduce the requisite hedge spend that we have against
that VA book and free up cash for remits.
In terms of target, I'm going to have to confer with my Executive Committee about how
we come back and would or wouldn't issue a target. And my understanding is we don't
generally issue those types of targets.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

We understand the importance of demonstrating growing remittance to Jackson. They're
up 17% this year, but again you got to then pick equity market assumption, rate
assumption, M&A assumption, finance cost. We're not going to put a target on that.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thanks for being very patient.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Nick Holmes at SocGen. I will keep this super brief. First question is
obviously on the diversification plans for Jackson. Just why haven't you done this before?
What reason is the -- for not having done this before?
Secondly, can you remind us of the rationale for the UK demerger rather than the US? I
mean clearly all the questions are on the US, not the UK, which is rather nice business in
many ways. So why not the US? Thank you.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

So Nick, appreciate the questions as always. They're challenging and interesting. The
diversification in the US is where we are in appreciation in the accounts and the client -the product has performed as it should for compliance -- for consumers. So if you look at
the first half of the year, they've participated in the rising equity markets again, took a
fresh look at the business, and the process, and decided this was the right time to do this
now. So there's no logic in why it wasn't done before, but if you're looking for the point in
time, we continue to see the underlying performance for the consumers. We were
together in Singapore. You saw a little bit of a strained market. Since then, that -- those
accounts have grown back.

Page 31 of 32



Company N ame: Prudential PL C
Company Ticker: PRU L N Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

So again, looking forward, which is our job, okay, this is the time to do something like this.
As far as looking backwards on the US-UK demerger, there's a number of reasons. The
market's got structural growth. We've got a competitive advantage. It's a high return on
equity business, okay. And we like the dynamics of it. We like the alignment of capital. All
the things you've said on the demerger, I appreciate looking backwards, competitors with
GMI books, four of them have exited that business in the US. That's not a great strategy.

A - Patrick Bowes

{BIO 16444249 <GO>}

Okay, that's time. Thank you very much. You obviously will be seeing the Jackson
management later on this evening for certain groups and then we will I'm sure have lots
of engagement in the coming quarter. Thank you very much.

A - Mike Wells

{BIO 4211236 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, everybody.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 32 of 32

