Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-08-29

S1 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Andre Keller, Chief Investment Oﬃcer
Paul Norton, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Philipp Gmur, Chief Executive Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Kevin Ryan, Analyst
Peter Eliot, Analyst
Rene Locher, Analyst
Simon Fossmeier, Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Half Year Results 2019 Conference Call and Live
Webcast. I'm Andre, the Chorus Call operator. I would like to remind you that all
participants will be in listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded. The
presentation will be followed by a Q&A session. (Operator Instructions) The conference
must not be recorded for publication or broadcast.
At this time, it's my pleasure to hand over to Mr. Philipp Gmur, Group CEO. Please go
ahead, sir.

Philipp Gmur
Thank you sir. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to our analyst conference call on the
results of the ﬁrst half of the 2019 ﬁnancial year. Within the next 45 minutes, we would like
to give you detailed information on our business development and the key ﬁnancials of
the reporting period. Following my introduction, our CFO Paul Norton will go through the
ﬁnancial ﬁgures. Then I would like to give you an update on the implementation of our
strategy, helvetia 20.20. After my presentation, Paul and I as well as our new Chief
Investment Oﬃcer, Andre Keller, will be pleased to answer your questions as always.
Andre took up his position as CIO and successor to Ralph Honegger on April 1st. Today,
he is present for the ﬁrst time at the analyst conference call.
On slide four, I would like to share with you a brief overview of the main performance
indicators. Paul will give you detailed information on the developments of these ﬁgures
later on. In the ﬁrst half of the 2019 ﬁnancial year, Helvetia achieved a pleasing growth in
business volume, good underwriting results in both life and non-life, and beneﬁted from
Page 1 of 16



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-08-29

FINAL

tailwinds. In the ﬁrst half, we achieved a business volume at group level of roughly CHF6
billion. On a currency-adjusted basis, this represents an increase of 3.3%. The main
growth driver was non-life business, which achieved 6.4% higher premiums compared to
the ﬁrst six months of 2018. From a regional perspective, the European units as well as the
specialty markets were the main growth drivers. Switzerland also contributed to the
growth, but with a lower growth rate.
With regard to the lines of business, the increase in premiums was driven by property
business in all segments and supported by engineering and active reinsurance. In life
business, the business volume increased by 0.6% in original currency. Particularly
noteworthy are the higher volumes in investment-linked products in individual life in
Switzerland and Germany as well as in group life business in Switzerland.
Here, a signiﬁcantly large number of customers chose the so-called semi-autonomous
solutions from Swisscanto. Those products might give the customers more upside
potential regarding the interest yield on their savings. The savings part is covered by
Swisscanto while Helvetia assumes the risks of death and disability. Thus, those products
are much more capital eﬃcient for Helvetia.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the ﬁrst half of 2019, premiums for Swisscanto rose by almost 50%. The main reason for
this strong growth was the withdrawal of a competitor from the Swiss group life business.
At CHF290 million, the IFRS result after tax was signiﬁcantly above the prior year result.
Aside from better technical results, the non-life business beneﬁted from the better
performance of the capital markets, which is reﬂected in a signiﬁcantly improved
investment result. In non-life, the quality of the portfolio is very good overall, as reﬂected
by the solid net combined ratio of 92.5%. The life business also improved compared to
the prior year. This was due to an increase in the margin after costs due to a better
performance of all proﬁt sources as well as signiﬁcantly higher gains on investments,
following the good equity market development. Both the non-life and the life business
additionally beneﬁted from a positive tax eﬀect as a result of the federal tax reform and
associated cantonal tax reductions in Switzerland.
Also worth mentioning is the development of new business in life. The new business
margin increased by 1.8 percentage points to 3.1%. The positive development was due to
lower capital needs resulting from model changes and the more favorable new business
mix. Both in terms of combined ratio and in terms of new business margin, we continue to
meet our targets for the current strategy period. Above all, we are also making good
progress in implementing our strategy. I will come back to this later in the second part of
my presentation.
With that, I would like to hand over to our CFO Paul Norton who will now provide you with
the most important information about the ﬁnancial ﬁgures.

Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Page 2 of 16



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-08-29

FINAL

Thank you, Philipp. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd also like to welcome you to our conference
today, and within the next 25 minutes, I'll give you more detailed information on our
ﬁnancial performance in the ﬁrst half of 2019.
We can start with slide six. We achieved a solid IFRS result of CHF290 million against
CHF224 million in the ﬁrst half of 2018. The good result was driven by strong investment
results, following the favorable development of the stock markets, technical development,
especially in life business also contributed to the proﬁt increase. Finally, Helvetia
beneﬁted from a one-oﬀ positive tax eﬀect amounting more than CHF63 million. This
resulted mainly from the reduction of deferred tax provisions as a result of the federal tax
reform and associated cantonal tax reductions in Switzerland.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of business areas, both life and non-life business increased their earnings
compared to the ﬁrst half of 2018. In the non-life business, IFRS earnings amounted to
CHF199 million against the CHF147 million in the ﬁrst half of 2018. The non-life technical
result increased slightly, partly due to volume and as a good attritional claims
development and a lower burden of major claims from nat cats were partly oﬀset by
higher acquisition costs. In the life business, IFRS earnings stood at CHF109 million. The
margin after costs increased signiﬁcantly, thanks to improvements in all proﬁt sources.
Both life and non-life businesses also beneﬁted from gains on investments. In the life
business, this was oﬀset by signiﬁcantly higher expenses for policyholder participation, an
additional interest related reserve strengthening and the aforementioned tax eﬀect -positive tax eﬀect. By contrast, earnings in the other activities area fell year-on-year due to
consolidation eﬀects. We will have a more detailed look on the proﬁt sources of the nonlife, life and other activities in a moment.
So I'd like to turn to slide seven with the earnings by segments. Helvetia improved its
results in all segments with the exception of corporate. In Switzerland, the results in life
and non-life business was signiﬁcantly higher than in the ﬁrst half of 2018. The increase is
mainly due to better investment performance, good technical results and the positive
eﬀect -- tax eﬀect of CHF63 million. In Europe, Helvetia generated a higher result in nonlife business, which was due to more favorable claims environment on the one hand and
capital gains on the other. Despite higher capital gains, lower interest related additional
reserving and a stronger margin after costs, the life results in Europe remained at the
previous year's level as these eﬀects were oﬀset by higher expenses for policyholder
participation. The specialty market segment was able to increase its result, thanks to
higher investment income. The corporate result was below the previous year's ﬁgure due
to the usual consolidation eﬀects from funds allocated to this segment.
I would like to continue with the growth on slide eight. In the ﬁrst half of 2019, Helvetia
Group achieved a business volume of roughly CHF6 billion. This equates to a currency
adjusted increase of 3.3% over the previous year. In the non-life business, we achieved an
increase in premium volume of 6.4% in original currency. The growth was mainly driven
by Europe and specialty markets where premiums increased by 5.9% and 17.5%
respectively. Here, growth was particularly supported by the property, engineering and
active reinsurance business. In our Swiss home market, we are able to increase premiums
by 0.8%. Property business, which beneﬁted from the expansion of partner business, so

Page 3 of 16



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-08-29

FINAL

called B2B2C, showed 4.4% higher premiums. Now, this growth was partly oﬀset by
decline in the liability business.
In the life business, business volume rose by 0.6% in original currency. I would like to
particularly emphasize the very good development of investment-linked products in
individual life in Switzerland and Germany and in the group life business in Switzerland.
Here, Swisscanto achieved almost 50% higher premiums compared to the ﬁrst half of
2018. The extraordinary growth was mainly driven by the withdrawal of a competitor from
the full-insurance business last year. Despite the growth opportunities, Helvetia has
pursued a conservative underwriting in the full-insurance business in view of the low
interest rate environment. Business volume for traditional life products decreased in line
with our strategy.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'd like to now look at the proﬁt by source of the non-life business on page nine. In the ﬁrst
half of 2019, IFRS earnings in the non-life segment increased by 35% to CHF199 million.
The main driver was the investment result, thanks to favorable performance of the capital
markets, particularly equity markets. Technical result also improved slightly over the
previous year, thanks to good attritional claims development and a lower burden of major
claims on nat cats. Finally, the non-life business beneﬁted from the already mentioned
one-time positive eﬀect from the reduction of deferred tax provisions.
I would now like to move to the net combined ratio on slide 10. The Group net combined
ratio was 92.5% in the ﬁrst half of 2019 against 92.7% in the ﬁrst half one year ago, which is
a very good level, and once again, underpins the good quality of our portfolio. The claims
ratio improved by 0.6% to 63.3%. The main reason was a better nat cat ratio as well as a
better attritional claims development. Looking at the cost ratio, the admin cost ratio was
stable year-on-year while the acquisition cost ratio increased. The reasons were shifts in
the distribution channel and product mix in Switzerland and in Europe and an adjustment
to the reinsurance structure, which led to lower commissions from reinsurers.
On a segment level, Switzerland showed stable net combined ratio of 86.5%. The claims
ratio improved, thanks to a better attritional claims development and a lower net cat
burden. The cost ratio increased, however, due to the adjustment of the reinsurance
structure and because we expanded the higher commission partner business.
With 94.5%, Europe recorded a better net combined ratio compared to the ﬁrst half of
2018. The improvement was mainly attributable to a more favorable claims environment in
Germany. All European market units achieved combined ratios below 100%.
In the specialty markets segment, the net combined ratio increased to 97.4%, while the
cost ratio improved due to growth related economies of scale. Specialty markets
recorded a higher claims ratio, mainly resulting from the commutation of a retrocession
agreement in the active reinsurance business and an unfavorable development of the two
major claims from previous years. The current year claims ratio, however, improved.
On slide 11, we'll have a closer look at the life business. In the ﬁrst half of 2019, net income
for the life business was 39.6% above the prior year's ﬁgure. Looking at the proﬁt by
Page 4 of 16



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-08-29

sources, the margin after costs increased signiﬁcantly, thanks to improvement in all proﬁt
sources. The increased savings result can be attributed to higher asset returns in
Switzerland, on the one hand. On the other hand, technical interest rates decreased in
both Switzerland and Europe, resulting from the replacement of old contracts with high
guarantees with new contracts with low guarantees, as well as from reserve strengthening.
The higher risk result also mainly resulted from Swiss group life business as a
consequence of a better mortality result in the ﬁrst half of the year. The other result was
positively impacted by ﬂuctuations in the valuation of options for investment-linked
products.
And ﬁnally, the cost result improved, thanks to reduced costs and a higher income from
cost premiums. Gains and losses on investments signiﬁcantly increased due to the good
equity market performance. The extraordinary result was stable compared to the previous
year. A high interest related reserve strengthening in Switzerland was largely
compensated by lower reserves for future conversion rate losses resulting from the new
tariﬀs in the Swiss group life business, it's a one-oﬀ eﬀect, and lower interest related
reserve strengthening in Europe, predominantly the (inaudible) in Germany. Expenses for
policyholder participation signiﬁcantly increased as clients beneﬁted from higher capital
gains, a better margin after costs and a contribution to earnings from tax reductions in
Switzerland. This has an adverse eﬀect on the net income before tax. Finally, as already
mentioned, we beneﬁted from a one-time positive tax eﬀect.
I would now like to switch to new business, which has developed very positively, as you
can see from slide 12. The new business also developed positively in the ﬁrst half of 2019.
The new business margin rose by 1.8 percentage points year-on-year to 3.1%; half year
2018 was 1.4%. This improvement was driven by the Swiss group life business. On the one
hand, model changes that led to lower capital requirements had a positive eﬀect. On the
other hand, the new business margin also beneﬁted from a more advantageous business
mix in Swiss group life due to higher new business growth with more proﬁtable capital
eﬃcient insurance solutions. It's predominantly the Swisscanto.
I would now like to continue with the development of the interest margin on slide 13. The
direct yield increased in Switzerland and declined in the EU countries compared to last
year. In Switzerland, the interest margin went up when comparing the ﬁrst half of 2019
against the previous year. This was attributable to the following reasons; ﬁrstly, a direct
yield increase due to higher income from real estate, increased income from equities and
funds and also because of negative one-oﬀ eﬀects in the previous year. The average
technical rate, i.e., the rate that we need to earn also declined. The main drivers here were
the successful revision of our traditional product portfolio and the focused sales of
modern capital-light products, replacing maturing insurance contracts with highguaranteed rates and additional reserve strengthening.
In Europe, the interest margin remained stable compared to the ﬁrst half of 2018. Here,
we see a drop in the average interest rate Helvetia has to generate in order to meet its
obligations due to additional reserve strengthening and new contracts with lower
guarantees replacing old ones with higher guarantees. However, yields were also
declining due to the low interest rate environment and therefore the margin remained at

Page 5 of 16



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-08-29

FINAL

the previous half year's level. In total, the interest margin for the Group as a whole
increased.
On the following slide, slide 14, I want to provide you with details on the proﬁt for other
activities. Looking at the proﬁt by sources of other activities, the net technical result in
group reinsurance decreased slightly, resulting from a few large loss events in Europe
ceded to group reinsurance. The investment FX result was lower year-on-year due to the
usual consolidation eﬀect from our own investment funds. Here, the positive impact of
capital market development shown in the individual market units is balanced out in the
other activities business area. The costs/other result, however, declined. This can be
attributed to higher project costs and ﬁnancing costs remained on the prior-year level.

Bloomberg Transcript

The next slide shows development of our investment result, slide 15. The current
investment income of CHF511 million slightly exceeded the previous year's level of
CHF506 million due to higher dividend income. Annualized direct yield remained at 2.1%.
Thanks to positive performance of the equity markets, Helvetia generated capital gains on
investments of CHF144 million. The investment result recognized in proﬁt and loss
amounted to CHF656 million, giving Helvetia a return of 1.4%, which is not annualized.
The level of unrealized gains and losses in equity increased by CHF1.4 billion both on the
AFS classiﬁed shares and due to the lower interest rates on the bonds, resulting in an
overall performance of 4.2%, again not annualized.
On slide 16, you can see the investment result broken down by asset class. The ﬁrst table
shows the performance of total investment portfolio. About 60% of the current income of
CHF511 million came from bonds and mortgages, which contributed CHF256 million and
CHF42 million respectively. In absolute terms -- sorry, and dividends accounted for CHF63
million and investment property for CHF132 million. Realized and booked gains on
investments amounted to CHF144 million, reﬂecting the strong equity markets.
As I mentioned already, unrealized gains and losses increased by CHF1.4 billion. The
lower half of the slide shows return on new and reinvestments. In the ﬁrst half of 2019, the
total new or reinvestments amounted to CHF1.8 billion. 74% of the funds allocated in the
year [ph] are Swiss franc, ﬁxed income securities, the remainder in mortgages, equities
and real estate. Short-term money market investments were reduced in favor of real estate
and alternative investments. Due to the interest rate induced rise in hedging costs for the
US dollar, the portfolio was partly restructured in order to reduce the weight of the
American currency. The new investments achieved an average return of 1.6% overall.
On that note, I will hand over to Philipp Gmur again.

Philipp Gmur
Thank you, Paul, for the details of our ﬁnancial performance in the ﬁrst half of the 2019
ﬁnancial year. In the last part of the presentation, I would like to brieﬂy show you the
progress we have made in implementing our strategy. I will start on slide 18. The
implementation of our strategy helvetia 20.20 is proceeding successfully. If you have
followed us through the last periods, you might know that our strategy is built on three

Page 6 of 16



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-08-29

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

pillars. We aim ﬁrst to strengthen our core business; second, to explore new business
models, and third, to promote targeted innovations. With our strategy, we are able to
create added value for our key stakeholder groups such as customers, employees and
shareholders. In the ﬁrst half of the 2019 ﬁnancial year, we can look back on an exciting
and favorable progress both in Switzerland and in Europe. We have once again
intensiﬁed our eﬀorts to transform and therefore strengthen our core business to reﬂect
the new reality of our business environment and the changing needs of our customers.
Among other things, we have further expanded the B2B2C channel. The B2B2C business
contributes to the expansion of sales capacities. It enables customers to purchase
insurance covers directly at the point of sale, thus taking into account the need to insure
speciﬁc items individually. We pursue this approach for electrical and electronic products
as well as the automotive sector. Against this backdrop, Helvetia acquired Helvetic
Warranty GmbH as of July 1st, 2019. Helvetic Warranty acts as an intermediary between
distribution partners and insurance carriers and provides comprehensive services from
distribution to claims settlement. Helvetic Warranty has extensive know-how in eﬃcient
claims handling.
In the ﬁrst half of 2019, we have also made good progress with regard to the automation
of the claims process in general, which not only brings us more eﬃciency, but strives to
achieve much more convenience for customers and partners. We progressed with our
platform for Swiss tradesmen that has been launched with JAROWA last year. The idea of
the platform is to provide our customers with the network of available and reliable
tradesmen in case of a building damage and digitalize their relationship. The customer
simply has to agree on an appointment with the tradesman. There is no need for him or
her to get a quote or clarify which repairs are covered. Since March 2019, damages can be
reported electronically. This enables us to increase eﬃciency as well as to provide
transparency for customers who can access the damage reports. Within one year, over
4,000 claims were handled via the platform, thereof 2,300 damages were reported
electronically.
We have always known that strengthening the core will not be suﬃcient to meet the
challenges that the future brings. Thus, we are also making eﬀorts to expand our business
and explore new business models. For example, with our subsidiary, Smile, we are
opening up new business models in the mobile world. I will come back to this in more
detail later on.
Innovative business models are also accessed with investments into start-ups of our
venture fund. Just recently, we invested in an Italian company called MyPass. The
company creates apps such as MyPass Venezia or MyPassci, which enables consumers to
stay in the same app ecosystem to organize their trips and buy tickets, ski passes or
parking cards. This corresponds perfectly with our intent to make the life of our customer
more convenient and enables Helvetia to be closer to the customer. It also oﬀers us the
opportunity to sell, for instance, ski insurance solutions through MyPass apps.
As just mentioned, on the following charts, I want to deep [ph] in the recent
developments of our subsidiary, Smile. Let's move on to slide 19. With Smile, the leading
Swiss online insurer, Helvetia is opening up new business models in the mobile world.
Page 7 of 16



FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-08-29

Smile wants to oﬀer its customers a unique digital customer experience and is the ﬁrst
Swiss provider to focus on mobile ﬁrst. Although reaching the age of 25 years, Smile is
regarding its culture and structures more comparable to a startup than to an incumbent.
By the start of July this year, Smile completely renewed its brand identity to position itself
more as an insure-tech and to diﬀerentiate itself even better from the incumbent
insurance companies on the market. Smile strives for a cooperative partnership with
customers and is the ﬁrst insurer in Switzerland to address customers on their ﬁrst name.
Helvetia expands with Smile its target market and reaches an increasing complementary
customer segment, which demands for convenient and ﬂexible solutions. With Smile, we
oﬀer a unique digital customer experience in the Swiss market and strive for growth in a
promising segment.

Bloomberg Transcript

Smile oﬀers -- turning to slide 20, Smile oﬀers customers a unique digital customer
experience, which will be permanently improved based on a consumer data. Smile will
also launch a consumer app by September this year, which serves as a hub for all
customer interaction. This makes Smile the ﬁrst insurer in Switzerland to pursue a mobile
ﬁrst strategy. We believe that mobile devices are increasingly used by customers to
organize their entire lives. By the new mobile solution, we are even closer to the
customers and are able to meet customer needs right where they arise. The so-called
point of sale transforms to the point of need. The promising future of our strategy with
Smile has been once again veriﬁed at the leading conference on insure-tech and
insurance innovation worldwide, the Digital Insurance Agenda or DIA. Smile and the
Helvetia spin-oﬀ mitipi won the Diamond Award by combining smart home technology
and insurance to create digital solutions making life safer.
Finally, slide 21 shows that we are well on track to reach our ﬁnancial targets. We are
pleased with the development of the individual ﬁnancial ﬁgures so far. With regard to the
business volume of CHF10 billion, I would like to reiterate that this is not a ﬁxed goal, but
an ambition. Our organic growth is proceeding according to plan. In order to achieve the
CHF10 billion ambition, we would also have to grow through M&A, which is diﬃcult to
plan in advance and depends on targets being available in the market. Overall, we are
happy with what we have achieved so far and we are conﬁdent that we are well prepared
to remain ﬁt for the future.
This brings us to the end of the presentation. My colleagues and I would now be pleased
to answer your questions. Thank you for your attention.

Questions And Answers
Operator
We will now begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) The ﬁrst
question comes from the line of Peter Eliot from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thanks very much all. I have three initial questions, please. The ﬁrst one was on the tax
reform. I was just wondering if you are able to give us any guidance on what tax rate you
Page 8 of 16



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-08-29

FINAL

expect on an ongoing basis in future and how much sort of certainty you can place on that
or how much might depend on the further decisions of cantons and also what sort of oneoﬀs we might expect in -- beyond the H1 one-oﬀs that you've shown this time.
The second question was on the prior-year developments in the non-life. I mean, I know
you give the delta rather than the absolute number, but if I look over the last four years,
half year results, they've been sort of consistently falling and it's sort of 3.8 percentage
points, I think, in total, lower than three years ago. So I was just wondering if you could
sort of give us any color on the trend and how you expect that to continue. I mean,
obviously Swiss whiplash has been a big factor, but just to maybe understand how you
see that progressing.
And then the ﬁnal question was on the life new business. Just wondering if you could
comment on perhaps the reasons that you didn't see the same acts or eﬀect as others. I
mean, appreciate -- I've had some conversations with IR and appreciate that you've been
disciplined, but I was just wondering if you could give us a bit more color whether you've
sort of just seen the business not to be proﬁtable or whether there are other factors there.
Thanks very much.

A - Philipp Gmur

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Peter, for those three questions. I suggest that Paul is going to answer the ﬁrst
two questions and then I'm going to explore a little bit on your third questions -- question
with regard to the group life business in Switzerland. Paul?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Okay. First question regarding tax, there are still several cantons to vote. At the moment,
we have an eﬀective tax rate of about 18% across the whole group, and last year it was
22%. Obviously that's been covered by the one-oﬀs that have an impact on that. Our
underlying assumption is somewhere around about 18% plus, maybe 18.5%, I don't know,
going forward, compared with, say, roughly 21%, 22% in the prior years. So we expect a
2% to 3% beneﬁt going forward, which equates to about CHF10 million, CHF15 million of
the pre-tax proﬁt, so improvement in the bottom line each year, if that helps you. So that is
-- exactly.
In terms of the run-oﬀ result, we had, in the prior years, yes, the Swiss whiplash reserves
have been running oﬀ and we expect them to decrease the run-oﬀ there, so that won't be
a positive in the following years. The one big change we had -- well, two changes we had
this year, one was a change in the reinsurance structure. We increased the deductibles
and changed the risk proﬁle slightly, which meant there was much less ceding
commission coming to the companies and also we had a commutation of one of the big
policies in the specialty markets area. So there were two eﬀects there. One was on the
acquisition cost ratio and the other one was actually on the run-oﬀs, so that run-oﬀ was
aﬀected by the commutation of this coverage we had in the specialty markets area. And
then we had two individual claims from prior years, which we had to additionally reserve.
One was a recycling plant in the States and the other was transport claims, a huge fraud in
China, in one of the ports where large amounts of cargo was stolen and there was further
investigations and we had to re-reserve for that. The ongoing trend, diﬃcult to say. I
Page 9 of 16



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-08-29

would suggest it's -- certainly in Switzerland, the eﬀect of the whiplash claims will reduce
over time.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Can I just follow up very quickly on that? So I mean, it sounds like the reinsurance
eﬀects and the two large claims were kind of one-oﬀ, if you like.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

So you just put those to reserves out in future periods.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

I mean, there's always -- there can be, particularly in the specialty markets side, we have
very individual claims, certain circumstances can arise where you need to re-reserve, but
generally on the day-to-day business, the normal attritional business, we would not
expect that. So yeah.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

And probably pushing my luck a little bit, but you are not able to sort of quantify those
impacts, are you?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

We certainly wouldn't give you the details. No. We can quantify them, but whether we
disclose them is the matter.

A - Philipp Gmur
Turning to your third question, Peter, with regard to the group life business, it's true AXA
had a major impact in our second pillar business, of course. We were pretty restrictive,
and as you said, disciplined with regard to underwriting new business in our so-called fullinsurance model. And why that? First, we think that the political environment and all the
numbers inﬂuencing the second pillar business is still very diﬃcult, so to say. And the
second point is, we want to steer our balance sheet on a group basis in a way not to be
too much being dependent on the second pillar business. So that's why we are pretty
disciplined.
Now, what's the impact of the AXA business in the ﬁrst half of 2019 in our business
volume? Roughly 90% of the new business, we were underwriting in the second pillar fullinsurance coverage solution came from AXA and more or less 60% of the new business
we were doing with Swisscanto came from AXA. So in a nutshell, we were pretty much
strengthening our second pillar business in the capital eﬃcient sector we do with
Swisscanto, which has not as many premium -- as much premium volume as the other
business of course, but we think it's more attractive.
Page 10 of 16



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-08-29

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Great. Thank you very much.

FINAL

Operator
Next question comes from the line of Kevin Ryan from Bloomberg Intelligence. Please go
ahead.

Q - Kevin Ryan

{BIO 1814771 <GO>}

Thanks very much. I just have one question regarding the model change, which produced
a good jump in new business proﬁt assumptions. Could you just give us a little more
background on that, and whether you can say whether your reexamining of your life
model in this area has now been completed or whether we can expect some more tweaks
going forward? Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmur
Paul, please answer this question.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

About two-thirds of the increase in the new business margin were due to the model
changes and the reason we did this was because we had a very simplistic capital
allocation just based on the percentage of overall, for every line of business, percentage
allocation of solvency capital and with the old solvency capital, so Solvency I, which is
clearly inadequate in the days of SST and Solvency II. And we are introducing at the
moment a whole new risk-based capital allocation methodology across the group
internally and so that was part of that change. So I expect that predominantly those
changes have been done. There may be some tweaks as we -- as the experience shows
that it's not appropriate or the improvement or something, but I don't expect to see any
huge changes as a result of a further tweak to the model.

Q - Kevin Ryan

{BIO 1814771 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmur
More questions?

Operator
(Operator Instructions) The next question comes from the line of Simon Fossmeier from
Bank Vontobel. Please go ahead.

Q - Simon Fossmeier
Good morning, everyone. It's Simon. Just one question on the BVG business as well. I
understand that you're planning a change in the conversion rate and that lowered the
Page 11 of 16



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-08-29

reserve for future conversion rate losses. Will this -- do you think this will have any impact
on the new business? And secondly, I was under the impression that you cannot change
the conversion rate in a mandatory part of the business. Can you help me out there, if I'm
totally wrong there.

FINAL

A - Philipp Gmur
Okay. Simon. Let me answer this question in this way. First, of course, we are lowering the
conversion rate on the extra mandatory part of our business. And I mean, it's a question of
-- or it might be a question of timing. We think that going forward, those conversion rates
will be lowered everywhere. So it's rather a question of timing.
The second question with regards to whether we are allowed to do so or not, we are
overlooking both parts, the mandatory part and the extra mandatory part as a whole part
of the insured person. So if we are lowering the conversion rate to a level which is below
the mandatory, let's say 6.4 or 6 or whatever percentage, then we have to make sure that
on a holistic view, we still are meeting the mandatory and the legally foreseen conversion
rate, of course. But we are looking at it on a rather holistic basis from the point of view of
the client. And then ﬁnally, it's the market who will decide what's going forward the real
and the ﬁnally right conversion rate.

Q - Simon Fossmeier
Okay. Understood. Very helpful. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
The next question comes from the line of Rene Locher from MainFirst. Please go ahead.

Q - Rene Locher

{BIO 1921075 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. It's Rene from MainFirst. So I was going to start about the slide 11, just
proﬁt by sources in the life business, and yeah, I was so much surprised to see the very
strong result here, and when I was listening to Paul, I got a bit of feeling that we have not
that much one-oﬀ in the ﬁrst two lines like the saving result, also the risk result. So if you
just can conﬁrm that, yeah, these two sources are sustainable.
Then on slide 19, I mean, this is more like a big picture question. I do know that -- or I
guess, I know that Smile has a cost ratio of some 20%. I've just checked normalized
Switzerland runs at 26%. So I do believe that when I buy a car insurance via Smile, then I
should get a better price. Perhaps you can quickly explain again how -- how can I say, how
is your own sales force happy with the push you are giving Smile. And perhaps what is
also interesting on slide 19, I can see just diﬀerent oﬀers here. So I was wondering, is there
kind of a cross-selling, so that means there is a guy who is buying a car insurance and he
is then also buying some home insurance via Smile?
And then I would like to welcome Mr. Keller. On the investment income, if I go to slide 16,
I'm happy to see that the reinvestment yield equities increased from 1.7% in H1 '18 to 26%
and I have also seen on slide 24 that you have slightly increased your equity exposure by
Page 12 of 16



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-08-29

FINAL

some 4.7% to 5.4% in H1. So I'm wondering if we should expect further shifts in the asset
allocation? And last question if I may. How have you achieved the partnership with Tesla, I
mean, mid-cap? So this insurance company now in a exclusive partnership with Tesla in 16
European countries, (inaudible) parade or do you have a special relationship with Elon
Musk? Thank you very much.

A - Philipp Gmur
Thank you, Rene. Four questions. Let's get started with Paul on the life result and then I
will explain pretty quickly some Smile issues. Then I will ask Andre to comment on the
investment income and then we are going to ﬁnalize this questionnaire with Tesla. Paul?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. Okay. So sales, sorry -- savings result, start with on page 11. In 2018, we actually had
a bit of a reduction because we have one large investment package, which is in -- actually
in (inaudible) where the dividend normally comes in the ﬁrst half of the year and last year
it came in the second of the half year. So that reduced it slightly. So that was lower down.
Also, we had a one-oﬀ impairment, which was booked through the savings result in the
ﬁrst half of 2018. So the savings result in 2018 was a bit too low. Obviously this year, in this
half year, we've had a very good equity market performance. So whether that continues is
questionable, but I would say it's closer to the sustainable level than it was last year.
On the other result, the risk result we've had for a couple of years, some poor results in
risk side, particularly where both mortality and invalidity results, to a large extent, in the
Swiss (inaudible). But our chief actuary was telling -- keeping on saying, look, this is -- it's
usual volatility and so I think we've kind of -- we got after that and we have more than
sustainable level, one hopes, particularly the new tariﬀs that we're having in the
(inaudible). The other result is volatile because it has the valuation of the index options in
there, and the costs, yes, we reduced the cost in the life business, so above the line and
the margin after costs, I think, which should be reasonably sustainable.
The extraordinary result is a factor reserving and you can see it's roughly on the same
level. It all depends on the impact of these new changes in the (inaudible) tariﬀs and on
what that does in a customer behavior and so on. And the gains and losses investments
are totally dependent on the capital markets and obviously the policyholder participation,
and to a large extent, it depended on various other factors. So I would say the margins
after costs, the operating margin is on a pretty good level and plus or minus should
hopefully stay there and the others are very much dependent on factors outside our
control, but also are balanced out by the policyholder participation.
Then on --

A - Philipp Gmur
Okay. Smile.

Q - Rene Locher

{BIO 1921075 <GO>}

Page 13 of 16



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-08-29

Yeah. Thank you very much.

FINAL

A - Philipp Gmur
Smile is one of our diﬀerent sales channels. A client buying with or via Smile is buying
another product than he might be buying with an agent. Why that? It's a self-service
product and that's why it might be priced in another way. And ﬁnally, our own sales
network, our agents do not have to fear Smile. Up to now, most of our private clients are
looking for advice and more than 85% to 90% of our new business is still coming -- in the
retail segment is still coming in via our agents networks. It's another sales channel, it's
another product, it's another distribution and access to our clients.
Now I will ask Andre with regards to the investment income.

A - Andre Keller

{BIO 18667591 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you for the question. And two parts of that question I heard. It's the driver of
the change year-to-date, which was mainly driven by the strong rebound in global equity
markets, which we participated, and the second part of your question I heard was if there
are any major changes to the asset allocation planned. And this is not the plan. What we
will obviously do is continue to evolve our asset allocation based on relative value
consideration in order to achieve an attractive return on our risk-adjusted capital. So the
evolution, no major changes.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Philipp Gmur
Okay. Then turning to Tesla, unfortunately Rene, Elon Musk did not show up yet in St.
Gallen or Basel. So there was no personal relationship between us which led to this
cooperation. We have, however, a broker, Marsh & McLennan, which we have
cooperations with in other B2B2C environments, and via this contact, we got this new
collaboration.

Q - Rene Locher

{BIO 1921075 <GO>}

Okay. Interesting. Thank you very much.

A - Philipp Gmur
More questions?

Operator
The next question is a follow-up question from Peter Eliot from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please
go ahead.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thanks a lot for allowing me to come back. I'd like to ask three further questions, please.
The ﬁrst one, I was just wondering if you could give any comment on the press release
from FINMA yesterday, which talked about sort of leveling the playing ﬁeld between
Page 14 of 16



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-08-29

FINAL

banks and insurers in terms of the real estate investment properties. I mean, I'm kind of
thinking with -- there shouldn't really be any sort of impact initially, but I'm just wondering
if you've had any discussions with FINMA on the subject that you can share.
The second question was your investments in -- well, just carrying on the theme, I guess,
your investments in property, you talked about increasing this, but I actually noticed it
slightly decreased from the year-end to the half year. I mean, my calculation is 14.2%,
down to 13.9%. So I'm just wondering if you could comment whether you are sort of still
increasing that proportion.
And then the ﬁnal one was the duration gap. I mean, it's increased and I know you want to
beneﬁt from the upside in interest rates as and when that comes, but I guess that hasn't
happened so far. And I'm just wondering whether it's worth commenting on that in light
of the falls we've seen over the last couple of months. That would be great. Thank you.

A - Philipp Gmur
Peter, thanks. For the time being, there is nothing to share with regard to the FINMA press
release. And for the other two questions, I would like to hand over to Paul.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

So your question was on the property percentage. I mean, I don't think we've actively
changed the property. I think it could be due to the mark-to-market, but basically other
assets have increased in value greater than the property because we don't revalue it,
mark-to-market that much in the half year. So that could be the rationale. And as far as the
duration gap, it's really an impact out of the change in the new SST standard models and
the way they are calculated, but I mean, it's not massive increase when we look at from
31st of the 12, it's 1.7% to 1.9%. And on a regulatory basis, from zero up to 0.2%, and we
monitor that on a regular basis.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

All right. Thank you. Just quickly, if I could on the --

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Sorry, there is also a reduction in the interest rates in the half year, has also had an impact
on that.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Yeah. Okay. And just quickly on the property, should we expect the sort of share of best
properties within the investment portfolio to increase in future? Are you able to comment
on that still?

A - Andre Keller

{BIO 18667591 <GO>}

Peter, this is Andre speaking. So what we will, as I alluded to before, on relative value
consideration, so we look at, let's say, the property market as a risk factor on a holistic
Page 15 of 16



FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2019-08-29

basis, also in combination with mortgages, and as you see and I think what maybe helpful
for you is on page 51, which gives you more color on the details where we are on the
mortgage side more, I would say, cautious while we see still because we own
longstanding real estate portfolio, which also has a decent pipeline where we can build
and develop our own properties more value. So we are not forced to buy like competitors
or others on the market, so we can build based on our portfolio and see still attractive
relative value in properties. But we do not expect major shifts, as I alluded to, but more on
a relative value basis, especially versus mortgages.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Great. Thanks very much.

A - Philipp Gmur
If there are no more questions, I would like to thank you for your attention and for your
participation in this call, for your interest in Helvetia. Of course, we are always ready and
happy to answer your questions. If you have any further questions, please do not hesitate
to contact us, especially via our Investor Relations people such as Susanne Tengler. Have a
good day. Thank you.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Ladies and gentlemen, the conference is now over. Thank you for choosing Chorus Call
and thank you for participating in the conference. You may now disconnect your lines.
Goodbye.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 16 of 16

