Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-28

Y 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Adam Westwood, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Geoﬀ Carter, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
James Ockenden, Chief Actuary

Other Participants
Andreas van Embden
Iain Pearce
Joanna Parsons
Nick Johnson

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Well, ﬁrstly, a very warm welcome to people here in the room and on the phone. We're
really pleased to be presenting our ﬁrst full year results. We're also really pleased with
these results in what I think has been a pretty challenging market still. Very conscious.
We're amongst the last to present and you've heard much of the market moves already.
What we're going to try and do is put out our own slant on some of the market factors.
We also hope to demonstrate what makes our strategy diﬀerent, our business model
unique and why we think we have unique advantages in this market.
We've also reﬂected some of the feedback from the analysts from last year. The ﬁrst of
that is who is sitting upfront. On the top table, alongside Adam, I think most of you know,
we've got James Ockenden and Trevor Webb, our Chief Actuary and Claims Director.
Anything that looks like a diﬃcult question is going to be heading their way later on.
On the agenda, I'll have a quick run through the highlights, Adam will then talk through
the ﬁnancial results. I'll then give a bit of market context around (inaudible)performance,
very brief reminder of our strategy and then a summary outlook, followed by Q&A.
So without further ado, I think as context here which we'll return to later a couple of times,
we believe we've fully covered all emerged claims experience during last year. That's
probably a pretty diﬀerentiated picture from other people in the market. So despite those
signiﬁcant price increases, we are very content with the level of premium that we've
experienced. We think a very strong set of results in that market even compared to what
was rather an exceptionally strong 2017.

Page 1 of 12



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-28

FINAL

What's that given us? Leading underwriting performance; a loss ratio of 48.5%; expense
ratio in line with our target at 22% and a combined ratio I think extremely strong in market
terms of just over 70%, considerably inside as you know our mid-70% combined
operating target.
Very strong proﬁtability. Adjusted proﬁt after tax of 50 million, a return on tangible equity
of 54.4%. Probably one of our key measures is the capital generation. Solvency ratio
reached 213%, well over our 140% to 160% target range. Despite that, we've maintained
ﬂat premium, very much in line with our expectations for last year. And probably one of
the key messages, all of that has allowed us to announce a special dividend and, we think
an attractive full dividend for the year of 20 pence a share.
Aside from the numbers, we continue to develop and enhance the business pretty
strongly. Some of the key themes are we continually roll out new rating factors. We
continually test new datasets, so we continue to build our defensive model and especially
in the non-standard part of the market. We've soft launched a new direct van product.
We've underwritten van for many years. What we haven't had is a direct-to-consumer
oﬀering. That is now being rolled out on the ﬁrst aggregator across (inaudible) and more
will follow through this year.

Bloomberg Transcript

As you'll see, we spent a fortune with our brand consultants, and we've stuck the word
van on the end of our (inaudible), very much in line with our straightforward approach to
these things. We're going to continue to enhance the broker product through this year
with some tweaks that we think will allow us to position ourselves in the slightly
nonstandard end of the van.
On the operational side, we're continuing to roll out software robots, and these are
designed to enhance customer service and eﬃciency and really allow us to get staﬀ
focused on value adding tasks rather than things that can be automated. We've
completed our transition to the new hybrid cloud. And interestingly, we're testing very
innovative AI and machine learning processes, not only in pricing but in the rest of the
business. If anything, I think we're ﬁnding more beneﬁts from things like fraud
identiﬁcation and fraud behaviors than we are from fewer pricing impacts, which is
perhaps not where we expected to be. Last but not least, we've engaged BDO as an
outsourced internal auditor.
On the employee side, and we maybe don't talk about employees enough in these
presentations. They are key to our success. Very low levels of employee turnover still. We
completed our ﬁrst staﬀ survey last year. Delighted to say that 88% of people would
recommend us as a good place to work, which is fantastic.
So on that note, Adam?

Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

Thanks Geoﬀ. Welcome everyone. It's good to see so many familiar faces here. I'll run
through the ﬁnancial results for the year and give you a little more detail on our
Page 2 of 12



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-28

FINAL

underwriting result and capital management.
So 2018 was a year deﬁned by competitive market conditions and our response to them.
Despite continuing to price to our target combined operating ratio in competitive market
conditions, we've managed to maintain a ﬂat premium year-on-year. Following an
exceptional underwriting performance in 2017, our combined operating ratio has
increased a little as we turn towards our normal performance. The slight dip in adjusted
proﬁt is therefore a direct result of the year on year move in combined ratio.
Given we are writing business at our target mid 70s combined ratio, it's evident we're still
beneﬁting from good news coming out of prior years, all of which has left us in a very
strong capital position. At year-end the solvency coverage ratio of 213%. As a result, we've
decided to return approximately 100% of this year's earnings to shareholders, paying a
total dividend of 20 pence per share for the year. This will leave us with a solvency capital
ratio at the top of our preferred operating range.

Bloomberg Transcript

A little more on the underwriting result. Our expense ratio remains at historic levels, and
the year's result continues to be driven by our underwriting performance. In common with
previous years, our current year loss ratio is higher than our target ultimate loss ratio
because of prudent reserving in more recent claims. The higher current year loss ratio is
oﬀset by the runoﬀ from prior years. There's been no change to our reserving
methodology in 2018. We continue to pick a prudent best estimate and apply a ﬁxed
percentage risk margin to open claims proportionately across all accident years.
We've not changed the percentage risk margin in 2018. We have again seen some
exceptional reserve releases coming through in 2018, largely due to continued positive
claims experience. The impact of the reduction in reserves held against prior year claims
and assessment of prior year claims at less than our opening reserve was just over 10% in
2018, a similar level to 2017. There's no explicit distinction between exceptional reserve
releases and business as usual runoﬀ of prudence in claims reserves. However, we
continue to expect the level of prior year reserve movements to halve over time, bringing
our combined operating ratio for the years towards our mid-70s target.
A quick note on investments. We continue to run an ultraconservative portfolio, which we
generally hold through to maturity. Because our investments are held at fair value through
the proﬁt and loss, this introduces a little volatility to the annual proﬁt, although valuation
movements tend to unwind over the life of each bond. The net yield to maturity on our
portfolio, absent any market value ﬂuctuations, is around 0.8%.
So a little more detail on our capital position and our approach to capital management.
Fundamentally, writing business at Sabre's target margins generates excess capital. Our
capital requirement will grow with increased volumes of business written, but the increase
in capital generated through writing business should exceed any increase in the capital
requirement. During 2018, as Sabre did not grow and proﬁt generated during the year
increased our capital, so -- with no increase to capital requirement. As a result, the group
is happy to recommend a dividend of around 100% of our adjusted proﬁt after tax.

Page 3 of 12



FINAL

Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-28

Our overall approach to capital management remains prudent, which means we'll
continue to hold a minimum level of capital of 140% of our solvency capital requirement.
In targeting a mid-70s combined ratio, we can be comfortable that writing business
increases our capital surplus. Where necessary, we do invest capital in the business. While
we've undertaken minimum capital expenditure in recent years, holding excess capital
above our 140% ﬂoor allows us to do so if and when required. Our overriding view of
capital is to retain within the business only what we need to support our underwriting
activities with an appropriate buﬀer to return the business from any reasonably
foreseeable shocks.
We've set a preferred operating range above our capital ﬂoor, which enables more stable
returns of capital to investors by supporting dividends during cycle downturns or periods
of rapid growth. As such, we aim to return excess capital to shareholders through a steady
ﬂow of dividends. This has been demonstrated in 2018 where we paid a special dividend,
returning all of our earnings for the year to shareholders and retained capital at the top of
our preferred operating range.
As you can see from the graph, we started the year at the top of our preferred operating
range, generated signiﬁcant excess capital during the year and are proposing to return
that to our shareholders through a special dividend. And on that note, I'll hand back to
Geoﬀ for an update on strategy and the market.

Bloomberg Transcript

Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Thanks Adam. Okay, that's looking back. I guess we now start to look forward a bit. So
what's the market context around current and future results and I guess, what's our view
on some of the key market developments?
What we have here is two graphs that start to inform our view of claims inﬂation. The top
graph is the frequency of personal injuries, more personal injury claims in the market. And
the second graph is the ABI data on overall settled claims on a non-injury and all claims
bases. What this says to me is that personal injury is pretty ﬂat. We saw declines at the
start of the year, but no further declines since then. We think frequency now looks ﬁne,
but the cost of injury and bent metal continues to increase pretty rapidly. Our view from
the market stats is that noninjury claims have been increasing at a compound rate of
around 10.7% since 2015 with all claims inﬂation just over 5.5% over the same period.
That takes us to our view of claims inﬂation. Our view is we are in a range of 6% to 7%,
which I'm conscious may be slightly higher than other people in the market. What drives
us to that level? First of all, bent metal. This is the cost to ﬁx now owned and other
people's costs. We're at a high single-digit percentage year on year driven by technology
in vehicles becoming increasingly expensive to ﬁx.
PI frequency is ﬂat, but the cost of the outﬂows have continued to inﬂate around 5%. And
interestingly theft is becoming a bit of a plague, I would say. We've been (inaudible)
about this recently. We're seeing theft inﬂation running at 25% year-on-year. So our view is

Page 4 of 12



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-28

FINAL

corroborating market data and our own experience would leave us move deﬁnitely in the
6% to 7% range.
The other side of that coin is average premium and premium inﬂation in the market. There
are some seasonal peaks in here. I would say the market looks pretty ﬂat over 2018. So if
you have claims inﬂation running at 6% to 7% and premium inﬂation running at 1% to 2%,
there's clearly jaws opening up in the market. Maybe at best some green shoots. Feels
like the market's not going down, but I'm not seeing strong evidence yet of increases
coming through. As a general comment, maybe some of the larger listed players are
pushing hard, some of the more medium-sized players don't yet seem to be following
quite the same position.

Bloomberg Transcript

We think the market is in quite an interesting balance at the moment. There's a range of
potentially inﬂationary factors, so continued claims inﬂation, competitor margin squeeze,
if our hypothesis is correct, the lawyer response to some of the legal reforms to come
through and the FCA pricing review that's underway. On the other side, whiplash reforms,
the Ogden discount rate and a plethora of MGAs that are launching around the market in
the personal insurance space. Our strategy throughout this is to continue to price at the
mid 70s combined ratio, more reﬂect changes as they occur and we'll be continuing to
avoid speculation on where rates might go.
So guidance to these and a bit more detail. The FCA pricing review, I'm sure many people
here -- everyone knows about this, really focused on inertia pricing and propensity
modeling with a key concern around pockets of vulnerable customers. What are the
possible impacts? Potentially an increase in new business pricing, if there's forced parity
or nearer parity between new business and renewal prices and a risk of customer redress
if companies are found to behave particularly poorly. Sabre doesn't utilize inertia pricing
or propensity modeling. Our prices are calculated purely from risk. So for this review,
we'd expect to be net neutral at worse, potentially net, well, in market terms.
The market claims inﬂation factors. We've just discussed claims inﬂation running high.
Premium inﬂation doesn't seem to be matching that. The current dynamics continue,
there must be a potential margin squeeze across the industry. It's unclear how strongly
competitors have reﬂected that inﬂation in premiums. To restate, we believe we fully
covered all emerging claims experienced in '18 and into '19, so we are entirely focused on
maintaining underwriting discipline.
On the whiplash reforms. I think there's a fairly general strong view that these could
generate saving of GBP30 a policy on the average premium in the market. That probably
equates to around GBP30 a policy. Our average premium is nearly double the market, so
potentially a 5% impact. We believe there's plenty of reasons to be cautious about this.
There's a real risk that lawyers adapt their behaviors to neutralize some of the planned
savers. There's potential for new non-whiplash claim elements. For example, (inaudible)
loss to come in into the claims, a very realistic risk of emergence of new non-regulated
claims management companies, often called McKenzie Friends, for example, which we
can talk about later if of interest.

Page 5 of 12



FINAL

Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-28

A lot of associated claims elements aren't included in these reforms, the most obvious
one being credit hire. A real risk of claims being inﬂated could drag (inaudible) small
claims limits. Overall, no guarantee that savings will occur would be my take on this. Our
approach will be to focus on, I guess facts, not opinions. So we'll reﬂect these changes in
our rates as and when we're conﬁdent the evidence is going to emerge and the price
beneﬁt will actually come through. The Ogden discount rate is a bit of a sideshow for us in
some ways. We've got quite a low retention limit, the impact on us, no more than GBP1
million in the P&L. We're continuing to reserve and price pretty prudently on the current
Ogden discount rate.
Again, reasons to be cautious around Ogden I think. The discount rate is going to be
reassessed every 5 years. Now by their nature, some of these claims may take a long time
to settle. You could guide them potentially two or three Ogden review cycles before you
settle a claim. It only impacts England and Wales, and the Scotland discount rate is
expected to be lower than the English position. I think our approach will be consistent.
We'll reﬂect those changes as and when we're conﬁdent that they're going to emerge and
we can properly cost (inaudible).

Bloomberg Transcript

So what's our approach been over the last six months and into this year? We think we've
very much walked the walk, I will say. We focus on proﬁtability, not volume. As you know,
we reduced prices at the start of last year to reﬂect the small BI frequency trend that we
observed. Since then, it's reasonable to assume we've backed out all of those changes
and have increased our prices heavily through the back end of last year and into the ﬁrst
part of this year. We believe that means we've fully covered claims inﬂation and have
minimized any negative jaws between premium and claims inﬂation.
A reminder of our strategy. The four, probably the key bits, maintain a wide underwriting
footprint, but continue to develop a defensive nonstandard position. Absolute laser focus
on our mid-70s combined operating target. We don't want to deviate from that target.
Continue to generate very strong cash returns and dividend. And I think the bit we are
emphasizing today is we're very happy to use our capital range to support dividend in ﬂat
parts of the market. We stated this on our IPO and I think we're reiterating today that's
why we have a range.
And we absolutely believe we will beneﬁt from controlled and attractive growth across the
cycle, but not in any individual year necessarily. We will grow at the right time. Our
strategy had a bit of a sort of paper advertising actually. After Prince Philip had his
unfortunate crash recently, the Daily Mail carried out some research on who in the market
would now provide insurance to a 97-year old who just crashed his car. And had three
brands in the market would, of which we were two. And having spoken to the top one,
they didn't really intend to put that price out. So I think this is a good demonstration. We
think there is a right price for every risk. Sadly, he didn't choose to pay a GBP24,000
premium, but we do have others who do it around that level.
So what are some scenarios if we look forward? It feels to me a bit like we're driving
through the fog at the moment. We can see the outliner changes, but I will say things are
still pretty unclear. Our strategy is to slow down, arrive in one piece. We need to
accelerate hard once the fog clears. I guess the alternative is you keep your foot down,
Page 6 of 12



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-28

you might arrive very quickly or you might crash into a tree. We are pretty clear what we
intend to do in this scenario.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

So what do we see? If our current approach is correct, and we believe it is, potential
market -- margin compression will lead to price increases. We've already taken our pricing
action to correct the position and will therefore be able to grow naturally if market prices
increase. Potentially, the FCA pricing review impacts in addition.
If we are to too cautious, and we don't think we are, that will be demonstrated in our data
over the next 6 to 12 months. If that is the case, we'll be able to reduce prices at which
point we will grow. In this scenario, we're conﬁdent we will grow. It's the timing that is
uncertain. I think one point. As we are pricing ahead of the market, it's probably
reasonable to assume we're going to see a slower start to the year in GWP this year, but
we then expect that GWP to accelerate through the year as market prices start to catch up.
And I'm going to reiterate, we absolutely believe that we will return to GWP growth at an
appropriate time in the foreseeable future. I just can't foresee when that is exactly.
So the summary and outlook. We're very focused on our long term, very successful
strategy. We're absolutely not going to waver from our focus on the mid-70s combined
ratio target. This very proﬁt focused model aided by our bias to the higher premium
sector will allow us to continue our underwriting proﬁtability, deliver very strong capital
generation and support we believe very attractive returns to shareholders throughout the
cycle. We will absolutely consider using our capital generation and range as appropriate
to support dividends. Having covered claims inﬂation leaves us very well positioned to
take advantage of growth. We also believe there's other expansion opportunities into
other products with engines and wheels that are adjacent to our car and van products. So
overall, I would say we are looking forward with a good deal of conﬁdence.
And at that point very happy to take any questions at all.

Questions And Answers
A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

(Question And Answer)
A microphone heading your way I think.

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Hi, Nick Johnson from Numis -- sorry, Nick Johnson from Numis. So three questions,
please. Firstly, on the FCA pricing review, obviously, you say that Sabre prices new
business and renewal business exactly the same. I just wonder if you could give us your
thoughts about how any change to regulation might impact brokers being your main
route to market? What are your brokers seeing in terms of potential implications there?

Page 7 of 12



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-28

FINAL

Secondly, on the safety developments, yesterday, we had the news of potential speed
limiters. Not necessarily that, but the regulatory direction of travel is obviously to reduce
risk. Does that potentially shrink the nonstandard risk pool in the market? Does it make it
easier for competitors perhaps to start writing some nonstandard business? And then last
question, thirdly, on MGAs, you mentioned the plethora of startups there. Are you
working with any? Do you see them as a potential threat or are they actually an
opportunity? Thank you.

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Okay. Sadly, it feels like they're all for me, but we'll -- so I should start oﬀ. On the FCA and
the brokers, yup clearly, some brokers will be impacted. A lot of our brokers don't have
any diﬀerential pricing in their models at all. They basically apply a ﬁxed margin to our net
price. Other brokers are more sophisticated and would operate more like some of the
direct writers. My conversation says this is not a surprise to brokers especially and they've
already taken a lot of steps to get their diﬀerentials into a place they feel to be acceptable
and defendable.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the speed limiters, well, the ﬁrst thing I'm doing is going out and buying a warehouse
full of unregulated VA cars (inaudible) about two years' time. My read into that new device
is A, you can't get past it. You can still kick down to accelerate past the device.
Reading this morning, it can be turned oﬀ every time you get in the car. I think perhaps
more importantly for us in the short to medium term, when we look back to our large
claims, we don't see many actually that are driven by excessive speeds, I would say. If you
can ﬁnd a way of stopping people walking out from behind parked cars chasing their
dog, that would be a much more beneﬁcial thing in terms of reducing claims costs. So I'm
not sure in the short to medium term, that's going to be a big driver. And there clearly is a
trend overall towards more safety in vehicles. It feels like a long way oﬀ. I think the
average age of the car in the UK is still seven years. I would argue it may be non-standard.
People are either holding that car because they can't aﬀord to change or maybe holding
that car because they want a more nonstandard slightly older and more sporty car. So I
don't think there's a medium-term impact here.
On the MGAs, we absolutely do not support any MGAs whatsoever. To me, it means
you're giving away your PIN and your accounts to someone else's judgment. If we think
we can underwrite it, probably we'll do it ourselves. We're not going to back anyone
else's judgment and write it into our books. Okay.

Q - Iain Pearce

{BIO 19522835 <GO>}

Hi, Iain Pearce from Berenberg. A couple of questions from me. Firstly, could you give us
some details on the policy count and average premium in the year and if that is -- you've
seen that increase over the course of the year on the policy count full [ph]. And secondly,
if you could also talk to us about the van insurance propositions, what your hopes and
expectations for that are and if the trends in that market are any diﬀerent from the motor
insurance market?

Page 8 of 12



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-28

And then on capital management, could you give us a bit more detail on how you're
thinking about capital management to support dividends. Whether you intend to move
down towards the bottom of your solvency target range or if you're all just going to use
that to protect the dividend at the current levels?

FINAL

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Sure. Maybe I'll start and you guys can pick up on a couple of those. On the policy count,
we've seen a very small decline from year start to year end. We're probably down about
4,000 policies, and that's been up and down a bit during the year but year-on-year about
4,000 down. On the van product, James, anything about the van?

A - James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

Yeah, direct van perhaps have been kind of in our thoughts for quite some time. And
actually a bit like car direct, private car product, really allows us to (inaudible) brokers do
anything we want to. For example, not bringing their prices (inaudible). That just allows us
to do that. So I think similar to the private car and direct van will allow us to insure our
prices out in the market and we can maximize our opportunity there. (inaudible) lots and
lots of 20 years of data on vans (inaudible) for a long time. So really this is nothing new to
us. It's really just an extension of our distribution.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Perhaps the Prince Philip example we put up, it's bit tongue-in-cheek because I'm quite
sure the rest of the details weren't entirely correct and all the rest of it. But actually we
regret to a point that we didn't get any of our broker brands come up. That market
doesn't have the right ﬁlters on payment, on ID checks and that type of thing. So it means
we can guarantee, if we want to write that business, we know we're going to get our price
out into the market. Teeing [ph] oﬀ that capital management, Iain? I'll start then Adam can
pick up. I mean we're absolutely prepared to use the range. I think we'll be quite brave to
go all the way towards 140 and then get a shock. So I think any sort of range is sensible. I
don't think you'll see us bouncing on the 141% on anything. Adam, anything you want to--

A - Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

Geoﬀ's absolutely right, yeah. From a risk basis, our ﬂoor is 140%. We're currently at 160%.
I think given where the market is at the moment, that's a pretty sensible place to be. Given
the outlook, having excess capital there we could deploy in any way, which would be
available to support (inaudible) the future is a pretty interesting place for us to be. But
certainly we've never said that we want to exist at the top of that range forever, and so I
can see us moving on our program.

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks Iain.

Q - Joanna Parsons

{BIO 1558226 <GO>}

Thank you. Joanna Parsons from Canaccord. Two questions please. Firstly, on claims
inﬂation. You've given us, your rationale as to why you think the ﬁgure is higher than quite
Page 9 of 12



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-28

FINAL

a lot of your competitors have indicated to the market. And if premiums are still overall
ﬂat at the moment, that suggests there's a material uplift in rates that is needed to get the
market to a parity place. Are you getting any indications that that might come through this
year or is this a scenario whereby insurers have still got to actually recognize the facts of
the reality?

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Joanna Parsons

{BIO 1558226 <GO>}

And then secondly on expenses, you were talking about your ongoing investment in
systems in the automation, whatever. Could that -- putting aside the fact that you may be
(inaudible) the book slightly at the moment, could that generally see an improvement in
the expenses for you, in the expense ratio over time?

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, maybe I'll start, and you can pick up the expenses on the second. I think on claims
inﬂation, we are conﬁdent in our projection. I guess it's not for us to talk about others'
projections in particular, other than we are conﬁdent that we are right at this point. If we're
right and premium inﬂation is at 1% or 2%, then clearly there is a big gap opening up. My
conversations with people, including brokers who talk to other underwriters absolutely
suggests there's an acknowledgment of a need for price increases in the market.
(inaudible) been talking about that and fully pressing, accelerate all the way down.
I think we see people are deﬁnitely trying to move, and I would say especially the big
unlisted companies, you can see that trying to happen. You do have a couple of the
smaller company or maybe like smaller -- the non-listed companies who don't seem to be
so strongly pressing forward on that. And I guess if you're -- if you had a large expense
base, a lot of people, it's diﬃcult to cover right oﬀ the volume. We don't have that
challenge. As you know, a lot of our expenses are outsourced. So we outsource much of
our front-end customer service. The brokers actually service all of our broker-based
business, which is over 70% of the book. And we outsource the ﬁrst notiﬁcation of loss. So
our entire business model has really been designed to allow us to soften or grow our
volumes without really getting an expense overrun of anything.
On the software robots, it's probably not really so much about expense savings actually.
We're pretty thin. We've got 150 people. We've got no plans for any redundancies
whatsoever. Nothing could be further from our thoughts. It's really about getting people
focused on value add, so -- and other things we'd like to spend more time on. And we can
spend less time (inaudible) into model spreadsheets. That's got to be good. On the
expenses, anything else, Adam?

A - Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

No, I think that's right. If you look at our expense base taking, say, commissions into
account, about 75% of it is variable. So really with the size of the business, that's not going
to change. That additional 25%, a lot of that is staﬀ, and again, as Geoﬀ says, we're not
Page 10 of 12



Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-28

FINAL

really planning on cutting that back. It's just deploying them more sensibly. Over time, the
fact that we do still have that element of ﬁxed costs and where we need to start growing,
that probably would have a positive impact on the expense ratio. But I think that will be a
slow and steady impact over time. Certainly in the near future, I don't project any
signiﬁcant (inaudible)expense ratio.

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Good. Andreas, you had a question?

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Thank you. Andreas van Embden, Peel Hunt. Just moving back to your sort of new hybrid
cloud IT infrastructure, as you called it. I just want to check, where does it play? Is this just
purely your front end because you outsource a lot? So I just want to try and see how does
it ﬁt into your business model. Does it allow you to plug into new broker panels and do
you feel you're ahead of the curve with these investments relative to your distribution or in
line? And ﬁnally, are you seeing any beneﬁt in terms of conversion rates once you've put
this in place? Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Geoﬀ Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Yeah, sure. The IT infrastructure really is the sort of dull sort of back-end stuﬀ that hosting
our servers and hosting our core claims system. It's not really designed to be a front-end
facing element at all. On the front end, as you say, 70% of our business is outsourced to
brokers who invest very heavily on their own front end. And in some cases that's the
branch network and making branches work eﬃciently. In other cases it's incredibly
sophisticated mobile applications. One of our advantage is that we can sit behind all of
those various models in the market and it doesn't cost us to take advantage of that
development.
On the broker panel, we have now developed a -- or about to develop a new way of
plugging into some new type broker panels. So if we see new brokers on a new type of
insurer tech businesses that we feel have legs, there'll be an easier way to get our rates in
there than go through a perhaps a traditional software house build that can take several
months. So we are developing something slightly diﬀerent there.
Conversion rates. The infrastructure is not designed to impact the front end (inaudible).
There's no impact on conversion rates. What we are doing is continue to optimize our
direct website. We moved that across to a new hosted solution last year, which gives us
much more ﬂexibility actually on the build and the look and feel of the goal behind
shorter brands.
Anything else? No? Okay, in that case thank you very much both in the room and on the
phones. Any other questions do let us know afterwards. Thank you very much.

Page 11 of 12



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Sabre Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: SBRE LN Equity
Date: 2019-03-28

Page 12 of 12

