Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

Q2 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Alexander Rijn Wynaendts , CEO & Chairman of the Executive Board

Presentation
Alexander Rijn Wynaendts

{BIO 1821092 <GO>}

Thank you for joining my update on the first half 2019. Before taking you through the
numbers, I would like to say a few words about the announcement earlier this week in
regard to my succession. I feel very privileged to have led Aegon for over 11 years. And
I'm proud that we have successfully transformed the company, for which I would like to
thank all my colleagues.

Bloomberg Transcript

Aegon is now well positioned to realize its full potential. And I will continue working
together with my colleagues on executing our strategic agenda until our AGM in 2020.
Looking at our results, Aegon maintained a strong capital position in what I think we can all
agree with has been a turbulent first half of the year. Our hedging programs protected us
well against interest rates falling to historical lows in all our key markets. And as a result,
Aegon's Solvency II ratio, an indicator of our ability to meet our obligations, remained at
the top end of our range.
Normalized capital generation increased and we maintained a solid cash buffer. And this
allows us to raise, again, our interim dividend this time by 7% to EUR 0.15 per share.
Underlying earnings before tax were slightly lower. This was a result of outflows in our fee
businesses in the United States as well as increased investments to support growth and
improve our customer experience. Our focus is on expanding our customer base and
retaining our existing customers. It is, therefore, encouraging that new retirement plan
written sales in the U.S. increased and the gross deposits were up in most of our
businesses.
The announcement of the sale of our joint ventures in Japan fits very well with our
strategy to ensure that capital is allocated to those activities with the best growth
prospects.
We made good progress on driving efficiencies during the first half 2019 despite
successfully completing the Cofunds integration in the U.K. and by taking the first steps in
transferring the administration of back books in the U.K. and the Netherlands to modern
platforms.

Page 1 of 2



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2019-08-15

At the same time, we also continue to play a leading role in a societal debate on
retirement and healthy aging. We shared our views on the necessity of a new social
contract on retirement at major events in Paris, Washington and Helsinki.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

In conclusion, I want to thank all of Aegon's employees again for their daily commitment
to helping our nearly 30 million customers around the world achieve a lifetime of financial
security. Thank you.

Page 2 of 2

