Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-27

Q4 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

John D. Neal, Chief Executive Officer & Director
John Parry, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director
Jon Hancock, Performance Management Director & Executive Director

Other Participants
Andreas van Embden, Analyst
Andrew Ritchie , Analyst
Ben Cohen, Analyst
Marcus Patrick Rivaldi, Managing Director

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

All right. Good morning, everyone. Before I get started, please note that the presentation
is being recorded and will be made available on lloyds.com for audio playback. In a
moment, I'm going to take you through the headline financials and look back at some of
the market's achievements this year. Our CFO, John Parry, will then go into the numbers in
a little more detail; followed by Jon Hancock, our Performance Management Director, who
will update you on the business planning and performance review plans, a few too many
Johns (00:00:36) this morning and I apologize for that.
I'll come back at the end of the talk about our medium- to long-term strategy going
forward. But before I get into this, as you're no doubt aware, there's been recent media
coverage about inappropriate behavior in the Lloyd's market. I will be speaking to the
market about this later today and I'll be happy to take any questions on this at the end.
So, on to the market's aggregated financial performance in 2018, so the headline figures
recorded a £1 billion loss and a combined operating ratio of 104.5%. Yes, there were
mitigating factors. The challenging investment environment meant the investment return
fell from 2.7% 12 months ago to just 0.7%, and major losses were above long-term
average for a second year in a row.
Even so, the 2018 results are not of the standard that we would expect of a market, both
with the heritage and the quality of Lloyd's. That said, there are encouraging signs the
market is starting to turn the corner. Losses have halved since 2017, and the combined
operating ratio improved by almost 10 percentage points. The pricing environment saw a
strengthening by 3.2% on renewal business, and the attritional loss ratio fell by 1.3% from
the previous year.
Page 1 of 18



FINAL

Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-27

Importantly, Lloyd's financial credentials and the quality of our balance sheet continued to
go from strength-to-strength. Total assets grew by 9% to £118 billion, with net resources
up 2% to £28.2 billion. And indeed, central assets, the final link in the Lloyd's chain of
security also increased by 8% to £3.2 billion. And let's not forget, too, the valuable role
the market played in helping our policyholders recover from the devastating natural
catastrophes that took place last year, including hurricanes Florence and Michael, Typhoon
Jebi in Japan, as well as the California wildfires. In total, the market paid out almost £20
billion in major claims in 2018.
So, the market made good progress in other areas, too, much of it already underway
before I started at Lloyd's. The first priority in 2018 was to return Lloyd's to first-class
performance and this was the corporation and the market's very strong focus last year. In
particular, the performance review were carried out by Jon Hancock and his team. He will
speak in more detail about this shortly. But suffice to say, while it was a tough process at
times, the performance review will deliver a good result for Lloyd's.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, it's down to the market to turn these plans into reality and to drive further
improvements in underwriting performance in 2019. The market also made good
progress in 2018 on modernization. By the end of the year, almost 40% of in-scope
contracts were placed electronically. That's a very good result. The market and the
corporation continued to develop Lloyd's distribution channels through their ongoing work
to create a simple, efficient streamlined process for delegated authority partners to work
with the market. We should have all of that ready to go live by the end of this year.
Thankfully, given the continuing uncertainty and increasing challenges around the UK's exit
from the European Union, we opened Lloyd's Brussels last year. And this is not just about
making ourselves Brexit-proof although that was obviously important, but it's about having
a physical Lloyd's presence in the heart of Europe, which will give us a good opportunity
and time to develop and grow our European business.
So, overall, we made good progress in 2018. But this is work we had to do just to catch up
to where we needed and wanted to be. We aren't there yet, which is why this year my
team and I are focusing on what we need to do to set Lloyd's up for success in the
medium- to long-term. So, more on that for a moment. For now, let me hand over to John
Parry, who will go over the 2018 results in a little more detail.

John Parry

{BIO 18896198 <GO>}

Thank you, John. Good morning, everyone. So, let's look at the income statement for the
Lloyd's market for 2018. Important to remember, remember this is the aggregate of all of
the syndicates trading on the Lloyd's platform together with a capital put up by the
members as funds at Lloyd's and the return of central assets to back every policy that's
issued by Lloyd's. This is the closest way that we can compare the aggregate
performance of the Lloyd's market against competitors.
For the top line, you've got gross premium written that has increased by 6% to £25.5
billion, and we've got a slide to just walk you through the movement from the 2017

Page 2 of 18



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-27

income.

FINAL

For net earned premiums, the Lloyd's market purchases substantial amounts of
(00:06:04) reinsurance protection and after allowing for that, our earnings patterns was
an increase of 3% in net earned premiums. Net incurred claims reduced by 10% year-onyear, largely through the reduction in major claims when compared to 2017, but those are
some signs of underlying improvement in underwriting performance.
Operating expenses increased by 2% to just under £10 billion. That's the combined sum
of acquisition costs and syndicate administration expenses. Putting that all together, net
earned premium, net incurred claims and operating expenses, you do get a reduction in
the underwriting loss of two-thirds just £1.1 billion. But on the other side, net investment
return fell by over 70% reducing from £1.8 billion £504 million in 2018 that is largely
through the volatile market experienced in the fourth quarter, particularly December. And
even though the Lloyd's market has a conservative asset disposition. The relatively small
proportion of risk assets held by the market did suffer mark-to-market losses in the last
quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

No real movement on foreign exchange and we have an increase in other operating
expenses, the cost of the corporation. We've managed to keep our budget flat for run
cost, but there has been an increase in our changed portfolio not least the investment
and setup of the Lloyd's Brussels subsidiary and preparation for the Part VII transfer for
our legacy EEA business to move into Brussels later on.
Moving to this slide, you see this is a walk from the 2017 figures to 2018. On the
underwriting side, the first three bars you've seen an improvement in all three areas. So,
the accident year excluding major claims improving by £388 million that reduction in major
claims from the extreme catastrophe experience of 2017, which saw Harvey, Irma, Maria
and the California wildfires. And then we've seen a small increase in the releases from
prior years that is the claims estimate set up in the balance sheet of December 2017
running off within expectations. Then you have the reduction in the investment income
giving us that overall loss for 2018 of just £1 billion.
So, I say we (00:08:35) come back to gross written premiums. So, in 2017, we reported
£33.6 billion. The majority of business written in Lloyd's market is in overseas currencies,
particularly U.S. dollars. And actually on average during the year, sterling was actually
slightly stronger against the basket of currencies in the year. So when you report back that
premium into sterling, it comes out lower and that's a reduction of 4% year-on-year.
Then we saw a reversal of the previous softening market and declining pricing with an
increase on renewal business of just over 3% across the whole book. It was more focused
towards catastrophe exposed lines that actually incurred losses during 2017, but we are
seeing signs of improvement across the whole book.
Four new syndicates joined the Lloyd's platform in 2018, showing the continued
attractiveness of Lloyd's and its license network and the opportunities that it gives rise to
capital providers. That increased premium by 2%. Then, for existing syndicates, we have a
Page 3 of 18



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-27

FINAL

combined growth of 5%. Now, 3% of this is from business written under delegated
authorities in early years being reported through. That has typically been some of the
more profitable lines of business written by Lloyd's, and that's contributed 3 extra points
in 2018.
The balance of 2% is largely from new products and innovations so, our continued marketleading position in cyber, but also initiatives in a sharing economy, warranty and indemnity.
And, again, more focus towards the more profitable lines of business, giving us that total
income of £35.5 billion.
This slide breaks out our combined ratio into three component parts: the underlying
current accident year excluding major claims, major claims and then the performance on
reserves brought forward. So, the large pillar is the current accident year and you can see
a sign of improvement there, where the attritional loss ratio has reduced from 58.9% to
57.6%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Acquisition costs have edged up, and that's largely through our changing business mix,
again, through the delegated authority business written, but then a reduction in
administrative expenses. And we're seeing signs of the number of finance transformation
and other cost-saving initiatives being put in place by our managing agents running the
syndicates recognizing the cost pressures that the market is under. We continue to invest
in market modernization through the target operating model to also realize benefits for
our market.
On major claims, we saw that reduction from 2017. As John said, the principal events were
Hurricanes Florence and Michael in the United States, Typhoon Jebi in Japan and the
California wildfires. It is an above-average year, but not to the same extreme length as
2017, and that contributed 11.6% and a total of £2.9 billion of major claims, net of
reinsurance to Lloyd's.
On prior years, we've seen releases of £976 million across the market, reducing the
combined ratio to (00:11:54) 3.9%. That is the 14th year in a row that Lloyd's has seen a
release from its balance sheet brought forward. We're very comfortable with the
reserving processes and reserve assessments of the market, which coupled with our
strong central reserve oversight gives us confidence in the balance sheet and the
provisions being brought forward given a combined ratio of 104.5%, so nearly 10 points
down on the performance in 2017.
We compare the aggregate Lloyd's market performance against a group of comparator
companies, okay, (00:12:31) so we have 13 and we look to select their part of the results
that most compared to Lloyd's market in terms of the mix of insurance and reinsurance
and geographical spread. And you can see that the differential between Lloyd's and its
competitor market narrowed in 2018 to 3.7%, down from an underperformance of 6.6% in
2017.
On investment return across all of the assets held at Lloyd's, the total return of £504
million represented a small, but positive return of 0.7%. It is down on previous years,
Page 4 of 18



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-27

FINAL

reflecting that volatility in the fourth quarter as a general risk of attitude was taken by
investors. We have seen interest rate rises in our principal market of the U.S. And so, our
running yield on our fixed income portfolio which represented over two thirds of the
assets held across Lloyd's that now offers a higher opportunity going forward.
There's been no significant change in the investment disposition of the Lloyd's market,
which is why its conservative with 13% invested in equity and other risk assets and a very
strong split by credit rating of the corporate bonds held by Lloyd's.
Cash and cash equivalents, which are largely letters of credit, have reduced year-on-year,
reflecting some of the transitional measures put in place by Lloyd's to reduce the amount
of letters of credit that were ineligible for solvency under the tiering test under Solvency II.
Turning to the balance sheet, Lloyd's aggregate assets' gross liabilities increased again to
£118 billion. After allowing for liabilities, net resources increased to over £28 billion. And as
in 2017, we have seen the Lloyd's market capitalize successfully following losses to leave
Lloyd's in a very strong financial position.

Bloomberg Transcript

Member assets increased by 2%, and central assets increased again by 80% year-on-year.
Yet, again, there have been no hits to the Central Funds or losses have been met by
members who are trading forward. The increase in capital at member level and central
has meant that our coverage of our central Solvency Capital Requirement increased from
215% to 250%. That's well ahead of our risk appetite of 200%.
We have a second measure of risk, which is the market-wide Solvency Capital
Requirement. This is to remember the Solvency II won 200 tests, where we've seen an
improvement from 144% to 149%. That is largely down to the reduction in our level of
letters of credit, so that all assets now held by the market are eligible for Solvency.
We would expect in the first part of this year for that ratio to improve again as members
inject capital for the losses they incurred in the fourth quarter. We've done a very
successful again accelerated capital-raising exercise to restore all members up towards
their capital requirement capital requirement to support the plans for 2019.
And that shows I think this is a final slide from me, shows the success of the Lloyd's
market and the way that we distribute profits when assets are surplus to liabilities and
capital requirements and also restore the balance sheet following losses. So, even though
we've had loss of £2 billion in 2017 and £1 billion in 2018, the financial resources for Lloyd's
market continue to grow to over £28 billion.
And with that, I'll hand over to Jon Hancock, Performance Management Director, to talk
through managing market performance.

Jon Hancock

{BIO 18712327 <GO>}

Page 5 of 18



FINAL

Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-27

Okay. Thank you, John, and good morning, everybody. So, as you've heard from John
Neal, and even taking into account those mitigating factors, the Lloyd's result is not where
it should be. And so, our first priority and my first priority for 2018 was to get Lloyd's back
on track to a sustainable profitable position and that meant taking some fast and decisive
actions to address some problem areas across the market. So, I'm going to talk through
the things that we and the market have been doing. And then, talk briefly about what
we've seen at January renewals and then where our performance management focus is
aiming at to in 2019.
So, what do we do alongside last year's regular business planning cycle, we introduced
performance reviews and that was to look specifically perennially on profitable syndicates
and classes of business. Those worst performing syndicates were eroding about 87% of
the market's profit and the worst performing class is about half of the market's profit and
therefore placing really undue strain on those better performers.
And whilst every one of those syndicates needed to demonstrate a route to sustainable,
profitable performance, it didn't mean everything had to be fixed immediately, or that
everyone and everything should have the same plan or the same time scales.

Bloomberg Transcript

Different businesses and different portfolios are at different stages of evolution, and
often have different challenges and different opportunities, but it did mean that every
single one of those plans had to be strong and had to be credible and had to be
deliverable.
So, what did we do? Well, first up, we looked top-down across the market to identify, was
there any class of business that was having a disproportional impact on the market
profitability and that's what we've been referring to as the portfolio review classes. But
then, I think more importantly, we asked each syndicate to look bottom-up at their own
portfolios, segment them into Deciles and identify the very worst performers and then to
agree with us an action plan to either improve them or remove them and that's what
we've been terming Decile 10. So, it's an approach very, very much targeted at the worst
performers and the worst-performing portfolios in the market.
So, I'm just going to share a little bit of the outcome of that on this slide. Now, the place to
aim for on the graph is the bottom right, and I'll talk a little bit about that in a moment. But
the rest of the graph shows what happened with those worst-performing portfolio review
and Decile 10 classes. And the vertical axis shows the change in profitability in the 2019
plans, and the horizontal axis shows the change in planned gross written premiums.
And you can see that those worst performers are all in the bottom left-hand corner of this
graph. So, that shows that profitability is improving in them and the size of the portfolios
for this year's plan is reducing and that's a good thing, because it means the very worst
business is being improved or removed by the market. And in addition, the rest of the
market, which is shown here in the larger purple bubble, is also improving profitability
slightly and critically is projected to grow by around 4% in this year's plans.

Page 6 of 18



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-27

FINAL

We should also remember that this is a plan, where no class of business as a whole was
closed across Lloyd's. So the market continues to offer capacity in every class of business
that it did before. But some of that capacity may be a little bit more expensive and may
be a little bit more discerning.
You'll also remember it's a stronger plan, because each syndicate is addressing its
poorest performing businesses, but also looking to maximize its best performing
business. And also, whilst we wouldn't expect to see growth at an overall market level this
year, plenty of syndicates are in fine shape and are looking to grow this year. And we
actually have a fairly equal split of syndicates growing, syndicates shrinking and syndicates
staying flat in their plans this year.
And we should also remember that the plans approved for the market this year include
more than £7 billion of new business, new and innovative business to replace the natural
attrition and some of the poorer performing classes. So, ultimately, a strong plan for
Lloyd's, strong outcome from the planning review really helps us get back to where the
Lloyd's result should be.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, just briefly on the January renewal season, and there's been lots of commentary
around there. So, I would say it's encouraging to see some good signs of momentum
across the market and across the industry, although with much more needed. And the key
headline for Lloyd's is that rate was positive at January and also in line with or better than
planned at most of the syndicates as well.
And on this side, the green line represents planned rate and the blue line above it shows
the actual rate historically achieved by the Lloyd's market and you can see the actual rate
tends to be higher. Again, this is evidence of the action that Lloyd's market has been
taking as well as an acknowledgement that there's more work to do.
There are more encouraging signs as well. Positive rate has been achieved for six
consecutive quarters at Lloyd's. And as John Parry alluded to earlier, that's part of the
reason that the attritional loss ratio has improved last year by 1.3 percentage points. And
those attritional loss ratio should continue to improve as that extra rate earns through the
portfolio over this year and the next couple of years.
It's also worth pointing out that the majority of the classes across Lloyd's are showing
positive rate. Positive rate across about 80% of the Lloyd's premium 49 out of 61 classes
of business. Pricing is and should be specific to the individual policy and the individual risks.
So, we shouldn't be surprised that we also see rates fall in the best performing areas and
to ensure that adequate and fair price is maintained.
And just one final comment on this slide is that premium volumes achieved last year and
this year-to-date are broadly in line with the syndicate plans for this year. So, I'd say that's
a good sign of underwriting discipline, but also a really good sign of a pipeline of good
quality business to be written at Lloyd's as well.

Page 7 of 18



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-27

FINAL

And finally, just a quick look at the oversight activity for this year. And our focus in 2018 was
very much about Lloyd's setting up for success and 2019 is very much about maintaining
that progress. So that does mean that everyone must deliver plans for sustainable
performance and also aim to deliver profitable growth.
As I mentioned a little earlier, this year, we'll focus much more on a continuous
improvement approach instead of one big annual exercise. In practice, that means regular
portfolio management and ongoing management by the syndicates, which is just a natural
part of good underwriting discipline. It also means we move from a pure Decile 10
approach to a more balanced Decile approach. So, we will keep monitoring and acting on
those worst performing 10 Decile classes, but we'll be moving to show more interest and
actively encouraging growth on those best performing Decile 1 and Decile 2 classes.
Another key part of our amended approach is that we're moving more from a minimum
standards approach to really identifying best practice across the market in certain key
areas. So, for this year, we've started on catastrophe underwriting and we'll move to best
practice pricing later in the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've also started reviews of acquisition and administration costs across the market. High
costs are harming Lloyd's competitiveness and combined ratios, so we have to do more
to improve them. We've delivered a thematic review on acquisition costs already this year,
which the market are working through. And a second review on administration costs is
about to start.
So, as I said at outset, Lloyd's results haven't been where we want them to be, but I do
think the work that the market has undertaken last year alongside the corporation has
delivered really good strong plans for 2019. And by delivering those plans, I'm confident
we're on the right track to achieve in that sustainable, profitable performance that we're
all talking about.
And that's our springboard to success and that's the place from where the market can
leap into profitable growth in the future, which is essential for Lloyd's to deliver those
medium- to long-term strategies, which John is now going to talk to you about. So, I'll
hand over to John.

John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

So, thank you, Jon. I said earlier 2018 was about catching up from where we needed to
be. So, the work that my team and I have been doing over the past six months has been
thinking on what we need to do next. What changes do we need to make to the
corporation and to the market to ensure that Lloyd's can thrive today, tomorrow and in
the insurance marketplace in the future as we imagine it.
So, to answer that question, we've been listening to literally hundreds of market
stakeholders, not just here in London, but around the world. So, that's everyone from
policyholders to global carriers, who operate outside of our marketplace and carriers and
brokers, large and small, who operate within our marketplace. So throughout that
Page 8 of 18



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-27

FINAL

process, we've gained some incredibly valuable insights on what Lloyd's does well and of
course what we could improve.
So, this listing too included some key markers around Lloyd's unique and valuable quality.
So, for example, our global license network reverberates with almost everyone we talked
to. The concentration of broking and underwriting expertise, our reputation for writing
specialist business and the fact that we pay billions of claims every year, which is over
£200 billion claims paid this century so far.
So, these are what powers the Lloyd's brand, the best known insurance brand in the
world, and without a doubt, one of our greatest assets. So, the short- to medium-term
has really been about making sure the corporation is set up to deliver the market's
business aspirations in an agile, efficient and in an effective way. So, this year, as you've
heard from Jon Hancock, we're continuing to work with the market to ensure its
underwriting and the way in which it assesses risk and prices risk is world-class and how
we can strip out unnecessary costs.

Bloomberg Transcript

We are and will continue to modernize the market both, by delivering on our original
promises for the target operating model and by beginning to think about what should be
next to the benefit of the market as a whole. And we're putting in place a very different
geographical focus. That means concentrating on those developed markets that have the
greatest potential for future immediate growth such as the U.S. and topical (00:28:44)
Europe.
And also, therefore, thinking about those emerging markets and emerging economies
that offer the best return for our investment. And we're looking at how we can make
better use of alternative capital. Then, there's the medium- to the long-term. So, we need
to build a Lloyd's that reflects the fundamental changes the market and the world is
experiencing. We need to have the business model, the technology, the talent, the
products, the distribution channels and the capital structures in place to seize the
opportunities our sector is competing for in this new world.
So, to start this process, we've redefined our purpose of sharing risk to create a braver
world. We've also refined Lloyd's value proposition, that is the benefits to each of our
constituent stakeholders, our carriers, our brokers, and really importantly our customers.
So, this shows where we are unique and where we can compete on things other than
price. And we're also developing our strategy to build the future at Lloyd's.
So, the first step on this journey is to launch a prospectus for consultation, which we've
said we'll do on the 1st of May. All the ideas expressed in this prospectus are based on
the conversations we have been having with the market and with all the stakeholders.
So, the preview on this slide sets out the four main strategic aims of this work, which you
can see on the slide in the top left. And based on the input so far, we've come up with six
possible options for building the future of Lloyd's, which will benefit all of the market
participants and all of our stakeholders, really importantly, our customers.

Page 9 of 18



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-27

FINAL

So, these things – this includes things like a risk exchange through which customers' risk
can be placed in minutes from anywhere in the world and at a fraction of today's cost.
And, for example, an automated claims process that speeds up settlement to improve
customer experience and indeed increase trust in the market.
I wasn't intending to go into any more detail today. That will happen on the 1st of May,
when we launch the full prospectus. But, in the meantime, we are encouraging anyone
who wants to feed into this process to do so and to register online. So, we will use this
feedback to create a blueprint for the new market along with the prototypes of whichever
elements we decide to progress with. We expect this work to be finished by September,
so we can start the full solution build in October this year. You will see change. You will see
differences in 2019.
So, overall then, it's been a mixed year, but I am genuinely encouraged by the positive
signs of recovery and I'm confident that the plans we put in place will create a prosperous
and sustainable future at Lloyd's. So, thank you.
Now, I think we have some time left over for Q&A. That could be questions either from
the room or for people on the webcast.

Q&A

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Good morning. Andreas van Embden from Peel Hunt. I have two questions please. If I think
about your attritional combined ratio, the 96.8%, obviously that still gives you a very low
margin to absorb cat losses even though you're still confident about potential reserve
leases down the line. Where would you think that attritional combined ratio would need to
be in the next two to three years to make the market structurally profitable on a
normalized basis, so including your cat loading? And my second question is, you
mentioned alternative capital and making better use as a market of alternative capital.
Could you maybe sort of highlight, what your thoughts are on that? Thank you.

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Yeah. So, I take the second question, then I might ask Jon Hancock to take the first. For
the second, I mean we know today that many of the participants in the marketplace use
alternate forms of capital to support their balance sheet. So, what we're really suggesting
is that, those alternative forms of capital could be nurtured within our market than outside
of it. So, that could be a range of different options.
It could be Lloyd's acting as a transformer for the ILS market. It could be Lloyd's excepting
the trading of indices for insurance. It could be allowing pension funds or other forms of
alternate third-party capital to more readily connect directly with risk on the marketplace.
So, it's being very open-minded to the alternate forms of capital that we now operate in
the insurance or reinsurance space globally and encouraging those alternate forms of
capital to be nurtured and operated on our platform directly.
Page 10 of 18



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-27

Jon?

FINAL

A - Jon Hancock

{BIO 18712327 <GO>}

Yeah. So, I'll answer the question slightly differently in that we haven't mentioned it here,
but you've all heard us talk before about the normalized combined ratio. I think one of the
positives in the results is we talked last year about our normalized combined ratio. So,
where we simply normalize for what we consider to be a normal cat year. We don't ignore
claims in that, which is what does a normal historical and look forward cat year look like.
And if you normalize that in our results, then the combined ratio is around about 102,
whereas last year, we were talking to you about around – about 105, so I think that's a
really positive part.
Then if you expand that, so that includes a cat load of around about 9%. So, we assume
that every year and trends are changing, but we think that 9%, 9.5% is our normal
expected cat load. So, we would therefore expect the market to be profitable, including a
9.5% cat load. Then what would the attritional look like, and the reason I'm answering
different (00:34:51) I don't think it's that simple, partly because some syndicates are pure
cat syndicates and some are pure attritional syndicates. But it's also we look at the total
combined ratio and we have an expense load of about 39%, 40%, and a claims load of
about 60%, and we've got to attack both of those things.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, for sure, I think there's a bit of improvement in the attritionals in certain areas and a lot
in some areas, but we need to attack so that that combined expense and claims ratio in a
normal 9.5% cat year is still profitable. And then we write the picture in the charts
(00:35:29).

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

So, Andrew Ritchie from Autonomous. One of the high-profile CEOs of a large operator
at Lloyd's expressed concern that it required Lloyd's to intervene on the Decile 10
initiative to get people to start fixing things. And they, I think, felt that they were two years
ahead of that. Does that concern you? Does that have wider implications about the
standard of operating some of the syndicates or why do you think it needed such
intervention? Secondly, John, I guess you've assumed the average rate which is plus 3.2%
in 2018. It is relatively higher in 2019. And, finally, what do you think is the market's Cyber
RDS now relative to net cat?

A - John Parry

{BIO 18896198 <GO>}

Shall I deal with the first one. I don't think it's for us to speculate on what the market
should or shouldn't have done, right? I think we felt that it was part of our responsibility in
supporting the financial health of the market, but we should be robust in the way in which
we challenge the plans. And I think as John's just set out to you today, we see that as a
continuing process. Some of the focus points might change, but if it helps, and if it
supports the businesses who I think are doing some good work themselves for us to be a
little bit more interventionist then that's what we'll do and that's how we'll be.

A - Jon Hancock

{BIO 18712327 <GO>}
Page 11 of 18



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-27

Yeah. And there's a huge divergence. This is a market of 90-odd underwriting firms, and
you'd expect to see different standards. And you see different standards in performance
and different standards of who's ahead of the curve and who's behind the curve. And I
think you see a distribution and some require more intervention than others. (00:37:25)

FINAL

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

I do.

A - Jon Hancock

{BIO 18712327 <GO>}

...that's fair, fair to say. On the Cyber RDSes, I'll say a couple of things, one is we do a lot
of work and we've done a lot of work on Cyber RDSes, and they are nowhere near the
size of a natural catastrophe. I say that with the caveat, of course, that we still learn with
cyber. We have the benefit of we may not have got the models, but we've got 350 years
of modeling experience on natural catastrophes. We don't have that on Cyber.
And much as there's clearly some climate changes and different incidences going on
cyber, probably, the risks are changing daily, aren't they and our learning is changing daily,
but let's say we look at the knowns to the affirmative and the silent (00:38:11) cyber cover,
they're nowhere near the size of a nat cat.

Bloomberg Transcript

We're actually in the midst of doing some more work right now to reevaluate those
RDSes to set some different RDSes. We've set some centrally. We ask each syndicate to
do their top-five scenarios as well. We're in the course of updating those as well to make
sure we understand the exposures and make sure that we're set forward.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

And then, the average rate?

A - Jon Hancock

{BIO 18712327 <GO>}

Yeah. So, average rate is – so, average rate, I think, is a good indicator, but that's all it is.
And, I think, in a – and, I mean, at a marketplace of 90 underwriting firms, I think averages
are quite dangerous, because I don't think there is an average syndicate at Lloyd's. There
are cohorts who look and feel the same sort of business. I think averages are very
dangerous.
And if you look at that 3.2%, that could be every – anything from minus 10 in some places
to plus hundreds in others depending on. So, I think, what we will get is, and you've seen it
play out in the newspapers and you'll see it play out in some of the reports, if you look at
those loss-affected areas, will continue to drive higher rate increases.
From Lloyd's perspective, those portfolio review classes and those real worst performers
have attracted much harder rate than the better performers. So, I think we'll see a mix.
We know what the targets are. Will it be higher or lower? I think it will be in the ballpark
actually. And I think continual sticky rates that stays with us and is fair on customers and
allows everybody to manage efficiencies is much better than trying to get back to the
Page 12 of 18



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-27

cycles (00:39:54) I think it's the momentum and the stickability is the most important part
at the moment.

FINAL

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

The thing I'll add on cyber, which so it's third of the world's premium for cyber is
underwritten in Lloyd's. I think the good news for that is, we've got a better dataset than
most. We've actually handled over 25,000 cyber claims already. So, it's not only in terms
of assessing and measuring the risk as we would see it, and we would use our capital
models in the same way you would expect us to do to do that. We've actually got real
data to see actually what happens in the event of loss and how loss translates compared
to how we protected it.
So, as Jon said, we're evolving our thinking and our assessment of measuring exposure.
But the quality of that data is helping us to get we think more precise, which the corollary
of that is I think the product gets better and the product that we're selling to the
customer gets better.

Q - Marcus Patrick Rivaldi

{BIO 19170623 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It's Marcus Rivaldi, Twelve Capital. A few questions, please. The first one, you talked
about growth on existing business about 5% last year. I'm assuming that was a lower
number reflecting the impact of your Decile 10 action. Could you give us a sense what the
– should we say the level of premium being cut (00:41:07) from that action was? And
perhaps is that something we'll see more in 2019 rather than 2018 that impact coming
through?
Secondly, do you think we should be expecting a very steep decline in the loss ratio at the
market to reflect the action that you've been undertaking, or is it going to be more
gradual level of improvement?
Next, on acquisition cost. John, do you think there's a self-help story here, or is this
something really more as a gift of the brokers to get that acquisition cost ratio down
going forward?
And finally on PYD (00:41:44), whether any positive one-offs in that number perhaps for
an Ogden (00:41:47) rebasing? Thank you.

A - John Parry

{BIO 18896198 <GO>}

Should we take it in reverse orders, do you want to do PYD (00:41:53) first?

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

No. In terms of Ogden (00:41:57) syndicates haven't moved much during 2018. The
Ministry of Justice, it's coming but that's prudent rather than very prudent. In terms of
Harvey, Irma and Maria, on that loss estimates remained stable exactly where they were a
year ago. It's more general releases from a significant minority of syndicates who hold
initially prudent claims estimates and then recognize them as more certainty emerges
Page 13 of 18



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-27

over time rather than being related to any one-off either major claim or release of a court
judgment.

FINAL

A - John Parry

{BIO 18896198 <GO>}

I'll take the middle two questions and I'll hand over to Jon on the growth question. I think
in terms of improvement, as you know, the lifecycle of an insurance policy runs for two
years anyway, accepting the policies incept on the last day of the year. So a lot of the
underwriting that features in the financial accounts in 2019 was committed in 2018 and
some of it in 2017. So the simple reality is, does the improvement does take a bit of time.
Not a lot actually. So, I think in two years, you could see meaningful change. In one year,
you'll see some change. So, our expectation and our plans tell us that the market for that
normalized cat allowance is back in profit in 2019. We would therefore expect to see
further improvements in 2020.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think the total acquisition cost, yeah, there's a bit of self-help. I think, yeah, the underlying
businesses really need to understand the moving parts and the components of their P&L
and address that for themselves, but there's a lot we can do as well. So, as John said in
his sort of highlights for 2019, we are looking at all parts of the P&L and actually having a
particular focus on the way in which remuneration is paid for (00:43:52) distribution, how
is that structured, is your business model right for different types of distribution and what
are your own administration costs.
So, I think there's a nudge we can do on that. Yeah. The talk that we're putting into the
marketplace around the future is to say, well, how can we make it easier to do business
with Lloyd's, and we've got to drive very ambitiously to significantly reduce the cost of
doing business. So, if we're at 39 to 40 points, that's not too high, it's significantly too
high.
So, part of the thinking around the way in which we see the market operating is to very,
very substantially simplify the way in which we do business at Lloyd's and therefore take
cost out with actually one objective is we've got to be able to sell our product to the end
customer for less money. If not, then we'll find ourselves in a very challenging space. So,
short term, we can act. We can nudge those underneath us to act. But, our longer term
thinking is to significantly attack and reduce the cost of doing business.

A - Jon Hancock

{BIO 18712327 <GO>}

Yeah. So, on the growth and to continue where John left off, on that prior year premium
cost, that is generally, and I think John Parry said coming through good areas. It's largely
delegated authority business, which we earn slower and notifies more slowly and it's
largely in some of the more profitable short-tail classes.
Equally, that's premium that was written two or three years ago and hasn't had the benefit
of some of the rate adjustment, so that weighted average starts to look different. And so,
we look at the written premiums and the written loss ratios as well as the earned. So,
some of that will start to improve in two years when that quality of earnings starts to
come through.

Page 14 of 18



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-27

FINAL

Talking specifically on the numbers. So, the 5% across existing syndicates is that lower
than normal last year. It's about in the ballpark actually last year. I mean, Lloyd's has been
growing 5% to 6% per year over the last few years and the world has been growing at 1%,
2% and insurance rates. So, that's probably about an average number, but I think the
makeup is different. That's why we make the point of that 5 percentage points of growth,
3 percentage points comes from years prior to 2018.
So, what you'll see and I'll share a number with you've asked is those two bubbles of the
Decile and the performance review classes, that premium equates to about £3 billion of
premium that is ultimately being removed from the marketplace. And that's a number that
we've shared not widely, but we have shared that that number.
And of course, that's been restocked by about £7.5 billion of new business. And so, the
trick here, of course, is to make sure that that new business that's coming in is of equal or
better quality to your good performing business as well and those are the standards that
all of the underwriters are setting themselves. So, some of that will continue to wash
through this year. It hasn't all come out last year, which is why we've said we don't expect
to see market growth this year, but we do expect to see that big purple bubble growing,
because that's the good business and the other which we've really targeted significantly
growing.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

Hi. Ben Cohen, of Investec. I wonder if you could just say something more in terms of
claims inflation. Any areas specifically by the subclasses that concern you that maybe
pricing isn't keeping up in line with claims increases that you're seeing. And specifically any
issues around potential recession in Europe or indeed a slowdown in the U.S. economy
and the impact that that could have. Thank you.

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

So, let's start and you can add some color. So, on the macro question, we're not seeing
any evidence of superimposed claims inflation. So, if you look through all of the lines of
business, particularly the casualty lines, there's no evidence of superimposed claims
inflation yet. We are looking for it, because we would be asking the same question you're
asking, should this happen, could it happen. So, it's something we're looking for closely.
We're not seeing it. I think the second part before John will goes bit more detail around
the descriptor of the claims book is the great thing with the actuarial science and the
reviews that are placed to reserves, no actually ever it seems the inflation doesn't exist.
So they always assume that inflation exists and therefore, are always inflating reserves.
When you look at first-party claims actually, we're in a world of negative inflation, costs are
coming down and that's part of the reason why you continue to see prior reserve
releases at Lloyd's is that there is a continuing assumption that inflation exists in recent
times. We simply haven't seen it and for that reason you're seeing some prior year
reserve releases, but John might have some...

A - John Parry

{BIO 18896198 <GO>}
Page 15 of 18



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-27

FINAL

Yeah. There's no doubt there's a high inherent risk, and that's one of the reasons – one of
the controls that Lloyd's has is an independent statement of actuarial opinion on every
syndicate's reserves. And in that report to Lloyd's, they have to comment on how they
have allowed for claims inflation in the reserves. So, that's an area that we have been
highlighting with the market just because the risk is there and highlighting do not bank the
fact that, for the last five years, you're on development triangles that haven't seen
significant claims inflation.
We're talking about markets like the U.S., UK and Europe, which is sort of nearly 80-oddpercent of our book. So, you do need to allow for that, particularly now in the United
States, where we've seen interest rate rises, so the risk with sort of GDP and the rest of it.
The other protection for Lloyd's is that our liabilities are longer than our asset portfolio.
So, in terms of asset liability matching, we're slightly short of duration. So, actually, sort of
a inflation – a modest inflation within so, actually, economically beneficial overall when you
start putting the assets and the liabilities together.

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

I have a question from William Hawkins (00:50:25), KBW. You have £37 billion of new and
innovative premium entering the market, how comfortable are you with your ability to
assess this business so that it does not become the next portfolio review Decile 10
cohort?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jon Hancock

{BIO 18712327 <GO>}

Okay. And that's one of the conversations we have with ourselves and with the
marketplace. I mean, the first point I'd make, of course, is, we, at the corporation, do not
underwrite this business, so the quality of underwriting, the underwriting discipline and the
discipline to ensure that all of that hard work of attacking the worst-performing business
isn't undone by writing some poor quality and new business. And so, we have to assume
and trust the syndicates to take the writer action equally.
We have a lot of oversight and monitoring of that, we have very, very specific KPIs for
each class of business at each syndicate and some callouts, where we can see if certain
traditionally challenged portfolios look like they're growing too quickly. But the market is
very, very well aware that they don't want to undo all of the hard work and I'd say I think
we have seen increasing underwriting discipline around to say, let's not watch – and when
we're talking about rates, we've been talking about on that renewal business that rates
have been I think trending upwards, which is generally a good thing where there's
underpricing, let's not make sure it's undone by poor quality new business.
So I'm confident the syndicates are doing that and I'm confident we've got the oversight
to look out for it.

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

And there's a question (00:52:07). Can you comment on the importance of Lloyd's rating
and maintaining at its current level?
Page 16 of 18



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-27

FINAL

Yeah. So, there's no doubt the financial strength rating is important to the customers to
give them confidence that all valid claims will be paid. We've taken steps to address I think
the two critical areas from the rating agents, which was the sustainability of our
underwriting performance through the performance management actions that have been
taking place.
And secondly, on the quantity and quality of capital, so particularly that removal of having
assets on our balance sheet that were ineligible for Solvency. So, letters of credit access
under the Solvency II tiering. By removing that, and showing demonstrable improvement
in underwriting and confidence in our plans, that's where we were looking. We talked to
the rating agency about during this year as they come up to their annual committees.

A - John Parry

{BIO 18896198 <GO>}

I think two things to add to that. I think John spoke about that quite eloquently. When we
looked at the balance sheet, despite two very challenging years in 2017 and 2018, you can
see no evidence of the balance sheet being rated to improve the P&L, number one. And
number two, the quality of the balance sheet has actually improved over that period of
time. So, I think whether it's the rating agency or the policyholders, they should have
increased confidence in all that underpins the policy underwritten with Lloyd's.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Yeah. (00:53:33). About the flexibility of capital access in the market, I'm thinking I heard a
comment this morning that you are thinking about moving away from the one coming into
line date. Can you give some more thoughts on that? I would like you to (00:53:48)
comment more on your prospectus later in the year. And I've got second question as well.
We talked a lot about underwriting. On the investment side of the balance sheet, to what
extent are you able to keep an eye on what the syndicates are doing in terms of how
they're investing their assets, is there a temptation that bearing in mind the returns it
might go further down the risk curve and do you have control over that?
Sure. I'll answer the first question.
Yes.
I'll ask John Parry to answer the second. I think on the first, all of these really pretty clear,
everything's up for review and we mean everything. So, I think if we're prepared to
imagine what the future could look like then we should be prepared to discuss every item
and aspect of what we do today and that includes one day around coming into line of
funds. So, we are absolutely looking at that.

A - John Parry

{BIO 18896198 <GO>}

And I would say on top of that it is a pretty flexible model. And that when losses are
incurred, we do talk to the market about recapitalizing outside of any fixed date, because
it is a partial mutual and we are looking to protect the Central Fund when there is a capital
erosion or a change in risk profile.

Page 17 of 18



Company N ame: Society of L loyd' s
Company Ticker: 3383Z L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-27

FINAL

In terms of investments, so I think we saw earlier on the slide, about 13% of the market's
investments were in equity and risk assets. They had increased slightly during the last few
years. So, that's largely been a very strong equities performance that we saw in 2016 and
2017, rather than the change in strategy.
The Central Fund can take a longer-term horizon and that has about 40% of assets and
risk assets across a mix of portfolios. I think the market could move a long way before
investment risk becomes anywhere near the challenge of insurance risk. This is a
marketplace where our capital is poor reserves catastrophe and poor attritional loss
experience. Investment risk is modest compared to those three key (00:55:39).

A - John D. Neal

{BIO 15681439 <GO>}

Thank you. Okay. I think that's the questions. So, thank you very much, everyone, both in
the room and on the lines for joining us this morning.

A - John Parry

{BIO 18896198 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 18 of 18

