Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

S1 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Inder Singh, Group Chief Financial Officer
Patrick Regan, Group Chief Executive Officer

Other Participants
Andrew Buncombe , Analyst
Daniel Toohey, Analyst
Kieren Chidgey, Analyst
Matthew Dunger, Analyst
Nigel Pittaway, Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Thank you for joining us here today. Our program of work in 2019 is very much built on the
strategy that we put in place at the end of 2017, which, as you all know was centered
around simplifying the group, introducing the cell review process as a group-wide,
consistent underwriting performance management tool, embedding a Brilliant Basics
program for underwriting pricing and claims, and embracing a common QBE culture
defined in our QBE DNA.
In 2019, we worked hard to further embed, deepen and improve all elements of this
strategy, and hopefully, that's evident in today's results. From my perspective, the
highlights of today include continued group-wide rate momentum, solid underlying
growth, a further strong improvement in attritional claims ratio, a further improvement in
our combined ratio despite the foreshadowed increase in our cat and risk allowance and
headwinds in Crop and LMI, a better-than-expected investment result and a strong
increase in our interim dividend. Overall, I'm really pleased with the shape and underlying
quality of the result today.
Cell reviews have been the cornerstone of both our 2018 and our 2019 programs work.
As you know, it's a detailed, rigorous underwriting performance management tool, and
I've personally completed over 200 reviews during the half, with more importantly, many
times that number completed by the divisions themselves.
We're also continuously looking to improve the cell review process, particularly with
respect to the management information that we look at and the questions that we ask.
The MI being presented in these reviews is better, and we now have a more complete
suite of forward-looking MI. For example, obviously, including premium rate adequacy,
Page 1 of 17



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

exposure changes, limit deployment strategies, cell-level volatility maps, et cetera, et
cetera.

FINAL

The Brilliant Basics program is the second cornerstone of our improvement work. Brilliant
Basics was initially very much focused on creating high-quality, consistent, group-wide
standards for how we price risk, how we underwrite and how we manage claims in every
portfolio, everywhere that we do business.
And although that sounds simple, it is, in fact, very difficult to implement in practice, and
very few, if any, international insurers have done so. We've made huge strides on this over
the last 18 months. I'm going to refer in a bit to a few specific examples of some of the
underwriting work we're doing in cell reviews and Brilliant Basics a little bit later.
On pricing momentum, we maintained strong pricing momentum again in the first half
with average rate increases of nearly 5%. As you will have seen from some of the results
of our competitors, the global pricing environment is gradually becoming more
supportive, particularly in the US and in the London market. We achieved strong premium
rate increases in all divisions led by Australia Pacific at 6.8%, North America at 4.1% and
international at 3.8%.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the results itself, probably the two most pleasing aspects for me were the combined
ratio of 95.2%, a little more than 0.5 point better than a year ago despite those
headwinds, and then nearly 4% improvement in the attritional claims ratio, with all three
divisions reporting strong improvement.
Rounding out on our operating performance, our investment team had a cracking start to
2019, delivering an annualized net return of 6.8%. This obviously includes significant gains
as a result of the decline in risk-free rates, but even excluding those gains, the annualized
net return is stronger 4.5% and compares favorably with our targeted full-year net
investment return of 3% to 3.5% on the same basis.
During the half, we took the opportunity to slightly extend fixed income duration to 2.5
years, 2.25 years. And we also slightly increased our weight into growth assets, ending the
half towards our planned 15% allocation. We've maintained a strong balance sheet. Our
PCA multiple remains towards the upper end of our target range at 1.75 times, and we've
continued to buy back both equity and debt, our debt-equity ratio falling to 36.8% from
38% at 31 December, 2018.
Just a couple of things on the results. Excluding the impact of disposals and a little
portfolio repositioning, gross written premium grew by 3% on a constant currency basis.
I'll give you a little bit more color on where we're growing in a moment. And the cash
profit ROE was 13.4%, up significantly from 9.6% in the prior period. And reflecting the
Board's confidence in both balance sheet and earnings momentum, our interim dividend
increased to AUD0.25 per share, up 14% from AUD0.22 per share in the prior period.
We again saw strong rate increases on all of our major markets, leading to an average
group-wide increase of 4.7%. When comparing this to the second half of 2018, it's
Page 2 of 17



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

probably worth noting the seasonality of some of our portfolio renewals. So for example,
our reinsurance renewals, which saw lower overall rate increases than our insurance
businesses. Reinsurance renewals mainly occur in the first half and, indeed, mainly in the
first quarter of the year. Rate momentum accelerated across the half with the average
increase being 5.3% in the second quarter, up from 4.1% in the first quarter. North
America, we saw average rate increases of 4.1%, with around two-thirds of the portfolio
achieving increases, a notable exception being workers' comp and we saw double-digit
increases in property programs, accident and health, general aviation, and directors and
officers insurance.
International achieved a rate increase of 3.8%, which included just under 4% in our
European operations and just over 2% in our Asian business. Our London Market insurance
business achieved an average rate of just over 6%. After years of flat or falling rates in the
London market, this momentum is encouraging and indicative, I think, of a market
demonstrating much improved pricing discipline. Finally, in our home market, Australia
Pacific, achieved rate increases of nearly 7% ex-CTP. And particularly pleasing, I think, is the
breadth of those increases, 17% in commercial property, 10% in strata, 8% in commercial
motor and 6% in commercial packages, to give you just a few examples. I think, overall,
based on the trends we're seeing right around the world, I'd expect to see continued
positive rate momentum when we report our full year results.
Moving to the attritional claims ratio, this is one of my favorite slide. I think this slide really
does speak volumes to the work we're doing across the group. The continued
improvement experienced in all divisions over what's now a sustained period is testament
to the work our underwriting teams have been doing. Just for what I've noted, you'll see
the light blue lines there is the old basis of reporting, so pre-Equator. And the dark blue
lines are the new basis of reporting, and you can see the trends are virtually identical.
Since peaking in the second half of 2017, the group's attritional claims ratio has improved
by nearly 7%. All divisions have made good progress in this half, reporting around a 3% or
better improvement in the attritional claims ratio, but obviously, the pricing environment
has helped a little. However, I firmly believe our rigorous performance management
culture and underwriting strategies have contributed significantly to this material and
sustained improvement. On growth, we previously said, we expected to see
opportunities for targeted growth across all of our divisions, but also that we would
remain disciplined around risk selection and remain focused on margin overgrowth. Whilst
the pricing environment has improved, we still need to remain highly disciplined and
selective in assessing new business opportunities. Underlying growth is up a little bit
versus the same period a year ago at 3% compared to 2%. And growth in the recent half
again reflects targeted rate increases and strong retention levels of our better risks. North
America grew modestly overall. Our alternative market division grew 4%, underpinned
particularly by growth in property programs. And our Crop business grew 1% despite
lower commodity prices, reflecting a 6% growth in policy count on the back of our strong
Crop customer service proposition.
In international, the European operations grew 5%, with notable growth in our London
Market business, particularly in natural resources and liability and our Continental Europe
business, particularly France and Spain. Australia Pacific achieved solid growth in strata. We
saw rate increases of nearly 10% -- or above 10%. Similarly, strong rate increases

Page 3 of 17



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

contributed to a nearly 10% growth in workers' comp, while both commercial pack and
farm grew mid-single digits. Cell reviews. Since rolling out cell reviews globally at the start
of 2018, we've seen a material reduction in those cells generating current accident year
underwriting losses, which is what we're showing you on the chart here, particularly in
North America and international. But probably worth noting, for the current period on
Australia Pacific, this is adversely impacted by the cats we had at the start of the year. And
if you adjust for excess cat experience, you see roughly half of that gray bar disappear.
And as you can see from the chart, the cell review discipline is helping reduce both the
absolute number of cells generating underwriting losses as well as the size of those
losses. But we're also growing the most profitable cells. The current accident year profit
from our profitable cells, i.e., the dark blue bars, has increased by 60% from the same
time last year. And the number of cells contributing to that figure has grown from just over
half to around two-thirds now. So, we're both turning loss-making cells to profitability, but
also generating stronger earnings from our profitable cells. Hopefully, what all of this
means is while we're never going to get to the nirvana where all cells are performing
optimally at the same time, it does give us improved earnings resilience and enables us
to resort -- absorb reduced contribution of many individual cells, so for example, Crop, in
the current period.

Bloomberg Transcript

A little bit on Brilliant Basics. Initially, the focus of Brilliant Basics program has very much
been on establishing high-quality standards and consistency across the group. That work
is now largely complete, and we've moved into the phase of building brilliant and
distinctive capabilities in underwriting pricing and claims. And I really do think this will be
the hallmark longer term of QBE.
I want to give you a feel for some examples of what this means in practice. So on pricing,
we focused on the continued enhancement of our individual pricing models, including, for
example, a much greater use of third-party data and applications. We've also improved
the quality and the accessibility of our pricing adequacy tools, making sure we're using
them everywhere across all portfolios and adopting a globally consistent approach to how
we calculate the premium rate adequacy.
We've also launched a global commercial property pricing project today to standardize
and improve the pricing approach for every single commercial property portfolio right
across the globe for what is a AUD2 billion business. We've also now recruited global
heads of long-tail pricing and a global head of short-tail pricing to drive further best
practice and cross-divisional collaboration.
Under Brilliant Basics claims, our claims and data analytics teams are collaborating to
improve our data-led decision-making and also to use digital technologies such as artificial
intelligence, robots, chatbots to improve customer experience and reduce claims costs.
Give you an example of that in Australia Pacific, our claims and data analytics teams
designed and developed a new property triage tool for use during claims lodgement. The
tool helps simplify the decision complexity for our claims officers, which then hopefully
reduces leakage and balance the workflow to suppliers, thereby, improving our customer
experience.

Page 4 of 17



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

We've rolled it out to 270 claims offices, and early benefits include a 16% reduction in the
time taken for work to repent -- commence and a 23% reduction in the time taken for
repair work to be completed, all leading to an 8 point increase on our net promoter score.
In Brilliant Basics underwriting, we focus on many things, including standardization and
tightening of underwriter-delegated authority levels and improving the governance of our
third-party agency business. Probably more important, we've also put in place many new
or enhanced underwriting strategies right across our portfolios themselves. We worked
hard on achieving the right mix of hazard grades, reducing exposure to higher hazardgrade business, optimizing line sizes and aggregations.

Bloomberg Transcript

Give a couple of examples of that. In London, what we call our property book of business
that we call our international D&F, direct and facultative property. And there, we
implemented new cat management tools to reduce our average annual expected losses
from cats. This is a very detailed process, resulting in reducing limits. So, we reduced our
limits of greater than AUD20 million by 65%, and very significantly reduced our cat
exposures in peak territories by between 40% and 65%, all while managing the premium
pool, thereby reducing our combined operating ratio current year on that book of
business by 28% half-on-half.
In North America, the D&O class of business has been -- seen a very heightened level of
claims activity right across the insurance sector, particularly for larger risks. We got at what
-- we think we've got ahead of some of those trends in 2018 by introducing a new D&O
risk selection tool and that helped us implement a strategy to move -- to change the
shape and the mix of the book of business, focusing more on private company D&O,
away from public company and reducing our overall maximum line size to AUD10 million
and less on all accounts.
These actions helped reduce our prior year exposure in primary accounts by 35%, excess
accounts by 20% and our average line size by 24%. And our current year accident year
combined ratio there has improved 34% half-on-half.
Finally, similarly, in commercial property in Australia, as you all know, this is a market
segment that's been wildly unprofitable for the entire industry in recent years, generating
combined ratios well in excess of 130%. We put in place a comprehensive overall program
of work. We updated our property pricing models, implemented new underwriter training,
created new underwriting tools and analysis and significantly limited our underwriters
ability to discount for the model price.
We also worked hard to reposition the book away from higher hazard-grade risks, actively
reducing our exposure to sectors such as mining, pubs and clubs, abattoirs and food
manufacturing. As a result of all of those initiatives, we reduced our exposure to higher
hazard-grade risks by 32% but only reduced our premium pool by 10%. What does all that
mean? Well, this led to a 66% reduction in large claims from high-hazard risks, a 50%
reduction in large claims overall and a 40% improvement again in our combined ratio halfon-half. With that, I'm going to hand you over to Inder to take you through the results in a
little bit more detail.

Page 5 of 17



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

Inder Singh

{BIO 20594382 <GO>}

FINAL

Great. Thank you, Pat. Good morning, all. So, I'll take you through some of the detail of our
half year result, which demonstrates the continued improvement in both the quality and
the resilience of our earnings.
I'll start with our overall group P&L, and just call out a few key metrics on this slide. Written
premium was up 1% on a constant currency basis, and up 3% when adjusted for
divestments and portfolio-repositioning initiatives. The combined operating ratio
improved by just over 0.5 point to 95.2%. This was driven by a significant improvement in
the attritional claims ratio, partially offset by a lower earnings contribution from our LMI
and Crop businesses, as well as a flagged headwind from the restructure of our
reinsurance program.
Our annualized net investment return of 4.5% was meaningfully higher than our target
range of 3% to 3.5%. We've had quite an extraordinary run in investment markets over the
last six months, with our returns supported by a sharp fall in risk-free rates, the narrowing
of credit spreads and a rally in growth assets.

Bloomberg Transcript

Cash profit after tax for the half was AUD520 million. Adjusting for non-recurring items,
including gains on disposals, the impact of the Ogden decision and restructuring costs,
the cash profit from continuing operations was $565 million. This equates to a very strong
return on equity of 13.4%.
We have declared an interim dividend of AUD0.25 per share, which represents a healthy
14% increase on the prior period. And it underscores our confidence in the momentum of
our business. The dividend equates to a payout ratio of 45% of cash profit. And if we
normalize our investment performance to the midpoint of our target range, the payout
ratio is closer to 61%.
Overall, I'm encouraged by the ongoing improvement in both the quality of our earnings
and the strength of our balance sheet. Year-to-date, we bought back AUD174 million
worth of QBE shares. And when we add this to our interim dividend, we'll have just -- we'll
have returned just over AUD500 million to shareholders in the first half.
I'll now briefly walk you through the year-on-year movements in our key metric, the
combined operating ratio. As you can see from the waterfall, our combined ratio
improved by just over 0.5 point from 95.8% in the prior period to 95.2%. The reduction in
our attritional claims ratio, which is the very first block you see in the walk here, was the
biggest single driver of this improvement. Pleasingly, we saw a consistent level of
improvement in our attritional claims ratio across each of our three divisions.
The second block on the walk represents the headwind from the lower earnings
contribution from Crop and from LMI. As many of you are aware, our US crop business has
been impacted by an unusually wet spring season. And this is flowing through to an
elevated level of preventive planting claims.

Page 6 of 17



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

To reflect this, we booked our business to a current year combined ratio of around 98%
compared to around 93% in the prior period. And this equates to a ratio -- this equates to
around 0.5 point headwind to the group combined ratio. In addition, the lower earnings
contribution from LMI represents a further 0.5 point impact compared to the prior period.
As we flagged in our market update in December, we expected the restructure of our
reinsurance program in 2019 to impact our combined ratio by around 1 point.
The third block on the chart here shows that this year-on-year movement is in line with our
expectations, with our higher allowance for large risk and cat claims, partially offset by
lower reinsurance spend. Releases from prior year reserves contributed a modest 80
basis points to our underwriting results, and this was in line with the prior period.
I'll now turn to our divisional performance in more detail. This year, we have simplified our
reporting and folded the results of our internal captive reinsurer, Equator Re, back into the
relevant business units to give you a better view of performance in each of our operating
divisions.
I'll start with our home market of Australia Pacific. Gross written premium of AUD1.96 billion
was up 2% in constant currency terms and up 3% when adjusting for the sale of our travel
insurance business and the contraction in LMI.

Bloomberg Transcript

Rate momentum remained strong at 6.8%, with most of the increases targeted in areas
where the rate adequacy or return on capital is not sufficient. We're carefully tracking how
our pricing and underwriting initiatives are translating into sustainable improvements in our
attritional claims ratio.
To give you a few portfolio-specific examples, in commercial motor, we achieved a rate
increase of 8% and a year-on-year improvement in the attritional claims ratio of 9 points.
In workers' comp, we achieved a rate increase of 6%, and the attritional is down over 10
points. Similarly, in our strata business, we achieved a rate increase of 10%, and the
attritional is down over 10 points.
Importantly, our retention ratio remains stable at around 83% across our book of business.
As you can see from the chart here, the headline combined ratio was a very impressive
90.5% with a year-on-year movement driven by a few key components. The attritional
loss ratio improved by 3.5 points, and large-risk losses were slightly better than expected.
However, these impacts were more than offset by an elevated level of cat activity,
particularly the Townsville floods, with our reported cat loss ratio around 4 points higher
than the prior period and about 1 point higher than our divisional allowance.
The combined ratio of LMI increased to 58.5% from 50.6% in the first half of 2018, and
was also marginally higher than the 55% reported for the full-year 2018. This increase in
LMI was primarily driven by the contraction in earned premium, resulting from the
slowdown in home lending that we've seen in recent years. Key credit metrics continue to
trend broadly in line with our expectations. And the near-term outlook for this business is
stabilizing given the recent adjustments in Australian policy settings.

Page 7 of 17



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

I'll turn now to international. Gross written premium in this division of AUD2.9 billion was up
around 4% in constant currency terms, with 5% growth in European operations, partly
offset by a contraction in Asia, which reflected the flow-through of the remediation
activities in this region over the last 18 months.
Overall, across international, premium rates increased by around 4% with retention steady
at around 81%. As Pat referenced, we are seeing better trading conditions in the London
Market than we have for many years with good rate momentum and quality new business.
In our UK regional businesses, we're achieving strong rate increases in the areas we've
seen elevated claims costs, in particular, commercial motor and financial lines. As you can
see from the chart, the current accident year combined ratio of 92.9% was 2.3 points
lower than the prior period, driven by a strong 3 point decrease in the attritional claims
ratio, lower operating expenses and benign cat activity, all of which more than offset the
slightly higher than expected cost of large risk claims. It's worth noting that our large risk
experience in this division tends to be a little bit more volatile given the nature of the
exposure and the line sizes we write out of our London Market operations.

Bloomberg Transcript

Targeted underwriting and pricing actions have improved our current year claims ratio
across several lines where returns have been challenged, including international property
and European financial lines, which both saw a more than 10 point improvement, as well
as UK liability, which saw a 5 point improvement.
Pleasingly, our expense ratio also improved by 0.5 point versus the prior period. Our costout initiatives are improving the efficiency of our operating platform, and we're also
starting to benefit from the economies of scale as market conditions improve.
Turning now to North America. Gross written premium of AUD2.8 billion was broadly flat if
you exclude the impact of asset sales. Underlying growth was closer to 3%, adjusting for
some portfolio repositioning we have undertaken in our corporate and our excess &
surplus lines books. The premium adequacy and quality of business in these portfolios
require remediation. So, we've shed some business and are now achieving more
appropriate rate on the new business that we're writing.
More broadly, we achieved a healthy rate increase of around 4% across our North
American business, with positive rate momentum across nearly two-thirds of the book.
Overall, retention was around 72%, adjusting for some of the portfolio repositioning I
referenced earlier.
As you can see on the chart, our current accident combined -- current accident year
combined ratio improved by around 1 point to 98.8%, driven by a strong 3 point
improvement in the attritional claims ratio and a lower expense ratio, both of which more
than offset the impact of lower contribution from our Crop business.
Targeted underwriting and pricing actions have improved our attritional claims ratios
across several lines where returns have been under pressure, including professional lines

Page 8 of 17



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

where we've seen a 9 point improvement, specialty programs, more than 10 point
improvement, and Assumed Re, around a 5 point improvement.
The simplification of our business in North America is an important component of our
efficiency program. We've made a good start on this with the expense ratio of the
business improving 1.5 points versus the prior period. The sale of our retail personal lines
business, which we completed on the 1st of August, is another important enabler of this
program.
Turning to the next slide, and more broadly on operational efficiency. You'll recall that we
are targeting around AUD200 million of gross cost savings, AUD130 million of net savings
and an expense ratio of less than 14% by 2021.
We're only six months into this program of work, but I'm pleased with the progress that
we're making. We've achieved around AUD20 million in underlying net savings, and we're
on track to deliver AUD40 million by the end of this year. Our expense ratio stands at
14.8%, which is lower than both the first half 2018 of 15% and the second half last year at
15.3%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Within our 2019 numbers, we are absorbing an elevated level of regulatory and
compliance costs. And importantly, this doesn't change the underlying trajectory of our
expense program or our operational efficiency targets for 2021. However, our current
expectation is that we will incur approximately AUD30 million of incremental one-time
regulatory project charges in 2020, and we will clearly highlight these when we set out our
combined ratio guidance for next year.
I'll turn now to investment returns. As I referenced earlier, we've experienced an
extraordinary six months in investment markets with a sharp fall in bond yields and credit
spreads as central banks have shifted their policy stance to more expansionary settings.
Growth assets have also rallied as valuations have rerated to reflect lower discount rates
and expected policy stimulus. This backdrop has helped us deliver a remarkably strong
annualized net investment return of 6.8% compared with the 2.1% in the prior period.
Excluding the discount rate impact on our liabilities, the investment return was 4.5%, which
was meaningfully above our target range of 3% to 3.5%. Fixed income assets generated
a return of 2.7% compared with 0.6% in the prior period and growth assets return 7.6%, up
from 4.5%.
Our asset duration now stands at 2.3 years, a modest extension relative to 2.1 years at the
end of last year. More importantly, the significant extension of our asset duration over the
last 18 months has helped protect our P&L from the sharp movements in risk-free rates
that we've seen during this half year, with the impact on claims liabilities broadly offsetting
the mark-to-market gains on investment assets.
Notwithstanding the fact that our running yield at the half is around 60 basis points lower
than at the end of last year, our strong performance in the first half positions us well for
the delivery of our full-year investment return targets.
Page 9 of 17



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

I'll conclude with some remarks on our balance sheet and our capital position. Our APRA
PCA multiple at the half is 1.75 times, which remains towards the upper end of our target
range. This reflects our solid earnings generation over the half, partially offset by the 2018
final dividend and the share buyback activity we've undertaken in the half. We retained a
very strong S&P capital position with a healthy excess above a AA level of capital.
As I referenced earlier, we purchased AUD174 million worth of QBE shares in the first half.
And since the commencement of the buyback program, we have purchased AUD646
million in shares, resulting in a cancellation of 58.6 million shares or 4.3% of our issued
capital.
Our gearing ratio was 36.8%, lower than the 38% recorded at the end of 2018. We
bought back AUD195 million of senior debt in the half, representing the last of our
remaining non-capital qualifying debt. The benefit of this buyback on our gearing ratio was
partially offset by a stronger US dollar and our adoption of accounting standard AASB 9.
With that, I'll now hand back to Pat to talk through our outlook.

Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Inder. As we look across the remainder of 2019, the outlook is for more of the
same. We are focused on delivering our plan, underpinned by an improving attritional
claims ratio. To do this, we need to continue with our cell review processes and the buildout of our Brilliant Basics program.
We're also continuing to focus on creating a distinctive, diverse and high-performance
culture at QBE as we embed the QBE DNA right across the company. As we develop our
culture, it's important that we act with integrity, do the right thing by our customers and, of
course, attract and develop the right challenge right across all levels of the organization.
And finally, we continue to make good progress towards our commitments to
sustainability, including identifying and integrating ESG issues into risk management and
underwriting decision-making processes. We're also delivering on our climate change
action plan.
Our financial targets for the full year are unchanged. Our target combined operating ratio
is 94.5% to 96.5%, and we continue to target a net investment return range of 3% to
3.5%.
Finally, you will see in our separate ASX release this morning announcing the appointment
of Todd Jones to the role of CEO, North America, succeeding Russ Johnston, who's
decided to seek opportunities outside of QBE.
Let me first say a big thank you to Russ. He's helped steer QBE's North American
operations through a period of major change, simplifying the business and the operating
model there, significantly strengthening our technical capabilities and delivering industry
Page 10 of 17



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

specialist capabilities. I would like to personally thank Russ for his valuable contribution and
wish him all the best in the future.
Also, I'm especially excited by Todd's appointment, who joins us from being the Global
Head of Broking at Willis Towers Watson, and prior to that, he was the CEO of Willis
Towers Watson. I've now Todd for 15 plus years, and I know him very well from my own
time at Willis. And I'm confident he brings significant executive-level experience in
insurance and in broking. And he'll bring invaluable perspective to QBE as we look to
further orientate our business around customer.
In closing, I'm really pleased with the continued progress we've made against our
objectives. We remain focused on our priorities for 2019, and I very much look forward to
updating you all again in February of next year.
We are quite happy to take questions.

Questions And Answers
Q - Daniel Toohey

{BIO 16751863 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks. Good morning, Pat. Dan Toohey from Morgan Stanley. A few questions. Just firstly,
on the reserves. I mean you highlighted, I think, in the quarter release, that you talked
about underlying of 80 basis points. There's a few moving parts in that. There's Crop, and
there's Ogden. And I guess, also just the strengthening that you saw in the US. So, just
trying to get a sense of what the moving parts are within that and the US?

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Sure. I mean the 80 basis points is a pretty solid number to represent. On Crop,
obviously, you get a prior release. But as you cede some of that back to the government,
the 80 basis points does not include Ogden. So, there are two things I've referenced on
that. On the US, we just had a couple of small pockets, really, much as the industry have
seen. So, we saw a little bit on Irma from 2017. We saw a little bit on financial lines, but
nothing that was individually significant.

Q - Daniel Toohey

{BIO 16751863 <GO>}

So the 95.2%, just to be clear, does that include 2% reserve releases or is it 80 basis?

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

It includes 80 basis points of reserve releases.

Q - Daniel Toohey

{BIO 16751863 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks. And just on Crop, obviously, a former view on the 98% COR, traditionally,
we don't really get a view on the profitability until -- I think until post harvest and whether
the prices we're seeing so...

Page 11 of 17



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Yeah. I've got a great app on my iPad now that measures all sorts of things, including daily
soil moisture. It's harder this year. There's literally a whole industry that tracks this in
addition to our own experts. So the kind of things you've all read about, that more soil
moisture in the planting season, that will lead to a higher level of preventative planting
claims, so we will have a higher level of preventative planting claims this year than last
year. So that's why we've upped our half year just to reflect that. Look, I think if you
compare to what we've booked currently, actually, around at 98% compared to some
other folks, we booked it a number of percentage points higher than they have. I feel
good about where we're at. There's a series of outcomes that could flow from here.
Some of that could be positive to how we've booked up. We won't know, obviously, until
later in the year.

Q - Daniel Toohey

{BIO 16751863 <GO>}

Okay. And just finally on LMI. I mean that's -- we've never seen a cycle there. I know that's
been ticking up a little bit over recent times. How confident are you that at 58%, that is a
normalized view and we won't see continuing deterioration in the second half ?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Inder Singh

{BIO 20594382 <GO>}

Yeah. Look, I might take that one. In terms of -- we booked the business at 55% at the
end of last year, so 58% in this first half. As you know, we've probably -- the claims
emergence we've continued to see has mainly come from Western Australia and in
Queensland. And that's really the continued fallout from the mining boom, which is a few
years now in the rearview mirror for us. And we're not really seeing anything in terms of
forward-looking metrics, be it arrears, which we've now stabilized, new delinquencies,
which are stabilized. So, it's the kind of arrears working through the system, which we're
conscious of and what's happening with cure rates and what's happening with average
claim sizes, et cetera. But Dan, look, there's nothing to say. I mean the policy settings are
now a bit more stable and supportive, I guess and we feel the business feels like it's
stabilizing, albeit we'd need to see kind of how the full year shapes up.

Q - Daniel Toohey

{BIO 16751863 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

Q - Kieren Chidgey

{BIO 7268946 <GO>}

Kieran Chidgey, UBS. Let's start with a question on claims inflation. You're clearly seeing
very good premium momentum across most regions. But just came for sort of how you
think real premium rates are going into claims inflation in each of the regions particularly
given the earlier comments that we have seen, some long-tail top-ups in both the UK and
to a lesser extent, probably in the US that seems to suggest you actually do need rate to
be rising in some of those long-tail classes.

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Sure. Thanks, Kieren, for the question. Kieren, let me kind of whiz around the world then.
So starting here, we see a bit of inflation on things like motor, but that's true in -- I mean I
Page 12 of 17



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

could do that around the world in one sentence. There's inflation in the motor in all
markets and you need rate in motor in all markets, including commercial motor. So, that's
definitely true. You'll have seen that commented by everybody who's reported. Other
than that here, there's much more modest inflation, and there's very modest inflation on
long-tail lines, and we continue to price in and reserve for inflation and not so yet in -- and
have reserve releases accordingly.
As you go to Europe, I mean the two things to reference there are financial lines and,
again, motor. Motor, I've talked to. Financial lines, there is clearly a heightened level of
claims activity in every financial lines market in the world. We've tried to get ahead of as
much of that as we can by recutting. I referenced the North American example. I could
have used the European example similarly. There's a lot more claims activity, particularly
on bigger accounts.
There's more rate. I mean you've seen double-digit rates on D&O in both London and in
the US. Is that enough to cover inflation? It's hard to say categorically yes. I think we'll
continue to see rates in financial lines. And in North America, it's similar. The most obvious
pockets of inflation would be motor, financial lines and anything with health. And so we're
getting double-digit rates in accident and health because you've probably got high singledigit inflation similarly.

Q - Kieren Chidgey

{BIO 7268946 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thanks. Just a second question on the investment return outlook. Can you give us a
feel for where the running yield is on fixed income today? Obviously, I think you sit at 1.6%
on average during first half.

A - Inder Singh

{BIO 20594382 <GO>}

Yeah, Kieran. So just to -- in terms of what we referenced was that as we've gone through
the first half, we've sort of seen probably 60 basis points to 70 basis points come off in
terms of risk-free and the narrowing of credit spreads. So if you think about the midpoint
of our range, which we've guided to sort of 3.25%, and take 60 basis points, 70 basis
points off that, that kind of gives you a sense of the total return on the portfolio which we
are probably running at as of today.

Q - Kieren Chidgey

{BIO 7268946 <GO>}

Thanks.

Q - Nigel Pittaway

{BIO 3406058 <GO>}

All right. It's Nigel Pittaway here from Citi. First of all, just a question on sort of cell review
and Brilliant Basics. So if you take those two programs combined, when do you think you
get the biggest delta in terms of improvement to the attritional claims ratio from those
two? Have we seen it already or is that still to come?

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Page 13 of 17



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

FINAL

Look, I've got various folks in the room who could answer that. So, there's loads of things
we can still do better. Even -- every time we do a turn to the cell reviews, our information
gets better. We just did a big slug of them in Australia. And Australia, we've seen 10 points
of improvement on attritional since we started. There's loads -- the cells are all clearly
performing better, 10 points later. There's loads of things we're improving and doing and
looking at.
Forward information looks as better. Jason, our -- where is Jason, our Chief Underwriting
Officer? On Brilliant Basics, it's still -- the global program for property is really interesting. It
both gives consistency, but also ups our game on the analysis we're using. But probably,
it's not the only portfolio you can do that on. There'll be other ones that come -- motor's a
great example where, I mean, that needs something to improve because everybody's
struggling to make money on commercial motor. So look, I think -- I doubt we've even got
halfway there on what we can do and how we're building our capability on that.

Q - Nigel Pittaway

{BIO 3406058 <GO>}

So, does it last 12 months, 18 months? Is that how much time you need?

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

I don't know. I don't know.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Nigel Pittaway

{BIO 3406058 <GO>}

Moving on. Previously, Pat, you've mentioned that you felt there were some opportunities
now just to start growing in North America, particularly since you were saying you've done
your improvement a bit ahead of some of the other players. And obviously, AIG springs to
mind. How are you feeling about that currently?

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Look, we're -- the premium environment is clearly better and that gives us more
opportunities. The only portfolio we had to pull back on a bit in the reference was E&S.
E&S has been -- there's more opportunities and more rate, but there's a lot of business
you don't want to touch in E&S. So the rest of the business is much better positioned now.
Our program business is really well positioned. We can grow well. We're writing some
really high-quality, really rate-adequate property cap business, is a good example of that.
And the corporate specialty business now, we've launched two industry verticals. We're
launching another soon. This is just a nice way to grow in areas we got good capability. So,
I don't think -- you don't really want to be posting double-digit volume increases in our line
of business. But just gentle growth now in a better rate environment feels sensible.

Q - Nigel Pittaway

{BIO 3406058 <GO>}

And then maybe finally, I mean you mentioned that risk losses were a tad ahead of
expectations in international. How are you feeling now with your sort of large loss on risk
allowance of close to 12% of NEP in terms of the experience that you've seen there?

Page 14 of 17



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. So we feel good, I think. So as everybody knows, that -- and I referenced some of the
work we've been doing to reduce the frequency. They're sort of working. I would expect
we'll continue to see a little benefit from that as we go forward in reduction of frequency
and that's sort of showing up in most of our territories. So, I think the allowance for large
risk and cat allowance looks good. It's in line with our expectations.

Q - Nigel Pittaway

{BIO 3406058 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Q - Andrew Buncombe

{BIO 19921333 <GO>}

Thanks. Andrew Buncombe from Macquarie Securities. Two questions from me, please.
Just your thoughts on the buyback at this point. We're getting closer to the end of that
period. You had said previously that you had extended through the end of this calendar
year to finish out the full AUD1 billion. But given the group gearing ratio continues to come
down, you're buying back that other debt. Is there a possibility that, that could be
extended going forward?

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Was that both questions, Andrew?

Q - Andrew Buncombe

{BIO 19921333 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

No, that was the first one.

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Look, we'll certainly carry on and finish our commitment for this year. We're very focused
on doing that. That will get us probably not all the way to AUD1 billion but the lion's share
of it. I think I'll update you more on the year-end. I think there's a case for doing a bit of
both next year. You could buy back a bit of debt and a bit of equity probably, but we'll give
you a more complete answer at year end.

Q - Andrew Buncombe

{BIO 19921333 <GO>}

Sure. And then the other one was maybe if you can give us a bit of color on your New
South Wales CTP portfolio. Have you started to book any charges from excess profits just
yet?

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

No. It's still -- I mean there's still kind of -- despite the fact it's quite some time since
reforms went into effect, reforms have obviously done what they expected to do in terms
of letter reduction of premiums for customers, letter reduction of frequency of claims for
ourselves. We've adjusted our price a little bit as we've gone through. Our market share is
25%, 26%. It's sort of stable around there. But it's too early to make a long-term call on
profitability on that.

Page 15 of 17



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

Q - Andrew Buncombe

{BIO 19921333 <GO>}

Excellent. Thank you.

FINAL

Q - Matthew Dunger

{BIO 20863237 <GO>}

Thanks very much. It's Matt Dunger from Bank of America. Just wondering if I could follow
up on Nigel's question on North America. You mentioned on pricing that you've shed
business and now starting to see some rate improvements. Can you talk to the timing of
when that business was shed and should we expect better trajectory on pricing into the
second half ?

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Yeah. The -- as I mentioned, the portfolio we're really, really focused on that was E&S,
which was a first quarter -- a first quarter thing. Look, I think, generally, in the US, you've
seen the rate environment has picked up and there is a million sources for this whether
we much as referenced on the competitor commentary. Second quarter was better than
first quarter. Expectation is that, that will continue, not maybe a hard market but a better
pricing environment as we go through. It's clearly been helped by a more market-wide
pricing discipline from some of the more major players there. And we can just tuck in
behind that and focus on getting a little bit of rate where we need it.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Matthew Dunger

{BIO 20863237 <GO>}

Thank you. And just to confirm, in February, you mentioned the incremental PCA benefit of
around AUD285 million due to the reduction in capital charges. Is that now fully reflected
in the PCA?

A - Inder Singh

{BIO 20594382 <GO>}

Yeah. I mean, look, that came about as we reset our reinsurance program to some extent
and so absolutely. So, we're kind of at, what I'd say is a run rate level of risk charges
reflecting the risk that we're carrying in the business.

Q - Matthew Dunger

{BIO 20863237 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

Do we have any more? Great. Thank you for everybody for joining us. And we look
forward to seeing you again next time.

A - Inder Singh

{BIO 20594382 <GO>}

Oh, was there some questions on the line?

A - Patrick Regan

{BIO 15131018 <GO>}

No questions.

Page 16 of 17



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2019-08-14

A - Inder Singh

{BIO 20594382 <GO>}

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

No questions on the line. Okay. Thank you.

Page 17 of 17

