Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

Y 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Gary Duggan, Chief Executive Oﬃcer, Retail Insurance Broking
James Quin, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Lance Batchelor, Group Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Robin Shaw, Chief Executive Oﬃcer of Travel Business
Stuart Beamish, Chief Customer Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Andreas van Embden, Analyst
Benjamin Cohen, Analyst
Edward Morris, Analyst
Joanna Parsons, Analyst
Jonny Urwin, Analyst
Nick Johnson, Analyst
Ruchi Gupta, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Unidentiﬁed Participant

Presentation
Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody. Thank you very much for Joining us. As I think you all know
I'm Lance Batchelor. I'm the Group CEO of Saga. I'm joined today by our new CFO, James
Quin; by our Chief Customer Oﬃcer, Stuart Beamish; and by the CEOs of our Insurance
and Travel Divisions, Robin Shaw and Gary Duggan. Our Chairman, Patrick O'Sullivan is
also with us this morning.
Today, we're going to cover our prelim results from last year, as well as an update on our
strategy for the business. So we're going to take a little longer than we usually do,
allowing time for questions, we expect to be ﬁnished at about 11 O'clock this morning.
Let's put today's announcement into context. This is a critically important day for Saga.
We're making a fundamental change to our strategy. It takes us back to our heritage. It
addresses the increasing challenges that we've been seeing in parts of our business, most
notably insurance broking. By the way, the slides are not going to change while I open up.
We've also announced lower projected proﬁts, a signiﬁcant reduction in dividend and a
goodwill write-down.

Page 1 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

FINAL

Now, I'm of course aware that this morning's news will come as a disappointment to our
shareholders and to the stock market. But, it's both necessary and it's the right thing to
do. We're going to explain the reasons for those changes, what they mean in practice and
how they set Saga up for growth albeit from a lower level.
Now, over recent years, Saga has made some good progress and if I may, I'd like to
highlight ﬁve things in particular. We've cut our debt by over GBP300 million since the
IPO. We've replaced a huge majority of our IT platforms. We've designed and built a new
ship with another one coming and even before the ﬁrst ship arrives, our Travel division
has grown from GBP5 million in proﬁt per annum to over GBP20 million. And ﬁnally,
we've launched a membership program Possibilities, which has attracted over 1 million
members.
But, and here's the big but, I need to be equally explicit about what we've not achieved
since IPO. We have not grown customer numbers, and today is an acknowledgment that
to do so, needs a very, very diﬀerent approach across the whole of the Saga business, and
in particular in how we sell insurance.

Bloomberg Transcript

When I look right back to the early days of Saga in the 1950s, what made the company so
successful was its single-minded focus on giving customers what they wanted. Products
designed speciﬁcally for our unique demographic. In the early days, of course, that was
holidays, tailored for the retired and then about 20 years ago, we added insurance
products, speciﬁcally designed for the older-age group.
Both sets of products were crafted to meet customer needs. They were competitively
priced. They had extraordinary levels of service, strong advertising support, and
importantly, they attracted deep brand loyalty. At some point along the way, Saga shifted
its focus from being primarily about delighting the customer and became overly focused
on short-term proﬁtability. And meanwhile, as you know, the world's been changing. In
Insurance and Travel, people can nowadays easily access low cost rather generic products
online. There's been a commoditization of the mass market and there's digitization and
there's GDPR and there's regulatory intervention. Customers are quite -- quite
understandably and I think rightly willing to move brands in order to chase a better deal,
and all of this has been brought into sharper relief for us recently.
In insurance, and I think to some extent in travel as well, Saga has been caught between
two worlds. We're not a strict out low cost player, that's not what our customers want from
us and it's not what we want to be. But nor do we oﬀer the kind of bespoke and
customized products and services that an Audley Travel or a Hiscox insurance oﬀers.
One place, we do get it really right is in Cruise, where we attract passionate loyalty and we
command a healthy premium, because our product is diﬀerent and better. Now, the result
of this being caught between two diﬀerent pricing models is that over a decade or more,
Saga has gradually lost market share in both insurance and travel, and we aim to change
that. We're making a bold and fundamental change in our strategy. It's going to take us
back to our heritage. Saga is rediscovering itself as an organization that exists primarily for

Page 2 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

FINAL

its customers, an organization that's going to oﬀer distinctive products to a distinct part of
the market.
And as our customers increasingly embrace membership, we're going to give them very
clear reasons to choose Saga and to stay with Saga. There are signiﬁcant consequences to
all of this and we've had to make some diﬃcult decisions. Earnings will reduce by over a
third to between GBP105 million and GBP120 million. This is driven by lower margins in
Insurance, a fundamental change in renewal pricing, lower reserve releases and by the
investment in new products. We'll then be able to grow from a stronger and more
sustainable base. And James is going to cover all of this in more detail in a few minutes
time.
Now, we're not starting from scratch. Our debt levels are much reduced. For the ﬁrst few
years as a PLC that was a real imperative for us. We've replaced most of the Group's key IT
platforms, which makes us much more ﬂexible and more eﬃcient. Many of the changes
that we're announcing today would not have been possible on our old IT platforms. I have
a very dedicated and focused team, who've been involved in every step of shaping this
new strategy .

Bloomberg Transcript

The launch of membership in late 2017, really brought home to us, what we stand for and
why Saga exists. We now have well over 1 million members. That's the majority of our
customer base. Listening to them has helped shape the future of Saga and it is changing
our relationship with them. You're going to hear more about from Stuart shortly about the
membership opportunity and how developing that proposition is supporting retention
and will grow value.
On the other side of this chart. The ﬁrst new cruise ship is on track, on time, on budget for
delivery in June going to sea with paying passengers in July. Pre-sales for the ship are
very strong and the build of the second ship has now started and she will be delivered
next summer, in summer 2020. Robin will tell you more about that shortly.
Let's talk about the reasons for change. We have to make a fundamental step change
because incremental change has proved to be insuﬃcient. Against the backdrop of a
growing demographic, Saga's seen a slow but steady decline in customer numbers.
As we said over a year ago, this cannot be sustainable. Not only are we missing out on an
extraordinary opportunity, but we won't have a business in ﬁve years time if we allow this
to continue. On the right, you can see, our underlying proﬁt over the last few years, which
we've held more or less ﬂat. The pressures on our Broking business have been largely
hidden by a period of extraordinarily strong reserve releases. But we've also been
extracting ever more margin from a declining base, that's unsustainable. If our recent
results tell us one thing, it is that we cannot keep delivering these levels of proﬁtability, let
alone grow, unless we make a major change to our customer proposition and accept that
we have to reduce our margins to do so.
Let's have a look at the brand. Saga has brand awareness that most brands would die for
and our loyal customers love the brand. But as you can see, there is an opportunity gap
Page 3 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

FINAL

here between the awareness and the consideration. Everyone's heard of us, but not
everyone would consider buying from us. Now, this is not particularly surprising, given
that we haven't advertised for years, that we've pursued a very strong direct model, but to
a slowly decreasing number of people, as our marketing database becomes smaller and
our insurance product hasn't meaningfully changed in many years. This is an area we
need to address and we've already seen a positive impact from our ﬁrst TV advertising
campaign in over ﬁve years.
In Broking, we have a proﬁtable business with good customer service and many loyal
customers. But what you can clearly see here, is declining policy count and declining
retention rates. On the right, you can see that when we grew business last year, our new
business last year. We weren't able to increase the number of customers, who came to us
direct. This increased our exposure to price comparison websites and whilst those do
have a positive lifetime value, the business is considerably lower margin than we want and
it will reduce our proﬁtability this year and for the next year as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

The conclusion is clear. If Saga is to have a future, we have to grow customers. And if we
are to grow customers, we have to grow using the direct channel. It's also vital to
understand, why we couldn't grow direct in the recent past. This is where our long-term
under investment in the customer proposition has come home to roost. We simply
haven't had a suﬃciently diﬀerentiated product or strong enough brand consideration to
grow our direct customers. This is the challenge that has arguably been a long time
coming, but it's one that we have to crack now.
Turning to Travel, our Cruise division represents Saga, what Saga needs to be. Saga at its
best. We provide a fantastic tailored experience for loyal members, who'd come back
again and again. No one else can do what we do. We own a good return, whilst delivering
exceptional levels of customer satisfaction. Robin will explain that we are now working
hard to migrate the rest of the Travel division in a similar direction and at a faster pace.
So as I said, today is a very important day for Saga. We have some major challenges to
address, particularly in Insurance. We know that for Saga as a whole, the answer is to oﬀer
diﬀerent and better products at the right price, backed by strong branded advertising. In
Insurance Broking, in particular, we need to shift the balance between customer
satisfaction and proﬁt, more towards customer satisfaction. A better customer proposition
at a price that reﬂects that. Lower margins but more customers, who want to use Saga and
then see their loyalty rewarded. More customers who want to buy more from Saga.
So today, we are ﬁrstly relaunching Saga's insurance proposition to the customer, with an
innovative ﬁxed price oﬀer as the leading element, clearly evidencing our change in
approach. This will be sold only through direct channels and it will receive signiﬁcant
advertising support. Second, we are cutting the margins that we charge to renewing
customers, as we seek to reward loyalty. Third, we are accelerating the move of Saga
Travel to a more specialized value-added sector, such as rivers and escorted tours and
long haul. Fourth, we're building out our membership oﬀering to establish it as a main
route to the customer and to give customers another reason to choose us and to stay with
us. Finally, we're focusing on ex -- we are focusing on execution with tight delivery and

Page 4 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

FINAL

rollout of current programs. So, for example, the new ships, our new IT platforms, and
very ﬁrm cost control to keep our costs ﬂat as we grow.
A little bit on membership, most of Saga's customers are now members. All of our
products and services will be viewed through this prism. We'll innovate hard and fast to
ensure that what we sell meets the needs of our members that everything we do is
diﬀerent and better. We'll actively seek to grow member numbers mainly through
customer acquisition but also by opening the program up to others in our target market.
Within the membership base, we'll stimulate active engagement from as many members
as possible. As Stuart is going to tell you, we've seen improved engagement as we
strengthen the membership oﬀering. We have clear detailed plans to do that, accepting
that it remains early days for membership. As engagement has increased, we have started
to see real commercial beneﬁts. New customers coming to travel, potential multi-product
beneﬁts, early signs of retention beneﬁts too. It's very small, but it is a start.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, the impact of all these changes will be a reduction of earnings, mostly driven by
lower Insurance margins, as well as the declining reserve releases. I know these decisions
will be diﬃcult for shareholders. I recognize that, but it's the right thing for the business.
It's essential that we make these changes to our business and that we have the right
degree of prudence in our balance sheet to allow us to execute them.
Our new strategy will deliver growth, more customers, more loyal customers and more
cash ﬂow. From the lower level of proﬁtability, we will grow proﬁts. The team are going to
take you through each of these targets. But over the next three to ﬁve years, we intend to
grow our retail proﬁt by at least GBP20 million from the rebased level. We're going to
target a COR of 97% in underwriting. And we're going to achieve the target that we set
out back in 2017, which is to grow our travel business to between GBP60 million and
GBP75 million in proﬁt by 2021, '22. So that's what today is all about: setting Saga up to
win not just year by year but for the long-term.
I'm going to hand over now to James, who is going to take you through this plan in more
detail.

James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Thank you, Lance, and good morning. As you know, this is my ﬁrst set of results, since
taking over as Group CFO on the 1st of January. It is nice to see some familiar faces here.
For those of you, who don't know me. My background is very much in insurance. I joined
from Zurich, where I was most recently the UK, CFO. And in total I have spent about 28
years in the insurance industry, with Zurich, a number of investment banks and with PwC.
But before I give you a summary of the results, I thought I would highlight some initial and
very brief thoughts on Saga.
And I will just start by saying that underneath the gravity of what we're announcing today,
there is a strong business. Even at the level of our rebased earnings, Saga's Insurance
operations are proﬁtable and well-positioned with a large number of loyal customers,
Page 5 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

FINAL

who mainly come to us on a direct basis. And we, of course, also have a strong oﬀering in
Travel. However, the company has labored to deliver a level of proﬁtability that met
expectations set some time ago, but that are not sustainable.
I am now focused on working with Lance and the team to help us grasp the nettle and
making the changes that will start to address our challenges. Now, I will be talking to you
twice today. First, I'm going to talk about the 2018, '19 results. I'm not going to go into the
details here, but what the aim is to give you some information on the key trends in our
numbers. And to help you understand the context for our starting point. Later, I will come
back and explain, the ﬁnancial impacts of the new strategy.
So turning to results, and there are really two key moving parts. First, Retail Broking
proﬁtability reduced sharply compared to the previous year. This is partly because we
started the year with a smaller book of renewal customers, but the bigger challenge,
particularly in the last six months has been a signiﬁcant decline in new business margins.

Bloomberg Transcript

For reasons that I will come back to shortly, we expect a further decline in broking proﬁt
before tax in the next two years. This decline in the level of earnings expectations for
Retail Broking has required us to impair the value of insurance goodwill, which has in turn
led to us reporting a net loss for the 2018, '19 ﬁnancial year. The second main feature of
our results is a very high level of reserve releases from our underwriter, while this has
been a big and recurring positive in recent years. For reasons I will explain, we expect the
contribution from AICL to signiﬁcantly reduce in the next few years.
Travel had a solid year and we continued to make very good progress in Cruise, the start
of this year has been somewhat challenging in Tour Ops as it has been for the whole
industry. And our Tour revenues are down around 3% compared to the prior period.
Now in a year of challenge, there are two key positives in our results. First, we achieved
the cost saving targets, we set out a year ago. And second, we remain very proﬁtable and
the conversion of earnings to cash has continued to be very good.
Let me now go into some more details. Overall, our underlying proﬁt before tax is in line
with the guidance we gave the market 12 months ago. But of course, the mix of proﬁts is
very diﬀerent to what was expected. Underwriting outperformed, but not in a way that is
likely to be sustainable, oﬀsetting this Retail Broking had a tough year and we do expect a
further decline in broking earnings in 2019, '20. This reduction has two important
consequences. Most importantly, it has been a signiﬁcant factor in the Board's decision to
reduce the full year dividend from 9p per share to 4p. Second, it has also led us to impair
goodwill relating to the Insurance business by GBP310 million.
Turning now to the divisional results. As you can see on this slide, the biggest change in
our results has been in Retail Broking, where proﬁt before tax reduced by GBP25 million.
This was partially oﬀset by higher underwriting earnings and an improvement in emerging
businesses and central costs. Most of the change in this latter category is explained by
one-oﬀ charges in the '17, '18 results and a one-oﬀ gain in the '18, '19 numbers.

Page 6 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

FINAL

Now to provide more explanation of the performance of broking, I include some
additional information on the next slide that shows a walk from '17, '18 results to '18, '19
proﬁt before tax. Now what you can see here is so that overall broking proﬁt before tax
reduced by GBP17 million on a written basis. That is excluding the impact of the written to
earned adjustment, and there are four main items here. The biggest is an GBP11 million
decline in the contribution from home and motor new business. There are a number of
reasons, why this has happened.
First, the Group set a priority to stabilize the home and motor policy count with a
conscious decision to win -- to reduce pricing to win more new business. Second, a lot
more new business was sourced from price comparison websites. This business typically
has lower margins and higher acquisition costs than the business Saga has traditionally
written on a direct basis. Third, external factors such as GDPR have had an adverse impact
on volumes and acquisition costs. And last, as other insurers have noted, the market was
competitive through much of last year.

Bloomberg Transcript

The second main item impacting last year is a reduction in renewal earnings, particularly
on the home book. This is a product of a smaller renewal book due to lower new business
in the '17, '18 year and higher net rates from panel Insurers. It was, however, for the most
part, expected.
The third item is a loss of GBP5 million relating to the impact of adverse claims experience
on proﬁt share arrangements for the PMI product. This charge is expected to be one-oﬀ.
Indeed, we are now starting to see the beneﬁt of changes in policy terms coming through
an improved claims experience, with this also starting to be recognized in the net rates
charged by our insurer. We have a very good PMI proposition for customers and this is a
signiﬁcant contributor to the earnings from other products.
And fourth, going the other way, we reduced Retail Broking operating expenses by
GBP7.7 million, which was ahead of target. Now, as I mentioned, the challenges we faced
in the last 12 months are likely to be ongoing. And as I explain on the next slide, we
expect a further decline in proﬁtability in broking in the current year.
There are two main reasons, why we think this will happen and each has a broadly similar
impact. First, the reduced level of margin in last year's new business will lead to a
reduction in renewal business proﬁtability in the next few years.
Second, as Lance has explained, we anticipate changing our approach to renewal pricing.
While there is a GBP5 million positive expected in PMI, given the one-oﬀ loss in last year's
results, these pressures mean that run rate earnings for the broking business are expected
to be between GBP15 million and GBP25 million lower in the current year and with an
additional GBP10 million impact expected on earnings for the year after. This reduction in
future earnings expectations is what is behind our decision to reassess the carrying value
of insurance goodwill and to impair this by GBP310 million.
As required by accounting standards, we have taken a fairly prudent valuation approach
here and we've not included the beneﬁts of the strategic relaunch that Gary will shortly
Page 7 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

FINAL

talk about, but of course, there is no getting around the fact that this is a disappointing
outcome. Next, I will talk to the performance of the underwriting business. As you can see
on this slide, both of the last two years have seen a very high level of reserve releases and
a level that is signiﬁcantly above future expectations.
There are two main reasons why this has happened. First, our actuaries have put greater
weight on positive recent claims trends within best estimate reserving. This leads to oneoﬀ reserve beneﬁts of GBP32 million in the most recent year and around GBP20 million in
the year before. Second, a historically very prudent approach to initial loss picks has
supported ongoing very high levels of reserve releases further helped by benign large
loss experience in the last 12 months.
I show this in more detail in the next slide where I set out the more recent accident year
loss ratios. What I show here in the left-hand chart is the initial booked loss ratio and the
current booked loss ratio for the Saga motor book. The diﬀerence between the two is the
reserve releases in the most recent and prior years.

Bloomberg Transcript

This shows that Saga took a very prudent view of the initial loss picks from 2010 to 2013
with booked loss ratios in the mid 90s. Another key factor has been the beneﬁt from a
signiﬁcant improvement in claims experience relative to expectations. There are multiple
reasons for this, but one of them has been the implementation of the LASPO reforms in
2013.
This has helped to support benign underlying claims trends for pretty much the whole
motor insurance industry and has been a key reason why reserve releases have been so
positive. In recent years, however, and in line with AICL's role within the Group, the
beneﬁts of benign claims experience has been increasingly reﬂected in both pricing and
reserving. This means that while we still hold the same level of explicit margin and it may
well be prudent in large loss reserves for recent accident years, we don't expect these to
develop to anything like the levels seen in some of the previous years. In terms of current
claims inﬂation, this is generally running in line with expectations. So to cut to the chase,
we do expect a couple more years of high reserve releases, but we expect our reported
combined ratio to trend to around 97% in the next three years.
Let me now turn to other aspects of our results. Our Travel business have an overall solid
year. As we reported previously within Tour Ops, there are considerable pressures at the
more commoditized end of the market, which is our stays and where we saw passenger
numbers decline by 7%. Equally, we are seeing a much more resilient performance from
our diﬀerentiated holidays propositions, including tours, river cruise and third-party
cruise. This shift in mix has supported an improvement in gross proﬁt per passenger and
has enabled us to hold Tour Ops proﬁts ﬂat on the prior year.
In Cruise, we had a good year. Growth in revenues was partly down to lower days in dock,
but it was also down to strong demand for the ﬁnal season of the Pearl II ship. In terms of
forward bookings, we are not immune to the same pressures as other travel companies,
with Tour Ops revenues around 3% down for current departures in comparison to last
year. It is a headwind, but I wouldn't say, it is a big issue for us. And more importantly, we

Page 8 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

FINAL

continued to make very good progress on forward bookings for the new cruise ships,
where we remain on track with the business plan assumptions.
As I set out on the next slide, we also made good progress in reducing our cost base.
Here I show a walk from '17 '18 expenses to '18 '19. The main point to highlight is that the
target set at the beginning of the year. That is to reduce in-year admin costs by GBP10
million was achieved. As was signaled back at the time, some of these savings were
reinvested in marketing costs, which increased by GBP6 million. This included additional
marketing for the new cruise ships plus higher acquisition costs within the Insurance
business. We will continue to put a high priority on improving eﬃciency and absorbing
inﬂationary pressures over the next ﬁve-year period.
On the next slide, I show Saga's operating cash generation, which has been one of the
Group's real strengths. As you can see from this walk, we generated operating free cash
ﬂow of around GBP181 million in the year. A small increase in comparison to the year
before. On this basis, we converted roughly 80% of EBITDA to cash during the year, which
enabled us to reduce net debt by around GBP40 million. There were a few moving parts
here and naturally, future cash generation will be impacted by lower Insurance earnings.
But the point remains that the Group has a good track record of turning proﬁts into cash
and using this to reduce leverage.

Bloomberg Transcript

I realize this has been a relatively quick cantor through quite a lot of moving parts in our
results. My main focus here has been to give you a view on the ﬁnancial context for
today's announcement, particularly as it relates to Insurance.
And with that, I'll now hand over to Gary, who will take you through our strategy for Retail
Broking. Thank you.

Gary Duggan

{BIO 18331803 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone, and thanks, James, for the introduction. I'll be taking you
through the new Saga Insurance Broking Strategy. The rationale for the changes and why I
think we're in a strong position to respond to some of the challenges ahead. The UK
insurance market is undergoing a substantial period of change, with the industry's pricing
practices front and center of the debate. We are taking the opportunity to embrace those
changes. And I believe that Saga can help lead the way to creating a healthier, more
sustainable insurance market in the future.
As Lance mentioned earlier on, Saga has been very much focused on short-term proﬁt,
relying on our in-force book of customers, traditional direct marketing channels and
oﬀering undiﬀerentiated products. And this has contributed to a decline in policy
volumes, margins and retention levels. Whilst we have a proﬁtable Insurance business
with a solid foundation, it's become increasingly clear to me over the last 12 months or so,
since I've been in the role, that the insurance broking business needs a fundamental
change in strategy.

Page 9 of 36



FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

The new strategy focuses on growing our direct channels, rewarding loyalty and
becoming more eﬃcient. But ﬁrst let me provide you with some market context. We
operate in a growing demographic within the over 50s market, where the market is
changing rapidly. Whilst there are an increasing number of customers, who are shopping
around on PcWs, the growth in direct players with product-led messaging, in addition to
our recent research, shows that there is evidence that customers are now looking for, not
just the cheapest products, but also a high quality product with the right level of cover,
insurer using technology to drive down their servicing costs, and ﬁnally, the regulatory
intervention has increased signiﬁcantly recently with a speciﬁc focus on the industry
standard practice of discounting the new business and increasing premiums on renewals.
As James pointed out earlier on, there are a number of internal and external market
factors that have led to a decline in policies and proﬁtability, which highlight the need for
change. Saga's brand consideration has decreased and our market share is in decline.
The marketing database has reduced and the short-term proﬁt focus has led to a very
narrow communications approach.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have not innovated or adapted to the changes in customers' requirements, oﬀering
the same price led products in both PCWs and through our direct channels. And as a
consequence, this has led to a decrease in our direct volumes. We've become
increasingly reliant on lower value PCW business in order to drive policy growth in what is
a highly competitive market. Despite all this, as I've said, I believe we have a solid
foundation for growth. We have a loyal customer base and we deliver excellent service to
our customers.
We've got a prudent track record in direct marketing and a well-known brand. We've
invested in Guidewire, which will help to accelerate our innovation agenda. And we have
the emerging opportunities arising from the membership program that Lance mentioned
earlier on. So whilst we have a solid foundation, our response to the market challenges
were quite a fundamental change in strategy. We are driving growth through our direct
channels by developing distinctive, highly targeted propositions, creating standouts in a
competitive direct marketplace.
The UK Insurance sector is not exactly known for product innovation, but I'm convinced
that we are ideally positioned to launch positive, customer-driven innovative solutions into
a market that needs to change. We're investing in our brand salience and reducing the
number of people who reject the brand and Stuart will talk more about that later on. We
will improve our direct marketing economics, converting more of our quotes into sales,
widening the footprint and shifting the product mix to higher-value, feature-rich products.
But in order to win in direct channels, we have to change the operating model. So we've
moved the customer conversation away from a price-led discussion with our customers
into building longer-term relationships with our customers by delivering high-value,
diﬀerentiated propositions, including membership. And it's these new high-quality
premium products, including the ﬁxed price feature that have been developed with a
speciﬁc focus on the needs of our customers. We will promote these products through a
broad range of media channels from May and they will only be available by coming direct
to Saga. We will still oﬀer our essentials range of products through the PCW's, where
some of our customer segments are initially attracted to a lower price, lower-cover
Page 10 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

FINAL

product, but we will also then have the opportunity to oﬀer those customers our direct
products at renewal. But ﬁrst, let me talk to you in a little bit more detail about the threeyear ﬁxed product that Lance mentioned earlier on.
So we've been testing this product now since October. We've sold over 6,000 policies to
customers who have asked for a quote, and customers can buy the product and
acknowledge that if their circumstances don't change, they don't make a claim or IPT
doesn't increase, then their premium will not go up for three years. And over 60% of
customers who were oﬀered the product chose the ﬁxed price product instead of our
standard variable price product that is traditional in the industry.
The Trustpilot feedback from customers has been absolutely overwhelmingly positive as
you can see. You're ﬁnally respecting loyalty, rather than favoring new customers, this is
unique. The price guarantee was the deciding factor. There are some tremendous
comments there from customers and supported by the research ﬁndings that we have
really does mean that this product feature will appeal to our customers. And by the way,
really importantly, the contact center staﬀ absolutely love it as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

We launched the new home product last week with the majority of customers selecting
the three-year ﬁxed above the standard products and we have sold over 1,000 policies in
a week. And we've done that without any direct marketing activity, which is evidence -clear evidence that our customers, when given the choice, are prepared to pay for a
higher quality product with a price promise.
Our new motor three-year ﬁxed price product went live today. So the three-year ﬁxed is a
tremendous feature for us and totally unique in the UK motor insurance market. But I think
it's also important to see that our new products have other exciting features and beneﬁts
as well. For example, we have private health care beneﬁt in the event of injuries, for
customers arising from a crash. So we now have two high-quality home and motor
products, with some exciting and unique beneﬁts that will make us really stand out in a
crowded marketplace.
The developments of these products have been absolutely critical to enable our customer
service agents to conﬁdently lead conversations with customers about some of the
fantastic beneﬁts that our products have, rather than just focusing on price. And I
genuinely believe that this will have a profound impact on the culture of the insurance
broking business. We will, of course, continue to oﬀer the price-led products from our
essentials range available to more price-led customers through the PCWs. So now that we
can give customers a broader choice of products and these products are a
complementary addition to the high-quality travel and PMI products that we already have.
And these new products are the ﬁrst new products in our step to delivering against our
innovation agenda. We have a pipeline of new ideas and propositions in our innovation
lab that are currently being worked up and developed to follow up on these new
products.
So we now believe we have something to really shout about in the market. We have
highly -- high-quality, diﬀerentiated products and we are injecting some signiﬁcant

Page 11 of 36



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

marketing investment now to launch these products, but in order to be successful, we
need to give more customers, more reasons to quote Saga through our direct channels
with a very clear call to action and we will make the most of this opportunity by seizing
ﬁrst mover advantage and demonstrating the value of our new products to both new and
existing customers. And we will achieve this by highly visible impactful promotional
campaigns to maximize the opportunity at launch and we will focus the marketing
messages on some of the compelling new features, unique features that our products
have, including the three-year ﬁxed.
And we will do what we do best, which is to follow up the marketing with delivering
excellent customer service. In the past, our marketing had been very focused on
leveraging our existing database of customers, but going forward, we will be expanding
our marketing campaigns investing in a broader range of media channels. We know, for
example, that our customers over-index in the traditional media channels of newspapers,
TV and digital. So that is where the majority of the media spend will be focused as it will
provide us with the broadest and the most eﬃcient reach in addition to which TV and
digital channels are also very well-suited to delivering emotive campaigns, which we
believe will really resonate strongly with our demographic.
So we're now in a much stronger position to leverage these media channels because we
have something exciting to talk about. And once we've built awareness of the new
products, we will then optimize the marketing spend for the remainder of the year. So in
order to maximize the value of the marketing investments, we have now adopted a far
more progressive approach to customer loyalty. So in the past, our focus has been very
much limited to retaining customers via pricing and discount. We've changed our
approach now and we will utilize a broader range of solutions to retain our customers. We
will oﬀer ﬁxed price product. We will oﬀer our customers a ﬂatter renewal pricing. We will
deliver enhanced product beneﬁts and we will make a claim's commitment, all of which
will help to keep more of our customers for longer. And of course, we have something
that other insurers don't have. We have a wide range of membership program that
delivers some fantastic oﬀers and experiences, which Stuart will take you through later on.
We committed to expanding the footprint and we've increased our third-party panel
share of motor new business to 30%, a signiﬁcant increase. Our overall motor new
business volumes increased by 11% last year and the majority of the growth came for -younger age of the -- of our demographic, with newer more expensive vehicles. And
whilst our data models are very well-established now, we are driving further eﬃciencies,
by expanding quotability and becoming more competitive for more customers, we will
convert more of our quotes into sales.
We have over 30 footprint expansion initiatives lined up, some new highly predictive data
models and some new insurance products that are all lined up to deliver further
eﬃciencies this year. And in addition to expanding our footprint, we've reduced our
operating costs by over GBP7 million last year, by eliminating some of the complexities in
some of the processes, by reducing the number of repeat calls from customers and by the
implementation of Guidewire.

Page 12 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

FINAL

And I believe, there are further opportunities to improve our eﬃciencies as we rollout
Guidewire into our home insurance products by the end of this year. We've trialed and
we're now in the process of rolling out automated robotic processes, expanding our web
chat function and improving our digital service and capabilities, which will all help to
eliminate some of the customer friction points in our journeys and also reduce our costs
further.
So to sum up, we are launching a new strategy for the insurance broking business and it
will transform this business, and James will talk through the ﬁnancial implications later on,
but meanwhile, I'll just summarize, I think, some of the things that I believe the
transformational strategy will take us to over the next ﬁve years. It will deliver increased
customer advocacy and drive up improvements in our NPS scores. It will -- we will
increase the percentage of customers that come through our direct channels and by our
new high quality, premier-level products. There will be an improvement in our operational
eﬃciency, reducing our costs to serve and improving our retention levels. And this will
add around GBP20 million proﬁt to the rebased proﬁt numbers and deliver about a 5%
increase in Saga-branded policy numbers. So we've embraced the need for change and I
am conﬁdent that this is the right strategy for the insurance broking business.
So now, I'd just like to hand you over to Robin, who is the CEO of our Travel business.
Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Robin Shaw

{BIO 20138547 <GO>}

Thank you, Gary. Good morning, everyone. Travel has always been at the heart of Saga
and today I want to give you some clear guidance on our future strategic direction. So let
me begin with my key messages. Firstly, our signiﬁcant investment in the new cruise ships
is fully on track and I will give a lot more detail in due course. Our tour operating
businesses remain proﬁtable, but we need to accelerate the changes that we've already
started by focusing on holiday segments where we can win and ultimately we can earn
more margin. We started these changes, we need to continue in earnest.
In conjunction, there is a clear opportunity to improve our commercial performance.
Speciﬁcally, this is around purchasing, revenue management and full utilization of our
commitments. As we do this, we must not lose sight of the importance of the customer.
This has been a bedrock for the Travel business over recent years. Importantly, we intend
to deliver on our commitment made in early 2017 to increase our '16/'17 PBT by four times
to ﬁve times. This equates to a Travel PBT in '21/'22 between GBP60 million and GBP75
million.
As James mentioned earlier 2018/'19 has been a solid year for Travel. In Tour Operations,
PBT has been ﬂat as overall passenger declines have been oﬀset by higher revenues and
margins per passenger. And this has resulted from a steady, -- but -- steady move from
commoditized short haul into higher margin segments such as rivers, special interests and
escorted tours. Cruise proﬁtability is again broadly ﬂat in '18/'19 versus prior year, but
we've been able to absorb fuel rate increases of around GBP2 million and additional
marketing of GBP1.7 million largely in support of driving '19/'20 revenues.

Page 13 of 36



FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

We also continued to drive overhead cost eﬃciencies, with total Travel overheads
reducing from 10.3% of revenue to 9.5% of revenue in '18/'19. Given the signiﬁcant
investment in new cruise ships, I would now like to provide more detail of progress. We
have been talking about this for a long time and the journey started some 3.5 years ago
when we signed our contract with Meyer Werft, our shipbuilders in Germany. Since then,
we have designed a completely new ship led by customer insights and we are now on
track to deliver Spirit of Discovery in June of this year, ready for her ﬁrst revenue cruise on
the 10th of July. The second new ship, Spirit of Adventure, will use the same platform, a
sister ship eﬀectively and therefore reduce overall build and design times. The second
ship will be delivered in August 2020, just 14 months after the ﬁrst ship. These new vessels
will replace both of our existing vessels and indeed I'm pleased to say that we've agreed
the sale of Saga Pearl II, which will leave us in mid-April.
Cruise is not a new business for Saga and we have built considerable loyalty and
expertise since our ﬁrst cruise operations in 1997. Our cruise operation epitomizes our
focus on the customer. The graph on this chart shows how we have consistently increased
our revenues per passenger day yet at the same time, we have consistently achieved 98%
of our customers rating us excellent or good for value for money.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have delivered this by investing back into the product, improving the service,
improving the quality and for example by moving to a much more fully inclusive product.
Indeed, Saga cruises as Lance mentioned, is an excellent example of where Saga wants to
be in all of its markets, providing high-quality, diﬀerentiated products and services which
appeal to our customers and deliver strong margins.
Outside of cruise, within Tour Operations, we continue to receive high praise through
independent travel awards. Transformation is probably an overused word in business, but
our new cruise ships genuinely ﬁt that description. Clearly, the most obvious factor over
the two years where we replaced our ships is that our capacity will increase by some 74%,
but we should not underestimate the change -- the step change in the customer
proposition. These small new all-balcony ships will provide unrivaled levels of quality and
service of ships operating out of the UK. They will be characterized by bespoke design,
high-quality and genuinely personalized service. It is, therefore, no coincidence that we're
describing ourselves as boutique cruising.
On the regulatory front, our new ships also address the maritime industry's continuous
drive for higher standards around sustainability, which in turn allows our ships to operate
in previous destinations, otherwise oﬀ limits. I can safely say that by August 2020, we will
have the newest and most environmentally-friendly ﬂeet in the industry.
In summary, the new cruise ships will enhance our already highly diﬀerentiated
proposition and ultimately provide some, if not the highest, levels of service and quality in
the UK cruise market.
The positive business case for the new ships was primarily driven by a combination of
lower non-customer facing costs, such as fuel and lower repairs and maintenance costs in

Page 14 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

FINAL

the early years. And also a natural economy of scale, beneﬁting from a slightly larger ship,
albeit a small ship, still by today's standards,
The waterfall chart here gives an indication of the high level of EBITDA per capacity day
for the new ships. With the new ship costs veriﬁed now, the key variable in order to hit our
business case is a revenue per capacity day of GBP235. To date, we are fully on track to
achieve this with booked per diems of GBP275 and load factors on target for 85%. As a
result, we are conﬁdent that each ship can and will deliver the previously communicated
GBP40 million of EBITDA per ship.
So again, in summary, importantly, all elements of the cruise transformation are on track.
The ship will be delivered on time. We have already started to cut the steel for the second
ship, Spirit of Adventure. The capital investment is on budget, the original business case
and as I mentioned critically, demand generation is in a very positive place and we have
booked 78% of all of Spirit of Discovery's revenue for its ﬁrst cruises between July '19 and
January 2020.

Bloomberg Transcript

In summary, we're almost exactly where we plan to be at this point in time. And here, the
latest pictures of Spirit of Discovery taken last week. For the cruise team, me personally,
this is not only a critical investment that must generate the required return, it's also hugely
emotional. The passion, the pride, the sheer hard work to make this happen, I've rarely
seen before. It would be a very proud moment for Saga, when she launches. Emotions
aside, she will exit this dry dock at the end of May and then start her passage up to the
North Sea for sea trials, prior to delivery to us on the 20th of June.
Now, turning to Tour Operations. Since January 2018, I've added Tour Operations to my
responsibilities. Whilst we have started the Change program, this does need to
accelerate, to create a more proﬁtable and a more sustainable tour operating business.
This chart here introduces a very simple segmentation of margins versus a level of
specialism. The top left segment doesn't really exists, high-margin commodity products.
And bottom left is increasingly dominated by the large volume tour operators such as
Thomas Cook, Jet2 and TUI. And indeed, the online travel aggregators.
This ﬂy-and-ﬂop, largely short-haul market is not the future for Saga Travel. Therefore,
over time, Saga Holidays will increase its activities on the higher margin, more
diﬀerentiated segments, such as rivers, escorted tours, and special interest holidays. Titan
is diﬀerent. This business is already focused on higher margin escorted tours. But this is -as a signiﬁcant player in this specialized segment, needs to focus on improving its
commercial model. The top right and most attractive segment for Saga provides a sense
of direction in order for us to achieve our transformation and proﬁt goals.
So, what will this mean for each of our businesses? Saga Holidays, over time will have a
reducing share from short haul commodity into more specialized segments. The top left
bar chart illustrates that this has already happened to a certain extent. But this strategy will
continue and will result in stable revenues but increasing PBT margins over the next few
years.
Page 15 of 36



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

Titan does have a strong number two position in this marketplace of escorted tours. It is
now in a position to grow moderately, in the low single digits, but also a signiﬁcant
opportunity to again increase its PBT margins through improved revenue management,
inventory management and purchasing. In summary, we now have strong and credible
plans for Tour Operations businesses and it's now about execution. Possibilities is an
exciting initiative at Saga. And Stuart Beamish, our Chief Customer Oﬃcer, will talk in
more detail later. Encouragingly, we are already seeing signs within Travel of increased
levels of engagement and hard sales. Since July, we can attribute over 1,600 passengers
who have booked through Possibilities, of which nearly 40% are ﬁrst-time travel buyers.
Importantly, this also represents a low sales acquisition cost and this coming year, we are
targeting to achieve over 4,000 booked passengers through Travel Possibilities.
Possibilities is in its early stages, but the Travel team are particularly excited about its
potential. So hopefully this has added some understanding to the Saga Travel business,
but against each of our messages what are we committing to. Firstly, as I've explained, we
are on track to deliver the business case for the new ships and $40 million EBITDA per
vessel. Within Tour Operations, we will continue to focus on higher margin more
diﬀerentiated segments and this will deliver broadly ﬂat revenues, but PBT margins
increase in the 2 percentage points to 3 percentage points range by '21/'22. Our focus on
the customer will continue and we'll use NPS as our overarching benchmark. Lastly and
signiﬁcantly, our commitment to deliver the 4 times to 5 times '16/'17 PBT by '21/'22
remains intact, i.e., the GBP60 million to GBP75 million PBT.
So in summary, in travel, our focus on the customer will always be at the bedrock of our
business. We have clear plans. We're going to focus on diﬀerentiated holidays whether
cruise or Tour Operations and this combined with more robust commercial management
will ensure that Saga Travel is successful in the years to come.
I'll now hand over to Stuart Beamish. Thank you.

Stuart Beamish

{BIO 20609682 <GO>}

Thank you, Robin and good morning everyone. Just by way of introduction, I joined Saga
just over two years ago and I have been in my current role just over a year. I joined from
Barclaycard and prior to that had marketing roles in British Airways, BMI and Virgin. So
from my perspective, it's been great joining another great British brand. And brand and
membership is what I'm going to talk about today both in terms of current performance
and also our plans, because both are key enablers to the Group strategy. What you will
see over the coming slides are, ﬁrstly, that customer satisfaction and brand awareness are
both strong points for the group. But the brand is not top of mind enough for consumers.
And we're going to address this with a customer-focused strategy, focused on new
products, advertising and membership. 18 months since launch, over 1 million customers
have signed up to Possibilities our membership program. Engagement in the program is
growing and we're starting to see a clear link between engagement and commercial
value. And therefore in the coming year, we're going to be adding new beneﬁts to
monetize the program.

Page 16 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

FINAL

So turning ﬁrst to customer satisfaction. Last year, we introduced brand Net Promoter
Score across Saga. As you'll be aware, this is an established industry measure for
customer advocacy. Unlike transactional NPS, it focuses on the entire customer
experience. So we feel this gives us the most robust measure we can have for customer
satisfaction. We are very pleased with the initial results, as you can see from the chart on
the screen, we have positive scores across the business. Cruise is the standout, but I'd like
to talk for a moment about insurance.
When you look across the insurance sector, it tends to score much lower than others,
when it comes to NPS. So we think that our Insurance score currently actually screens very
well against the rest of the market. When you consider that in both Travel and Insurance
we are launching new products this year, we are conﬁdent these scores will grow.

Bloomberg Transcript

So in summary, when customers try Saga, they have a positive experience. But how
eﬀective is our brand at attracting new customers in the ﬁrst place? Well, this is more of a
mixed bag. Firstly, as you've heard already from Lance, brand awareness for Saga is
exceptionally high. As you can see from the chart on the left, we now ask this question in
relation to each of the sectors in which we operate and is high across the Board. However,
when we look at brand consideration, the drop oﬀ from awareness is larger than we
would like. This chart on the right shows Saga's prompted brand consideration compared
to the average of our key competitors in each of the sectors in which we operate. So
we've now embarked on a major program to improve brand consideration through a
combination of new products, marketing and membership.
You've already heard from Gary and Robin about new products, so I'm going to talk about
advertising and then move on to membership. In terms of our advertising, it's fair to say
that our marketing approach at Saga had become a little tired. We've had a narrow focus
on direct marketing on one or two daily newspapers. But also the way we have presented
the brand had led people to perceive us as old fashioned. So at the start of this year, we
introduced a new communication strategy across the Group. Starting with Travel, as you
can see from the example on the slide and the TV ads, that hopefully, you saw as you
came in today. We've made a big change to the style of our communications. At the same
time, we've also made the brand more visible using more digital media and both digital
and broadcast TV. It's early days, but the -- so far, the results have been very encouraging.
The chart on the right shows that already, after just one campaign, we're starting to tackle
that old-fashioned perception with quite a signiﬁcant drop and that's just, as I said from
the ﬁrst campaign. Also the audience comments that we've received are extremely
positive. I've included some as an example on the slide. I particular like the ﬁrst and last
comments because they point to this being unexpected from Saga. That's great evidence
of starting to drive change in perception and that's going to help us push up those allimportant consideration scores. So based on these results, we're going to be rolling out
this approach across our three-year ﬁxed-price Insurance campaign so that all of our
activity across the group will work together to improve brand perception.
I'd now like to turn to membership. So Possibilities was launched 18 months ago. We
started oﬀ with some oﬀers, with some key brand partners, Apple, Majestic Wine and
others and some free gifts, which we use to encourage members or customers to sign up.
Page 17 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

FINAL

We have then added Dining Possibilities in October. This is our own Saga Dining program
that gives customers discounts and oﬀers at over 1,100 UK branded restaurants. It's
already one of the largest dining programs in the UK. And by creating our own scheme,
we can tailor the proposition to our members and also collect usage data, which is very
important for us for marketing.
Last summer, we launched Travel Possibilities giving members access to deals with Saga
Holidays, Titan, and Saga Cruises and this also gives us an excellent distribution channel
for late availability. And last week, we launched Entertainment Possibilities in partnership
with Ambassador Theatre Group, giving members exclusive oﬀers on theaters and shows.

Bloomberg Transcript

Since launch, we've also sourced over 300 events and balloted tickets for members to
attend. These have included the likes of private gigs with Mica Paris, Lulu, Days at the
Races, Audience With Style events and others. We've had over 400,000 ballot entries for
members to attend those since launch. It's been one of most popular aspects of the
program.
So I'm now going to take three slides to talk through the results of membership since
launch. So far, over 1 million customers have signed up, that's 84% on average of those
asked. Now that's a high sign-up rate for any loyalty program, but also encouraging when
you consider our objective to build brand aﬃnity to Saga. Over 90% of members have
given positive consent to marketing. That compares to 73% for non-members at Saga.
We've got over 200,000 additional marketing contacts for direct marketing through
membership communications, that who -- otherwise we wouldn't have access to. But the
number of members only really tells part of the story, because as with all loyalty programs,
the commercial value is driven by members who engage with the beneﬁts of the
program. So having successfully signed up many customers to membership, we are now
keen to grow member engagement.
The summary here is that as we are adding new beneﬁts, we're seeing membership grow.
Firstly, as you can see from the chart on the left, membership is helping to lift Saga's
overall marketing response rates, with email open rates far higher than industry standards
and also Saga averages, these really are exceptional email engagement rates. We've also
been tracking member usage of the program and we've seen that grow as we've added
new beneﬁts, particularly since Dining Possibilities in October.
We've clearly got some way to go in terms of engagement. But this is evidence that we've
been adding the right beneﬁts for our members. We're also getting faster adding new
features. As I said, we've just launched entertainment possibilities last week and a new
global AccorHotels partnership is about to launch, and these should drive a further boost
in engagement. As we grow membership numbers and usage of the program increases,
we're keen to establish the link between Possibilities and commercial value. What we can
see already is that members engaging most in Possibilities are slightly younger, have
more product holdings with Saga, provide more contribution and are more likely to give
marketing consent. So membership is already providing a stronger route to access our
key Saga customers.

Page 18 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

FINAL

In terms of multi-product holdings, the numbers we're looking at here refer to our core
products only. That's insurance policies, holidays and cruises. The Group average for core
products is 1.4 products per customer. That's 1.2 from non-members and 1.7 from engaged
members. As usage grows, we recognize there is a need to better establish cause and
eﬀect between membership and these numbers. But we expect increasing engagement
in the program to lead to increasing commercial value.
So the formula we are following for generating value for membership is this: Firstly,
signing up members. We're still doing so at a rate of 10,000 a week. Secondly, creating
beneﬁts, which drive engagement. Thirdly, monetizing, both in terms of direct sales from
products like Travel Possibilities and also indirectly leveraging the higher marketing
engagement to inﬂuence purchase.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of the program itself, we will continue to develop the proposition to add new
beneﬁts to provide value for our members. And in turn drive retention, multi-product
holdings and travel contribution. We also believe that in the future membership can play
an important role in driving new customer acquisition.
In terms of what we're going to build? Well, 18 months on, we've got some clear insights
in terms of what our members want from Saga. And this is going to be used to reﬁne and
strengthen the program. Firstly, we are going to scale access to experiences by testing
paid for events and that will enable us to open access to more members. Secondly, by
creating online communities for our members to connect with each other, which
members are already telling us is something, they're very interested in. And thirdly, to
expand the level of incentives and customer recognition through Possibilities to support
our commercial objectives. For example, to acknowledge a forthcoming renewal or
incentivize additional product holdings. And all of this will be -- continue to be supported
by third-party oﬀers from well-known, high quality brands in dining, retail, travel and
entertainment.
In terms of execution, but there's a lot of detail on here and I don't propose to talk to all of
it, but we have a clear product roadmap for Possibilities over the coming 12 months to 18
months. I don't propose to go in detail but just to highlight a few things, the scaling
events, expanding retention and cross-sell incentives and developing communities in sort
of beat to launch this year.
One other aspects to highlight is digital, two-thirds of the unique visits to Possibilities
often tablets and phones, that's higher digital usage than we've seen from our customers
previously. So we'll be investing to develop the digital experience to make easier for
members to get value from the program. That will include a digital version of Saga
Magazine and a new member app this year.
Finally, in keeping with the executional focus, these are the core 12-month goals we've set
for brand and membership. We're aiming to deliver growth back into brand
consideration, double member engagement, grow the number of customers with multiproduct holdings and contribute to the goals already outlined for Travel proﬁtability and
Insurance retention, all of which we hope to update you on going forward.

Page 19 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

Thank you. I'll now hand back to James.

FINAL

James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Thank you, Stuart, and hello, again. I'm now going to spend a few minutes taking you
through the implications of our strategy for our ﬁnances. First, as you have heard from
Lance, we're expecting underlying proﬁt before tax for the current year to be in a range of
GBP105 million to GBP120 million, and I will shortly explain the reasons for this in more
detail. Second, while the re-basing of earnings is of course very disappointing, we believe
this will establish a level from which we can grow proﬁts. We expect the strategy outlined
by Gary to enable us to grow new business volumes and improve customer retentions.
This would add at least GBP20 million from the lower earnings base from broking.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition, with two new cruise ships and a strategy to transform tour ops proﬁtability, we
think we can more than quadruple travel earnings compared to the level of 2016/'17. Third,
I'm sure you will have a number of questions about the new three-year product in terms of
accounting and risk, and I will look to answer some of those today. I think the key point I
want to leave you with is we have spent a lot of time on this area ahead of the go-live
decision and our ﬁnancial plans and our accounting both contain elements of prudence.
Fourth, while our absolute levels of debt are in line with expectations, lower earnings will
lead to a higher ratio of debt to EBITDA than previously anticipated. However, we expect
this to reduce quickly and back to an overall Group leverage ratio of around 2 times over
the next four to ﬁve years and an ex-cruise leverage ratio of below 1.5 times. And last, we
have the level of ﬁnancial ﬂexibility we need to support our strategy. Our business model
remains highly cash generative. We've agreed amendments to the covenants in our shortterm debt and we have credit facilities in place until May 2023.
These factors support our new target payout ratio of 50%, which balances the priority of
reducing our debt with sustainable cash returns to our investors. So, let me now turn to
the details, starting with our earnings expectations for the current year. And on this slide, I
shall walk from actual 2018/'19 earnings to the new guidance that we published today. As
you can see, there are two main moving parts here. First, and the biggest, is the reduction
in expected reserve releases. Now, as you know, this is not a precise science and there is
an element of volatility to claims experience that could lead to releases being either
higher or lower than this amount.
However, based on what we can see today and this is an area in which I have spent a lot of
time in the last few months, we would expect our reserve releases to be between GBP30
million and GBP40 million for the full year. Now this is a big decline compared to the
levels of last year, but I should emphasize that it is more or less what we had previously
anticipated for the '19, '20 year.
Second, there are a number of moving parts in our Retail Broking business earnings. As I
mentioned earlier, the lower margins in new business that we wrote last year will lead to
lower renewal proﬁtability in future years. And we also anticipate making changes to our
renewal pricing on a proactive basis. Netting oﬀ the expected GBP5 million improvement

Page 20 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

FINAL

in PMI. These factors are expected to reduce earnings by between GBP15 million and
GBP25 million.
There are then two other factors within the broking results, which more or less cancel
each other out. On the positive, reductions in AICL pricing should provide an in-year
beneﬁt of around GBP5 million. Going the other way, the relaunch of the Insurance
strategy is expected to have a net P&L cost of around GBP5 million in the ﬁrst year, and I'll
come back to this shortly.
Turning to other parts of the Group. We expect Travel earnings to be higher than last year,
mainly in Cruise, albeit with increased cash ﬂows from the Spirit of Discovery, partially
oﬀset by the fact that for three months of the year we'll only have one ship in operation.
We then do have a small increase in central costs, it is roughly 50% due to a one-oﬀ gain
in last year's results and 50% due to additional costs to support membership and other
investments in data and other capabilities to support the new product propositions. We
expect to hold underlying costs ﬂat.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me now spend a bit of time explaining the ﬁnancial drivers and risks of the new
Insurance strategy, and speciﬁcally, the new three-year ﬁxed product. As Gary explained,
we will focus on our direct heritage and capabilities with a truly diﬀerentiated product in
the form of three-year ﬁxed. More speciﬁcally, we are aiming to grow new business and to
improve retention in combination enabling us to grow our policy count at around 5% a
year. We are helped by the fact that our core demographic, the over 65s, are growing in
number at a compound rate of around about 2% a year. And we also think that we can
recover some of the market share lost in recent years.
In terms of proﬁtability, we are planning on an assumption that the three-year ﬁxed
product is broadly neutral to margins per policy. This balances two diﬀerent factors. On
the positive, we'll be paid for the risk we are taking in guaranteeing the price for three
years and that will include a reasonable margin for volatility and risk. We should also see
an increase in revenues per policy from the added policy features in the premium
product. In terms of costs, we need to invest to support this new strategy and as Gary
explained, we are ready to go with our new advertising campaign. While we see this as a
cost eﬀective way of winning new business, it is a lot more expensive than the old direct
channels upon which Saga has relied in the past, particularly, direct mail.
In the short term, we'll have a small increase in admin costs, although this will over time
be more than compensated for by improved eﬃciency. The other cost we allow for relates
to how we will account for the ﬁxed element of the product and the assumptions we make
for inﬂation. I'll explain this in more detail shortly, but the key point here is that we believe
that our assumptions are prudent. So the message I want to leave you with, is that the new
strategy is a way of driving real growth in the business based on a realistic and sustainable
view of margins.
On this slide, I'll look to explain three things. First, the accounting for three-year ﬁxed;
second, how we've modeled this in our planning and third, the risk considerations
relating to the three-year ﬁxed product.

Page 21 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

FINAL

I'll start with the accounting. Our approach to three-year ﬁxed is expected to be based
around the deferral of part of the premium paid by our customers. The deferral reﬂects
our estimate of the cost of providing a price guarantee. As such, it will be calculated as a
percentage of the net rate of the product based on expected future inﬂation and other
factors which inﬂuence risk.
It will also include a margin for volatility. We've modeled this using analyses from AICL for
home and motor and based on prudent assumptions. We will then release the deferred
income in years two and years three of the policy. In other words, over the life of the price
guarantee.
In terms of our planning assumptions, the deferral of part of the income is of course fully
allowed for. In addition, we have made prudent assumptions for inﬂation. Now, we don't
see a reason why inﬂation would be higher for price promised customers compared to
our standard customers and indeed there is actually a good reason as to why it may well
be lower, but of course, we can reprice standard customers if inﬂation is higher than
expected, but that would not be the case in the short term for those on three-year ﬁxed.

Bloomberg Transcript

From my perspective, there are two ways of thinking about this. First, if we decide to keep
the risk on balance sheet, then we have an inﬂation contingency to protect us. Second, if
we decide to lay oﬀ the risk to insurers, then we've eﬀectively built the cost of doing so
into our planned projections. And so the ﬁnancial risk, we believe that the pricing of the
planning assumptions we are making, protect us against claims inﬂation persistently
running at high single-digit levels.
The other risk is a one-time increase in claims inﬂation above this level. Now this is not
likely to be a major risk in the short-term as volumes of three-year ﬁxed customers grow
from what will obviously be a very low starting point. In addition, a simultaneous shock
around inﬂation for both motor and home is very unlikely. And the accounting deferral
approach would overtime build up signiﬁcant buﬀers that would help us to withstand this
type of scenario.
Nonetheless, while we've been prudent in our planning, internal risk modeling does
highlight a level of exposure in certain adverse scenarios but extreme ones. As we roll out
the new proposition, we will of course be in test and learn mode. But I'm talking here
about a possible few -- 1 in 50 exposure of less than 10% of our broking earnings, not
about the risks to capital. In addition, we will look to reduce this risk through insurance or
reinsurance options before three-year ﬁxed becomes a signiﬁcant part of the portfolio.
On a next slide, I will look to wrap all these together in setting expectations for the
broking business over the next few years. On this slide, I've tried to simplify the key
economics of the broking business; it's basically policy count times, gross margin, less
overheads. Starting with the top line, we expect this year will be a transitional period of
test and learn. We expect to write more business directly and less on PCWs. Overall,
policy count is expect to be around roughly ﬂat.

Page 22 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

FINAL

As mentioned before though, our focus here is on sustainable growth. We're targeting a
5% annual increase in policy count, resulting more or less equally from better retentions
and higher new business. These aren't easy targets, and neither do we see them as
unrealistic. In terms of margins, last year the gross margin per policy across home and
motor was around GBP80. This is gross revenue less marketing costs.
For the reasons already explained, we expect this to decline this year to between GBP71
pounds and GBP74 pounds of policy. We then expect the decline next year to be between
GBP67 and GBP70 per policy; after which, we expect margins to be more stable. This is
the impact of the ongoing margin pressures that I referred to earlier and which, of course,
represents a signiﬁcant headwind to the business, but the point here is that even allowing
for these headwinds, what I'm trying to show you here are the building blocks for how
successful execution of the strategy would add at least GBP20 million to earnings
compared to the re-based level of the current year. But I want to stress at this point that
these margins are intended to be indicative, changes in mix can, of course, lead to higher
or lower numbers, and of course, we live in a competitive and dynamic market.

Bloomberg Transcript

Within this indicative view, we assume no real change in the current pricing environment
and we've also made prudent assumptions around inﬂation and assume no increase in
retention rates from reducing renewal pricing for long-tenured customers. So I would
hope that these assumptions prove to be somewhat prudent, but we are not relying on
that being the case in our planning. Before I move away from Insurance, let me make a
couple of points about AICL. As you know, the role of AICL is to price risk for our target
customers based on advance risk insights and supporting our aspiration to grow.
In recent years, AICL had shrunk. There are various reasons for this but one of them is an
overly prudent approach to pricing. Following recent actions, pricing is now better
aligned to the target return and while this will mean lower underwriting earnings, it will
help retail broking grow policy count and earnings over time. The priority now for AICL is
to further improve pricing and claim sophistication and the team have a number of
important initiatives underway. It may not be the biggest needle mover in terms of Group
earnings based purely on what we see in AICL's results, but the point here is that this will
be a critical enabler of the Group's Insurance strategy in the next few years.
So, let me now wrap up on how we see the next few years in terms of earnings and cash.
You've heard from both Gary and I on what we plan for Insurance and you've heard from
Robin about our ﬁnancial targets for the Travel business. If we combine those with an
increasing contribution from Personal Finance and by holding overhead costs ﬂat, we see
potential to grow earnings from the re-based '19/'20 level. We also expect this to support
an ongoing level of -- a high level of cash conversion. For Insurance, we will naturally see
much lower dividends from AICL in next few years in line with expected lower earnings.
This is expected to be partially oﬀset by the cash ﬂow positives of the three-year ﬁxed
product. While we'll book a prudent provision to recognize the inﬂation risk in three-year
ﬁxed, by ﬂattening out the price paid by the customer, we would receive higher levels of
cash at the start. It's not a reason why we will do this, it is not a reason why we write the
product, but it is relevant to overall product economics. In terms of Travel, we've recently
injected GBP25 million of cash into the Travel holding company to support the installment
Page 23 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

FINAL

payments on the two new ships. I do not expect that to be a recurring feature of our
ﬁnancing and indeed, expect the Travel business to start repatriating cash from the end of
next year.
And last, we see this year as the peak for capital expenditure on IT with a signiﬁcant
improvement next year as the major heavy lifting projects move towards completion. In
summary, we will see a lower level of cash conversion for the '19/'20 ﬁnancial year, for
some of the reasons I've just mentioned. However, for the years beyond this, we will
expect to convert at least 85% of our EBITDA into operating cash including the debt
service commitments paid directly by the cruise business.

Bloomberg Transcript

So let me now move to what this means for our leverage and our debt. As already
mentioned, although absolute levels of debt are in line with expectations, lower earnings
will put pressure on our leverage ratio and this is happening at the same time as we will
over the next 18 months add another GBP500 million of debt, relating to the two new
ships. One of my priorities for the last few weeks has been to ensure that we have the
ﬁnancial ﬂexibility to execute on our new strategy.
This has meant taking the diﬃcult decision to reduce our ﬁnal dividend to 1p per share, a
step which will save us GBP50 million in cash. It has also meant discussing with our
banking partners, amendments to the covenants in our term loan and revolving credit
facility. And in this respect, I'm very pleased that we've been able to agree new covenants
based on a new deﬁnition, which excludes the cruise debt and of course the cruise
earnings. While the cruise debt is not legally ring-fenced from the core group, we do view
it as economically ring-fenced in that the cruise cash ﬂows should be more than suﬃcient
to meet the cruise debt commitments both in terms of interest and loan repayments.
Our intention here is to hold at least half a turns of headroom at peak debt levels
including allowance for certain adverse trading scenarios and for us to then see a rapid
reduction in leverage in the next few years. I see a number of the bank teams in the
audience today and I would like to thank them for my -- for their support.
Let me now put this in the context of the dividend. While I recognize that our leverage
ratio in the short term is going to be higher than anticipated, we have a number of real
credit positives: First, as already mentioned, we have a good track record of reduced -reducing debt and expect an ongoing cash conversion rate of more than 85% of EBITDA.
Second, we don't anticipate any ﬁnancing needs in the next few years. And by the time
the credit facility matures, my expectation is that we will not need to renew it. Third, we
have headroom to our new covenants including in reasonable stress scenarios. And
fourth, we expect the ship debt to reduce quickly from peak levels. In establishing the
right balance between reducing leverage and cash returns for our investors, we have
therefore set a target payout ratio of 50%. This should enable us to reduce the ex-ships
leverage ratio to below 1.5 times and to reduce of the overall Group leverage ratio to
around 2 times over the next few years.
That wraps up my presentation. And with that, I'll now hand back to Lance.

Page 24 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, James, and thank you, the rest of the team as well. Look, we've not shied away
from making some tough decisions today, but I hope you can see and you will appreciate
why it's important for us to make the changes that we've announced today to get Saga
onto a sustainable long-term growth trajectory. The whole team has embraced the need
for change and they've worked very hard to get us to a point, where we can now execute.
We're also conﬁdent that our people and our customers are excited about the new
approach and the new products. That's going to be the true catalyst that returns Saga to
its rightful place as an organization that leads the way in the over-50s market and that
grows proﬁts and then allows it to deliver attractive returns to shareholders. That is what I
and the Board and my management team are now determined to achieve.
So that completes our formal presentation. We'll now take questions. I'd really appreciate
it if you can wait for the mic, clearly state who you are, address your questions to me and I
will pass them around the rest of the team. We may also get some questions coming in
over the phone. Thank you.

Questions And Answers

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Thank you. Jonny Urvin, UBS. And Lance, I'm sorry to ask this question. It's a diﬃcult one,
but I guess, how would you reassure your shareholders over the coming days and today
that this is the right management team to execute on this reinvigorated strategy.

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Secondly, I am just thinking back to the 2017 proﬁt warning, you guys were the ﬁrst ones
to come out and really acknowledge that the market was under a lot of pressure. And I
just wonder today the change to renewal practices and the three-year ﬁxed. I mean, is this
the same thing and this is an indicator that the market is in real trouble, given the FCA
pricing investigation and you think there's signiﬁcant change to come. Thank you.

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

All right. Thanks, Jonny. Well, look I think, that ﬁrst question is absolutely a fair question to
ask and I'm glad you have asked it. So look ﬁrstly, we're on a journey here. We inherited a
business ﬁve years ago at IPO that needed substantial change and we've been on that
journey, we've reduced the leverage signiﬁcantly. We've replaced the IT, we've ordered
and built the ﬁrst of the new ships, we've launched membership. We're now turning our
attention to the big one, which is Insurance and as you all know, that's the largest part of
the business.

Page 25 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

FINAL

And I'm absolutely delighted that I've got a Board and a Chairman, a CFO and in, Gary, a
Head of Division, who are all real subject matter experts on UK insurance and then what
people like myself and Robin and Stuart can bring to the party is a deep understanding of
the consumer need, of what Saga customers really want and we've married those two to
create what I think today is really breakthrough announcement in UK insurance.
Time will tell whether we have the right strategy. I completely understand the frustration
and the disappointment of an investor base who have been waiting to see what Saga is
capable of, but I believe that the move that we're taking, the strategy that we've
announced today is absolutely the right one and I think we've got the right team to
deliver.

Bloomberg Transcript

To your second question around December '17. I think December '17, for those of you who
remember, we announced a modest proﬁt warning at that point and some concerns
about the progress of our own broking business. I think that was the ﬁrst real warning
signal to us that we had a problem and that we needed to drive some change and we
spent 2018 stabilizing volumes, which have been declining for some time and I think we
learned some very painful and interesting lessons in 2018.
We discovered once and for all that Saga is not a commoditized, volume price
comparison website player and we spend a lot of time with our customers and with our
new membership base, understanding from them, what is it they really want from Saga?
What is our place in the market and do we have a right to play in the market? And the
answer was an absolutely clear, yes, and the 18 months or so that we have spent
designing, building and testing the new products that are launched today is the output of
that.
I don't think it necessarily indicates broad distress in the UK market. I don't see the
evidence of that. I'll let others in the market comment on that for themselves, but I do
think that the market is changing. I think that the commoditization, the digitization, I think
that UK consumers are increasingly savvy about how pricing works and we know from our
interaction with members and from the 6,000 policies that we've already sold that our
customers are absolutely delighted with the idea of ﬂat pricing over the next three years.
It will be interesting to see whether other players in the UK market mimic this over time.
Andreas?

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Yeah. Good morning. Andreas van Embden from Peel Hunt. Just two questions, also
around pricing, it seems to me just reading between the lines across your presentation
that you've been mispricing an insurance product over a number of years for -- a product
that you feel don't have enough quality for your membership base and that's the reason
you didn't grow. So you now think that by correcting that pricing mismatch, that that's
going to lead to growth. And I just wanted to sort of challenge that, in terms of the pricing
mix between the renewal pricing and the new business, how big was that gap? And do
you really think that this new pricing mechanism is going to close that and generate
proﬁtability.

Page 26 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

So I am going to --

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

FINAL

And the second question is --

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

I thought that was two questions, Andreas. Go ahead. Yes.

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Sorry, the second question is, what will that do to your average premiums over time? Will
they be declining over time or not?

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

So I'm going to suggest that the ﬁrst part of your question is taken by Gary, who talked a
little bit about the historical learnings over pricing. Have we been pricing wrong? And
then that afterwards we'll take that as a ﬁnancial question, and James, will take the second
part of your question. Gary?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gary Duggan

{BIO 18331803 <GO>}

Yeah. And I wouldn't go as far as to say we were pricing wrong. I think we were pricing in
line with -- to a large extent with the rest of the industry. I think it's been pretty clear from
all the conversations and the research we've been doing with our customers in particular
with our demographic, that they would appreciate a diﬀerent approach to it. And kind of
going through the hassle of, kind of, shopping around every year and getting various
quotes is diﬃcult for our customers and it's not something that they particularly enjoy
doing.
So I think, my comment over the three-year price promise, it enables us to kind of give a
much better-quality product and service to customers that will avoid them having to do
that. So I don't think necessarily we've been approaching it in any diﬀerent way than
anybody else in the industry in terms of how we price new business and renewals. But I
think the industry needs to change, as I've said, the FCA have said, the industry needs to
change. This is our response to the change and I think it's a very positive response to the
change, because it's about rewarding loyalty moving forward, which I think will create a
more sustainable future for the -- not just our business but for the industry if they're
approaching this in the way that we have.

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

I mean, I think, in terms of the ﬁnancials, I mean, I think, as mentioned in the -- in the
presentation, this is -- the point of three-year ﬁxed is not for us to extract more margin
from our customer base. It is to get people to come to us direct because in terms of what
we are expecting with three-year ﬁxed essentially the expectation here is that we grow the
top-line, but at on average the same average margin policy.
Page 27 of 36



FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

In terms of what it will do for average premiums, I mean, there is two parts to that, I mean,
ﬁrst, we're selling a premium product, so there is obviously an uplift between the standard
and the premium product. And then there's a further uplift, which would be the ﬁxed
price element. I don't think at this stage, we'll probably go into what that ﬁxed price is.
We're not talking enormous amounts of money. But of course, for that, then we're giving
something to the invest -- to the customers incredibly tangible, which is when you come
back next year, your renewal letter will just have the same price, unless you have had a
claim or IPT has gone up. So I think the point here is, it's a draw for people to come to us
on a direct basis. It's a reason why people will pick up the phone to us and essentially
today if they do that then it's very much more a price-led proposition. So what we're
trying to do is get people to come to us direct rather than go onto the aggregators.

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Ben?

Q - Benjamin Cohen

{BIO 21227414 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. Hi, there. It's Ben Cohen at Investec. I had two questions. The ﬁrst, I suppose,
looking more at home and others, speciﬁcally health, I just wonder your conﬁdence level
in the margin, the gross sort of margin as a proportion of written premium that you're
taking in those lines, particularly in health in the context of one product provider, very
long-term customers there, very high commission levels. How sure are you that this is
sustainable in the new world.
And the second, just a point of clariﬁcation on the dividend. So you're looking to get to a
50% payout ratio in the medium-term, does that suggest that sort of for this coming year,
wherever the earnings are, you will be looking to make a 50% payout or do you need to
actually see that some of these initiatives are bearing fruit before you commit to that?
Thank you.

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Thanks, Ben. I'll ask James to ﬁeld both of those.

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Yeah. So, I mean, I think, it seems like, I think, within the ﬁrst one, it seems like there is two
questions, which is, one, are margins sustainable? And there's probably a particular point
on PMI. So I think in terms of why the margins overall are sustainable from the reduced
base that we expect to get to in the 2020, '21 year. I think there's three things. So the ﬁrst
one is, when we've essentially rolled forward the experience of last year. We are assuming
that our new business margins will reﬂect that experience. So we are not -- there is no sort
of hockey stick improvement in new business proﬁtability. We are essentially rolling
forward based on the average of what we encountered last year for this year and the year
after. So essentially that's the ﬁrst piece of it.
The second piece is, I mean, as you can see we are proactively taking action on renewal
pricing for long tenured customers. We think that it is us leaning into the challenge. We
think we are making what is a very sensible provision for that in what we're going to do.
Page 28 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

FINAL

And I think we feel that -- as I say, we're getting ahead of the change. Could the FCA go
much further, could the industry go much further? Possibly, but we think we're doing what
we need to do there. So I think those are the two main reasons why we are seeing
margins are sustainable. The third element though is the fact that what we are certainly
not assuming is that there is any sort of hard market or anything like that. So we are
assuming that every day inﬂation more or less keeps track in terms of gross rate and net
rate. So the market environment is assumed to be a very consistent one essentially.
I think in terms of the PMI product speciﬁcally. So we have a very good PMI product, it's
got some really diﬀerentiated features in it. And within the renewal pricing actions, there
is a component of that, which does relate to PMI. It's not the biggest part of that by any
means. So we think again going back I guess to the same answers I gave before, which is,
we think we're taking the actions that are the right actions and we think that we are doing
what we need to do and frankly that will position us quite well.
In terms of dividend, I think that -- if you take the guidance that we've given, the GBP105
million to GBP120 million, that averages out to about 8p. If you take half of 8p, it gets you
to 4p. So I think you can see that we've looked to -- well, we've reduced the dividend for
last year into a level that is consistent with where we would be with the GBP105 million to
GBP120 million range.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

Thank you. Ed Morris, JP Morgan. First question, could you just help us step through the
proﬁt outlook for the sort of, year after the current one. You're talking about a GBP20
million improvement in broking proﬁtability. Can you just conﬁrm, is that on a three to ﬁve
year view. And I think earlier in the presentation, you mentioned a further GBP10 million
headwind in broking. So if we sort of set the cruise ships aside, underlying, are we
expecting proﬁt to increase from the new level that you've outlined in '19/'20. And the
second question is just relating to the three-year ﬁx. Can you just clarify, is this something
that will exclusively be an AICL provided product or will your panel members eﬀectively
be able to stand behind some of these policies and I may have a follow-up question
depending on the answer.

A - Gary Duggan

{BIO 18331803 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks, Ed. I'll take the second one and then hand over to James for your ﬁrst. So
the answer is that our panel has the ability to underwrite against these policies. That
allows us to cover as much of the market as possible. And from that perspective, it's no
diﬀerent to underwriting any other policy. And just -- they are underwriting for one year
and that renewal, we go back to the panel as we usually do to look at who would write for
the second year and for the third. And then, James, on the ﬁrst part?

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Yeah, I mean, I think just to add on that second one is well. So when we've been looking
at the sort of the accounting approach, we have a quote from AICL as to what it would
cost -- what they would charge in terms of the net rate, for both home and for motor.
When we come to sort of work out the cost, we've taken that and we've added a bit of a

Page 29 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

margin on and that will then determine how we defer income. So again, we're looking to
be somewhat prudent, but at the moment, the risk will sit on the broking balance sheet.

FINAL

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

So sorry, just a very quick follow-up if I may then on that, if the broking businesses then
not risk-less in the sense that there is a possibility that you could make more or less
money than you expect, is there any likelihood that that could change your capital
requirements for example broking at the moment is not regulated under solvency. Does it
become an insurance business? Thank you.

A - Robin Shaw

{BIO 20138547 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, it's a good question and one we thought about, so -- and I mean we don't think that
it does change the capital requirements. I think it probably means we may hold a bit more
cash in that business than we do today. So I think there's a probably a small element of a
cash piece that we will need to keep back. I mean I think one thing to emphasize here is I
think going back to what I mentioned before. It's that we've run various stress scenarios
based on inﬂation outcomes, based on history. We've selected, I mean, obviously, one in
50, I mean there isn't many data points to judge, but I think we've taken what we think is a
very prudent point at saying around sort of 20% one-time step change instantaneous
increases in inﬂation for either motor or home and I think what we -- the way we've
modeled that risk then is that that would have less than a 10% impact on in-year broking
earnings. So yes, you could get a slightly less lower dividend out of a -- the services
business than you would do, but it's not a -- we're not running a capital risk in that sense.
And I mean, I think -- and perhaps the other point to mention is, I mean at the moment,
we've written 6,000 policies, but [ph] I don't think that exposes us to any meaningful risk.
As that business grows, I mean, we will look to either insure it or reinsure it. And whether
we do that directly out of the broking business or via AICL, that remains to be seen, but I
think the point there though is that what we've done in the planning and so the margin
guidance I've given you is looking to incorporate how much that would cost and on a
reasonably prudent basis. So when we're saying that we can hold margins ﬂat, that is
assuming that we would essentially pass on this risk to insurers on reinsurers and whether
that's AICL or a combination of outside parties, that remains to be seen. AICL is the
obvious choice obviously for the motor.

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

But so you do -- your other question was asked. So maybe I should have included the
walk for 2020/'21 and -- as well, but the -- so you're right, I think that the -- there is a sort of
roll forward eﬀect from '19/'20 into '20/'21 and that is captured in the margin that we've
talked about, so we're saying that the margin goes from GBP80 to -- sort of between
GBP72 and GBP75 for this year and then between GBP67 and GBP70 next year and you
can do the math there. We are at 1.9 million policyholders or 1.9 million policies times
GBP5 equals GBP10 million.
So the -- that is covered within the guidance that we've given you. In terms of what we
would expect between '19/'20 and then 2020/'21, yes, there is that step-down that comes

Page 30 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

FINAL

through margin, but also, that's where we expect to start the policy count growing as well
and if you then look at a 5% policy count, if we then hold overheads ﬂat, we've got a 50%
cost-income ratio, you get about a 10% growth in that. So, I would see, the next couple of
years as more about stabilization in terms of broking, but absolutely when we gave you
the GBP20 million, that was GBP20 million from this year, not some other lower number.

Operator
Thanks. We are going to come to Nick next.

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Good morning. Nick Johnson from Numis. Just one high level question, ﬁrst of all is,
could you just say how important the three-year ﬁxed product is to stabilizing broking
margins, just a bit of context around that given it's an unproven product -- if you could just
give us a feel for how much of the stabilization project is based on that.
And second one, in terms of detail, the three-year ﬁxed product, can you just explain the
scenario where a customer gets a better quote or shops around after two years to three
years and gets a better quote, are they able to exit one of the penalties? Can you just
explain that side of the model, please?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

So I'll take the ﬁrst part and then ask Gary to take the second. So the answer to your ﬁrst
question, Nick around how important is it, is it is one of a number of ingredients to the
strategic restructuring that we're announcing today. It is not by any means the only part of
it. We know that it's exciting to our customers, we know that the long-term economics on
it look very solid. We know that it truly diﬀerentiates us in the market, but actually a critical
part of that is us going back to the direct channel rather than focusing overly on the PcW
channel. I think we learned some lessons last year where we dialed up the volume we
went after in PcW. We don't have to do that. Even last year, about half of all the new
customers who came to Saga still came direct and that was without us advertising, without
us selling a diﬀerentiated product and so the shift back gently towards a direct channel,
we don't require a massive shift, but a gentle shift back in that direction backed by
diﬀerentiated products of which the three-year is just the ﬁrst, there's more to come, is
very important to us as well. And then, Gary?

A - Gary Duggan

{BIO 18331803 <GO>}

Yeah. Thanks, Lance. And so, whilst we call it a three-year ﬁxed policy, it still is annually
renewable by the customer. So the customer still has the opportunity to shop around and
move somewhere else if they choose to do so. And so they're not kind of locked in. And
the good news from the customers' perspective is they buy the product at a certain
premium in year one. They have conﬁdent acknowledge that if they do shop around, the
worst case scenario they can just keep the policy that they've got now and the premium is
not going to go up. So it gives them that kind of conﬁdence factor about the maximum
that they will have to pay in years two and three based on what they paid in year one. I
think that's what makes it attractive to a lot of customers and certainly why it's researched
really, really well with our customers.
Page 31 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

Q - Joanna Parsons

{BIO 1558226 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you. Joanna Parsons from Canaccord. Two questions, please. You talk about the
growth in the demographic or your demographic. Can you give us a feel of what your
market share of that demographic is today versus what it was ﬁve years ago. And then
what you -- what your target is for that? And secondly, in terms of the -- and I think it was
from 50 years onwards in terms of what you consider to be your demographic.

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Joanna Parsons

{BIO 1558226 <GO>}

Given the way that 50-year-olds feel today, do you think that this, you would ever need to
-- or you should consider a diﬀerent brand name for that part of the demographic. Do you
think the Saga brand name, you talked about, old-fashioned and whatever, although
trying to change that. Do you think that actually you would beneﬁt from having a product
within your tree which had a diﬀerent name.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Sure. I'll take both those. So on the market share question, we've got market share data
for the insurance industry, but it's small sample and it's quite volatile, and I don't entirely
trust it. But what it tells us, is that if you go back 10 years, we had a market share in the
over-50s of motor high single-digit or thereabouts. And we're now down at 5% or
thereabouts. So we have lost market share as I said in my introduction steadily over a
decade. Bearing in mind, of course, that the demographic is growing all the time. So even
if you just held steady, you would lose market share. But we've done worse than that, and
that is what's prompted the radical change of direction today.
And then to your question around age and demographic. It's important, I think, to
remember the history of Saga. Saga was founded as a company for the retired and that
meant for 65 years old, and for most of its history, it was a business for the 65 pluses and
it was only when the brand entered the insurance sector about 20 years ago, that the
cutoﬀ was moved to 50 in order to make it possible for people in their '50s to buy home
and motor insurance and to widen the scope. The truth is, when you talk to consumers in
the UK, and I think, we in the room, we'll recognize this. It's a brand for 65 year olds. Now
we do attract people in their 50s and we're delighted when that happens, because we
build a relationship with them, we can show them the amazing service that we have. And
by the time they are in their 60s, we hope that they'll migrate across to travel products as
well. And to the other products in our suite.
But we're not trying to turn this into a brand for 50 year olds. We recognize that the sweet
spot for Saga is generally mid-60s. The average age of a new Saga customer is 61 and
that number hasn't changed over many years and we don't believe a secondary brand is
the right answer for us, what we believe is right, is to oﬀer diﬀerent better products under
the Saga brand name at competitive prices wrapped in fantastic service and if we do that,
we know that there are lots of people in their 50s who would love to own home and

Page 32 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

motor from us, and then come on holiday with us when they are little bit older. Lady at the
back.

FINAL

Q - Ruchi Gupta

{BIO 5316030 <GO>}

Thank you. My name is Ruchi Gupta from Western Asset Management. My question is
about peak leverage including the shipping debt, when do you expect the peak leverage,
which time, which year and if you could just give me the development of peak level -- of
the leverage for next two years. And secondly, have you spoken to rating agencies about
your new strategy and the new proﬁt outlook? Thanks.

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Thank you. James?

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

And -- yeah. So let me take the ﬁrst one. Yes, we have spoken to the ratings agencies and I
think they are due to issue something fairly imminently. So obviously that will come out,
I'm guessing, probably, today or tomorrow, or something. So, yes, that is all we've had a
number of discussions with them, we have shared our plans with them, so absolutely.
In terms of peak leverage: So it depends on when you're talking group peak leverage or
the ex ship debt leverage. So including the ships, I mean, obviously, the peak leverage is
after the second ship comes on stream in August 2020. So in terms of reporting date, the
peak leverage at the Group level would be January 2021, and I think, the message I would
give you there is, if we include cruise earnings on a pro forma basis, we will be looking to
try and/or not try, we will be looking to hold that peak number below 4 times, so that's all
in, including the ships, including everything else.
And as I say, the -- and in terms of the including -- inclusion of the -- all of the pro forma
cruise earnings, I don't think it will make a lot of sense to judge six months of cruise
earnings against all of the cruise debt. So I mean I think that's why we would do that and
of course, we've got a high level of visibility on the forward bookings as well. In terms of
ex-ships picture, the peak is going to be sooner than that. It will probably be at the end of
this year. So January 2020 and that is where we would look to hold the peak leverage
below three times on an ex-cruise basis. So with half a turns of headroom to the covenant.

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Time for one more question I think, from -- anyone who hasn't asked. I think you got
another and then just to be fair, Ben, I'll give you one after that. Yeah.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Thank you. So just a quick one on the three year ﬁxed. So just thinking about how you're
pricing now. So you discount year one, then your price walk up year two, year three to
sort of get to where you need to be. Implicitly you're saying that this is margin neutral, so
from that, can we assume that the new business pricing goes up by enough to oﬀset the
reduction from the renewal pricing that you would have got, ﬁrst question.
Page 33 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

And then secondly, just thinking about doesn't this just make you more cyclical. Because if
I'm an equity investor, I want to earn you guys basically when claims inﬂation is coming
down, pricing is coming down because you're locked in and then I want to sell you when
that's switching.

FINAL

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

So I think -- I guess on the second part of that, I mean it will then choose a new element of
volatility up to a point, but I think within relatively narrow conﬁnes. And of course, if we
then lay that risk oﬀ to the insurers and the reinsurers and we build the cost of doing that
into the plan, then actually that risk is -- it won't be our risk anyway.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
And you build the cost of that into the premium as well, that you're charging initially.

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, that's exactly right. So it's -- we build what we think it will cost us to basically insure
or reinsure that risk. So that's built into the cost of the product. It's also built into how we
thought about the planning as well. So, this is -- so, I think that's a really important point
because, yes, right now that risk sits on our balance sheet, but we've given ourselves the
ﬁnancial -- sort of the ﬁnancial ﬂexibility in our planning that should we choose to, we can
either insure all or part or some of the peak risk. I mean, there's a number of diﬀerent
ways you could look at it. And absolutely do I expect that we would buy no insurance for
this, deﬁnitely not.
So we would deﬁnitely look to pass some of that risk on. It's just it then becomes a choice.
In terms of the cyclicality element, actually, there are some dampening features as well
because if obviously a customer comes in, they buy the three-year ﬁxed product -- prices
then soften a bit. So they actually decide to lapse the policy and buy another policy, then
of course, we get an extra piece of premium in the ﬁrst year that would give us a cushion
against this. So they're -- there are some inherent dampening eﬀects there, and I can tell
you that, I mean, although, we are planning for this to be margin neutral, if inﬂation is in
line with our expectations, it is margin positive, very clearly margin positive as well.
So I think that the overall element is the risks are being well-controlled and that's before
we would look to lay the risk oﬀ, which again I think we were doing, but I think more sort
of philosophically, the reason that we're doing it is actually to give people such a strong
reason to come to us direct whether it is via the phone or on the website. That they would
do that rather than going on the aggregators and that's one reason why the economics
look so much diﬀerent.
And in terms of the overall economics, as I say, there are moving pieces. On the one
hand, we get paid for the inﬂation piece, we also get a -- we are selling a better product
as well. On the other hand, it will require us to spend more money on advertising than we
do today on direct mail. So there are some natural balances. But I'll say really the message
is, we think it's margin neutral on cautious inﬂation assumption, but it's giving people the
reasons to come to us direct.
Page 34 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

FINAL

Now we've blown through our time here, I'm going to let Ben, ask his question, we are
then going to take a 5-minute break, because we have all been in the room two hours. We
will then -- we'll have stopped the oﬃcial presentation, but we are staying and we're
happy to answer any questions that any of you have got, so come meet us down here in
ﬁve minutes' time. But ﬁrst Ben, your last question.

Q - Benjamin Cohen

{BIO 21227414 <GO>}

Yes, thanks. I just want to ask on the strategy, when you did the review, did you consider
divesting diﬀerent parts of the business and maybe you could talk about why you think
still the structure with two cruise ships, an insurance broking business, all of the debt that
you're carrying, why that is the right structure when it's not clear, it's been the right
structure over the last ﬁve years? Thank you.

A - Lance Batchelor

{BIO 6884486 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So the Board has a number of conversations over the years that we've been a public
company about the logical structure that makes up Saga. What's interesting is, when you
talk to our customers, to our members as they now all are member with over 1 million
members at the center of the brand, for them they don't see it as illogical that Saga would
provide both insurance and travel to them. Those are two parts of their lives and if we get
it right, it helps them to enjoy their retirement, which is what the company is all about.
I think there is an ongoing question about the relative pros and cons of it being owned
within the same legal entity, what we've started to see with a strong database at the
center with brand advertising that builds the whole brand, not just part of it, with cross-sell
starting to build up through membership into Travel, which is a real ﬁnancial beneﬁt from
us. With the ability to go out and talk to partners in the membership space and attract
them to want to oﬀer products and services to our members. I think there's actually a
growing coherence that argues for a logic to the business holding together. The honest
answer is, time will tell. We have to prove to you that we can do as well in Insurance as we
have been doing in cruise and that's our objective over the next year or two and I think
you need to judge us over the next year or two on whether that makes sense from your
point of view as well, we believe it does. Right, we're going to take a ﬁve minute break.
Thank you for your attention. Understand, if you want to slip away and we'll see you in a
few minutes time. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
Page 35 of 36



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2019-04-04

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 36 of 36

