Q3 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

David Knibbe , CEO
Delfin Rueda, Chief Financial Officer

Other Participants
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Bart Jooris , Analyst
Benoit Petrarque , Analyst
Colm Kelly, Analyst
Cor Kluis , Analyst
Fulin Liang, Analyst
Henry Heathfield, Analyst
Jason Kalamboussis , Analyst
Matthias De Wit, Analyst
Robin van den Broek, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Steven Haywood, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is the Operator speaking. Welcome to NN Group's
Analyst Conference Call on the Third Quarter 2019 Results. The telephone lines will be in listenonly mode during the Company's presentation. The lines will then be opened for a question-andanswer session.
Before handing this conference call over to Mr. David Knibbe, Chief Executive Officer of NN Group,
let me first give the following statement on behalf of the Company. Today's comments may
include forward-looking statements such as statements regarding future developments in NN
Group's business, expectations for its future financial performance, and any statement not
involving a historical fact. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forwardlooking statement.
Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and NN Group assumes
no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of
new information or for any other reason. Furthermore, nothing in today's comments constitutes an
offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities.
Good morning, Mr. Knibbe, over to you.

David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes, thank you, and good morning everyone, and welcome to this conference call. It is my pleasure
to present the third quarter 2019 results of NN Group for the first time as CEO of this Company.
Before we start, let me just say it's a privilege to lead NN Group into the next phase of its journey,
working together with talented people, who are focused on providing excellent products and
services to our customers, and creating long-term value for our stakeholders.



FINAL

We will continue to build on the current solid foundations of our Company, including our execution
strength, robust balance sheet, and strong capital generation. I've been spending a lot of time
talking to various stakeholders in order to get their feedback and I will continue this in the coming
months. We will present an update of the NN Group's strategic and financial developments at our
Capital Markets Day in 2020, which is scheduled for 24th of June. I hope many of you will be able
to attend this event.
I am joined today by Delfin Rueda, our CFO; and Jan-Hendrik Erasmus, our CRO. This is of course
the last quarterly call, that Jan-Hendrik will attend as CRO, following his decision to leave NN at the
end of the year. I would like to take this opportunity to extend my thanks to him, for his contribution
to the company and I wish him all the best in his new role.
So, let me kick off today's presentation by looking at the highlights and the business developments
in the past quarter, starting on Slide 3. We are today, reporting a strong set of results for the third
quarter of 2019, with most segments posting a higher operating result compared with last year.
The Non-life business, for example, has been successfully implementing a range of measures over
the past two years, including repricing and stricter underwriting.
This has contributed to the improvement of the combined ratio to 94.2% for this quarter. Similarly,
Insurance Europe, Japan Life and Banking all showed an improved performance with each
segment reporting results growth compared with the year ago.

Bloomberg Transcript

The results at Netherlands Life reflects lower private equity and special dividends while the
reinsurance business continues to experience higher claims. Delfin will discuss the financial results
of each segment later in this presentation.
We continually strive to increase the efficiency of the organization. In the third quarter, we reduced
the expenses of the units in scope of the integration by a further EUR17 million. More details of
these expense savings are given on Slide 5. One of our main priorities is to maintain a strong
balance sheet. This is reflected in a Solvency II ratio of 217% and a holding company cash capital
position of EUR1.9 billion.
In terms of commercial performance, we saw increased new sales at Netherlands Life on the back
of higher volume of group pension contracts as well as at Insurance Europe where we are driving
sales of protection and pension products. Overall, net sales are down on last year due to lower
sales at Japan Life following the new tax rules for COLI products. As a consequence, we are
adapting our product portfolio in Japan, improving sales support and training our sales force to
address the negative effect of the new tax rules.
Turning to Slide 4; our ambition is to be a company that truly matters in the lives of our
stakeholders. This means offering personal and relevant products and services to our customers.
This also means being a good corporate citizen and playing our part in enabling sustainable
progress.
For example, our asset manager NN IP integrates ESG factors throughout the investment process
for two-thirds of its strategy and has been awarded the Top A plus score by the organization UN
Principles for Responsible Investment.
On the previous slide, I already talked about the commercial momentum at insurance units.
Looking at the other businesses, NN IP attracted net inflows of third-party assets in the third
quarter despite the challenging environment. And the volume of mortgages originated by NN Bank
reached a record level of EUR2 billion in the past quarter. The majority of these mortgages were
then transferred to other Group companies for their investment portfolios and to NN IP's thirdparty Dutch Residential Mortgage Fund.



FINAL

Earlier this year, we announced the intended acquisition of VIVAT Non-life. We are currently working
through the regulatory approval process and making preparation for the integration of this
business, so that we can get started immediately when the transaction closes, which we expect to
happen during the first quarter of 2020.
Let's move to Slide 5. As you are aware, we aim to reduce the expense base for the business units
in the scope of integration by EUR400 million by the end of 2020. We are making good progress
towards reaching the target with additional cost savings of EUR17 million in the third quarter of
2019, bringing total cost reductions to EUR323 million compared with the 2016 full-year expense
base.
Having said that, and as we mentioned in the past, expense reductions will not be linear and some
units may see expense increases in the coming quarters to support growth and make necessary
investments.
With that, I will hand you over to Delfin Rueda, who will take you through the details of the financial
performance, free cash flow, and the capital position of the Group.

Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, David, and good morning, everyone. As usual, let me start with NN Group's operating
result for the third quarter of 2019 of EUR453 million, which you can see in the left hand chart. The
slight decrease compared with last year reflects lower private equity and special dividends at
Netherlands Life and a lower result at the reinsurance business. But this was largely offset by
higher results at Netherlands Non-Life, Insurance Europe, Japan Life and Banking.
The third quarter net result in the right-hand chart was EUR515 million, down from EUR788 million in
the same quarter last year. The main reasons for this were the lower gains on the sale of
government bonds, and lower market and other impacts. This was partly offset by positive
revaluations on derivatives used for hedging purposes, because of the lower interest rates, as well
as positive revaluations on real estate and private equity.
Moving on to the next slide, I will take you through the operating performance of the individual
segments. Starting on the left, the operating result of Netherlands Life was down on the third
quarter last year. This was almost entirely due to the fact that the third quarter of 2018 included
total private equity and special dividends of EUR48 million versus just EUR16 million of special
dividends in the current quarter.
As David already mentioned, the Non-life business posted another good result this quarter with a
combined ratio of 94.2% compared with 97.1% in the third quarter last year. The higher results at
Disability & Accident were mainly driven by favorable claims development in the Group income
portfolio. The portfolio on Casualty results were slightly down on last year as the improved
underwriting result was offset by lower other income.
The third chart shows the higher operating result of Insurance Europe compared with a year ago.
This was caused by several factors, including higher investment income in Belgium, the growth of
the protection portfolio and higher performance fees in the pension business in Slovakia. This was
partly offset by lower pension funds in Romania, following the pension reforms in that country that
were introduced at the start of this year.
Finally, on this slide, the operating result at Japan Life increased 2% from the third quarter 2018 if
you exclude currency effects. This reflects a higher technical margin, driven by favorable mortality
results as well as lower DAC amortization and trade commissions, partly offset by lower fees and
premium-based revenues. Sales were negatively impacted by the new tax rules for COLI products



which has led to lower new business premiums, but also to an increased persistency of the in-force
portfolio.

FINAL

The other segments are shown on Slide 9. The operating result of Asset Management was stable
at EUR43 million as lower fees were offset by a decrease of administrative expenses. Total assets
under management increased to EUR287 billion compared with EUR268 billion at the end of the
second quarter of 2019, driven by positive market performance as well as net inflow of assets.
The segment Banking reported a higher operating result compared with last year. This increase
resulted from higher fees and other income, which includes a EUR6 million non-recurrent benefit
this quarter, relating to the evaluation premium on mortgage sales, as a result of lower interest
rate. Operating expenses were also up, supporting the increase in mortgage origination that David
mentioned earlier, and reflecting higher project expenses.

Bloomberg Transcript

Finally, the segment Other, which includes the holding company and the reinsurance business
reported a loss of EUR12 million this quarter versus a loss of EUR6 million in the third quarter last
year. The results of the reinsurance business were down, as last year included EUR8 million of
positive hedge related results on the variable annuity Europe portfolio, while these are now
reported below the line as a non-operating item since the beginning of this year. The current
quarter also reflects unfavorable claims experience. This was partly compensated by lower holding
expenses.
Let's move on to the free cash flow on Slide 10. The cash position at the holding company was
EUR1.9 billion at the end of the third quarter of 2019, down from EUR2.2 billion at the end of the
second quarter of 2019. The free cash flow during the third quarter was EUR224 million, mainly
driven by EUR285 million dividends received from subsidiaries. This was offset by capital flows to
shareholders at EUR487 million, representing the cash part of the 2019 interim dividend and shares
repurchased in the third quarter under the share buyback programs.
On Slide 11, the last slide in my section, I'll take you through the developments in NN Group's
solvency position. Despite the challenging macroeconomic environment, NN Group Solvency II ratio
increased 7 percentage points in the third quarter to 217%. As you can see in the chart, the main
driver of this increase was operating capital generation, which added 5 percentage points to the
ratio. Another 1 percentage point came from the market variance.
This reflects lower interest rates which led to both higher own funds and higher SCR, and a
negative impact on the solvency ratio, while other factors such as real estate revaluation and credit
spread movements contributed positively to the ratio.
And with that, I will now pass you back to David for the wrap up. Thank you.

David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Thank you, Delfin. NN Group has today reported a strong set of results for the third quarter of
2019 with most segments showing an improved performance and further cost reductions achieved
across the organization. Our capital position remains strong with the holding company cash capital
of EUR1.9 billion and a Solvency II ratio of 217%.
Finally, we announced this morning, our decision to change to semi-annual reporting as from 2020.
We feel that this reporting frequency better suits the long-term nature of our business. And with
that, I will pass the call back to the operator to start the Q&A session and remind you that JanHendrik Erasmus is also with us to answer your questions.

Questions And Answers



Operator
Thank you, Mr. Knibbe. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now start the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from Mr. Cor Kluis, ABN AMRO. Go ahead please, sir.

FINAL

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Good morning, Cor Kluis, ABN AMRO. I've got a couple of questions. First of all about the Solvency
II road forward on Slide 11. There is a 1 percentage points from the category, Other. Could you
elaborate a little bit on where that's coming from? Had there been any model changes or some
risk actions to enhance the Solvency there?
Other question is about the upstreaming. We've seen that in Non-life, there was no upstreaming in
the second quarter. I think year-to-date, you now made EUR208 million [ph] net operating profit in
Non-Life, and only upstream EUR35 million. Is there a certain reason for that maybe related to
VIVAT Non-life business acquisition or could you elaborate on that related to the upstreaming?

Bloomberg Transcript

And asset management has been a little bit higher than the net operating profit every quarter, you
upstream EUR44 million in asset management while the net operating profit is only EUR30 million
now for three quarters and also last year and you upstream clearly more than the net operating
profit. Could you also elaborate on that upstreaming from asset management?
And my last question is about the Capital Markets Day, the share buyback which is currently going
on is probably already finalized somewhat earlier than the Capital Markets Day. How do you look to
announcing share buybacks you've seen (inaudible) company that does some regular share
buyback for a year or might there be a gap if you might do another share buyback that you would
take -- pick up in Markets Day in June next year as a moment to announce something like that?
That's all my questions.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Okay, thank you, Cor and good morning. Let me answer the question on the share buyback and
then I'll give the other two questions on the Solvency II ratio and the upstreaming to Delfin.
As you know, we announced a share buyback program of EUR500 million, which will end in the first
quarter of next year. So any future decision on capital returns will take then at an appropriate time.
Of course, we need to take into -- many things into account at that point, including our current and
future capital generation, regulatory uncertainties and other factors.
Of course, a decision like that will always be subject to -- that we want to maintain a very robust
capital position and remain overall financial flexibility. At the same time, as you know, we have
return since the IPO, EUR4.1 billion of capital to shareholders, including the current share buyback,
which is also a proof that we are very serious about our commitments to return excess capital to
shareholders. So we will remain rational and disciplined also in this area.
Then for the other two questions, let me pass it onto Delfin.

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Many good morning, Cor. Thanks for your questions. On the first one, on the Solvency II ratio, there
is not too much excitement this quarter in the bucket Other. So this reflects some small increases
in own funds and small decreases in SCR. One of the items that impacted is the change as it
happens from one quarter to another on the non-available own-funds that increase somewhat
reflecting the local profits in Japan, which increased their core capital, but there is also an element
of so called non-core capital that it is deducted as part of the known available home funds, but
apart from that, no significant model and assumption changes coming through this quarter.



FINAL

In terms of the dividends, I think that we should not read too much into one quarter showing lower
dividends or higher dividends than another quarter, as these of course represent seasonalities, as
the second quarter is the larger and also, as we have said in the past, we try to keep our balance
distribution of dividends coming from the different segments, and we have seen different
evolution of the dividends, while for NN Re, there is no expectation for a further releases of the
capital associated to the Japan Closed Block VA, as the EUR900 million capital release has already
been paid, other segments like Bank are further contributing.
You referred specifically to both Non-life and asset management and yes, in some cases we
distribute more than the net profit, sometimes below. If you were to look at over time, Netherlands
Non-Life has tended to pay higher that the net profit. As a matter of fact, last year the net profit
was negative for Non-life and we have still paid more than EUR50 million of dividends. So, one
should not read too much into change in the dividend patterns from one quarter to another.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

And maybe could you give us the Solvency II ratio of the Non-life business at the end of Q3?

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes. Cor, basically the combined ratio, it is close to our commercial capital target. We basically
disclose typically the Netherlands Life and not, as you know, the different ratios. But it is because of
the dividends that we mentioned in the past, we tend also as the profitability for Non-life tends to
be positive, we managed the entity with a bit more tight level of solvency.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Okay, thank you very much.

Operator
Next question is from Mr. Ashik Musaddi, JP Morgan. Go ahead please.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Hi, good morning Delfin, just -- good morning Delfin and David. A couple of questions, one is the
combined ratio in Netherlands, I mean it has been tracking really well over past three quarters, now
clearly it is reflecting the work you have done on the combined ratio. But how confident you are
that these kind of levels can be maintained in the future as well?
Because clearly, I mean 94.7% which I think you did this quarter is far better than sub-97% or sub98% you're guiding for in the long run. So that is important and then you're getting VIVAT as well.
So will VIVAT be moved to the similar combined ratio or where do you see that going forward?
That would be the first question.
Secondly is, any thoughts on the EIOPA review for especially about the debate around last liquid
point and what the view on DNB has on that. Now the reason why we are a bit confused here is
basically when we spoke to DNB in past, DNB has always said that we do look at numbers ex-UFR
as well. Now when we look at the EIOPA consultation paper, it feels like ex-UFR or ex-volatility
adjusted UFR, that that solvency ratios will be sub 100%, which puts the divided, buyback et cetera
at risk.
What's the discussion going on with DNB, can you give us any indication as to what your number is
ex-UFR, because that's something -- a key focus of investors at the moment. And that's really
protecting investors to get new money in the stock. So, any thoughts on that question would be
great. And thirdly is around the technical margin in the Dutch Life. It was lower again in this quarter.



You have missed that number for last three quarters. What's going in the technical margin in the
Dutch Life business? Thank you.

FINAL

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes, thank you, Ashik. Let me take the question on the combined ratio for Non-Life. And then the
EIOPA and the technical margin, Delfin will answer. On the Non-life business, yes we're happy to
see the progress with -- as you know, we took many measures in this business. Our guidance,
however, hasn't changed. So we continue to have our guidance of over the medium term a
combined ratio of 97 or below. And we're happy to see the number now in 94.
Also, as we've said in the past, there is always some volatility is possible. We've seen there could
potentially be fires. We've seen weather-related -- some volatility in weather related claims, and in
some of the other portfolios. At the same time, we continue to take measures on this portfolio,
including expense reductions, pricing measures and also underwriting improvements that we still
feel in order to try and offset some of the volatility.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now with regards to VIVAT, we are on track with the preparation of the integration of VIVAT, so we
still expect to announce the closing of the transaction in the first quarter of 2020. After that, the
integration will start and then over time, we will move the VIVAT products to the NN standards. And
again, there, we do expect some benefit on the expense side and potentially also on the
underwriting side.
So in short, we haven't changed our guidance volatility, it will always be possible in the Non-Life,
but we continue to make sure that we improve our ratio to make sure that we meet the guidance
that we have given. Delfin?

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Thank you, Ashik, for your questions. So the first question on EIOPA review 2020 certainly is
something that brings the attention of many stakeholders and certainly ourselves. Maybe just to
keep things a bit into perspective in terms of the process ongoing what currently is in place, as I'm
sure you are aware is a consolidation paper that EIOPA has issued and feedback to that paper will
be due before the 15th of January. After that, EIOPA will take some time to present their opinion to
the European Commission mid next year.
Then the European Commission need to present -- to submit a legislative proposal to the
European Parliament and only then, the process within the European Parliament and European
Council will come you know to -- after some consolidations to a final agreement regarding the
directives. So it is a very long process that we've seen it already when EIOPA -- when the Solvency
II framework was established. Therefore the timing of which -- of any changes is still uncertain, and
it might go -- it will take quite a few years or maybe we're talking of 2023 or 2024.
You are right from that perspective that there has been a bit of noise about how -- and this is a
question that we receive regularly in terms of how our main regulator in the Netherlands look at
our solvency and you won't be surprised to hear from me that they look at it in a holistic view, as
you know analyzing all the different aspects, solvency, what is the risk profile, what are the
sensitivities, what is the expected capital generation and based on that we made a
recommendation of paying dividends.
As you've seen, very stable dividends have been paid from Netherlands Life of EUR185 million now
per quarter plus EUR15 million coming through the interest on the hybrid debt. So approximately
EUR200 million per quarter and we see no indication that this is at risk as - also the solvency of
Netherlands Life is 211%. So it is quite strong.



FINAL

In terms of the technical -- in terms of the technical margin for Life, you have seen as we have
announced already and anticipated, downward trend in the technical margin, this is due to the ranoff of individual Life portfolio. So that's something like you know they -- also they catch up. There
are two elements; one the reduction of the portfolio and the other is, as you like, through IFRS, the
catch up between the difference on the assumptions for longevity versus what are the
assumptions of longevity that are being used for Solvency capital.
So part of this decrease on the technical margin is not happening in Solvency II capital generation,
as these are already taking into account this longevity assumption. But indeed, under IFRS, we see
now the technical margin being more around the EUR40 million, with a downward trend.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Good, that's very clear, and just a couple of follow-ups. So, on combined ratio, is it fair to say that
structurally you are already at 97% or you would say there is more time required for structurally to
get there. And I hope I'll review the -- any numbers you would give on sensitivity on the last liquid
point move to 30 year [ph] in case you could? Thank you.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, thank you. So, on the combined ratio, as I said, currently and obviously in this quarter we are
below 97%. But as I said, there is always volatility possible in the portfolio. Also keep in mind that if
we close the VIVAT deal in the first quarter, we will start on boarding the VIVAT portfolio, which we
still need to see exactly how this portfolio will behave going forward, and it will take time also to
convert that to the NN portfolio and the NN standards, so no news on that front.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay, that's clear. Thank you.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Delfin?

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes, on the last liquid point, I think you know the EIOPA consolidation paper, it gives even -- I
believe five options you know of different ways of looking into it. Solvency II is a framework that
needs to be understood as a package as one can criticize each of the different elements in
isolation. But you know when you look at everything together, there is framework that makes
sense, as a whole. And that, I think, is the way that it will be reviewed not only by EIOPA in their
proposal, but later on within the European Commission and European Parliament in order to
introduce changes.
So it is not very helpful to provide specific sensitivities to any of the five options that they are
presented or not doing that in isolation to other factors within the Solvency II framework, in my
opinion.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

That's very clear. Thank you.

Operator
The next question is from Mr. Matthias De Wit, Kempen. Go ahead, please.

Q - Matthias De Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}



FINAL

Hi, good morning. My first question is on the capital generation of EUR0.3 billion in the operating
return. How sustainable is that number, if rates stay where they are today? And I guess it does, but
can you confirm if it already captured the full impact of the increased UFR drag? So that's question
number one.
And then second question is on the asset management business. So first quarter with decent net
inflows and also margins have increased following a long period of decline. Can you provide some
color on what's -- yeah, what has triggered the inflection point and do you consider this sustainable
like the current level of margins we've seen in the third quarter? Thank you.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Okay, thank you. Delfin, question on capital generation?

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. So we have indicated that the capital generation will fluctuate from some quarter -- from one
quarter to another, so no doubt about that. To the second part of your question, indeed the date
of course captures the full impact of the increase UFR drag. So it's based on the UFR at the end of
June and as a consequence that UFR drag, as you know has increased versus the previous period.
And of course as interest rates decreases that UFR drag will continue to increase as from -- since
the end of September, we have seen, however, some recovery on the level of interest rates.
So indeed the contribution to the capital generation coming from this UFR drag, the same way that
the release of the risk margin and the changes on the splits that has been quite substantial also
over the last quarters, both for the sovereign bonds as well as for mortgages. All of them influence
what is the movement on the own funds in the following quarter. That's why we've always been
providing guidance more on the medium term in relevancy of how this is expected to evolve.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes, then on the question on NN IP and asset management. So indeed, we were pleased to see
that we had a net inflow of around EUR1 billion of third-party assets. At the same time, I think we
also need to acknowledge that the macro environment for asset managers as I'm sure you know is
still challenging. There is a continued shift to passive management. Of course, we've seen a
decrease in low rates has helped the asset managers already.
So the overall environment for the asset manager will still remain to be challenging. At the same
time NN IP is working hard to make sure that they continue to be a very efficient company by
reducing expenses and building up capabilities, for example, in the space of multi-assets and in
liquids and they will continue to focus on that, to try and offset some of the decreasing fees that
we see happening in the market.

Q - Matthias De Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Okay, thank you.

Operator
The next question is from Mr. Albert Ploegh, ING Bank. Go ahead, please. Mr. Ploegh, your line is
open, go ahead, please. Mr. Ploegh, please unmute your line.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Perhaps we can take a next question, and then maybe -- and then later on Albert can come back.

Operator



The next question is from Mr. Benoit Petrarque, Kepler Cheuvreux. Go ahead, please.

FINAL

Q - Benoit Petrarque

{BIO 15997668 <GO>}

Yes, good morning. So, couple of questions on my side. The first one is on Japan Life, maybe you
could give us a bit more guidance on where the sales are trending also in the coming quarters.
Obviously it has been -- in the first quarter, you have been re-launching this product. So a bit of
outlook will be helping.
Second one is on the investment margin in Netherlands Life. I know it's flat year-on-year if you
exclude the one-offs, but we can expect more pressure obviously. So I was wondering where you
are currently in terms of well, asset mix or do you see -- maybe your asset mix going forward, are
you -- do you still have appetite for mortgages at current levels?
And also if you are -- maybe planning to still be a bit more aggressive on the cost cutting on that
business, and just to manage expectation in terms of timing of potential additional distribution, so
if I understand correctly, we will have to kind of wait June to get an update on that and we should
not expect too much already in February in terms of updating on the buyback. Thank you.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Benoit. Let me start with Japan Life and then the other two questions Delfin will answer.
Yes, so, on Japan Life, as you know there was a tax reform implemented in Japan, which basically
led to that in the full market, the sales of the COLI products came down significantly.
I think our business has been very active in developing three new products that were already
approved. So, currently, we're in the process of improving our sales support, training our sales
force to adapt to these changes. Again this is a market phenomenon, so we need to see how
exactly the market will adapt to this certainly in the short term.
Longer term, we're convinced and we believe that our company is very well positioned to continue
to serve the needs of SMEs in Japan. And also with these changes, we believe that we can have a
sustainable COLI market also going forward.
Delfin, the investment margin of NN Life?

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes, thanks, Benoit. So as we -- as you know, the investment margin in Netherlands Life is under
pressure because of the decrease, the runoff of individual Life portfolio as well as you know with
low interest rates, the reinvestment yields are more and more difficult going forward.
What we have seen in terms of the investment split, we've seen that has been relatively stable
between the 80 basis points, 85 basis points or if you were to exclude dividends of private equity
and public equity, then it's more on the 65 basis points to 70 basis points and we have seen quite
a relatively strong stability on the investment split excluding these more volatile dividends.
Maybe helpful to flag or repeat something that we have already mentioned in the past, which is
that going forward, we expect significantly lower private equity dividends contributing to the IFRS
investment margin and that is related to two factors, one, the volume of private equity in our
portfolio is lower. So we have a bit more about EUR900 million in the past and it's been reduced
due to some disposals too around EUR700 million, but more important to me than that is that the
nature of the investments are different.
Before we have more mature companies that were paying dividends, and also in France when we
had a majority stake, which came after some disposals through dividends. So going forward, we



FINAL

expect these capital gains to -- I mean the profit, the returns are still coming through, but more
through the realized capital gains, so below the line and we have seen that. For example, this
quarter, we have EUR26 million of revaluation reserves through private equity and this is how it's
going to come going forward. So that, no doubt, also put some pressure within the investment
margin.
In terms of the composition of the assets, we do continue investing in mortgages. For example, in
this quarter, in the third quarter, it was slightly less than EUR800 million that Netherlands Life
invested in mortgages and also there were some investments were made by Belgium as you know
within the quarter. So we will continue this policy of gradual shift to higher yielding assets when the
opportunities comes.
And in terms of cost cutting, which is the last element that you mentioned, of course, efficiencies is
an important element. Netherlands Life has already made a lot of progress in the reduction of
expenses. But this is something that will continue to progress. Maybe in relationship to the share
buyback question, maybe David, you can take this one.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes, thank you, Delfin. So I think, yeah, as I mentioned before, so the current share buyback is
ending at the end of or in the next -- first quarter of 2020. So I have no further guidance on that. It
means that we will give an update at an appropriate time after that.

Q - Benoit Petrarque

{BIO 15997668 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, thank you very much.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
The next question is from Ms. Fulin Liang, Morgan Stanley. Go ahead please.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Hello. I've got two questions please. So the first one is, in terms of the Insurance Europe, do you
have any views on how quickly this block of business, this segment of business can grow in the
next like 12 to 24 months, apparently because it's kind of growing relatively quickly within the
group. That's the first one.
And then second one is, David, you just mentioned that you think that the COLI business is a still
good proposition for NN to be in. Does that mean actually you think that the -- if the COLI -- if the
business volume like just only 20% or 30% of previous is still a sustainable business model or still
strategically meaningful for NN to stay in Japan.
And then the last one is regarding -- Delfin, you just mentioned about the PE dividend will be kind
of -- the gains from it will be more from under the line. Will that change your capital generation?
Thank you.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes, thank you for these questions. Delfin will answer the question on Insurance Europe and the PE
dividends. Let me come back on the COLI question immediately. So yes, indeed, volumes are
lower. We are aiming to increase our sales volumes again in the COLI business. It's relatively new,
the new products are there, but again, the sales support and training is currently ongoing.



So maybe good to know that there is more reforms ongoing in the Japanese market, just for
example also a health reform that took place. So the market is really still adapting to the new
environment and the new products. So we need to see how sales will evolve.

FINAL

Of course, we'll continue to focus on seeing how we can increase our sales back to higher levels
on COLI. But also good to mention, given your question, at the end of the day, we believe we're
well positioned to service SME customers in general. So we'll continue to find ways to do that.
Delfin, on Insurance Europe?

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes, Fulin, thanks for your questions. Insurance Europe, we have a guidance of mid-to-high singledigit growth, and we are not changing, as you know, the guidance. Of course, you know there are
always you know things that goes better others that, you know, goes against us. We have seen
good growth in protection products. So we see opportunity to further expand on that. But also
we've seen some headwind related to the pension reforms in Romania and in Poland, that has
been flagged several times.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of the private equity dividends, I'm very glad that you raised this question Fulin, because
of course, in terms of capital generation, we are expecting, you know the same contribution. It
doesn't matter how you know are reported below or above the operating result line. So we do
expect a significant capital generation. As a matter of fact, we've seen it, as you know from the last
quarters, quite a significant revaluation on the private equity.
So we are -- now we've got a more diversified portfolio. So we've got more managers than we
used to have. So it's less concentrated and we are very pleased with this portfolio.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Thank you. That's very clear.

Operator
The next question is from Mr. Colm Kelly, UBS. Go ahead, please.

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Two questions; first on the EIOPA review, so whilst we can debate on what
may or may not happen, there's very little debate that the risk here has increased or in the capital
position. So, can you talk about the contingencies that you have in place in preparation for a
potential adverse scenario coming from that review, so ultimately, can you give some reassurance
today to shareholders that even an adverse scenario with respect to the EIOPA review, can still see
this company maintain robust capitalization such that the capital return profile that shareholders
enjoy can be sustained. That's the first question.
And then secondly just on the subsidiary dividends. So you rightly point out the stability of the
Netherlands Life dividend. That's giving some confidence around capitalization there and the
regulatory outlook around the capitalization there, but if I look at the Insurance Europe subsidiary
dividends for the nine-month year-on-year, it's down 40% and then in the context of this being
20% of the Group subsidiary dividends last year, I'm just wondering, can you give detail on what is
driving that specifically. And then secondly is that something we should be sustainable in terms of a
lower dividend from Insurance Europe going forward? Thank you.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes, thank you for these questions. Delfin?



A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes, Colm. So two questions, if I can give firm assurance about something which is completely
unknown, I'm not in that business. I don't know. What I know is that we are managing our business
very diligently with strong risk appreciation. We have a strong culture of doing cash flow much in -whenever it is possible, we maintain our risk interest sensitivities within very moderate levels,
Solvency is strong. Speculating about changes affecting the level of solvency which likely will come
with higher capital generation going forward is very difficult to go through it. What I can say is that I
feel very comfortable with the level of solvency on the way that we manage the business and that
we are always taking all considerations into account. But it is, in my opinion, premature to start
speculating about changes that might happen or might not happen or focusing on one single
element within a combination of factors there.

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

If I just follow up on that and thank you for that. Again, it's not so much to speculate, but rather to
discuss the contingencies you have in place in there is an adverse outcome?

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. So we have -- for many years, work on our recovery plans. You know now we have to work on
our resolution plan. We have many different aspects. We have been looking in -- for quite a while
you know possibilities of doing reinsurance of longevity. We have plenty of tools in our hand in
order to react. But I think that the most important element to keep in mind is that we manage the
business with perspective of risk profile and how we can develop surplus capital from our business
units.
We have said in the past that we're not focusing so much on the IFRS profits. Of course is an
important metric, but it is based on the risk that we take and having a mid-to-long-term view at
how we manage that business. So I think that we've got all the contingencies necessary for the
factors and the risk that we are aware of.

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Okay, that's great. Thank you.

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

In terms of dividends coming from subsidiaries, as I said before, I think is -- it's a question of
looking at different contribution of dividends that we have had over the last years, a very strong
level of dividends usually, sometimes even higher. As you know that the net profit coming from
different segments.
So I don't think we need to read too much in particular period of the dividends. If you were to
compare, which I think is what you were doing, what are the dividends of -- for example, this
quarter for Europe versus the same quarter of last year, very much the difference is that the third
quarter of last year, we distributed some additional dividends from one of our business units in
order to repay some surplus capital that this is still there. And that occurs also from the past.
So units like Belgium or Spain have paid more dividends in the past that potentially are expected
going forward, because the surplus capital was paid. But I think that the relevant aspect is to look
at the diversification of dividends coming from different sources. We see that, I mentioned before
NN Re decreases, but we have a Bank providing dividends on a very substantial basis.
Also Japan Life last year did not pay a dividend, this year is paying a dividend, and with the lower
sales strength have a higher capacity. Nevertheless, we always look to find a stable payment of



dividends according to our needs. This year, our cash capital at holding is very strong at EUR1.9
billion and we manage everything in a holistic way.

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay, great. Thank you.

Operator
The next question is from Mr. Jason Kalamboussis, KBC. Go ahead please.

Q - Jason Kalamboussis

{BIO 4811408 <GO>}

Yes, hi, good morning gentlemen. A couple of things, one is I would like to come back a bit on the
Non-life and the question that was asked earlier on your target. I mean if you look, the 94.4% was
very good, but definitely the benefit of the D&A which was very low at 87 points whatever 9. P&C
was at 97.7%.
So if we accept that you have seasonality on the feasibility side and you do get these very good
quarters and if you focus and also that you have the help of reinsurance there. If we look at -purely at the P&C at 97.7%, you're still above your target and I would like to have your thoughts on
what we should be expecting, especially, that was a relatively benign quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

The other thing that I would like to come back is on the Non-life into that upstream. I mean as it
stands, I mean clearly we should be looking at you know maybe it's on my numbers, but at roughly
EUR100 million that could be coming in the fourth quarter.
In general, you evoke very often the seasonality, but is that the seasonality that can go from one
year to the other one that means you smooth so much the volatility that's for example in Non-life,
we could see a low level of dividend definitely in this year in preparation in a certain way from the
volatility that could come as we integrate VIVAT?
And the other quick point to follow-up on the question, do you see the Asset Management, if I
understood from your answer, you do not see the good asset management result as an inflection
point yet because conditions remain very challenging. Please correct me if I'm wrong there. Thank
you.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, Jason. Let's start with Non-life. Indeed, you are correct that the P&C combined
ratio is still higher. It is trending down in a good way. In 2018, it was still above 100%. We saw in Q2,
a combined ratio of 98.3% and now it's coming down to 97.7%. So it's clear that we have more
work to do. So currently, we still have pricing measures implemented that haven't fully come into
effect. Also we're looking at new measures and clearly, we still see room to improve our
underwriting capabilities as well. So we'll continue to work on the P&C book.
But as you know there will always be some volatile in that book. We -- for example, we have seen
the salvage foundation reported also that the number of large fire claims in the Netherlands, in the
first six month has been increasing quite substantially. So, sometimes you do have market effects
just playing in. And to a certain extent, the same in the D&A business, the D&A business we have,
for example, seen in the past, an increase in stress related disability claims, sometimes also
related to the state of the economy.
So we will continue to take measures in terms of pricing, underwriting, but also with the
incorporation of VIVAT on making sure that we leverage the platform that we're building, and



FINAL

we're clearly not done. So we'll continue to work on improvement of the -- to make sure that we
also get the P&C combined ratio below 97%.
Then on -- before we go to the Non-Life upstream, then on NN IP. It's very difficult to give guidance
on that. Indeed, the market circumstances are what they are and the NN IP business unit is fighting
their way through to try and offset some of the fee pressure that we've seen, again, good to see
some net inflow on the third party business. What that means going forward for the business; we'll
have to judge going forward. But it was a good quarter for NN IP. Delfin?

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes, Jason on the Non-Life upstream dividends, maybe kind of repeating a bit what I said before,
you need to see it in the whole context of the total dividends that we receive to the parent
Company, what is the level of cash capital and just looking everything as a whole. I think that the
best guidance I can still give for the dividends for Non-Life going forward is that net profit, but
that's doesn't mean that you know every single year is going to be close to that figure.
As a matter of fact, if you were to look at what happens in 2016, '17 and certainly '19 where NonLife has a negative result, we distributed much more in terms of dividends than net profit. And yes,
you know 2019 might be a year that is not done in the same manner, but still the guidance going
forward in terms of remittances capacity of Netherlands Non-life, the best guidance I can give is
the net profit.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Jason Kalamboussis

{BIO 4811408 <GO>}

Thank you. So, just as a follow-up on this one, a couple of quick remarks. So if I understand it well,
at the end of the day, we should be not be looking necessarily at segments. We should be looking
at the total amount and the segments; we can see seasonality between quarters with some
patterns. But again, there can be yearly seasonality, if I understand it well.
We are looking just on the combined ratio, If the P&C is now trending towards 97%, it's fair to say
that normally the D&A with some higher seasonality, it should be around the 93 mark, which
basically give us an average of around 95%, Delfin was being -- stating very rounded numbers. So
that means that at the end of the day, you are on a very nice trend where next year or the year
after, we should be expecting, excluding VIVAT combined ratios that should be reaching the -certainly the 96% or possibly below, is it a fair assumption or?

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Well, again the -- I mean if you look a bit at the history of the Dutch market, we've seen very short
periods actually with low combined ratios. The Dutch market is very competitive. Motor plays a big
role. So for me, it is really too early to draw any of these conclusions and we remain committed to
our target of 97% and below given that other factors can come into play. And again also, we will be
incorporating VIVAT, so we also need to see exactly how that portfolio will behave going forward.
So for now we stick to our guidance.

Q - Jason Kalamboussis

{BIO 4811408 <GO>}

Okay, fair enough.

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yeah, maybe, Jason, on your question about -- well your question or your conclusion about the
guidance per quarter, we don't give really guidance per quarter in terms of free cash flow. Our
existing guidance that this should be -- expected to be in the range of the net operating result still
applies. But this is our guidance that applies, as you know medium term.

Q - Jason Kalamboussis

{BIO 4811408 <GO>}



Very good. Thank you very much, gentlemen.

Operator

FINAL

The next question is from Mr. Robin van den Broek, Mediobanca. Go ahead please.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Yes, good morning everybody. Sorry to come back to the EIOPA consultation documents. I've
spent some time scrolling through the 800 pages which take evolution rather than revolution. But
in the UFR options, there is also an option included where the reported basically remains
unchanged. But I think also includes a stipulation where there seems to be giving specific powers
to the local regulator to test the Solvency II ratio at a 100% benchmark while moving the last liquid
point to 50. And that stipulation seems to say that the local regulator can even stop capital return,
if you are below that level.

Bloomberg Transcript

And I appreciate what you said before on the Dutch regulator looking at capital from an economic
perspective, but the Dutch Central Bank having such a strong foothold in regulation to do such a
thing, isn't that worrying to you a little bit, because I think option two is probably the most likely
outcome, where we stand.
And secondly, on the EIOPA consultation document. I think your regulator, the Dutch Central Bank in
a meeting end of March, also indicated that if there would be changes to the UFR, there should be
some offset coming from the liquidity mechanisms in the Solvency II framework, so the VA. But if
you look at all the tables that are giving different options, seems to me that all the outcomes or
basically all the outcomes, I think two of them are slightly positive, but most of them are an
incremental negative to capital for the Dutch Life Insurance companies. So I was wondering if you
still see potential for something positives coming out of the VA changes that are being proposed.
Then maybe a last question coming back on the own funds generation in the operating return
bucket of EUR0.3 billion. I think in Q1 and Q2, you still had also offset from mortgage margins
getting wider. I think going into Q4, you have an incremental headwinds coming in from UFR drag.
But also your mortgage margin is tighter which will also be more of, sorry, my headset -- just
battery died, so to change while I'm talking. But, so the mortgage margin also went tighter. So that
presumably is an additional headwind for your capital generation in Q4. So I was just wondering if
you could indicate the risk of that EUR0.3 billion moving down to EUR2.2 billion. Thank you.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Robin. Let me pass these questions to Delfin.

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes. Thanks, Robin. I mean, we could and probably when we see each other we can talk a lot about
you know the EIOPA consultation paper and the different scenarios, five options for the LLP, seven
alternatives for the VA, different options. Yes, you're mentioning option number two. But there is
also an option number one which is not to change.
At the end of the day, the way I interpret the consultation is in order and later on as you know the
EIOPA doing a stress test or a test of different possibilities in order to quantify and see as you
know what are potential impacts of different scenarios, more -- not more, not less than that.
So I would not speculate further or I would not -- because I don't really know, as you know how the
-- what the conversation will bring us to, as there are so many factors and in relationship to -because the reference that you made to the Dutch Regulator, I think it's different to any other
regulator, which is the regulators look at it as a whole with some positives and some negatives,
what would have some offsetting impact too early to tell, you know really.



FINAL

Maybe on the operating capital generation, of course, every quarter we've got different elements
going up and down. The spreads have been in some positive, some negatives. What we have
seen so far in terms of the impact of the changes in the market up to today is quite neutral. So we
see some elements that have helped us positively or negatively.
And as I keep saying, we need to get used to these changes in the operating capital generation
on how the solvency moves up and down. So I don't see anything different going forward. And as a
matter of fact, interest rates has gone up since the end of September. And that's an element that
we will see, as you know, had been reflected as well by the year end, depending on how the level
of interest rates and spreads and margins evolve. So there is already a note, volatility to talk about
what are the situations at the end of the quarter and then to add also a weekly or bi-weekly or
what's happen in between.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Okay, thank you very much. Maybe one more question on the Non-life upstream. Given the fact
that you're doing VIVAT next year and I think that that unit is not particularly well capitalized, you
probably need to restructure that with some costs. Doesn't it really make sense to retain a little bit
more in your Dutch unit to anticipate in that?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yeah, I think is, I mean -- I suggest that we do expect until we complete the acquisition of VIVAT
Non-life which is expected for next quarter. We did provide some guidance or what we expect
being the impact by 2022 having an increase on operating result of EUR50 million -- additional free
cash flow coming from VIVAT of EUR50 million, reduction of expenses, estimated to be around
EUR40 million and we also flagged as you know that in the short term, there will be some
restructuring expenses and cost and therefore, yes, that will have an impact on the operating
result and in the overall capital generation for the segment Non-life. So that will come through,
hopefully, as we expect. But it is too early to talk about it.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Okay, thank you very much.

Operator
The next question is from Mr. Henry Heathfield, Morningstar. Go ahead, please.

Q - Henry Heathfield

{BIO 19760919 <GO>}

Morning. Thank you for taking my call. Just one question for you guys this morning. On the, and
within the Netherlands Life, provisions for risk of policyholders, the outflows look to be a little bit
elevated this quarter around 8.8%. I was wondering how -- if you could talk a little bit around how
linked that is to the Asset Management Business and whether you are doing anything to bring
those outflows down or expect those outflows to come down over time. Thank you.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes, thank you Henry. Delfin?

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes, I'm not familiar exactly with the percentage that you mentioned. But I mean really the trend is
very clear. The Individual Life portfolio is in a continuous runoff. We expect it, within the next 10
years to reduce by half. So I don't know precisely the percentage that you quote. And of course,
you know, as the volumes of assets decrease that is one of the elements that put some pressure
on the assets under management for NN IP. That is one part of the overall technical account if you
want.



FINAL

Then the pension business, due to the renewals that is, you know, much more stable in terms of
the assets under management that NN IP manage and in addition to that, of course, new assets
coming through the defined contribution business, as you know, is also the majority part of that is
also managed as you know from NN IP. But the provision for risk of policyholders, yes, you will
continue seeing that decrease as part of the runoff of the Individual Life portfolio.

Q - Henry Heathfield

{BIO 19760919 <GO>}

Thank you, Delfin.

Operator
The next question is from Mr. Steven Haywood, HSBC. Go ahead, please.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Thank you. Good morning. Just two questions from me. There has been a few stated publicly
companies that have been announcing that they might be willing to exit the CEE region. Can you
tell us whether NN would be interested in reviewing additional assets and expanding further in the
CEE region, as well?
And also a question for David. Is there anything that you would be considering doing or thinking
about that is different to what Lard was doing with NN in the past? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you. Thank you, Steven. Yeah, in terms of expanding into CEE, I think, in general, we've
always stated that and we've done this since the IPO team that I was also a part of that excess
capital that we will return to shareholder unless we find a value-creating opportunity as you -- I'm
sure you know, we've also returned EUR4.1 billion of capital to shareholders.
At the same time, if there is an opportunity to strengthen our business and create value, we will
certainly look at it. But as in the past and that is certainly not a change versus what you're referring
to -- as in the past, we will be very disciplined on this both financially but also non-financially in
terms of strategic fit, culture of the potential company. So we'll continue to be very rational and
disciplined in terms of our capital allocation. So on your question, so that means that that will not
be a difference to what you're used to in the past.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Okay. And if you can just -- is there anything -- your thought process or your management style that
you think would be changing in the future more generally?

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yeah, that's always a difficult one to forecast. I think a couple of things. First of all, I'm really
enjoying the role. I've been going around visiting quite a few of the business units to getting
reacquainted with them. I get a lot of energy from the people that I've met. I see a lot of good
plans to further improve our service to customers. It's interesting you see this obviously in the
Netherlands, but also then you fly all the way to Japan and you see a similar attitude and culture
and the same applies, for example, to the Spanish unit that I recently visited.
So when I'm meeting all the companies and business units, it's clear that there is a strong NN
culture. I really want to build also on the solid foundations that we have. We have a very robust
balance sheet. We have strong capital generation. I think we've been very disciplined in capital
allocation. And also we've shown some real execution strength in large programs that we have
been doing and these are, I think, strong foundations of the company that we would really like to
continue to build on.



FINAL

Well, at the same time and this is not really related to a CEO change, markets are changing,
customer behaviors are changing, technological opportunities arise, so we need to continue to
transform our business model to make sure that we're relevant and we stay relevant for our
customers and we continue to serve them and that includes, indeed, looking at growth
opportunities, accelerating our transformation in order to create value for our -- for all of our
stakeholders. But in broad terms, this is very much in line with everything we've been -- with the
way we have been managing the company and you can count on that we will continue to be very
rational and disciplined in our capital allocation decisions.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Excellent. Thank you for your answer.

Operator
The next question is from Mr. Benoit Petrarque, Kepler Cheuvreux. Go ahead please.

Q - Benoit Petrarque

{BIO 15997668 <GO>}

Yes, just a follow up on the debt, you have a senior debt maturing next year, I think it's EUR300
million, just wondering what is your plan in the current debt market, let's say low spreads and
actually low interest rates. Are you planning to issue a new one or will that -- the term of that just
mature?

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Benoit. Delfin?

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yeah thanks, Benoit. So no change on the previous guidance. I mean, (inaudible) if there is nothing
changing, we will consider to not refinance the senior debt maturing next year, the EUR300 million
that you referred to.

Q - Benoit Petrarque

{BIO 15997668 <GO>}

Okay, great. Thank you.q

Operator
The next question is from Mr. Bart Jooris, Degroof Petercam. Go ahead please.

Q - Bart Jooris

{BIO 3470300 <GO>}

Yes, hi. Sorry to come back on the private equity issue. You said it will have no influence on the
capital generation, but your dividend policy is however attributed to the net operating result and
now those incomes will come in below deadline. Do you plan to compensate that for -- on any
plan? What's your vision on this?

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Thank you Bart. Delfin?

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes. Thanks, Bart. The link between the free cash flows and the net operating result is, if I may say
like it, a very convenient one because it just move from one environment, Solvency II that has
different metrics in order to how you recognize own funds versus shareholders' equity and what is
the movement from one stock period to the rest. We've seen that that link of course is not precise



FINAL

for each of the different segments, for example for Netherlands Life, we've always said that this
free cash flow generation is expected to be somewhat higher than the net operating result, and
for some other segments are -- it's somewhat below.
So you need to look at it not segment by segment and particularly because the price equity
dividends are felt mainly in Netherlands Life. Netherlands Life is the one that the guidance was to
be the operating capital generation somewhat higher than the net operating result. So no need to
find anything to compensate. This is a medium-term guidance and we believe it is still applies.

Q - Bart Jooris

{BIO 3470300 <GO>}

Yes. But that is on the dividend upstream from Netherlands Life. I'm talking about the dividend paid
to your shareholders, which is based on the net operating profit?

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. But the -- I understood. But the dividends that we paid to our shareholders, you know, come
from the dividends that we received from our subsidiaries. And as you were referring to the
private equity dividends, as they affect Netherlands Life, one could have implied that the dividend
capacity of Netherlands Life was reviews and with such, you know, the payment of dividends from
us to the shareholder.
But let's say that the payout ratio, which is the ordinary dividend, it is within the range of the 40%
to 50%, no change there, but we also indicated that we can be out of that range because the
most important element is the stability on the payment of the ordinary dividends. The free cash
flow gives you the guidance of the capacity of the capital being generated that can either be
employed for financing our internal growth or if, like in the case of the acquisition of VIVAT Non-life,
to do an acquisition or to give it back to shareholders, as we have done it in the past you know
through the share buybacks.
So the overall structure unchanged. That has not changed and certainly not by the way that we
account for the private equity dividends being below or above the line. So no changes there.

Q - Bart Jooris

{BIO 3470300 <GO>}

Okay, thank you very much.

Operator
There are no further questions. Back to you please Mr. Knibbe.

A - David Knibbe

{BIO 17996037 <GO>}

Yes, thank you. So let me wrap up by saying that NN Group has today reported a strong set of
results, as well as, a solid balance sheet and capital position. Thank you very much all for joining the
call today. Thanks for your excellent questions and I look forward to meeting many of you in person
in the coming months. Have a pleasant day.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

