Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

Y 2018 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Andy Moss , Phoenix Life CEO and Group Director, Heritage Business
Clive C R Bannister, Group Chief Executive
Jim McConville , Group Finance Director and Group Director, Scotland
Nicholas Lyons , Chairman
Susan McInnes , CEO SLAL and Group Director, Open Business
Unidentified Speaker

Other Participants
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Andrew Sinclair, Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Dominic O'Mahony, Analyst
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Greig Paterson, Analyst
Jon Hocking, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Ming Zhu, Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst
Steven Haywood, Analyst

Presentation
Nicholas Lyons

{BIO 16348625 <GO>}

Well, good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Phoenix Group's 2018 Results
Presentation. I'm joined on the podium today by Clive Bannister, our Group CEO; Jim
McConville, our CFO and Group Director, Scotland; Andy Moss, CEO of Phoenix Life and
the Group Director of our Heritage Business; and Susan McInnes, CEO of Standard Life
Assurance Limited and the Group Director of our Open Business.
The acquisition of Standard Life Assurance Limited in 2018 was quite simply
transformational for Phoenix. It allowed us to evolve from being a UK closed life
consolidator into the largest life and pensions consolidator in Europe; with Heritage and
Open businesses spanning the UK, Germany and Ireland.
2018 was a year marked by outstanding strategic delivery and strong financial
performance, which has enabled the Board to recommend a final dividend of 23.4p per
share, as planned, a 3.5% increase over the final 2017 dividend. Clive and his team will
Page 1 of 24



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

take you through Phoenix's 2018 results and the new targets we have set for the business
moving forward.

FINAL

From the 18th of March, Phoenix shares will be included in the FTSE 100, a measure of our
growth story and our achievements to date. And we look forward to the future with great
optimism. Clive?

Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Chairman, thank you, and good morning and welcome to everybody. Phoenix had a strong
2018. At our Capital Markets Day, we announced GBP664 million of cash generation in the
year, exceeding the upper end of our 2017-2018 target range delivering a total of GBP1.3
billion. The Group has in parallel improved its capital resilience with Solvency II surplus of
GBP3.2 billion. This is up by GBP700 million from a full-year 2017 pro forma, resulting in a
shareholder capital coverage ratio of 167%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Fitch confirmed the strong financial position of the Group, by their affirmation of our A
plus rating. Our leverage ratio at the end of year was only 22%, its lowest ever. To
improve our customer service, particularly digital engagement, we are moving 2 million
policies to the Diligenta outsource platform. For us, this is more of the same, since
Diligenta has been a preferred strategic partner for over a decade.
Turning to our strategic priorities. The transition of Standard Life Assurance is well on
track. We were successful in the bulk purchase annuity or BPA market putting a GBP100
million of capital to work across three value accretive deals. The integrations of AXA
Wealth and Abbey Life are now in our rear-view mirror, and we have released a GBP1
billion from these businesses, circa 75% of the original acquisition price paid and we've
done that in just 24 months. This is Phoenix at its best.
Phoenix looks to the future with confidence and announces new increased targets for the
Group. Our 2019 cash generation target is GBP600 million to GBP700 million. Our new
long-term cash generation target for the five years 2019 to 2023 is GBP3.8 billion. Beyond
2024, we anticipate a further GBP8.2 billion of cash generation from the existing in-force
book, demonstrating the Group's strong long-term cash flow profile.
The Group continues to have a stable and sustainable dividend policy. Acquisitions have
allowed us to increase the dividend three-times in the last three years. Our 2019 dividend
per share of 46.8 pence per share is circa 12% higher than our 2016 full-year dividend.
Already in 2019, we have injected GBP250 million of capital into our Irish subsidiary in
preparation of Brexit. Absent this our cash generation for 2019 would have been circa
GBP850 million to GBP950 million. As the chart on the right-hand side of this slide
demonstrates, we are able to fund our dividend comfortably from just our organic cash
generation.
Turning to our acquisition of Standard Life Assurance. Upon announcement in February
2018, we set a total cost and capital synergy target of GBP720 million. Since completion in
Page 2 of 24



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

FINAL

August, we have successfully worked with our new colleagues from Standard Life to
design an operating model for our combined businesses. It is clear to me as Chief
Executive, that Phoenix will be forever strengthened by the breadth of skills that our new
colleagues bring. I am extremely grateful for the hard work across all of our Group entities
that has ensured that our transition program has and will deliver the best of both.
In November, at our Capital Markets Day, Jim talked confidently about us being able to
meet or exceed our original synergy targets. So today, I'm pleased to announce an
increase of GBP500 million, or a 70% increase to a new total synergy target of GBP1.22
billion. Total capital synergies rise to GBP720 million, the largest single contributor with the
total cost synergies of a further GBP650 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

In 2018, we rapidly delivered GBP500 million of those capital synergies. Andy will talk
more about that in a few minutes' time. We now target reducing our annual running cost
from around GBP600 million to GBP525 million. This is an increase in our cost synergy
target from GBP50 million to GBP75 million and reflects our growing certainty over the
savings that we will deliver over the next of the three phases.
The GBP14 million delivered in 2018 has primarily been achieved by removing duplication
in our structures across the UK and Europe and the combination of Group functions. The
one-off cost synergy target of GBP30 million, relates to savings on projects that were in
operation -- were in the operating plans of both entities at the time of due diligence, for
example, IFRS 17, where the Groups will now have just one single project moving forward.
To deliver these increased synergies, we will invest GBP150 million, an increase of GBP15
million compared with the original transition costs of GBP135 million. We still expect to
deliver all of the material synergies within a three year basis.
Get used to this slide, it will become very familiar as we use it to track and announce our
progress going forward. This brings me neatly to what we are calling affectionately or
otherwise the wedge, it sounds like a sort of Hollywood movie, doesn't it? The wedge.
We use this exhibit at our Capital Markets Day to set out the truly transformational nature
of the Standard Life acquisition, by illustrating the potential shape and sources of our
future cash generation.
We put forward the hypothesis, that the growth of our Open business may in time entirely
offset the run-off of our Heritage business. Jim will talk you through the maths of the
wedge so that you can understand, why we believe that this is possible in the future, but
Phoenix is not yet there. We continue to set all our cash generation targets based on the
policies we have in-force today, not anticipating business in the future. Only time will tell
whether the rate of growth in our Open business is sufficient to offset the run-off of our
Heritage business. However, even if the offset is not fully realized, our run-off will be
significantly dampened. This will give Phoenix a more sustainable cash generation profile
into the future.
I will now hand you over to Jim. Jim?

Jim McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}
Page 3 of 24



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

Thank you. Thank you, Clive, and good morning, everyone. 2018 has been a successful
year for Phoenix with a strong set of financial results. I'll take you through each of the key
metrics in more detail shortly, but let me set out in summary, the financial highlights.
Strong cash generation of GBP664 million, Group operating profit of GBP708 million, a
leverage ratio of 22%, below our target range of 25% to 30%, PGH Group Solvency II
surplus of GBP3.2 billion and a shareholder capital coverage ratio of 167%. A pro forma full
year new business contribution from our UK Open and European business of GBP154
million, and this will be explained later. Assets under administration of GBP226 billion and a
final dividend for 2018 of 23.4 pence per share.
We have a long track record of either meeting or exceeding our cash generation targets.
By delivering GBP664 million of cash generation in 2018, we took our total cash
generation over 2017 and 2018 to just over GBP1.3 billion, exceeding the upper end of the
target range. In this period, management actions accounted for nearly 50% of cash
generation, reflecting the higher level of actions delivered on the back of the AXA Wealth
and Abbey Life acquisitions.
Going forward, we expect management actions to contribute approximately one-third of
annual cash generation. Today, we have set new five-year cash generation target of
GBP3.8 billion and guided to a total of GBP12 billion of cash generation over the life of the
book. Last year, we also talked to total cash generation of GBP12 billion in 2018 and
beyond, but having delivered GBP0.7 billion of cash during 2018, we would expect total
cash generation in 2019 and beyond to reduce to GBP11.3 billion. The increase in our new
guidance is driven by our revised cost synergy targets, together with the future cash
generation from new business written in 2018 and the inclusion of 2013 management
actions.
Our cash generation guidance of GBP12 billion continues to exclude the incremental
premiums on in-force policies, new business arising on our UK and European Open
business, management actions post 2023 and any inorganic growth from either BPA or
M&A. We therefore hope to do much better.
This slide shows the sources and uses of cash for the combined Group over the next five
years and reflects the new target for this period announced today. As you can see the
uses of cash at the Group level remains small in number and include the cost of
maintaining our head office functions, making pension scheme contributions to the Pearl
and Abbey Life pension schemes, servicing the interest on our debt outstanding and
paying a dividend of GBP338 million per annum. After these uses of cash, we are left with
an illustrative GBP1.3 billion of cash at the holding companies as at 2023. Over the coming
years, this accumulation of cash balances will be used to support new BPA deals and
future acquisitions that meet our acquisition criteria.
To demonstrate the resilience of our five-year cash generation target, we have set out
the sensitivity of this target to various stress events. As you will be aware, Phoenix has a
low appetite to market risks and uses hedging to mitigate the majority of its exposure to
equity, currency and interest rate risk. This translates into the low sensitivity to these risks
we present today.

Page 4 of 24



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

FINAL

Phoenix's main exposure continues to be to longevity risk on its annuity business. Here we
model the impact of every annuitant living six months longer and even in this unlikely
scenario, the Group will be able to service its debt obligations and continue to pay a
dividend of GBP338 million per annum. This resilience in our cash generation brings
increased certainty to our dividend.
This slide follows on from the earlier one, showing the position for the combined Group
beyond 2023. The nature of the Standard Life business means that the cash emergence
from this business is more back-end loaded, significantly extending the profile of the
Group's long-term cash generation, and therefore the sustainability of our dividends.
The solvency position of the Group has been significantly strengthened from the 2017 pro
forma surplus of GBP2.5 billion to 31st December 2018, actual Group surplus of GBP3.2
billion. This increase in surplus translates to a 20% increase in the shareholder capital
coverage ratio to 167% and demonstrates the increased resilience of the Group.

Bloomberg Transcript

Integral to this increase in surplus are GBP0.5 billion of Standard Life Capital synergies,
and GBP0.6 billion of management actions, delivered on our legacy Phoenix business. We
have also seen the benefit in our solvency position of issuing more capital qualifying debt
instruments in the period than was anticipated in our pro forma figures.
The strain of GBP0.2 billion from new business during the year, primarily relates to the
cost of rating BPA and vesting annuities. New business written within the UK Open and
Europe segments is capital-light. The Group recognized a circa GBP150 million benefit
from changes to longevity assumptions, which included moving to the CMI 2017 mortality
tables in Phoenix Life. This benefit was more than offset by the impact of strengthening
expensious [ph] capital for the Standard Life business and the cost of customer
proposition developments and other projects. And despite turbulent equity markets
during 2018, we report a small economic variance of GBP0.2 billion. This is driven by the
Group's hedging strategy for equity, currency and interest rate risk, which brings resilience
to the Group's solvency position.
We have introduced a new metric, new business contribution to measure the value
generated through new business written each year in the UK Open and European
businesses. New business contribution is the increase in Solvency II Own Funds arising
from new business written adjusted to exclude risk margin and to remove the contract
boundary restrictions of Solvency II. It represents the discounted value of expected future
cash flows from new business written and we can, therefore, use it to explain future cash
generation.
In the full year 2018, acquisition costs of GBP126 million net of tax were incurred of new
business. GBP280 million of cash generation will therefore emerge from this new
business in the future. And we expect 75% of this future cash generation to rise over the
first 15 years of the contract life. Therefore the 2018 new business contribution will
emerge at an average of GBP14 million of cash generation per annum from 2019 to 2034.

Page 5 of 24



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

FINAL

As Clive mentioned earlier, we used an exhibit called the wedge at our Capital Markets
Day, which put forward a hypothesis that the growth of our Open business will offset the
run-off of our Heritage business and bring sustainability to our organic cash generation. I
wanted to take some time today to share a simple model and assumptions that illustrate
this hypothesis. It is important to note that the wedge model is a subset of organic cash
generation and not assets under administration.
There is therefore no need to be distracted by discussion around the relative margins of
Heritage versus Open business. As the hypothesis we are seeking to prove is that Open
growth offset Heritage run-off, our model does not factor in cash generation from the inforce Open business, but simply assumes that this offsets the acquisition costs associated
with writing new business. As cash generation from the in-force Open business exceeds
acquisition costs, then this is a prudent assumption.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have used 2018 actual results circa GBP400 million of organic cash generation from
the Heritage business and GBP154 million of new business contribution from the Open
and European businesses. The model builds up the growth in Open business cash
generation from new business contribution, assuming that this will grow at 4% per annum
through a combination of volume growth and margin management. It also assumes that
the Heritage business cash generation runs-off at 5% per annum.
You can see that the cash emerging from successive years of growing Open business
offsets the decline in Heritage business cash generation. Now this model is clearly very
simple and serves to illustrate that hypothesis accordingly. Our actual five-year cash
generation target assumes no future new business, and therefore, includes only the
Heritage 2018 new business contribution figures from this model. Our targets also include
cash generated from the in-force Open and European businesses, the distribution of free
surplus and management actions. To summarize, we see real upside potential in Phoenix
in future from delivering growth across its Open business.
Our target shareholder capital coverage ratio is 140% to 180% and the sensitivity set out
show that Phoenix remain well within this range, under a range of scenarios. If the Group's
shareholder capital coverage ratio will have to fall below this target range, we would
consider appropriate rectification plans, after allowing for surplus emerging and didn't
change management actions. And if the Group's shareholder capital coverage ratio will
have to go above this target range, we would consider options for the deployment of
capital, which could include a potential return of capital to investors.
We have delivered a strong set of IFRS results and reported an operating profit of
GBP708 million. The increase compared to the prior year is primarily driven by the
inclusion of the Standard Life Assurance business for the four-month period post
completion together with net positive impacts of management actions and longevity
assumption changes in 2018.
Investment return variances, including net positive economic variances on hedging
positions held across the Group during the year, to protect the Group's Solvency II surplus
position. This represented a reversal of the position reported at the half year 2018.

Page 6 of 24



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

Other non-operating items included a gain on acquisition of GBP141 million, reflecting the
excess of fair value of the net assets acquired of the Standard Life Assurance businesses
over the consideration paid. Also included in this item, our one-off costs from introducing
pension caps, our non-workplace pensions and the acquisition costs.

FINAL

I will now pass you to Andy.

Andy Moss

{BIO 19123183 <GO>}

Thank you, Jim and good morning everyone. Phoenix are specialists in the safe and
efficient management of Heritage business with a strong track record of delivery. Our UK
Heritage business comprises products that are no longer actively marketed to customers
and adds a GBP118 billion of assets under administration. Our strategy for our Heritage
business is simple, to deliver value to shareholders and customers and to improve
customer outcomes.

Bloomberg Transcript

Integral to this, is ensuring that our cost base reduces more quickly than our policy count
runs-off. The Heritage segment results presented here are prepared on a pro forma
basis, as if Standard Life Assurance businesses have been included for the full year with
the exception of operating profit, which includes only the post-acquisition results. Gross
outflows of GBP10.8 billion have been partially offset by inflows of GBP3.7 billion, which
included GBP700 million of vesting annuities and GBP800 million of BPA.
On a purely flows basis, this indicates our Heritage assets under administration were
running off at circa 5% in 2018. Delivery of management actions continues to be a key
focus, and moving forwards we'll work to deliver these across both our Heritage and our
Open books, i.e., our total in-force book. We have been clear in our approach to the BPA
market. Our target for growth in this area is proportionate at around GBP500 million to
GBP1 billion of liabilities per annum. In 2018, we completed three transactions with total
contracted liabilities of GBP800 million. This represents circa 4% of the BPA market,
demonstrating that we are not chasing volumes and will be selective progressing only
value accretive deals.
We have invested around GBP100 million of capital to facilitate these transactions. This
represents the day one capital strain arising from the assets received and allowing for
capital management policy. This investment increases our long-term cash generation by
around GBP300 million.
The BPA market is growing 20 billion of BPA was completed in 2018 and we expect
volumes in 2019 to be similar. Phoenix is well-positioned to benefit from this market
growth and generate long-term cash flows to support the dividend into the future. Longterm illiquid assets return a higher yield for shareholders and better match the duration of
long-dated annuity liabilities. We therefore have an active program of sourcing illiquid
assets, including equity release mortgages, commercial real estate and private
placements.

Page 7 of 24



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

FINAL

At the 31st of December, 2018, 20% of our GBP17 billion of shareholder assets backing
annuities within our non-profit funds were invested in illiquid assets. We continue to target
an upper limit of 40% allocation to these asset classes by originating up to GBP1 billion of
illiquid assets per annum. 2018 was a successful year for Phoenix with GBP1.4 billion of
illiquid assets sourced. This volume delivered circa GBP130 million of solvency benefit to
the Group.
Our ability to compete in the BPA market is heavily influenced by our illiquid asset sourcing
capabilities. We continue to see this as a key management action, which will also
contribute to the Standard Life Assurance transition capital synergy target. Management
actions broadly fall into two categories under Solvency II. Those that increase Solvency II
Own Funds, and therefore, increase the total quantum of cash flows emerging from the
business, and those that reduce capital requirements, and hence allow an acceleration of
cash that would otherwise have been expected to emerge over time.

Bloomberg Transcript

In total, management actions added GBP570 million to our Solvency II surplus in 2018. A
number of our management actions related to the Abbey Life business acquired in 2016.
Approval for this business to be included within our internal model was followed in the
year by notification from the SCA that they had concluded the enforcement action against
Abbey, and in December, we completed the Part VII transfer into Phoenix Life Limited.
Other actions include the benefit from investment fee reductions and savings arising from
our joint investment with outsources in the digitalization of the customer journey. In 2018,
we delivered GBP500 million of capital synergies in respect to the Standard Life
Assurance businesses. This principally consisted of the capital synergies from
implementing the Group's equity and currency hedging strategy, but also included
benefits from transfer and indemnities within the Group.
Today, we have increased our capital synergy target to GBP720 million. This new target
reflects the estimated benefit of moving towards Phoenix strategic asset allocation for
annuity backing assets and creating a single life company. It is worth noting that we
continue to make no estimate of the capital impact of harmonizing the Group's two
internal models, which we expect to be capital neutral overall. Although, this clearly
remains subject to PRA approval.
Across Phoenix, we continue to drive forward actions, which seek to improve customer
outcomes. We remain focused on improving outcomes With Profit customers by removing
uncertainty and risks from the With Profit funds and continually reviewing fees. We are
investing in our online capabilities to connect digitally with as many customers possible.
80% of Diligenta pension customers can now log onto our digital platform and self-serve,
and during 2018 we saw over 40% of eligible customers taking advantage of our online
encashment functionality.
In the first half of 2018, we announced the introduction of fee caps on our Phoenix Life
non-workplace pensions products. The change will benefit circa 250,000 policies and
reduce the average Phoenix Life ongoing charge for non-unitised workplace pension
policies to 1.1%.

Page 8 of 24



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

FINAL

As we can see from the previous slide, not only do our management actions focus on
delivering value to shareholders, they also look to deliver value to customers and improve
customer outcomes. At Phoenix Life we recognize the importance of a sustainable
outsourcing model for customer administration that delivers a digitally enhanced offering
to customers and can adapt to change in a fast and cost-efficient manner.
At our Capital Markets Day in November, we announced that we have selected Diligenta
to partner Phoenix for this journey and as a result will be transferring circa 2 million legacy
Phoenix policies to Diligenta by the end of 2021. It will lead to a reduction in per policy
administration cost across the legacy Phoenix book and the GBP100 million Solvency
benefit of this management action was recognized in the first half of 2018. Following this
transfer, Diligenta will administer circa 5.5 million Phoenix policies from a single
administration platform. This will deliver an end to end digital journey to 75% of our
Phoenix Life customers.
I will now pass you to Susan.

Bloomberg Transcript

Susan McInnes

{BIO 19698729 <GO>}

Thank you, Andy, and good morning. Our capital-light UK Open business is important to
Phoenix, as it brings additional scale to our operations, and dampens the run-off of our
Heritage books, therefore extending our dividend paying capabilities. We define Open to
be products that actively marketed to new and existing customers and we have GBP85
billion of assets under administration in this segment. It's important to note that these are
primary unitized products, which have no guarantees and where the investment risk sits
with the customer.
Our UK Open business, therefore, comprises only capital-light products. In the main, our
Open business relates to those products being sold as part of our strategic partnership
with Standard Life Aberdeen under the Standard Life brand. Well, this is part of the
Phoenix Group, you will hear me to fetch [ph] the business using its brand name today. UK
Open also includes products aimed at the over-50's market distributed by SunLife. In
terms of strategy, there is very much a shared vision with our Heritage book and that we
aim to deliver value to shareholders and customers alike.
Our strategic partnership, which leverages the skills of both organizations is important in
supporting that strategy. The UK Open segment results presented here are prepared on
a pro forma basis, as if the Standard Life Assurance businesses had been included for the
full year with the exception of operating profit, which includes only the post-acquisition
results. We will not be disclosing the margin we charge on our Open business, but do
provide disclosure of the operating margin achieved in the appendices to this
presentation.
Gross inflows of GBP10.7 billion, include GBP7.4 billion of inflows on new business. By new
business, we mean either new or increased premiums on existing policies or new policies
entered into during the year. This new business made a contribution of GBP137 million in

Page 9 of 24



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

FINAL

the year, and as Jim explained earlier, we view this new business contribution as a proxy
to future cash generation.
Net inflows during the year were GBP3.7 billion and illustrate that on a purely flows basis,
our UK Open business assets and administration were growing at around 4% in 2018. The
Standard Life proposition is strong and has competed well in the workplace auto
enrollment market with 15,000 active schemes serving around 1.9 million customers. New
business gross inflows of GBP1.6 billion during the year were driven by auto enrollment
increases, new schemes and new customers joining existing schemes.
Net inflows in 2018 of GBP1.8 billion reflects the strong performance for this product,
which continues to be the engine for customer acquisition to the UK Open business.
When customers change employer, we work hard to retain the business and in 2018, we
saw GBP2.2 billion of assets under administration associated with workplace leaders
retained by the Standard Life brand and transferred either to a retail pension's business
within the Open segment or to the Heritage business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Looking forward, we expect the majority of new flows to come from existing schemes. In
2018, over 280,000 new policies were generated by joiners to existing employer
schemes and the increase in auto enrollment minimum contribution levels from 5% to 8%
in 2019, will further support our growth.
Critical to success in the workplace market is scheme retention. We will continue to invest
in the overall proposition to ensure that remains competitive and differentiated. We
expect to win new mandates, and believe the ongoing market shift towards Master Trust
arrangements, makes us well placed to win new opportunities.
The retail pensions book is in part built up by the strategic partnership with Standard Life
Aberdeen with the selling retail pension products via independent advisors. During 2018,
we saw gross inflows of circa GBP2 billion, despite the industry-wide slowdown in DB to
DC transfers, after the high levels experienced in 2017.
We also saw a steady flow of customers moving from workplace schemes to retail
pensions, when they change employer. Our aim is for customers to consolidate their
other pension products with us and stay with our products, as they enter the
decumulation phase of their life. This means, we are retaining assets under administration
within the Group for the long-term. The products themselves have a strong digital and
service offering, which is critically important in this marketplace. We expect strong gross
inflows in 2019, as our product range makes us well-placed to offer solutions for both
accumulation and decumulation.
Wrap has historically been one of the largest growth areas for Standard Life branded
products, and 2017 saw historic levels of DB to DC transfers. In 2018, Wraps had delivered
GBP4 billion of gross inflows on new business during the year. Clearly, this is a very
competitive market, but the Standard Life Aberdeen platform remains number one in the
market based on both advised, gross and net volumes, and it's well placed to grow in the
future.
Page 10 of 24



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

FINAL

Our European business contains both Open and Heritage products, split across Germany
and Ireland and we have GBP23 billion of assets under administration in this segment. The
2018 results illustrate a self-sustaining nature of this business, which provides us with
optionality to grow inorganically through both Open and Closed European life
consolidation in the future.
Our Brexit preparations are complete. The Group has already injected GBP250 million of
capital into the Standard Life International in readiness for a Part VII transfer of the German
and Irish, UK branch businesses. The court hearing for this transfer is scheduled for the
19th of March. We are therefore, ready for any Brexit scenario.
Across Phoenix, we continue to invest in our digital proposition to increase the number of
customers, who can access the data and transact online. With more than 3 million logins
last year, our mobile app is now the easiest way for customers to interact with us, when
they want. In 2018, we had over 6,000 customers moved into drawdown through our
digital platform.
We do about 8,000 customers, who use their telephony guidance service to support
them with the retirement options and 2,000 customers and guests attended our highlyrated retirement roadshows, which run nationwide. We also monitor our customer service
metrics very closely to enable us to drive forward improvements and use a variety of tools
to track customer satisfaction. The increase in the scores year-on-year is evidence that
our levels of customer service continue to improve.

Bloomberg Transcript

I will now pass you back to Clive.

Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Thank you, Susan. I'm going to wrap up. The Chairman described and opened this
presentation by saying that 2018 was a year marked by outstanding strategic delivery and
strong financial performance. With this, I entirely agree. And therefore it is with optimism
that I now turn to Phoenix's future. Phoenix is at an inflection point, as we test, whether we
can entirely offset the natural run-off of our Heritage business with the growth of our
Open business, as described by Susan.
We believe we are likely to be able to do this for three reasons. First, we must retain our
existing clients and assets. We will do this by enriching our product offering and by
improving the outcomes and experiences of our clients. Second, we will attract new
customers, bringing new assets. This will be achieved through our strategic partnership
with Standard Life Aberdeen. And finally, we intend to improve our operating profitability.
We must have a lean and agile operating model that uses our scale to leverage its buying
power with our partners. The prospect of our Open business growth offsetting the run-off
of our Heritage business represents a fundamental change for Phoenix, as I said in my
introduction. Proof of this hypothesis will deliver longer term sustainability to our cash flow,
but the future does not stop there.

Page 11 of 24



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

FINAL

Standard Life was an important milestone on our consolidation journey, but it is not the
final destination. Acquisitions including BPA will enable Phoenix to grow cash generation
further. We believe that the drivers of consolidation remain compelling. We believe that
firms will divest themselves of their capital heavy businesses to consolidators such as
Phoenix.
The market is clearly in flux and we see a range of future opportunities. And the Phoenix
team is eager to get the next transaction across the line. I don't believe funding is an
issue, what I've referred to before much to Jim's regret, is Jim's war chest is circa GBP1
billion, and I have confidence that we have the management bandwidth augmented by
our Scottish colleagues to do another deal if necessary immediately.

Bloomberg Transcript

Phoenix has a clear set of priorities for 2019, cash generation is our key metric, we are
focused on delivering the GBP600 million to GBP700 million target for 2019 announced
today. Our transition program is challenging. We have set ourselves clear management
objectives and will deliver against these because that is what Phoenix does. Across the
Group, we will drive forward customer initiatives that support new business growth. And
finally, as I said a moment ago, we are open for business and will examine further M&A
and BPA opportunities that meet our stated criteria of being value accretive.
To conclude, cash remains king at Phoenix and we estimate at least GBP12 billion of future
cash generation from our business in-force today. The resilience of Phoenix is evident with
our GBP3.2 billion Solvency II surplus and a shareholder ratio of 167%. The continued
growth of our Open business will offset the Heritage business run-off, and there will be
growth in BPA and M&A as the UK, and European insurance industry consolidates. We are
clearly building a more sustainable Phoenix.
Thank you very much indeed. Ladies and gentlemen, that brings to an end the formal
presentation. Thank you very much for your engagement. I'd like to now move onto Q&A,
which will be chaired by our Chairman.

Questions And Answers
A - Nicholas Lyons

{BIO 16348625 <GO>}

If you could wait for the microphone to come to you, and then announce your name and
the institution for whom you work, that will be great. I'm also conscious that some of you
will be moving on to another results announcement after this. So, if you could be a little bit
restraint and limit yourself to just two questions. I know how you like to get a barrage in.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Can we start. Over here.

Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Thank you, and good morning. Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. I have two questions
please. The firstly, on the new business strain, can you talk a little bit about how you're
Page 12 of 24



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

FINAL

going to balance new business strain, given the cash target you set out. I think Jim alluded
to the fact that you see that large has been covered off by the existing new business
from the back book. But if you have opportunities, for example to write a greater volume
of bulk annuity, for example, would you choose to sort of trade-off between long-term
cash flow and short-term cash flow is the first question.
And then second question, just in terms of the longevity risk, the sensitivities given, I
wonder if you could elaborate a little bit in terms of what your risk appetite is for longevity,
and going forward whether you see a role for more reassurance on that point? Thank you.

A - Jim McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. I think they're both for me. Well, first of all turning to Slide 20, which is up on the
screen here, you will see the new business strain on the slide, which is a negative GBP0.2
billion. So, just a reminder, what we said that comprises a GBP101 million from the BPA
business that we wrote during the year, which includes the capital management policy
amounts related to that business. A roughly GBP60 billion relating to vesting annuity
businesses and GBP40 million balance relates to the Standard Life business, which we've
described previously as capital-light.
I think in the Capital Markets Day, we had said, we believe that strain to be slightly
positive, but once we've run the year-end numbers, it turned out to be marginally
negative, but fundamentally is capital-light business. In terms of thinking forward, in terms
of our use of capital, you will have seen from one of the other slides, that our cash builds
up over the five-year period from GBP0.3 billion to GBP1.3 billion. So, we will be
accumulating additional amounts of surplus through, which we will continue to invest that
in BPA business and in the Standard Life business and in supporting future M&A.
Now the key thing about -- thinking about the bulk annuities business, is we have used the
phrase in the past that we will enter that market on a selective and proportionate basis
and that remains the position. We are always going to fund this BPA business from our
own resources. And we have given guidance that we will expect between GBP500 million
and GBP1 billion of liabilities over the course of the year. So, the strain from that BPA
business will be around GBP100 million mark on avergae. And we continue to see the -obviously the Standard Life business will have a very minimal capital strain. So, we're very
comfortable with that those new business opportunities that the capital costs are well
manageable within the ongoing business, as we go forward.
Your second question was around longevity risk and our risk appetite. So, roughly about
55% of longevity risk is reinsured as of the present time. While we are thinking about BPA
deals, we are reinsuring a larger proportion of that business, so up to 90% or so on
average for the new business to do with BPAs. And we continue to keep the overall
longevity risk appetite under review, and if it was necessary, we would take action to keep
it well within our risk appetite. We don't have any particular issues with our risk appetite at
present and are very comfortable with the overall position.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Page 13 of 24



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

Yeah, thanks. It's Gordon Aitken from RBC. Couple of questions, please. You mentioned
that the balance sheet is more sensitive to longevity, just wondering what your thoughts
are for the 2018 mortality table, which should be published soon?

FINAL

And secondly, also thoughts on super funds, which some are pitching as a threat to bulk
annuity writers like yourself ?

A - Nicholas Lyons

{BIO 16348625 <GO>}

Shall I pick up...

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

So, I will pick up the first one and then Andy or Susan can pickup super funds question. So,
where we have moved to today, for the Phoenix Life book, we have reflected the CMI
2017 tables and therefore, we're up to date with these and we will review the position in
relation to the 2018 tables in the second half of this year in accordance with our normal
practice. We certainly saw positive experience variances come through in 2017, relative to
the assumptions at that time and the fact trend, we have to continue, it's possible we
could see further changes. But I think at this stage it's too early to say.

Bloomberg Transcript

Standard Life have a slightly different basis where they use their own bespoke model to
calculate their longevity that when we put them side by side, in very broad terms, they are
reflective of the 2017 tables as well. So, both businesses in broad terms are consistent
with the 2017 tables and we will -- time will tell, whether the 2018 brings a further
opportunity for a release.

A - Andy Moss

{BIO 19123183 <GO>}

So, I think on super funds, and I think you're right there, and there is a potential new
competitor there in the BPA market. And it's still relatively early days and there is -- I think
there's quite a lot of water still to pass under that bridge in terms of really looking at the
capital treatment. And there's a lot of work going on across the ABI to ensure that we
have got comparable capital treatment around super funds.
But I would say as a competitor, I think there are benefits from the capital strength of our
life insurance companies to give to those pensioners. So, I think there are benefits, which
we have over them, but I think it is a competitive landscape, which we'll absolutely have to
keep under review.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Yeah, thank you.

A - Nicholas Lyons

{BIO 16348625 <GO>}

Greig?

Q - Greig Paterson
Page 14 of 24



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

FINAL

Greig Paterson, KBW. One technical question. In terms of your credit risk on Slide 17, in
terms of the element for default, you previously you've said, there was a 10% allowance
for default and there's no comment there now. Wondering what the allowance for default
is under the new sensitivity?
And the second point, question is to Clive. At the Capital Markets Day, if I remember
correctly, you said you speak often to all the potential acquisitions, and you think possibly
a deal will happen earlier than later versus what people expect. I wonder if the probability
of a deal since the Capital Market Day from your conversations has improved, or
deteriorated?

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Okay. So, I'll give first of all with the credit spread widening on Slide 17 and, so the credit
stress here is equivalent to an average 120 bps spread across the ratings. But clearly we
apply a different percentage depending on the rating it comes an average of 120% and
we allow 10% of that for defaults, which is consistent with the approach we've taken in
previous years.

A - Jim McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Greig, it's a good question. I'm going to dodge it a little bit, so forgive me right now.
There are three big tides, which are moving forward, which we've referred to before. I
think I changed the order of those tides. The first was A-day giving people pensions
freedom in '14 and '15, changed the way clients bought, and therefore that changed the
maths of big back books.
The second was clearly the re-pricing of capital due to Solvency II in 2016. They are in the
rear-view mirror. The third tide, which is happening and it is clearer today than ever before
is the pricing that investors are attaching to different businesses. So, you do that, that's
not us, that's your industry, but your industry attaches a PE to wealth management of circa
20, to our industry of around 7 to 8 that is becoming very clear. Therefore, where people
put their capital is becoming highlighted in the spotlight, if you're managing businesses
that combine those two (technical difficulty).
So, your industry is driving change, and I think that has become a greater force of
emphasis the night of the A-day changes or pension freedoms and indeed the re-pricing
of capital and Solvency II. So, that is a systemic change and I say that is being growing
since the Investor Day, the clarity of that.
And the third is clearly we have a European capability in Ireland, in Germany, which means
the breadth of the opportunities geographically is more and more and clearly I'm not
learning foreign languages yet, but I'm certainly seeing opportunities, which are
continental.
And then finally, because we are a biped in terms of our Open capabilities and the
Heritage business that gives us a broader breadth as well. So, there's a depth to the

Page 15 of 24



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

conversation, and as I've said before it just irritates you, it's a bit like London buses, I
never predict when anything may or may not occur.

A - Nicholas Lyons

{BIO 16348625 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes.

Q - Dominic O'Mahony
Thank you. Dom O'Mahony, Exane BNP Paribas. Two questions. You mentioned autoenrollment as a force driving flows. On my crude understanding of solvency, when an
individual increases the portion of their income going into the pension, that create a oneoff increase in capital generation. But actually, because you bake in the assumption of the
lifetime that then falls away.
When you think about the growth of the capital generation and cash release from the new
business, does that mean that there is any chance that there's been a spike in this year,
maybe a spike in -- a spike in '18, maybe a spike in '19. But that then falls away or you're
very comfortable with something like the 4% that you've showed us in the helpful model.

Bloomberg Transcript

The second is just on the operating model. We talk about the integration of Phoenix
Heritage and Standard Life Aberdeen business, you didn't mention outsourcing in anyway
in the past. You didn't mention the outsourcing, in the past you've always described the
partnerships with Diligenta and Capita as being a real source of advantage. Is there a shift
in the operating model here that actually you are looking to sustainably manage more of
the business internally? Thank you.

A - Nicholas Lyons

{BIO 16348625 <GO>}

Susan, do you want to deal with that first question?

A - Susan McInnes

{BIO 19698729 <GO>}

Yeah. So, you're absolutely right, we expect that flows to increase in 2019, as we see the
5 to 8, just as we saw the 3 to 5 last year. And we think that accounts little bit another
GBP200 million of income and our expectation is that, that will continue. We have made
an assumption that we will see a slight increase in drop-off with the change from 5 to 8
and over that 3 to 5, but we do expect that to persist.

A - Nicholas Lyons

{BIO 16348625 <GO>}

Clive, do you want to...

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

I could answer the second question. I don't think there's any change so, we've announced
GBP1.22 billion of synergies, two halves. We always thought the biggest synergies would
be generated by capital synergies at GBP720 million. That's what you expect. It's unique
to our industry. This is not a manufacturing business. So, it's not just about costs, it's about
capital synergies. That's what a consolidator brings to bear and the internal model et
Page 16 of 24



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

FINAL

cetera. But of those cost synergies, which add upto GBP650 million, we've introduced a
new category GBP30 million of single one-offs. This is one of the advantages if again if
you bring two large businesses together, I mentioned IFRS 17, this is an expensive process
for two companies and we bring it together, and we have a single process.
So, there is separate category of one-off. We are then left with GBP620 million odd
coming from improved costs management. That is bringing our cost base down from
GBP600 million to GBP525 million, that is a GBP75 million target, up from GBP50 million.
This is easily doable, I say easily over a three-year basis, it's about 12.5% and you do it in
multiple ways. You do it by changing processes, looking at a different target operating
model, looking at the people, who do it by way of natural attrition, et cetera. And we have
always believed in a bifurcated, some of the things, we manufacture in-house and some
of the things we outsource to a variety of outsources of whom Diligenta is our preferred
strategic provider.
And we think that, that is not going to change anytime soon. So, we will carry on having
this bifurcated in-source and outsource capability, but as we have demonstrated not just
last year, but in the years before and Andy was very fluent, Diligenta, the relationship we
have with them, yields very good value to us as shareholders. But more importantly
delivered better outcomes in terms of customer service by way of digital journey going
forward.

A - Nicholas Lyons

{BIO 16348625 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Clive. Andrew, you had your hand up earlier?

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

It's Andrew Crean with Autonomous. One question, one ask, if I may. On Europe, you've
only got GBP23 billion of assets split between three different businesses. There is no
thought of private equity shocks out there trying to get into that business as well. What is
your timeline do you think to be likely to be doing deals?
And have you considered actually selling back to the private equity and just folding your
tent there. And then the request in terms of the movement in the Solvency Capital
position, there's quite a drop in the SCR. And I was wondering, whether you could give us
the movement in your, for surplus, separated between the available funds and the SCR in
the same way that you have to report that to the PRA.

A - Nicholas Lyons

{BIO 16348625 <GO>}

Clive, do you want to take the European question?

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Yes, certainly. So Europe, there is no consideration of divestment. These businesses are
accretive. So, we have a German business, which is not risk-bearing. It is a unit-linked
business and has a Heritage book. There is an offshore, that's about GBP13 billion of that
GBP23 billion. There's about GBP6 billion in offshore and then the remaining GBP6 million
Page 17 of 24



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

FINAL

is unit-linked related to Ireland, again with the Heritage business. We think that they offer
platforms for growth and offer real opportunity.
We absolutely recognize, Andrew, what you've commented on. Germany, as Mark Twain
would say, as slow as molasses in winter, the Generali deal, which you maybe alluding to
has taken a long time to get off the block. So, I think what we're witnessing, Ireland has
seen more consolidation, so is the Netherlands. Really it's just starting in Germany and we
wish to be a player. And of course, it does come down to value. There is a point, when an
asset is more valuable to somebody else than it is to us or from whatever we can do with
it far too early to reach that conclusion. And therefore, I say categorically these are not
businesses available for divestment.

A - Nicholas Lyons

{BIO 16348625 <GO>}

Jim, do you want to pick up the capital?

A - Jim McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

Yes, I mean, some of the SFCR, Andrew we will give you a break down of the movement
in the Solvency Capital requirement. But it's a reflection largely of a lot of the
management action activity that has taken place during the course of the year.

A - Nicholas Lyons

{BIO 16348625 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Oliver?

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel, Deutsche. Thank you for the wedge modeling page, very useful. Just sort of
trying to consider, what's in it, and what's not in it. And I'm afraid my questions are going
to have a slightly negative slant. But I do recognize that you've got -- that you're missing
out the bulk annuities and all the rest of it in there. So, one thing that's missing is the runoff of the open book. So, you are showing the gross cash flow coming off the new
business, but you're not showing the loss of cash flow of the old business that's running
off. So, I wonder how it would look if you included the open book in there as well?
The second thing -- the second question is, that the second thing it excludes is
management actions. And so, you've given guidance, I think, the management actions will
be a third of the total cash flow over the next five years out to 2023. But given the size of
your business now and the linkage of those management actions to acquisitions, how
confident do you feel about sustaining a third of cash flow from management actions
beyond 2023?

A - Jim McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

Yeah, I think these are for me. So, I was wondering, why don't we get right into the
wedge, Oliver, so thank you very much. So, I'd like to be very clear. So, this is Slide 22,
what this exclude. So, the number is shown here for the new business contribution, of the
new business contribution associated with Standard Life deal, and exclude therefore BPA,
exclude any future M&A and exclude management actions. So, absolutely excluded.
Page 18 of 24



FINAL

Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

What I also said in my talk was that, we've assumed for the purposes of this model that
the in-force run-off from the Open business would more than cover the acquisition costs
that is not show in these numbers here. But there is an upside from that, that you would
do if you model the entire thing. But what we are simply trying to demonstrate in this very
simple model is that the run-off from the Heritage book is offset largely by the growth in
the new business contribution, if you believe those assumptions that I've set out here.
And I think that chart demonstrates that. So, if I give you the whole answer, I just be
making your life far too easy.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Cash flows.

A - Jim McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

Oh, sorry yes, on the confidence in terms of the management actions, and so, we've
described in the past the Open approach, we used to management actions and that we
continually review that and it's a very dynamic process, that remains. We are now
incorporating the Standard Life business into that same process and as we stand today,
we see a very healthy pipeline of management actions. And if you recall, we went as the
old Phoenix for many, many years without a deal, but we're still able to deliver a very
substantial proportion of management actions over that period, and we certainly see
today the same confidence going forward into the future of being able to deliver a
constant stream of management actions.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nicholas Lyons

{BIO 16348625 <GO>}

And may I just -- sorry, Mr. Chair, may I just say to help Oliver. I look at the GBP3.8 billion.
So, in the last eight years, we've never said a number, which we haven't met or exceeded.
You start if you build the sandwich of the GBP3.8 billion, you start with GBP800 million of
Free Life Surplus, which emerges GBP1.8 billion of cash, which will come out of Heritage
and then it's GBP1.2 billion. I think you said GBP1.8 of management actions. So, do we
believe over the next five years, we can do GBP1.2 billion of management actions of either
acceleration or adding the Solvency II Own Funds? Absolutely.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Good morning. It's Steven Haywood, from HSBC. Following up on the wedge, have you
take into consideration any market return assumptions in this? And secondly, your GBP250
million Brexit capital injection, can it be released, if a soft Brexit occurs? Thank you.

A - Nicholas Lyons

{BIO 16348625 <GO>}

Jim, do you want to take...

A - Jim McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

That's me again. So, the Brexit, the capital injection has gone into the Irish subsidiary. If
Brexit were not to happen, and therefore, we didn't need to go forward with the Part VII
and so on, we would have the ability to take that capital back out of the Irish subsidiary,
where we involve a capital reduction process. We've done lots of those types processes.
Page 19 of 24



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

So they are familiar to us, but it would require that process. And in terms of the returns
they're based on the risk free rate.

FINAL

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Thanks. It's Andy Sinclair from BoA Merrill Lynch. And can I say, I wish more companies I
cover could report negative goodwill on their acquisitions. So, two for me. Firstly, just
wondered if you could remind me a bit more about your equity hedging strategies, what
instruments do you use? What were the impact be on equity market increases on your
cash generation forecasts guidance, sorry?
And secondly, just on the Free Surplus in the Life company that increased pretty nicely
upto -- upto GBP1 billion, I think increased by GBP0.2 billion pro forma in the year. Just
wondered on ability to upstream that, does that give you any potential upside risk to the
war chest? Thanks.

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Well, thank you for your comments about the negative goodwill. On the equity
hedging, we have commented in the past that our approach to equity hedging, in that we
don't fundamentally see that as a risk that is rewarded to us. So, we have historically
hedged a very significant proportion of the annual management charges that come out of
the book and that continues to be the case. At Phoenix the level was about 90% of the
risk was hedged. Within Standard Life, we have got about 75% of that risk hedged, as we
stand today.
We have used a combination of options in futures, which tend to roll forward on a twoyear basis. And we have recognized in setting targets going forward in to the future and
then our plans that we would have a certain amount of costs related to the options.
And in terms of the Free Surplus, I mean that is, if you were to run, that Free Surplus is
available for distribution today, so technically you could run that down to a GBP1, if we
chose to do so. Clearly, I don't think we would ever like to run as close to the wire as Andy
to my left here would get slightly nervous, but there is no restriction technically on that
distribution.

Q - Ming Zhu

{BIO 17001429 <GO>}

Ming Zhu from Panmure Gordon. Two questions please. First is from Slide 8, you gave that
GBP850 million to GBP950 million cash generation for 2019. Is that a sort of standard
annual number, because five-times that figure by 5 and the deduct of the GBP250 million
Brexit cost, I will be looking at the minimum GBP4 billion to GBP4.5 billion cash generation
for the next five years. And how does that tie back to the GBP3.8 billion, you've indicated,
or have you being conservative as usual?
And my second question is on dividend, and you only increased dividend when you done
deals and that returning. Well, would you review your, I mean, if you talk about gross and
how resilient your cash is, your confidence in management action? Well, would you review
your dividend policy to a progressive dividend policy, because you are now in FTSE 100,
Page 20 of 24



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

realistically, would people really buy into your shares, if you got no dividend growth
outlook? Or, are you only going to increase dividend when you do an M&A?

FINAL

A - Nicholas Lyons

{BIO 16348625 <GO>}

So, Slide 5, sorry Slide 8, what you see there GBP850 million to GBP950 million that
assumes that we hadn't put any money into Standard Life International and clearly that
GBP250 million is a one-off, if you then strip that out, you get down to the range, we're
talking about for 2019, which is obviously after the Standard Life deal.
The average over the five years, I think is about GBP775 million because of the timing of
management actions it can be lumpy, it doesn't come necessarily at even streams. So, I
think all you're seeing is in 2019, we are predicting more management actions than we are
in the later years. That is usually quite normal because you have more sight obviously of
the nearer-term actions as you go forward. But overall it's an average of that GBP775
million. I don't think it's for me to comment on the dividend, I think one of these two
gentlemen...

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I think it's about my pay grade. I think it's for Chairman, and it's the Board, our dividend
policy remains absolutely stable and sustainable. It says what it does on the 10. We have
raised our dividend three-times in the last three years. So, plus 12% since 2016. We have
on each occasion raised the dividend, when we have done a transaction.
Your question said, would we only raise the dividend, when we do a transaction? I don't
think it is exclusively that. Jim has already described on another slide, when we got, it will
be to get north of 180% SCR, then we might consider a distribution. As I think he also said
very clearly, we believe that there are ways we can deploy the capital very effectively on
behalf of our shareholders, and that's where we stand at the moment.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Hi, good morning Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan. Just a couple of question, one is
clarification and one is a question on M&A. If I think about your war chest, you're flagging
about GBP1 billion at the moment, but is it fair to say that this GBP1 billion would be say a
couple of billion in five years time, because you are accumulating cash from GBP0.3 billion
to GBP1.3 billion over next five year. So, GBP1 billion is the number today. And every year it
goes up because you are accumulating cash, in case there is no deal in between. So,
that's my first clarification I'm looking for.
The second one is, Clive, you remember that you always had a clear M&A criteria that
dividend has to go up, leverage has to come down, cash flows has to go up. Any thoughts
on that? I mean, are there any strict criterias, rules at the moment because one thing is
that, if you do a deal now, probably it will be a bit more levered deal compared to what
you put in from the business. So, any thoughts on that, those criterias would be great.
Thank you.

Page 21 of 24



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

A - Nicholas Lyons

{BIO 16348625 <GO>}

Okay. So, I'll be picking up the war chest question first. So, Jim's war chest, I don't think is
quite mine to spend.

A - Jim McConville

{BIO 3743391 <GO>}

FINAL

Not few person.

A - Nicholas Lyons

{BIO 16348625 <GO>}

I'll have a word with the remuneration committee shortly. So, the war chest is quite simply
recognizing the fact that at the present time, we have leverage at 22% on a Fitch basis.
And as you know, we have a target range of 25% to 30%. So, if we took that leverage up
to 30%, we would have funds available of around about GBP1 billion, without going back
to equity shareholders for funding for a deal.
We do see accumulating cash over that five-year period, as you say from GBP0.3 billion to
GBP1.3 billion, that will be reflected in improving surplus. But out of that, we will be paying
the capital for future BPA deals, which we've guided you to -- up to about GBP100 million
per annum, plus the smallest strain on the Standard Life new business. So, in all of that
would translate itself necessarily into an addition of the war chest that would be a
reasonable proportion of it.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

So, Ashik, you asked the question, whether we would change the criteria by which we
would look at future acquisitions. And I think the answer is no. Why because it served us
well in the past. There are three criteria. The first is all deals cash accretive. Can we show
that day one, you can do that in two ways. We showed that was in the SLAL deal, it
brought GBP5.5 billion of cash. We could raise the dividend and we paid as on UTI [ph]
basis 84%. So that was accretive.
The second one is does it support the dividend, so that we understand that if we raise
equity, we have to repay those, who give us their money. We are stewards of their money
and we deploy that. And that's what we did by the dividend increases. And then finally, it's
to protect our investment grade rating. So, we trade in on a Fitch rating of between 25%
and 30%. We're currently below that at 22%, that is one of the key components that gives
us the capacity of Jim's war chest of a GBP1 billion on the current size of our balance
sheet, that will take us back to the top end of 30%.
And I think that's very clear guidance. It is a sober way of approaching deals. I think the
deals are always different in shape. So, you see going forward, they may look, it's not an
unfair comment to make. Each deals had been a different shape and size. AXA was very
front-end loaded in terms of cash release, SLAL is much more back-end loaded. And if
you look in the German or Dutch or Irish market, again, they are very different. So, to
answer your question, no, we're not changing them, because I think they have served us
well to date.

Page 22 of 24



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

A - Nicholas Lyons

{BIO 16348625 <GO>}

Any other questions? On the wire.

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay.

A - Nicholas Lyons

{BIO 16348625 <GO>}

Yeah. (Inaudible).

Operator
Ibrahim Sayed [ph] from Deutsche Bank is asking about our debt issuance plans for the
year, and whether we would need to issue debt to meet our GBP500 million to GBP1
billion BPA target?

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Very simple answer. We never discuss debt issuance period. But to answer question,
would we have to do something, as Jim said, our BPA and our target is somewhere
around GBP750 million to a GBP1 billion of liabilities, circa 3% to 4% of the current market
size, proportionate, selective and as we've said before funded from our own resources.
Thus as we showed on the slide a GBP100 million capital strain and exactly the same will
pertain this year.

A - Nicholas Lyons

{BIO 16348625 <GO>}

Anything else from the Internet or the phone or anything else in the room? If not, I would
just thank you again for your interest and your support and your time, and very, very much
appreciated. We're going to get back to work to deliver what we've promised. Thank you.

A - Clive C R Bannister

{BIO 2183003 <GO>}

Thank you very much indeed Chairman.

A - Nicholas Lyons

{BIO 16348625 <GO>}

Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
Page 23 of 24



Company N ame: Phoenix Group H oldings PL C
Company Ticker: PH N X L N Equity
Date: 2019-03-05

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 24 of 24

