Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

Q2 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Brian Duperreault, Chief Executive Officer
Kevin Hogan, Chief Executive Officer, Life & Retirement
Mark Lyons , Chief Financial Officer
Peter Zaffino, President & Chief Operating Officer of AIG & Chief Executive Officer of
General Insurance
Sabra Purtill, Head of Investor Relations

Other Participants
Brian Meredith, Analyst
Elyse Greenspan, Analyst
Erik Bass , Analyst
Jimmy Bhullar, Analyst
Michael Phillips , Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Yaron Kinar, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Good day, and welcome to AIG's Second Quarter 2020 Financial Results Call. As a
reminder, today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the
conference over to Ms Sabra Purtill, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Sabra Purtill

{BIO 1764408 <GO>}

Good morning and thank you all for joining us. Today's call will cover AIG's Second Quarter
2020 financial results announced yesterday afternoon. The news release, financial results
presentation and financial supplement were posted on our website at www.aig.com and
the 10-Q for the quarter will be filed later today after the call. Today's remarks may
contain forward-looking statements including comments relating to company
performance, strategic priorities, business mix and market conditions including the effects
of COVID-19 on AIG. These statements are not guarantees of future performance or
events and are based on management's current expectations. Actual performance and
events may differ materially. Factors that could cause results to differ include the factors
described in our first quarter 2020 reported on Form 10-Q and our 2019 Annual Report on
Form 10-K and our other recent filings made with the SEC, inclusive of the effects of
COVID-19 on AIG which cannot be fully determined at this time.

Page 1 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

AIG is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any obligation to update any
forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or
otherwise. Additionally, some remarks may refer to non-GAAP financial measures. The
reconciliation of such measures to the most comparable GAAP figures is included in our
earnings release, financial supplement and earnings presentation, all of which are
available on our website. I will now turn the call over to Brian.

Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Good morning and thank you for joining us today. I hope everyone is staying healthy and
safe. Like last quarter, our team is participating on the call from different locations. I'm
joined by Peter, Kevin. And Mark and, Doug Dachille our Chief Investment Officer, will also
be available for Q&A.
AIG continues to show remarkable strength and resiliency as COVID-19 remains a
formidable and ongoing catastrophe. Our global workforce is adjusted to working
remotely and I am incredibly proud of how the team has become more unified and
focused on supporting each other, our clients and other stakeholders during this
unprecedented time. Throughout the second quarter, we continue to build on the strong
foundation created since late 2017, to instill a culture of underwriting excellence, adjusted
risk tolerances and implemented best in class reinsurance program. These actions
strengthened and protected our balance sheet and are allowing us to effectively manage
through COVID-19 and its collateral effects on the global economy in addition to natural
catastrophes. We also made progress on strategic initiatives across AIG, including the
early June closing of the sale of a majority stake in Fortitude which significantly de-risked
our balance sheet and represented the vast majority of our legacy portfolio. Our focus on
de-risking is also reflected in how the overall investment portfolio has held up during this
extended period of market uncertainty.
As we outlined on our last call, our portfolio is diversified by asset class and industry
sector and contributes to our strong balance sheet. Mark will give more details on the
accounting implications of the sale of Fortitude which while in line with what we outlined
on prior calls are complex and added significant impact on our GAAP results in the second
quarter. There are other positive developments in the second quarter, such as the launch
of Syndicate 2019, which also added some noise to our results, but overall, I'm very
pleased with our underlying performance in this quarter.
We also enhanced our financial flexibility with parent company liquidity of over $10 billion
at June 30, reflecting the proceeds from the Fortitude sale as well as the successful debt
offering we completed in May. With respect to CATs in the second quarter, our total
estimated net CAT losses were $674 million, including $458 million related to COVID-19.
This brings our estimated COVID net losses for the first half of the year to $730 million.
We continue to view COVID as an earnings event not a capital event for AIG. In arriving at
our COVID estimate for the second quarter, we follow the same thoughtful and rigorous
process that Peter outlined on our last call as the ramifications of the pandemic continue
to unfold, different lines of business are being impacted which to date has been in line
with what we expected.

Page 2 of 22



FINAL

Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

Turning to General Insurance excluding CATs, we continue to see improved underwriting
profitability with the accident quarter combined ratio coming in at 94.9%, the 120 basis
point improvement over the prior year quarter. With respect to rate, the current
environment is as strong as I've seen in a more than 20 years and the increases over the
last several quarters accelerating due to COVID-19. These rate increase are global broad
based across multiple lines of business and the changes we are starting to drive in terms
and conditions, particularly in commercial property are remarkable, the underwriting
discipline and rigor Peter and the GI team has instilled across the business is impressive
and they continue to be a market leader in solving risk issues for our clients and
distribution partners.

Bloomberg Transcript

With respect to Life and Retirement, our financial results improved in the second quarter,
reversing much of the negative impact of market volatility we saw in the first quarter and
our hedging program, continue to perform as expected. Although it is still early days, we
are seeing signs that the second quarter will represent a low watermark in sales and
mortality rates remain within mid range of our pandemic models. Kevin will provide more
details on Life and Retirement in his remarks. We also made significant progress on AIG
200 in the second quarter. We moved into the execution phase of our operational
programs and we have already seen the masterful results from our efforts so far. You will
hear more about this from Peter.
To summarize where we are the second quarter of 2020 relative to where we began our
journey 3 years ago, well we've successfully reshaped AIG by substantially changing our
operating model to focus on 3 core business units general Insurance Life and Retirement
and investments. We also vastly improved our underwriting capabilities and business
portfolios, significantly reduced volatility, de-risked our balance sheet, and increased
financial and capital flexibility. These achievements are the results of extraordinary work by
our colleagues across AIG to remediate the commercial and personal portfolios and
general Insurance, strengthen our business in Life and Retirement and reduce risk in our
investment portfolio. With the sale of Fortitude we essentially eliminated the vast majority
of our legacy portfolio and related exposures of long tail runoff liabilities and interest rate
risk. With all this complex work behind us, we are now able to focus on our core
businesses and leverage our financial position to strategically deploy capital towards
growth, particularly in the general Insurance commercial lines where we are seeing some
of the strongest market conditions in our careers.
I remain confident that AIG is well positioned for the future and on the right path to
become a top performing company and a leading insurance franchise.Before I turn the call
over to Peter, I do want to take a moment to address the recent movements, duration of
quality across the United States and other parts of the world. At AIG, our colleagues were
deeply upset by the traumatic events and exposed to depth within the quality that
continues to exist in the United States and around the world. We saw an outpouring of
empathy which led to courageous and often difficult conversations throughout our
organization. We are now moving beyond empathy and conversation to formulating near
short and longer term actions, we must take. We know there are no quick fixes and while
we have taken important steps over the last few years, the foster a culture of diversity
inclusion, we must do more. Like the other complex issues, we have taken on at AIG by

Page 3 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

leadership team that is committed and I'm confident that with the support of our global
colleagues, we will make a lasting change at our company.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

As we continue our transformational journey at AIG, we remain steadfast in our pursuit of
excellence in all that we do which we know can only be achieved with exceptional diverse
talent at all levels of the organization. Peter, over to you.

Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Thank you, Brian, and good morning everyone. Today I plan to provide more detail on
Brian's comments regarding the General Insurance Second Quarter Results, COVID-19,
the current market environment, and I will finish with an update on AIG 200. This month
marks my third anniversary of joining Brian at AIG and when I look back at where we
started our journey, the progress our team has made is extraordinary. As we've discussed
on prior calls, during our first year at AIG, we determine the GI portfolio required a
complete overhaul in terms of underwriting culture, establishing global standards and
dramatically altering limits deployed.
In addition, we knew that our businesses needs to be re-positioned in the marketplace to
become more competitive and relevant to clients. We also moved quickly to design a
comprehensive global reinsurance program, which has been evolving as our portfolio
improves. This program vastly reduce volatility, unpredictability and outcomes and was a
critical component of our overall strategy, allowing us to move faster and re-underwriting
the GI portfolio. We built a world-class team and strengthened the bench across the world
and are completely revamped risk appetite, but successfully communicated to and
accepted by the marketplace.. We also achieved our goal of entering 2020 with an
underwriting profit and since the second quarter of 2018, our adjusted accident year
combined ratio has gone from 101 to 94.9%, a 610 basis point improvement. This is a
result of the outstanding work done by the team and we've built considerable momentum
that will allow us to continue to improve our financial results. With respect to our global
commercial portfolio, it has been significantly remediated and while there will always be
opportunities for improvement, this portfolio is now positioned for further strengthening,
more diversification, and profitable growth. In personal insurance, as I outlined in our last
call, we significantly de-risk private client group known as PCG with the creation of
Syndicate 2019 through our partnership with Lloyd's. In addition, in late June, we
announced an agreement to transition the PCG upper middle-market clients to Liberty
Mutual and heritage Insurance this fall. PCG is the market leader and the innovative capital
structure we carefully design with Lloyd's coupled with the disposition of our upper middle
market business allows us to now focus on the areas in the high-net-worth segment
where we bring the most valued clients as well as our brokers and agents. Our access to
new capital and reinsurance partners reduces AIG's concentration risk in peak zones and
resulting volatility that is inherent in this type of business and removes the constraints we
had on our ability to grow this portfolio. To give you a bit more insight into the challenges
we faced with PCG, prior to the actions we took in the second quarter, this portfolio
contributed between 15% to 20% of our global property (inaudible) PML at various return
periods. Going forward, we expect that the new capital-light model we have put in place
will allow us to profitably grow the PCG portfolio in which we maintain a 25% interest.

Page 4 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

In addition, we will receive fee income from our capital reinsurance partners for making
underwriting decisions providing other services, including Queen's administration, which
will improve the quality of our earnings from this business. Mark will provide more detail
regarding the impact of these actions in PCG will have over the next few quarters.
Since our GI journey began, the industry has faced meaningful headwinds including social
inflation, lower interest rates, significant infrequent natural catastrophes, constraints on
retro capacity in property, and more recently the unprecedented and ongoing COVID-19
pandemic and the resulting global economic headwinds it has created. Our global
workforce is more connected nimble and agile in the new working environment created
by COVID and we're becoming a stronger more unified company, which bodes well for
our future. We believe that companies that adjust with new abnormal will be the ones that
are best able to solve complex risk issues for clients and provide the continuity that is
needed in the market. Turning to General Insurance, we saw continued momentum in the
second quarter. Our focus on underwriting profitability continues to produce positive
results. As I mentioned earlier, the action year combined ratio, excluding catastrophes in
the second quarter was 94.9%, a 120 basis point improvement year-over-year.Mark will
provide more detail in his remarks, our leadership position in the market continues to
accelerate across multiple lines of business and we are achieving rate well in excess of
loss cost trends.
As Brian mentioned, this acceleration of rate improvement has been significant,
particularly when you consider the improvement in rates that we see in the 10 consecutive
quarters leading up to COVID-19. We believe that COVID has resulted in a flight to quality
and we are benefiting from this market dynamic, while new business slowed in the
second quarter as everyone quickly moved to a remote working environment in the early
challenging days of COVID -19, the strong foundation, we've built allowed us to be
responsive to stakeholders needs in our global commercial portfolio. For example, we
saw an improvement in both client and revenue retention. In addition, we are resetting
terms and conditions in many lines such as property and primary and excess casualty and
we are continuing to deploy limit with discipline while pursuing growth in certain lines of
business that will further strengthen our portfolio on a risk adjusted basis.
Now turning to catastrophes; in the second quarter, we booked 674 million of CAT losses
net of Reinsurance reflecting $458 million of estimated COVID -19 losses and $126 million
of civil unrest-related losses and 90 million of natural catastrophe losses. This brings our
total estimated COVID-19 related net loss of $730 million year-to-date. Our aggregate
estimate for COVID, through the first half of the year is based on actual experience
through the first and second quarter, as well as our broad based valuation of the relevant
lines of business and includes IBNR. As we expected COVID -related claims activity
increased in the second quarter, our first full quarter of COVID and impacted a large
number of lines of business that in the first quarter, including travel contingency, property,
trade credit, marine casualty, workers' compensation, accident health, financial lines and
(inaudible)
Like the first quarter, we conducted a very thorough estimation process utilizing experts
from claims, underwriting finance and actuarial. We tested the assumptions we used in the
first quarter and confirmed that they and our estimation process continue to be sound. As
Page 5 of 22



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

a reminder, on our last call, I stated that the overwhelming majority of our commercial
property business interruption policies contain exclusions for losses related to viruses and
otherwise require a showing that the virus caused direct physical loss or damage that was
the cause of the business interruption. We continue to believe that these exclusions and
related terms and conditions will be upheld where challenged. I also noted that in the
small fraction of commercial property policies where we have provided affirmative
coverage for infectious disease, we've done so under strict underwriting guidelines
offering only small supplements with terms and conditions limiting coverage, in many
instances, only to certain specified diseases and regardless only where it can be shown
that the disease was physically present and led to a governmental suspension of the
business operations. Our second quarter estimation process for commercial property as
with all of our lines of business potentially impacted by COVID-19 was fact based both in
terms of actual claims experience in the quarter and the specific terms and conditions
under those policies, where we provided affirmative coverage for infectious diseaserelated losses. COVID-19 is still an ongoing catastrophe and in many cases is accelerating
in geographies across the world. While we have an additional quarter of experience from
which to assess our exposures, our second quarter aggregate estimate reflects our best
view at June 30.
Turning to our reinsurance program to provide meaningful protection against our overall
gross losses related to COVID across our most impacted launch, with respect to property
losses in addition to our global property per risk treaty, our property catastrophe
reinsurance includes separate occurrence towers for North America and International and
we have a substantial global aggregate cover. Based on our current expectations of
COVID-related losses through the second quarter, we expect to recover under our
international per occurrence catastrophe treaty and we have approximately one half of
our retention remaining before attaching under the North America per occurrence
catastrophe tree. Both per occurrence towers have a reinstatement in it.
In addition, in light of COVID -19, we anticipate about reinsurance capacity could contract
and as a result, we purchased an additional 500 million of aggregate limits early in the
second quarter, such that we continue to have a substantial protection against exposure
to natural catastrophes throughout the remainder of the year and in particular going into
peak wind season. Net premium written was $5.6 billion in the second quarter or
approximately $1 billion lower than the prior year. The reduction was entirely in North
America Personal lines, which was down $1.1 billion year-over-year due to the sessions
related to the formation of this in 2019 and to a lesser extent reductions in our travel
business resulting from COVID-19. The negative net premium written in North America
Personal lines is partially offset by growth in commercial. Net premium written commercial
grew 6% in North America and 7% in international commercial year-over-year, driven by
improved net retentions and strong rate momentum. While our overall new business is
down primarily in our large account risk management business due to COVID -19, we did
see new business growth in North America in line such as retail property, excess casualty,
and financial lines excluding M&A. Similarly growth in international commercial was driven
by financial lines, property and (inaudible). Turning to rate, momentum in our global
commercial portfolio remained strong and was up 16% in the second quarter, which
translates to 21% growth in North America and 10% in international. For example, retail
property rates were up over 35%, excess casualty was up over 35%, public company
D&O was over 50% and EPLI was up over 30%. Our UK business and Talbot both
Page 6 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

achieved rate increases of around 20% driven primarily by specialty lines with energy up
more than 40% and aviation up more than 20%.
With respect to Validus Re, the team continued its disciplined underwriting approach
increasing premium volume where rate improvement and terms of conditions were
strong while reducing lines where rates in terms and conditions did not meet our risk
appetite. Net premium written was up 39% driven by new business and strong client
retention in the non property sectors of agriculture, casualty, and specialty. Rates in
property lines were up approximately 20% and an all lines combined rates were up
approximately 16% although there were significant rate increases in property Validus Re
property exposures, continue to be reduced with a focus on lowering volatility. For the
remainder of the year, we expect that all reinsurance lines will experience continued
positive rate movement, and there will be opportunities to grow our top line with
improved risk-adjusted returns. Turning to AIG 200, our transformation continues to be a
top priority. We came up rigorous and disciplined operating views on a regular basis and
have built a strong team of leaders who are driving program execution. While we're still in
early stages of executing on AIG 200, our colleagues are coalescing around this critical
strategic effort that will position AIG for long-term sustainable and profitable growth. We
remain on track to achieve $300 million in exit run rate savings for 2020 and our overall
target is of achieving $1 billion in run rate savings by the end of 2022 with a cost to achieve
a $1.3 billion, have not changed. I'd like to highlight recent progress we've made on 3
operational programs. With respect to PCG, we're currently testing the modern digital
platform we are moving to with clients, brokers and agents and incorporating feedback.
This operational programs will streamline our processes, improve decision-making, and
enhance the user experience for clients distribution partners and our colleagues through a
dramatic increase in the use of external data and AI product delivery and risk
management services.
In procurement, we fully centralized this global function and now have visibility into all
categories of spend across AIG. We have already achieved significant saving as well as
improved supplier and partner performance. With respect to real estate, we continue to
rationalize our global real estate footprint, our recent announcement regarding the move
of AIG's global headquarters to Midtown Manhattan and the consolidation of our
remaining offices in the Greater New York Metro area is just one example. The design of
these new offices will incorporate key learnings and successes from our current remote
working environment and will be reflected in our global workplace strategy. New York city
has played an important role in AIG's history and through our re-commitment to the city
and surrounding area, we hope to do our part to support these communities during this
challenging time. We enter 2020 with a clear focus on continuing to improve our core
underwriting performance, strengthening the value we deliver to our clients, distribution
partners and other stakeholders and modernizing our operations and systems. I'm very
proud, the meaningful progress our team has made against these priorities. AIG
colleagues have shown tremendous strength and flexibility in the face of challenging
circumstances and remain committed to our journey to excellence in all that we do. Now I
will turn the call over to Kevin.

Kevin Hogan

{BIO 4650423 <GO>}

Page 7 of 22



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

Thank you, Peter, and good morning everyone. Today I will discuss overall Life and
Retirement results for the second quarter, our current outlook and the results for each of
our businesses. Life and Retirement recorded adjusted pretax income of $881 million for
the quarter and delivered adjusted return on attributed common equity of 13.2%. With a
significant rebound in equity markets during the quarter, we saw favorable benefits to
both reserves and deferred acquisition costs, which had been impacted by negative
equity market returns in the first quarter. This market recovery is not reflected in our
private equity returns for the quarter since they are generally reported on a one quarter
lag. Adjusted pre-tax income decreased by $168 million from the very strong second
quarter of last year, driven by unfavorable mortality resulting from COVID-19, lower
returns from share value option bonds to the volatile credit spreads and expected spread
compression. Our current quarter also benefited from significant yield enhancements
related to low interest rates. Well as results for the second quarter last year reflected a
large IPO gain from a single private equity -- recognizing the limits of sensitivities
especially in times of macroeconomic stress and historic volatility, the sensitivities we
previously provided have generally continued to hold up. However, our reported base
investment spread compression is higher than we would otherwise expect as we have
continued to maintain liquidity and has held higher levels of cash on our balance sheet.
Excluding the impact from this large liquidity position, our base investment spreads would
continue to be in the 8 to 16 basis point range of annual spread compression. Relative to
equity markets in total yields, we have also updated our sensitivity estimates as of the
end of the second quarter. We would expect a plus or minus 1% change in equity market
returns to respectively increase or decrease adjusted pretax income by approximately
$40 million to $50 million annually, a modest increase based on higher market levels in the
first quarter. As to rates, a plus or minus 10 basis point movement on 10 year
reinvestment rates would increase or decrease earnings by approximately $5 million to
$15 million annually consistent with prior quarter. As always, it is important to note that
these market sensitivity ranges are not exact nor linear since our earnings are also
impacted by the timing and degree of movements as well as other factors. Our risk
management and discipline are serving us well in these challenging times. Moving our
hedging program has continued to perform as expected and our balance sheet remains
strong. We currently estimate our fleet risk-based capital ratio for the second quarter to
be between 420% and 430%, well above our target range of 375% to 400% providing a
good buffer for the uncertainty of the current environment. Further, as we have repriced
and restructured many of our products, our new business margins generally remain within
our targets at current new money returns. Sales were significantly lower in the quarter,
especially in the retail annuity market as our distribution partners responded to their own
challenges.
Towards the end of the quarter, we began to see improvement in retail and liberty activity
as our distribution partners responded to the new environment. As of today, based on
early indications, we have seen a strong rebound in sales compared to June and our retail
new business pipeline continues to build, suggesting improving volumes from historically
low second quarter levels. Our broad position across products and channels has been
especially advantageous during these times. For example as retail annuity sales
languished in the second quarter, we expanded our pension risk transfer business
concluding several significant reinsurance transactions. We remain well positioned and
confident to deploy capital as attractive opportunities arise across our businesses.

Page 8 of 22



FINAL

Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

Now I will turn to our second quarter results for each of our businesses, the challenging
sales environment for Individual Retirement that are noted resulted in negative net flows
for annuities. The Group Retirement premiums and deposits decreased due to lower new
group acquisitions as well as reduced individual product sales. Despite lower sales, net
flows were essentially flat due to lower group and individual surrenders. For our Life
Insurance business, total premiums and deposits increased due to higher international life
premiums. Our estimate for the impact from excess mortality of all causes including
COVID-19 results in a level of mortality net at reinsurance, and longevity offsets that is
modestly higher than pricing assumptions. They've got a small and evolving data set. We
currently estimate that around 40% of our COVID-19 related death claims reflect an
acceleration of claims, we would have otherwise experienced in the next 5 years.
Our recent mortality experience will be factored into our longer-term experience studies
in our annual review of actuarial assumptions, which will occur in the third quarter. In
isolation, we do not currently expect COVID-19 losses to have a large impact on our longterm mortality assumptions. For institutional markets adjusted pretax income was
favorably impacted by the relative hazard activity I noted earlier. We significantly grew
premiums and deposits and continued to develop attractive new opportunities across the
portfolio. In particular, the pipeline for pension risk transfer opportunities both directly and
through reinsurance is very strong. To close, we remain well positioned to meet the evergrowing needs for protection, retirement savings and lifetime income solutions. Now I will
turn it over to Mark.

Bloomberg Transcript

Mark Lyons

{BIO 6494178 <GO>}

Thank you, Kevin and good morning all. AIG produced strong underlying performance this
quarter, particularly in the somatic areas of risk reduction, liquidity and capital preservation.
Overall AIG reported adjusted pretax income of $803 million and adjusted after-tax
income of $571 million or $0.66 per diluted share compared to $1.3 billion or $1.43 per
share in the second quarter of 2019. The key drivers of the year-over-year reduction were
higher catastrophe losses from COVID and civil unrest along with lower net industrial
income. Positive contributions stem from continued Improvement in General Insurance's
adjusted accident year results, stronger likely retirement returns and our ongoing
disciplined focus on costs, as Peter noted the continued focus on General Insurance
underwriting profitability and expense management drove a 120 basis point improvement
in the active year combined ratio, ex-cats, however, commercial lines with even stronger
with a 400 basis point improvement on a global basis, made up of the 320 basis point
improvement in North America and 500 basis points of improvement in International.
General Insurance second quarter APTI with $175 million, down $805 million from the
second quarter of 2019 due to a $350 million reduction in net investment income, driven
by the combined impact of alternative investment losses and the continued impact of
lower reinvestment rates unavailable for sale income, and a $500 million increase in
catastrophe losses. Peter discussed second quarter catastrophe losses, but I'd point out
that in the aggregate they represent 11.9 loss ratio points and that the non-COVID, noncivil unrest CAT reserves represent just 1.6 loss ratio points versus 2.6 loss ratio points in
the second quarter of 2019. Prior period development was net favorable by 74 million, 53
million of which is it was associated with the amortization of the ADC deferred gain. For
North America Personal lines, the combined impact of lower travel premium and the
syndicate 2019 structure sessions caused a sharp change in business mix within the
Page 9 of 22



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

segment for the quarter, which impacted both the loss ratio and expense ratio compared
to the prior year. These impacts, which include some catch-up premiums caused the net
written premium to be negative for the quarter. The structure, however, should
significantly reduce the future all in combined ratio volatility of the personal lines book
while allowing us to continue to profitably grow in this business. Looking forward to 2021,
we anticipate retaining approximately 25% of the PCG premium; however, for the balance
of 2020 for the totality of the North America Personal Insurance segment, as reported in
our financial supplement, we estimate roughly 425 million and 325 million of net written
premium and net earned premium respectively for each of the next 2 quarters.
Turning to Life and Retirement, as Kevin mentioned, Life and Retirement achieved the
13.2% annualized return on attributed equity for the quarter, the 881 million of APTI was
aided by lower DAC amortization due to the recovery of the financial markets after the
large increase in amortization in the first quarter of 2020 related to that quarter's market
decline. So better measure is the year-to-date, nearly 11% return on attributed equity.
Kevin described the market for its various product sets, but it should also be noted that
surrender/lapse rates were noticeably lower for both individual and group retirement as
well as the life unit both the quarter-over-quarter and sequential basis. Shifting to
investments, net investment income on APTI basis was 43.2 billion or $537 million lower
than the second quarter of 2019 and impacted both General Insurance and Life and
Retirement APTI.
The reduction was primarily driven by a $514 million year-over-year negative swing in
private equity results with $276 million of losses recorded in this second quarter compared
with a particularly high amount in second quarter of 2019 reserve returns, which it has
included a one-time large IPO gain.Like others in the industry, we generally report private
equity on a one quarter lag due to the timing of valuation information received from the
managers.
So the second quarter's loss reflects March 31, 2020, valuations. On a sequential basis,
however APTI net investment income improved by almost $500 million from the first
quarter, even though the second quarter only had two months of Fortitude related NII.
This reflects the impact of the strong capital market recovery in the second quarter on
hedge fund and fair value option income but please note that in future quarters, APTI and
after-tax income will not include Fortitude although the investments themselves will
continue to be included on our GAAP balance sheet. We will get into more of that soon.
Turning to other operations, the adjusted pretax loss after consolidations and eliminations
was $510 million, an improvement of $25 million sequentially and $76 million of
improvement from the fourth quarter of 2019, reflecting AIG's continuous focus on
expense reduction. Corporate interest expense was slightly higher due to our May bond
issuance and will increase corporate interest expense for the second half of 2020 and
into the first half of 2021. Our legacy segment had $257 million of APTI in the quarter, $96
million of which was from Fortitude before the effect of nonconsolidating interest. The
remaining $161 million is related to other run off General Insurance, Life and Retirement,
and investment portfolios. As Brian noted on June 2, we completed the sale of Fortitude
and because we closed during the quarter, the second quarter included earnings for April
and May only in APTI.

Page 10 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

The net earnings on the funds withheld assets are excluded from APTI for the month of
June, as the economics of those assets were shifted to Fortitude by closing. Now shifting
from adjusted after-tax income to GAAP below the line impact on net income material
common shareholders' equity, the second quarter included 2 largely non-economic items
I'd like to unpack. The first item which I focused on during our last call involve the GAAP
recognition that were variable annuity hedging program, which requires a
nonperformance adjustment or NPA.
In the second quarter, we recorded an approximate $1 billion GAAP pre-tax loss, which is
shown and discussed on pages 158 to 160 at the 10-Q, which will be filed later today, and
this represents a partial reversal of the large gains we recorded in the first quarter of
2020 as our hedge program is designed to offset interest rate and equity market
changes on annuity reserves. The second item involves the sale of Fortitude. As Brian
noted the completion of this majority stake sale represents a significant milestone in
derisking our balance sheet and improving our asset liability management profile.
However, it also created a lot of noise on a GAAP basis, so I will highlight five key impacts
that cut through the associated complex accounting but I will also direct you to the robust
disclosures we've included in our slides, financial supplement, and 10-Q to help navigate
the accounting involved. Additionally, our Investor Relations staffs stands ready to help
with your understanding. The five core highlights, I'd like to make sure we communicate
are as follows; first nearly $35 billion of GAAP reserves are now recoverable from a fully
collateralized third party re-insure in which AIG now retains a 3.5% interest. Second, and
perhaps most importantly is the recognition that the GAAP accounting impact is largely
non-economic as this transaction has no adverse impact on the statutory capital of our
insurance company. The assets are marked to fair value. The GAAP reserving practices
don't reflect analogous fair value adjustments on the liabilities. Accordingly, had the policy
holder benefit reserves been fair valued to reflect current low interest rates, their fair
value would have been higher and have more closely align the GAAP accounting with the
true underlying economics. Third, from a GAAP accounting perspective the impact on
common shareholders' equity is a $4.3 billion reduction; however, the impact on adjusted
common shareholders' equity is a lesser $2.5 billion reduction with the major difference
being an adjustment for $4.2 billion of unrealized appreciation on supporting funds
withheld assets included in our AOCI. As you recall, AOCI is one of the items historically
removed in AIG's definition of adjusted common shareholders' equity. Fourth, the
components of the $6.7 billion GAAP net income loss are comprised of 2 broad items; first
is a loss on de-consolidation of the previously disclosed $2.7 billion for prepaid reinsurance
assets and deferred acquisition expenses. The second item is the loss on sale, which
totals $4 billion, which is primarily due to the increase in Fortitude GAAP equity from markto-market on the investment portfolio, primarily the funds withheld assets, Fifth, AIG has
updated several non-GAAP financial measures this quarter to remove asymmetrical
accounting treatments. There will be ongoing below the line volatility at our GAAP results.
So to help navigate this, our continuing disclosures plus our Investor Relations team will
drive understanding of this asymmetry and the need for these initial adjustment. And
lastly on this, we will be re-segmenting before year end to better align with
management's view of a setting operating performance given the legacy segment now
expected de minimis contribution to APTI. Turning to the balance sheet at June 30, 2020,
Book value per share was $71.64, down 2.7% from one year ago and adjusted book value
per share, which exclude ATOI the DTA and unrealized gains on the Fortitude funds
withheld assets was down 1.7% from one year ago. During the quarter, tighter credit
Page 11 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

FINAL

spreads compared to March 31st reversed the negative mark-to-market impact on securities that we had on March 31 with a net increase in AOCI of $10.2 billion in the
second quarter. We continue to place a high emphasis on maintaining ample liquidity and
a strong capital position in this economic environment.
At June 30th, AIG had parent liquidity of $10.7 billion. This is in addition to our fully
undrawn $4.5 billion revolving credit facility. During the second quarter, we issued $4.1
billion of senior debt and received $2.2 billion of proceeds related to the sale of Fortitude,
of which $1.3 billion were retained at parent. We also repaid our precautionary $1.3 billion
March 2020, credit facility borrowing in full and made a$548 million prepayment to the IRS
related to principal and penalties on our previously disclosed tax settlement, on crossborder transactions that date back to the 1990s. We will pay the balance of this
settlement, up to $1.2 billion pending receipt of the final interest calculation potentially by
at the end of this year with the ultimate amount depending on the potential application of
interest netting for the accrued interest calculation which AIG has requested.

Bloomberg Transcript

We do not plan to repurchase shares in the near term and have $1.3 billion in maturing
senior notes in the second half of 2020 as well as $1.5 billion of maturing notes in the first
quarter of 2021, all of which will be funded with cash on hand. Turning to subsidiary capital
AIG's insurance lead capitalization and liquidity levels remain very strong. At June 30, RBC
fleet ratios for General Insurance's US pool as for Life and Retirement are above prior
year levels and above the higher end of our target operating ranges providing solid
buffers for absorbing potential COVID-19 losses, capital market volatility, or credit impacts.
Also our ratings and stable outlook were affirmed by S&P following its regular annual
review.
We continue to prioritize liquidity, strong operating capitalization and financial flexibility as
we navigate this ongoing uncertain environment. Our balance sheet and liquidity are
strong and our investment portfolio is diversified and significantly de-risks compared to
years past. We remain focused on the continuing improvement of General Insurance
profitability, managing likely to Retirement prudently and a low interest rate environment
and executing AIG 200 on schedule and on budget. We are convinced that AIG will exit
this unusual crisis as a stronger, more resilient company and with that I will now turn the
call back over to Brian.

Operator
Thank you, Mark. I think it's time for Q&A. So, operator, can we start the Q&A process.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We'll now take our first question from Michael Phillips
from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead, your line is now open.

Q - Michael Phillips

{BIO 21023048 <GO>}
Page 12 of 22



FINAL

Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

Thank you and good morning Brian. First question, focused on [ph] compliance where
your (inaudible) operations is kind of pretty decent on the surface. I guess I'm going to
dive into that a little bit. We've seen some competitors talk about in frequency benefits
because of COVID, I suspect, that's not so much the case here, but I want to make sure
given your book of business, high layers high limits and logic corporate accounts that may
not be seen as much frequency benefit from COVID in that core loss ratio for North
America, commercial, so can you maybe talk about that a little bit to look through what's
really behind that 1.7 -- implement?

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 6494178 <GO>}

Well, I think that's, Michael that's a good question for Peter. And the frequency benefits or
lack thereof. Peter, can you answer that.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Yes, sure, Brian. Thank you and good morning, Michael. You're correct, we did not take
the frequency benefits in the quarter. If there was any sign of a better frequency relative
to expectations within some of our international business in auto in Japan, but we've seen
that over the last several quarters. When you think about -- I'm going to go through
workers' compensation, because I think that's the one that stands out the most which is
we've had frequency in COVID. It's typically I would say 70% Industries related to health
care, but it's very unique because again we have high retention in most of that over 90%
is related to businesses where we have a deductible $1 billion or greater, so that
frequency really hasn't impacted us and then we have seen a commensurate reduction in
frequency in non-COVID related claims. Again their observation that's a quarter, again a
lot of is on retention business, but we haven't recognized that yet because we want to
see how it emerges. One thing back on COVID workers' comp which is very interesting is
that over 50% of the claims that we've seen over the last 4 months, now 50% of them
are already closed. So it's a very different type of loss relative to workers' compensation
other lines that we've seen in the liability, and auto again will be slow to recognize that
we've seen reduced frequency and we'll give you an update next quarter once we have a
little bit more experience.

Q - Michael Phillips

{BIO 21023048 <GO>}

Okay, great, thanks. Thank you. Second question is going to be throughout all last year
you guys have been one of the few companies that did actually have a margin
improvement and that's because of way you reiterated equity done for the past couple of
years I guess, can you talk about where are you in that process, and where you are in with
the re-underwriting efforts and you mentioned a rate and that we're all getting rates or
risk from the most strength you said, but how much of that we underwriting efforts has
been done and how much more is still to be done.

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 6494178 <GO>}

Okay, Michael, I think again that's Peter.

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Page 13 of 22



FINAL

Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

Yeah, Michael, I think we're in a really good place. I mean we, when I said in my opening
comments, you know what are the areas where we had headwinds in our new business,
which I think the industry had seen when everybody was going to work remotely what
drove the growth. It was driven by better retention. We had 400 basis points of
improvement in international 500 basis points improvement on retention of our clients
within North America. So I think that reflects that we'd like the portfolio and we're trying to
be very helpful to our clients and distribution partners by deploying capital of course you
know we're in a different dynamic and need to make sure that we're getting the
appropriate returns. And I think you saw that in the rate. So I think the combination of
retention of a portfolio we like and we can grow, combined with a positive rate
environment I think contributed to the overall growth on the NPW commercial.

Q - Michael Phillips

{BIO 21023048 <GO>}

Okay, thanks.

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 6494178 <GO>}

Thanks, Michael. Next question please.

Operator
We'll now take our next question from Elyse Greenspan from Wells Fargo. Please go
ahead, your line is open.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Elyse Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

Hi, thanks, good morning. My first question is also related to the commercial business. You
guys mentioned some of the prices that you're getting on into the double digits on and
said that that's an excessive trend. Could you just give us a sense on where loss trend fits
in your commercial business and how that's changed so far this year just as we think about
kind of the spread between price and loss trend that can start running through your
margin?

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Okay, thanks. I think in terms of trend etc it is going to be Mark, is a better responder
Mark, can you answer the question?

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 6494178 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you, Brian. I appreciate that -- so in the areas I think mostly asking about take
like excess businesses that trend -- pure loss cost trend is approaching double-digits.
When you get into auto it's a little bit less, probably in the 7%, 8% area. Another primary
lines are little less than that, but you've got -- you weighted altogether with things like with
property and other loss sensitive related exposure basis it kind of drops it off. So there is,
-- I'm not going to get into the weighted average in total, but I'll tell you that we look at
every single line and reflect that in our thinking. I want to give you the range where it could
be a couple percentage points in some short tail lines up to almost double digits and
some more volatile extra facts.
Page 14 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

FINAL

Q - Elyse Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

Okay, that's helpful. And then my second question is on the earned premium. I guess on
commercial lines and personal lines is impacted by that quarter share, but within
commercial we've seen on with some pretty good growth in both North America and
internationally on the Britain side, by but earned on it still be decelerating just given a lot
of your business mix actions that you took on. So the right way to think about it that just
given the earn in, we could see some pressure on the earns within commercial over the
balance of the year and that could start to see some growth in 2021?

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Mark -- why don't you take that one too please.

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 6494178 <GO>}

Yeah, I think you actually answered your own question. Yeah, you get the increasing
impact of the casualty quarter share. And that's really what you're saying.

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Okay. Elyse. Thank you. Next question please.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Next question is from Brian Meredith from UBS. Please go ahead, your line is open.

Q - Brian Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Thank you. One quick numbered question and a broader question. First one, Mark, I
wonder if you could give us a guidance on what dividend in interest income is going to
look like in general Insurance big drop off, obviously in the second quarter, was there
anything unusual there. Is that kind of a run rate given where we are right now as far as
investment yields?

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Good. Mark, go ahead please.

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 6494178 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you, Brian. You kind of a little bit -- Brian Were you asking about investment
yields in GI?

Q - Brian Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Yeah, I am looking overall, but also in GI in particular, you had a big drop-off in your
investment yield sequentially, and I'm just wondering if there is anything there variable
rate securities or something else that was causing the drop so much or if that's kind of
true run rate.

Page 15 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

FINAL

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 6494178 <GO>}

Yes, actually you guys -- good I will answer your question. So there are 2 things going on in
the last quarter I think was the first quarter we allowed this disclosure you will see that. So
the drop off you see is somewhat caused by what you just said and I will get into that
more a little bit later. And what of it is just a bit of a correction, so last quarter's GI yield
was over -- I think it is overstated it was a $40 million Canadian security correction. But I
think it is part of your question. So that would have come down another 12 basis points,
something like that, to the extent of on the current quarter with the structured securities.
You're right, a lot of that stuff is floating but you really require to retrospectively look at it
and look at what has happened in what your view of the future is, and what that implied
yield is and if that yield is lower than what you've booked, you have to do a catch up on it
and that's what you're seeing in the quarter. So you can adjust for some of those, Brian
and it looks to me to be a 9 to 10 basis point drop off sequentially not as steep as it
appears.

Q - Brian Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Great.

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Do you have a follow up one.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Brian Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Yeah, absolutely. Brian. And this is I guess more for you and Peter. Given how low yields
are right now, I'm wondering what type of underlying combined ratio do you need to
achieve? Do you believe in your general insurance business can earn an acceptable return
on capital and if you had to kind of alter your targets?

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Well, that's a great question. Brian, I guess, I'll take that. Yeah, I mean double-digit returns
with a higher interest rate makes sense with these low interest rates that probably comes
down, I would say that it's an evolving -- right now it's an evolving process and it's difficult
with COVID to understand what steady state looks like, but my gut would say that
something in the double-digit range is possible becoming more difficult because of the
low interest rates. So it's more like what's the return over the risk free rate. So it's hard to
say with this driving this thing down, when we get into a market like this, where rates are
rising in terms the conditions are improving. You don't have a fixed number that you're
going to try to hit. We're going to take advantage of the market and have the results that
we can achieve with this elevated level of risk received in the marketplace. I guess that
the best way to put it Brian. Why don't we move with next question. Thanks.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Erik Bass from Autonomous Research. Please
go ahead, your line is open.

Page 16 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

Q - Erik Bass

{BIO 19920101 <GO>}

FINAL

Hi, thank you. So you've talked about some of the benefits from syndicate 19 in terms of
the volatility and reduction in the fee income you'll generate and those make sense and
should be clear positive over time that stepping back from a near-term perspective, do
you see this has enhanced stinger detracting from the normalized earnings of the
personal lines segment?

A - Brian Duperreault

Eric, let me start with this and then I'll let Peter pick it up. So when you make a change like
this it is certainly a disruption, with ceded premiums on in the interim going out and so
there will be some dislocation obviously we saw in the second quarter it will bleed into the
third. Overall, though, when things normalize as we approach the end of the year, this will
be a net benefit to the company. It is as Mark said a capital life structure and it basically
allows us to grow the business and we could not grow it given the concentration of CAT
exposure with the approach we've taken now only the structure at Lloyd's and its capital
efficiency and the ability to spread it. We can now take the benefits net and actually grow
it and have the net growth, Peter, do you want to add anything to that?

A - Peter Zaffino

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Just a couple of points Brian. As you said, I mean I think derisking reposition the portfolio
for growth is important. That reduce volatility increasing capital flexibility. I think the second
quarter is going to be the noisiest just because of the catch-up on the unearned premium
and seasonally the second quarter was the largest on the net premium written side. So
again you will still see some noise in the third and fourth, but not to the degree you saw in
the second, and we've just been very focused on accelerating the transition, so we can
get the 2021 will be honored largely gone away and then we position Syndicate 2019 to
be very competitive in the market in terms of value. So we're really excited about what
this is going to mean for the business and for our clients and distribution partners.

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

You have a follow-up. Eric. You have a follow-up.

Q - Erik Bass

{BIO 19920101 <GO>}

Yes, thank you. And then the second is with the lower level of sales and Life and
Retirement. How does this affect your outlook for capital generation, and are you planning
to keep any sort of excess capital you generated in the life subs or do you see
opportunities to shift capital to P&C to take advantage of some of the more favorable
pricing backdrop?

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Well, let me have Kevin just talk about the sales, because we are seeing a pickup of it. So
it may be premature to talk about our capital, but I'll get back on that. Kevin, you want to
start with the sales please?

A - Kevin Hogan

{BIO 4650423 <GO>}
Page 17 of 22



FINAL

Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

Yeah, sure. Thanks. Our quarter was the lowest in memory, but towards the latter part of
June, we saw some real signs of life. During the quarter, the channel that really was
disrupted the most was the bank channel, which was down around 60% and if we look at
just the month of July over June the bank channel is that's almost double. So the
disruption that impact of that channel, the most we've seen starting to turnaround for
financial advisors, broker-dealers and iron ores, they were down about 40%. But I think
that the virtual sales practices that they adopted and we tended to reprice earlier than
many companies and so I think as other companies caught up with repricing that level the
playing field a bit. Again, what we saw following the month of June looking at July over
June, we saw a substantial increase in sales in the pipeline is growing and our sales of
annuities per day continue to improve. So we're pretty optimistic that if the conditions
continue the way they are, we'll see recovery in July over June in the third quarter over
the second. Life insurance continued to grow despite the disruption. We saw about [ph]
4% growth in the second quarter and that trend continues, particularly our direct channel
is performing very well and then Retirement Services, it's important to note that periodic
premiums, which are really the backbone of that business were only down 4% in the
second quarter and again our advisor channel is back up and focused on their customers
and and its individual sales generally follow the retail individual retirement sales. So when
you back that up with the fact that the pension risk transfer business and pipeline is as
strong as we've ever seen it and we've opened up the reinsurance channel, we feel
cautiously optimistic that second quarter will be the low watermark and our strategy will
prevail in the third quarter and beyond recognizing all the uncertainties in the market.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Yeah. Thanks, Kevin. Then, I'd just add, if you look at the, the opportunities seem to be
much more in GI though. Yes, it's not as extreme as maybe the sales in the second
quarter might have indicated, but we will move our attention, where we think that
greatest growth and returns are occurring in right now. GI looks pretty good. So we move
onto the next question please.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Yaron Kinar from Goldman Sachs. Please go
ahead.

Q - Yaron Kinar

{BIO 17146197 <GO>}

Thank you very much, couple of questions in GI. So first, can you maybe talk about how
you're thinking of loss fix here with rates, well in excess of loss trend on the one hand, you
also have the COVID driven favorable frequency more short term I guess on the other
and I ask what's in the context of North America commercial loss ratio, which I guess
improved year-over-year, but actually we can do that sequentially.

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks. Yeah. And I think that's a Mark question, Mark?

A - Mark Lyons

{BIO 6494178 <GO>}
Page 18 of 22



FINAL

Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

I can certainly start. Thank you, Brian. Well, you do have a lot of forces. We were happy to
be, I think one of the catalysts on this market and this level of increase as Peter talked
about continue to increase in an increasing rate I think as the first statement, but you do
have other things. We don't know the longer term impact of on many third-party and firstparty lines of COVID for example. Social inflation is more of a general upward movement
as opposed to a lot of specifics that you can nail down and so I think there is still the
thought amongst us and the industry that there is potential for quick moving up. I think
there should be some back to normality between interest rates and inflation and we're
probably heading more into an inflationary environment. So we're a little cautious on the
fact that we're seeing this great rate increase and there's more variability, I flip it from a
year ago where there was more variability around with kind of price increase going up.
Now we see the magnitude of the price increases we can get and there is more variability
of about the future look of [ph] low cost charge.

Q - Yaron Kinar

{BIO 17146197 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Do you have a follow-up?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Yaron Kinar

{BIO 17146197 <GO>}

I do. So in commercial premiums that has been growing and sounds like you're pretty
constructive on those lines and growth there. Can you talk about the potential offset
impact of exposure there. I think we've heard from some of your peers that exposures is
coming in as a quite a headwind?

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Yeah. Peter, can you talk about exposures?

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Sure. Thank you Yaron for the question. I think when you think of us compared to our
competitors, remember we don't have as much guaranteed cost business and so
therefore, it's not a direct correlation to effect on payroll sales and that's going to result in
a commensurate premium reduction. As we have in-force book, we have minimum
deposits on our excess business in most cases. I think when we look to the future in terms
of some of the changes on frequency and changes on payroll and sales, it could have a
modest side which is what we had talked about in last quarter's call. In terms of exposure
base for renewals and could have a slight impact on premium, but I would look to it on
we're trying to solve issues on excess. We're deploying capital. I mean those have led to
better risk adjusted returns because we are still coming up with similar structures. And
while there may be a little bit of light headwinds in terms of overall exposure, it should not
have a material impact on our premium as we look to the third and fourth quarter based
on what we know today.

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}
Page 19 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

Thank you. We've run a little late. Maybe we could take one last question. Operator.

Operator

FINAL

Thank you. Our next question comes from Jimmy Bhullar from JP Morgan. Please go
ahead. Your line is open

Q - Jimmy Bhullar

{BIO 4278955 <GO>}

. On the travel insurance book. I think you wrote a little bit over $1 billion of premiums last
year. Can you discuss how much that shrunk and whether you're seeing any sort of signs
of a recovery in that book, either in the US or in international markets and then also on
P&C with you having restructured your portfolio and reinsurance program, are you thinking
about any major changes in reinsurance, as you're looking at next year given the
hardening market there?

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Given the first, the first book of business that you referred to was what I didn't pick up.

Q - Jimmy Bhullar

{BIO 4278955 <GO>}

The [ph] GI book

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

(Multiple Speakers) Yeah. Got it.

Q - Jimmy Bhullar

{BIO 4278955 <GO>}

The billion dollar book and it's shrinking. I'm just trying to get an idea on that.

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Thanks Jimmy. Peter. I think those are both yours.

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Yeah. So the first one on the travel again the second quarter, you had not only no new
sales, you also had cancellation. So I think that that was one that was a headwind and
contributed to the North American personal negative premium written. Yeah. As we look
at, it's hard to predict. Again, we don't know what can happen with COVID, we don't know
when travel is going to resume, it's less than $1 billion in North America and it's fairly
evenly spread in terms of quarter-to-quarter. I think we would have some modest sales in
the third quarter, probably about a third, as to what our run rate would be, but again very
hard to predict. We think that there is a dynamic in that business, that's interesting which is
nobody really contemplated. I think in terms of clients the CAT. And so I think there's
going to be a re-base in terms of how we price this business what the economics are
going forward and don't want to overreact to a quarter in terms of travel and think that it
starts to rebalance, we think the economics will be better. But again, we'll give an update

Page 20 of 22



Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

as to what it looks like in in the third quarter in terms of it if there is a rebound or not. I'm
sorry i didn't get the second question, Jimmy,

Q - Jimmy Bhullar

{BIO 4278955 <GO>}

FINAL

It was just on reinsurance for prices going up. Are you thinking about sort of maybe
retaining more risk or changing or insurance program in anyway.

A - Peter Zaffino

{BIO 15942020 <GO>}

Well, we would have to trial at our virtual Monte Carlo in September, which is really where
the kick-off is. I think we probably would have 100 meetings scheduled as AIG under
normal conditions. I don't think that we're going to -- when we look at the reinsurance
structures that any repositioning -- it will reflect the growth portfolio not trying say the
market conditions are much stronger. Therefore, we're going to dump treaties because
we always talked about the reduction of volatility, making sure we had more predictable
outcomes and we have great partnerships that we trade across every geography and
multiple lines of business with our reinsurance partners, but we would expect to see
changes in our reinsurance programs that we put the excellent underwriting that we've
been doing and the gross improvement that we've seen quarter-to-quarter. So we didn't
have those discussions. What we have in terms of structures. I don't think there'll be
something that materially changes, but I would expect some refinements to reflect the
portfolio as it is today.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Brian Duperreault

{BIO 1645891 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Jimmy. Thank you. Well, let me, let me just close and thank everybody
for joining us this morning and I particularly want to thank my AIG colleagues around the
world. I mean these last few months have really been challenging on many, many fronts,
and I'm so grateful for your hard work and dedication on this journey we're on, and I hope
everyone stays safe and healthy. Wear your masks. Okay, thanks everybody.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation, you
may now disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.
Page 21 of 22



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: American I nternational Group I nc
Company Ticker: AI G US Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

Page 22 of 22

