Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2020-05-05

Q1 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Eduardo Perez De Lema Holweg, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman
Fernando Mata Verdejo, Group Chief Financial Officer
Natalia Nunez Arana, Head of Investor Relations and Capital Markets

Presentation
Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the presentation of MAPFRE's Preliminary
Results for the First Quarter of 2020. My name is Natalia Nunez, Head of Investor
Relations. Just as a reminder, these ﬁgures are provisional, as the ﬁnancial information will
be approved by the Board of Directors on May 18th. This presentation is shorter than
usual and it includes basic data to give you an overview of MAPFRE's performance this
quarter. The MD&A and other information including the usual spreadsheets will be
released on May 18th.
As always, we have here with us our CFO, Fernando Mata, who will go through the
highlights for the quarter and the key ﬁgures. On this occasion, it's also a pleasure to have
Eduardo Perez de Lema, MAPFRE RE's CEO, here with us. He will brieﬂy comment on
MAPFRE RE's ﬁgures and at the end of the presentation, he will also participate in the
Q&A session. At the end of the call, we will answer all questions received at the Investor
Relations email address during the Q&A.

Fernando Mata Verdejo

{BIO 19676348 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Natalia and good morning, and welcome everyone. First of all, I
hope you are healthy and doing well. Before going through the preliminary results, I would
like to comment on the current situation. During the first quarter of the year, the entire
world has been impacted by the spread of COVID-19. The crisis will have relevant social
and economic implications, both in the short and medium term. Since the second half of
March, the coronavirus has already affected insurance activity and the lives of all the
people who are both directly and indirectly connected to MAPFRE.
In the midst of this unprecedented crisis, MAPFRE has three main priorities: first,
guaranteeing the health and safety of collaborators; second, ensuring business continuity
to provide MAPFRE's quality service level to our clients; and last, contributing to the
economic recovery. To achieve this, a wide range of initiatives were implemented
including: first, roll out of our business continuity plan in all countries and business units,
adapting it to the special nature of the COVID crisis with nearly 90% of employees
worldwide working from home; guaranteeing essential services for clients through the

Page 1 of 20



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2020-05-05

FINAL

entire provider network, including tow trucks, repair shops, home repairs, medical centers,
and funeral homes.
We are also carefully monitoring and evaluating the risks that have emerged from the
crisis. We are protecting our balance sheet, especially the investment portfolio and
preserving the group's capital position. We are also focused on ensuring we have liquidity
and financing that could be necessary in the case of further financial tension, especially in
emerging countries. We are mobilizing resources and transferring funds to the real
economy through direct donations as well as through measures for our clients and other
stakeholders, coordinated with MAPFRE Foundation's contribution to society.
Please turn to the next page. The COVID-19 crisis has had an asymmetric economic
impact for MAPFRE. The asset side of the balance sheet is already reﬂecting the crisis,
after the downturn in equity markets and in currencies from emerging countries. Business
volumes have also been aﬀected by lower economic activity as well as lockdown
measures. It is important to highlight MAPFRE's diversiﬁcation by geography and product
line. Technical margins should be resilient as direct impacts in lines of business related to
the virus, including Health, Burial, or Life Protections are expected to be mitigated by
other lines.

Bloomberg Transcript

Particularly, we're seeing, mainly in April, a short-term fall in Motor and General P&C claims
due to lower business activity and lockdown measures.
The health crisis and economic slowdown had a very limited impact on insurance and
reinsurance operations during this ﬁrst quarter as the spread of the virus in Europe and
America took place mainly in April. Therefore, it's still too soon to evaluate the longerterm impacts, which will depend on how long and how severe this crisis proves to be.
Finally, regarding NatCat events, the earthquake in Puerto Rico and Storm Gloria in the
Northeast Spain during early 2020 had a EUR67.5 million impact on the attributable result.
MAPFRE's capital position continues to be excellent with limited exposure to interest rates
and credit, and with a high share of sovereign debt in our portfolio.
Balance sheet ﬂexibility is a guarantee for resilience, our assets are very liquid, our cash
position is relevant and could be complemented by available credit and other available
ﬁnancing. Also, we continue to manage our balance sheet with a prudent approach.
Technical reserves are booked on an accrual basis with a prudential risk margin. And
during the ﬁrst quarter, we didn't book any additional provisions to cover potential costs
due to the change in economic cycle. Nevertheless, IBNR reserves were strengthened
during the ﬁrst quarter and based on actuarial hypothesis for General P&C in Iberia and
Travel Assistance in the United Kingdom.
Please turn to next page. Regarding the ﬁgures for the ﬁrst quarter of the year, our top
line has been largely impacted by currency movements, ﬁnancial market volatility and also
a fall in business activity. At constant exchange rates, Non-Life premiums are up slightly,
0.6% and Life premiums are down 9%, mainly due to the challenging environment for Life
Page 2 of 20



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2020-05-05

FINAL

Savings products, which has been going on for some time. On the other hand, Life
Protection premiums have proven quite resilient. The net result stands at EUR127 million
and has been hit by the two significant weather-related events that I just mentioned. As a
result, the combined ratio stands at 100% and excluding these two events, it would be
around 97%.
Assets under management are down around 7% during the quarter, and shareholders'
equity is down 11% due to the downturn in financial markets and currency depreciations.
The ROE excluding last year's goodwill write-downs would have been 7.6%. Our capital
position continues to be strong with the Solvency II ratio standing at 187% at the close of
2019.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the next slide, we will take a look at the key ﬁgures by business unit. First of all, I would
like to highlight the contribution from our insurance units, continuing the solid trends from
previous quarters. Iberia continues to be the largest proﬁt contributor, and the fall is due
to higher weather related claims. Regarding premiums, in Spain, we have continued to
outperform the market in Non-Life in most lines of business with the exception of Motor
where we have taken a more cautious approach, given the current pricing environment.
Premiums are down in Life Savings, but we are signiﬁcantly outperforming the market in
Life Protection. In our business outside of Spain, it is important to mention the strong
impact that currency movements have had both on premiums and results, especially in
Brazil, Mexico, Colombia and also Turkey. In LATAM, I would like to highlight that all three
regions are reporting ROEs over 10% and combined ratios are in the range of 90% to
97%. Results have improved mainly due to the strong performance in Mexico and across
Central America, especially in General P&C. I would also like to highlight our acquisition of
a 51% stake in a health insurer in the Dominican Republic, which has already contributed
over EUR54 million in premiums during this quarter with a net result of EUR1.5 million.
Regarding the international business, results are up by over EUR17 million year-on-year.
There were two large impacts in North America, ﬁrst the EUR14 million realized gain was
as a result of the sale of a building in Boston. This sale was initially scheduled for the
fourth quarter of 2019 -- probably you remember we have a couple of units in the market,
but ﬁnally we couldn't materialize last year. And second, the EUR21 million net loss in
Puerto Rico is a result of the already mentioned earthquake. It is also important to
mention the improving results in Turkey. We've seen a signiﬁcant decrease in Motor
frequency, based on a stricter underwriting policy implemented in previous years.
In the Assistance business, the lockdown situation and the massive ﬂight cancellations at
the end of March have triggered a reduction in premiums and a signiﬁcant increase in
potential travel insurance losses. Practically, the entire ASISTENCIA net loss is derived from
IBNR booked in the UK travel assistance. On the next slide, we will take a look at the
extraordinary drivers of the attributable result.
Now, I will hand over the floor to Eduardo to comment briefly on MAPFRE RE.

Eduardo Perez De Lema Holweg

{BIO 20385404 <GO>}

Page 3 of 20



FINAL

Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2020-05-05

Thank you, Fernando, and good morning, everyone. MAPFRE RE results were also
affected by the Puerto Rican earthquake with a total impact around EUR32 million. Also,
we suﬀered from some large man-made losses, both in the Reinsurance and in the Global
Risks segment, and some increases in general frequency losses. In addition to that, given
the uncertainty about the future developments of the year due to the COVID crisis,
MAPFRE RE has decided to take a particularly conservative approach on certain reserving
actions. That includes not releasing certain reserves that would usually be done during the
ﬁrst quarter.
Further, we had suﬀered some timing diﬀerences in the accounting of some reserves,
usually done during the second quarter, and conservative premium earning patterns that
are diﬀerent in our inwards and our outwards portfolio. Finally, we suﬀered from an
increase of retrocession costs in 2020 due to general market trends and portfolio growth
that we will account earlier than the corresponding increase in premiums from the
incoming portfolio. It is important to keep in mind that the positive impact of the 2020
renewals on earned premiums will not be seen until later in the year, while increased
retrocession cost has mostly been recognized in the ﬁrst quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

Regarding COVID, we didn't have any meaningful impact during the ﬁrst quarter as any
claim activity that could potentially aﬀect our portfolio didn't materialize during that period.
MAPFRE RE doesn't have any material exposure to some of the most aﬀected lines of
business like event cancellation, travel insurance or certain lines of casualty. Furthermore,
in the vast majority of our business interruption portfolio, it requires material damage to
trigger any recovery, which is not the case with COVID-19. However, there are very few
speciﬁc cases where coverage without existence of material damage is granted, and we
will have some claims activity derived from the crisis. At present, it is impossible to
precisely quantify the economic impact this crisis would have, but we expect it to be
manageable, within the risk appetite of MAPFRE RE and aligned with our market share in
the aﬀected markets.
Please turn to the next slide to look at the breakdown of adjusted attributable results. As
we already mentioned, we faced two large claims during the ﬁrst quarter. The Puerto
Rican earthquake had a total impact at the Group of around EUR54 million. The
breakdown by units is on this slide. In the initial assessment at the beginning of the year,
signiﬁcant losses were not observed as there was limited external damage from the
earthquake. However, as frequently happens with earthquakes, when loss adjusters were
able to visit the sites, there was evidence of more severe damage, aﬀecting a small
number of buildings in commercial accounts. The loss assessment process has been
aﬀected by the lockdown in Puerto Rico. So, we have decided to take a conservative
approach to claims reserving in order to avoid any deterioration in future quarters. The
severe rains and storms in Spain had a total impact of EUR13.6 million in the quarter.
Now I will hand the ﬂoor back to Fernando to take a look at the other extraordinary
impacts on results.

Fernando Mata Verdejo

{BIO 19676348 <GO>}
Page 4 of 20



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2020-05-05

FINAL

Thank you, Eduardo. Due to the solid performance of MAPFRE RE in previous years and
also the increased frequency in recent quarters you're becoming a permanent guest at
these calls, and thank you for your explanations. Gains and losses are up EUR20 million
compared to the previous year, mainly due to a property sale in Boston. Again, this is
remarkable - MAPFRE's capacity to realize gains in adverse ﬁnancial conditions without
jeopardizing yields. Excluding all these impacts, the adjusted net result reached EUR156
million, down EUR14 million compared to the previous year.
Please turn to the next slide. Shareholders' equity stood at EUR8.8 billion, down 11%. The
most relevant changes are: first, an over EUR500 million decrease in net unrealized gains
on the available for sale portfolio, mainly driven by the fall in equity markets and some
sovereign spread widening, especially in Europe; second, a EUR328 million deterioration
of currency conversion differences due to the depreciation of almost all currencies. The
Brazilian real, by far our second largest exposure, is down over 20%, and the Mexican and
Colombian pesos are also down by a similar percentage, and the Turkish lira has fallen
nearly 9%. On the other hand, the U.S. dollar is up 1.7% during this quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

Finally, a decrease of EUR262 million, corresponding to the 2019 final dividend approved
by the AGM and that will be paid on June 25.
On the right, you can see the breakdown of currency conversion differences. As of March
31, the balance is negative, over EUR1.5 billion with a EUR328 million deterioration during
the quarter. Here, I would like to comment that this EUR1.5 billion includes EUR538 million
of adjustments in Venezuelan and Argentine currencies. This figure was included in
reserves last year and was reclassified to currency conversion differences this quarter,
following an interpretation of the IFRIC. The IFRIC is the International Financial Reporting
Interpretations Committee. Shareholders' equity has not been affected any way by this
reclassification.
On the bottom right, you can see the detail of the available for sale portfolio in Iberia,
which represents three quarters of MAPFRE's total available for sale portfolio. As you can
see, the majority of unrealized gains are in immunized portfolios.
Please turn to the next slide. Regarding Solvency II, on this slide you can see that,
according to preliminary 2019 figures, the ratio finished at 187%, within our target range of
175% to 225%. We will publish the Solvency Financial Condition Report on May 19 with the
final numbers and a full disclosure. The ratio is slightly down compared to last year, mainly
due to the lower benefit from transitionals, which explains around a 2 percentage point
decrease every year. In addition, the solvency capital requirement has increased due to
higher exposure to equity, mutual funds and real estate in our portfolio. In addition, lower
symmetric adjustment this year has increased the capital charge for equities.
On the right, you can see the sensitivity analysis. It is very much in line with last year's,
except for interest rates as there has been an increase in duration due to the fine-tuning
of burial expense portfolio. The greatest impact occurs when an increase of 50 basis
points is considered across all corporate and government bond spreads, with an almost
12 percentage point reduction in the Solvency II ratio. Following your request to provide

Page 5 of 20



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2020-05-05

FINAL

insight on current regulatory developments, we have provided figures with a pro forma
ratio at 204%, which offers an important capital buffer for the future.
Regarding Life portfolio, there are three alternatives under Solvency II: volatility, the
matching adjustment and not using any adjustment at all. At MAPFRE, the matching
adjustment is applied to 35% of total technical provisions. This mainly aﬀects the
immunized portfolios in Spain, which have a market value of over EUR13 billion. These
portfolios are treated as ring-fenced under the Solvency II standard formula and do not
beneﬁt from credit diversiﬁcation. There is a high level of consensus among experts in
Europe that this treatment is unfair, as in reality that diversiﬁcation exists. We are in
conversations with regulators and we expect these restrictions to be eliminated in the
upcoming Solvency II review. Also, in 2019, we received approval from the local supervisor
for the use of our internal model for longevity risk at the MAPFRE Vida unit. The approval
process is already underway for the use of this model for Group solvency calculations.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please turn to the next slide. You can see the breakdown of the investment portfolio, on
the left. The investment portfolio is down 6% year-to-date due to the crisis. During the
quarter, there was a decline across most asset classes with stock indexes down and credit
spreads slightly widening, as well as strong currency depreciation. The largest exposure
corresponds to Spanish sovereign debt, almost EUR18 billion, very similar to the previous
quarter. We also have around EUR2.8 billion in Italian debt, of which 80% is in immunized
portfolios. Our portfolio is well prepared for market volatility going forward. We have a
defensive ﬁxed income portfolio, the majority investment-grade with a high degree of
liquidity and very well diversiﬁed across sectors.
Please turn to the next slide for closing remarks. Performance of the insurance business
has been outstanding, reaching a net result of nearly EUR200 million, up 10%. Regarding
MAPFRE RE, no doubt it will be a challenging year for reinsurance. As we've seen in the
industry, direct exposure should be manageable, although there will be some claims
activity. MAPFRE RE, for sure, will be able to weather the storm, thanks to its financial
strength and prudent approach.
Right now, our top priority is the health, safety and well-being of our stakeholders,
especially employees and collaborators. This pandemic and the related economic crisis is
far from over, but MAPFRE has reacted quickly, implementing our business continuity
plans, and the digital transformation has accelerated even further. MAPFRE has a
privileged financial position with a strong capital basis and a high level of liquidity and
financial flexibility.
We continue to demonstrate our commitment to shareholders. The ﬁnal dividend against
2019 results will be paid on June 25th. And going forward, the Board of Directors will
assess future dividends during the third quarter of the year. As usual, net income, cash
generation and solvency levels will be key factors for this decision. And regarding the
targets announced at the AGM, it would not be logical or prudent to provide any guidance
right now, given the high level of ﬁnancial and economic uncertainty. Later in the year, we
should be able, probably, to give you more color on the outlook when the situation is
clearer.

Page 6 of 20



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2020-05-05

Thank you for your attention and now I will hand the floor over to Natalia to begin the
Q&A.

Questions And Answers
FINAL

A - Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

(Question And Answer)
Thank you, Fernando, thank you, Eduardo. We are going to start the Q&A. The first
questions are regarding Solvency II. Alessia Magni and Ivan Bokhmat at Barclays and
Alfredo Alonso at BBVA had the following question. Can you please update us on the
Solvency II movements year-to-date?

A - Fernando Mata Verdejo

{BIO 19676348 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Thank you, Alessia and Ivan. For sure, there will be several moving parts that will
aﬀect the ﬁrst quarter 2020 ﬁgures. Obviously, we've seen a lot of volatility. We've seen
some market movements this quarter, aﬀecting principally equity markets, a slight
widening of credit spreads, as I mentioned, and also rates and currencies. Also, EIOPA has
requested a quite quick recalculation of the solvency capital requirement for the March
31st solvency position. And therefore, these sensitivities, the one we're presenting in our
presentation, will not be exact.
Also in March, we will see the impact of the phase-out of transitionals as well as lower
expected future proﬁts in premiums. It will be logical to expect a fall, all in all, in the March
solvency ﬁgures, but it will be manageable for sure. We are not currently in a position to
give you the exact number, but for sure, it will be manageable.

A - Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Thank you. We have another question regarding Solvency II, pro forma ratio of 203.9%.
The regulatory changes account for 22 percentage points. However, the adjustments are
close to 17 percentage points. Can you please clarify the difference between these two
numbers?

A - Fernando Mata Verdejo

{BIO 19676348 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, Alessia again, and regarding these pro forma impacts, it will be a
combined 12 percentage point uplift from credit risk diversiﬁcation beneﬁt for matching
adjustment portfolio and nearly 10 percentage point uplift, increase, from the internal
model for longevity risk in the Spanish Life business, but both are individual eﬀects.
However, as they are overlapping impacts, the combination of both, the total increase,
uplift, is 17 percentage points.

A - Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Thank you. Also, Jonathan Denham at Morgan Stanley asks, When do you expect the
credit risk diversification benefit and longevity risk internal model to be approved for the

Page 7 of 20



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2020-05-05

group Solvency II model?

FINAL

A - Fernando Mata Verdejo

{BIO 19676348 <GO>}

Thank you, Jonathan. I mean, this is -- I wouldn't say tricky, but this is a very diﬃcult
question because it depends on both, I mean, the work we have to do, but also the
approval from regulators. In the case of the diversiﬁcation -- the credit diversiﬁcation from
matching adjustments, it will depend on when the Solvency II review is approved.
Hopefully, I mean, we expect, next year. For the uplift of the longevity internal model,
there are two steps that we have to fulﬁll. First, we need the approval for the longevity
internal model for Bankia MAPFRE VIDA  it's a MAPFRE VIDA subsidiary, in order to have
the longevity risk fully calculated under partial model for this line of business.
Then we have to apply for the approval for consolidation purposes, I mean, for the
MAPFRE Group as a whole. So there's two steps ahead and the timeline, extremely
diﬃcult to assess. We're working extremely hard. Probably at the end of this year, it will
be, I mean, a good guess, but it depends on the diﬀerent activities and approvals from
both bodies. I mean, the internal bodies in MAPFRE and also the local regulator.

A - Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. The next set of questions are regarding dividend and strategy. Alessia
Magni and Ivan at Barclays have the following question regarding the strategic plan. Do
you confirm 2021 targets?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Fernando Mata Verdejo

{BIO 19676348 <GO>}

Thank you, Alessia and Ivan, again. And I remember very well when Antonio Huertas, our
Chairman, unveiled the new 2021 -- or the updated 2021 targets, he explicitly mentioned
that we were living the ﬁrst impacts of the COVID crisis. The updated objectives will be
evaluated throughout the year in order, if necessary, to make any change or adaptation.
So let's say that the updated targets we announced at the AGM, in any case, did not
contemplate the current COVID crisis. As I said, it could be one of the largest insurance
events in history and both due to the virus itself, but also to the collateral eﬀects of the
economic crisis.
We are in an unprecedented moment, and it wouldn't be prudent or logical to give any
guidance at this point and given the high level of uncertainty. No one has ever
experienced an event like the one we're seeing. However, I would like to say that our
priorities haven't changed. The transformation of our business model continues to be a
top priority for us. And we are focused on proﬁtable growth. Let's say that this is a famous
saying: necessity is the model for innovation. And even that we have tested the
contingency plan, I mean, the ﬁrst week after the crisis, I mean, was the right moment to
accelerate this process and a lot of information technology initiatives were extremely
quickly implemented.
The current crisis even brings us opportunities. We wouldn't like to see only threats, but
there are opportunities. And we are continuing accelerating our digital transformation and
also putting a lot of importance to our digital channel. As you know, we don't usually
Page 8 of 20



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2020-05-05

provide annual guidance but even if we did, in the current situation, it would be impossible
due to the high level of uncertainty that we are facing. I can assure you that we continue
working towards those targets.

FINAL

A - Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Okay, thank you very much, Fernando. What I'm going to do is now to start with the
MAPFRE RE questions in order to give you a break and time to drink some water.

A - Fernando Mata Verdejo

{BIO 19676348 <GO>}

Thank you. A glass of water please. Thank you.

A - Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Okay. First question from Jonathan Denham at Morgan Stanley regarding MAPFRE RE is,
what drove the disappointing result in MAPFRE RE other than the highlighted weather
NatCat claims?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Eduardo Perez De Lema Holweg

{BIO 20385404 <GO>}

Well, thank you, Jonathan. I gave a little bit of information already during the presentation.
First of all, I would like to say that if we compare with the first quarter last year, the last -that quarter last year was really outstanding. We closed at a combined ratio of about 90%.
And with the non-Group business, we'd been well below 90% at that point. So that
comparison is a little bit misleading because it was a very good one. This one hasn't been
good, obviously. Obviously, the biggest impact is the earthquake in Puerto Rico. But in
addition to that, we mentioned already, there were a number of additional effects that
are pretty much one-offs, but we decided to concentrate on that quarter, first of all, on
our retrocession cost.
As you may have heard, the retrocession market has hardened a bit, not that much in our
case, but we suffer it as well. And we have been growing the portfolio, as we mentioned.
So we had an additional cost in this quarter that we decided to book a little bit earlier than
usual this year and in the first quarter. And then the increased premium, both from a
pricing perspective and from a growth perspective, will be earned on the incoming
business a bit later on. We estimate that impact in the region of EUR14 million.
So that's a signiﬁcant one. Also, usually, we would release some reserves during the ﬁrst
quarter. We have decided not to do so because of the uncertainties that we have on the
quarters to come due to the COVID crisis. So all in all, there were a number of diﬀerent
eﬀects that are pretty much one-oﬀs that are impacting overall the results, with also, not
to hide a little bit of increase in frequency that we have seen across the market.

A - Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much. And also regarding MAPFRE RE, Andrew Sinclair at Bank of
America asked, Even stripping out the NatCat losses, MAPFRE RE would have delivered a
lower than normal proﬁt in Q1. What else dragged on the results? Perhaps he's asking
about Global Risks business too.
Page 9 of 20



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2020-05-05

A - Eduardo Perez De Lema Holweg

{BIO 20385404 <GO>}

FINAL

Well, on Global Risks, I didn't mention that one, because the rest of the explanation is the
same, also, Andrew. For Global Risks, they have been impacted by some large losses. The
biggest one for them was the earthquake in Puerto Rico as well, with two large risk
aﬀected and one additional on the aviation side. So there has been a little bit of activity on
the large claim side, and their portfolio is pretty volatile. So that's the main explanation for
that impact.

A - Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Eduardo. Fernando, we have a question regarding investment income
outlook. Low interest rates and weak emerging market currencies versus euro are likely to
continue. What impact do you expect on investment income for 2020?

A - Fernando Mata Verdejo

{BIO 19676348 <GO>}

Yes. Well, taking into account the duration in actively managed portfolio has been
between 7, 8 years, more or less. We've seen 20 -- between 20 and 30-- basis point falls
in portfolio yields per year, particularly in the past years. If I remember well, for MAPFRE
Espana, the drop in the accounting yield was like 8 basis points or between 7 and 8.

Bloomberg Transcript

But -- so you multiply by four, it will be between 20, 24. But you should consider it as well
that there is an increase in yields due to the widening of spreads. And so let's say that
perhaps, I mean, the decrease in accounting yields that we saw in the past will be
diﬀerent, I mean, in 2020.
Of course, I mean, market yields are a little bit up and all in all, investment income, I mean,
in the next quarters, will depend on what interest rates and currency do. We've seen a lot
of volatility in April and practically the gains from the stock market of April were -- they
vanished during the two ﬁrst days of May and again more volatility. But as I mentioned, I
mean, we're implementing a lot of measures in order to protect our balance sheet and
also our capital base. First was reducing a reduction in duration.
Also, we increased our liquidity. And also, we postponed -- perhaps, I wouldn't say that we
were lucky, but the reality is that -- out of this EUR1 billion for alternative investment that
were approved by the Board, only EUR600 million were already materialized at last year.
So it's like EUR600 million [sic 400] that they were ready to be invested. But fortunately, I
mean, this investment has been postponed. I mean to have a clearer view of the ﬁnancial
markets.

A - Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Okay. Very comprehensive answer. Thank you. Now regarding ASISTENCIA business.
Andrew Sinclair at Bank of America has asked, regarding travel insurance business, the
following question. What travel insurance exposure have you seen so far, and what
exposure do you expect from COVID-19?

A - Fernando Mata Verdejo

{BIO 19676348 <GO>}
Page 10 of 20



FINAL

Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2020-05-05

Yes. Unfortunately, I mean, MAPFRE ASISTENCIA is a topic again for discussion. And as
you're aware, the tourism sector and the assistance companies have experienced an
unprecedented crisis that has not spared our InsureandGo operations in U.K., Australia
and Ireland. This is our main exposure. We stopped underwriting in the ﬁrst quarter. And if
I remember well, we stopped single trips coverage at the end of February and multitrips
at the beginning of March in U.K. The pandemic situation has triggered a signiﬁcant
increase in potential -- I said potential during the presentation -- travel insurance claims
especially at the beginning of the outbreak, I mean, the end of March. Trip cancellation
coverage is aﬀected by the limitations on travel and border closings resulting from
COVID-19, and most of the losses in the Assistance business are concentrated in the U.K.
Having said that, at MAPFRE ASISTENCIA, a little under a third of business is travel
assistance. One of the units that we've been restructuring was the travel assistance
business in the U.K., and we have already been reducing exposure to these segments.
As I mentioned as well, IBNR reserves for travel assistance in the U.K. were strengthened
during the ﬁrst quarter based on actuarial hypothesis. Practically the IBNR we booked was
equivalent to the MAPFRE ASISTENCIA loss. Therefore, given the portfolio mix, the covers
included in these types of products and exclusions in new business, the impact is
expected to run oﬀ quickly over the coming months.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much, Fernando. Now we can continue with some questions for
Eduardo regarding MAPFRE RE. Bobby Mohanti at Amalyst would like to know the
following with respect to the provisioning in MAPFRE RE. Could you kindly throw more light
on how you plan to keep changing the current buﬀers during the next 3 months? We
understand that this global pandemic is going to continue even beyond these 3 months.

A - Eduardo Perez De Lema Holweg

{BIO 20385404 <GO>}

Well, thank you, Bobby, for the question. As far I understand this, you are asking about our
reserving policy, as I mentioned before, during the first quarter, we have decided to be
careful on what we do with our current existing reserves on business that we have in the
portfolio, and we decided to release a little bit slower the reserves than we would usually
do to have additional buffers for the future. That is correct.
And overall, reserving policy in MAPFRE RE is strict and is governed. So, we will keep the
reserving at a very conservative level at any point. And we will recognize any claim that we
have in the future and the buffers that we have are not going to change because of this
crisis. We will pick up the losses that we have and we will keep that. On the duration of the
pandemic, unfortunately, we don't have a clear picture yet on how long that could last. It
may be more than three months, I don't know. We are prepared for whatever comes. And
we'll work on that basis.

A - Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Thank you, Eduardo. And also, there is a lot of interests regarding business interruption
claims. Farquhar Murray from Autonomous, Francisco Riquel at Alantra, Jonathan Denham
(Morgan Stanley) are asking about that. Do you expect to pick up any business interruption

Page 11 of 20



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2020-05-05

claims via any of your primary business or MAPFRE RE? If so, what is the expected
magnitude of the loss? Also, please, could you outline the nature of any exposures you
have to business interruption? And in what respect the current pandemic is or is not a
trigger for claims?

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Eduardo Perez De Lema Holweg

{BIO 20385404 <GO>}

Well, I have to admit it, it's not a surprise that this is a hot topic for most of you because
that's probably the hot topic in the industry overall. First of all, I would like if Fernando
allows me to cover a little bit on the insurance portfolio of MAPFRE and the exposure to
business interruption there. We have been reviewing both as Group reinsurers and within
the Executive Committee, what kind of exposures. The view as of today is that the
exposure is extremely limited or inexistent in almost all the portfolio. On the insurance
portfolio of MAPFRE, the business interruption coverage that we are providing requires
material damage to be triggered. We don't consider COVID as a material damage and as
such, coverage wouldn't be provided for material damage. And it was never intended to
cover such an event of this kind. So on the insurance portfolio, at this point, we don't
foresee meaningful impacts.
What refers to the reinsurance portfolio, it's obviously a little bit more complex because it
comprises a worldwide portfolio with many diﬀerent clients. I would say, in the very vast
majority of our exposures also on the reinsurance portfolio, the same criteria applies as
on the MAPFRE insurance portfolio. So business interruption is covered when there is a
material damage. Same applies to contingent business interruption to the extent that we
are exposed. So in the very vast majority of the cases, we wouldn't be providing coverage
according to the policy wordings, which is important to mention in this context and with
some litigation that is ongoing. According to wordings, most of the cases it's not covered.
However, there are speciﬁc cases and speciﬁc clients and speciﬁc portfolios where there
have been some ceding companies that have been providing business interruption
coverage without material damage.
It's usually an extension, and it's provided on an extremely limited number of cases and
portfolios. But of course, those portfolios that are providing that coverage, they have a
material -- they would probably have a material impact on that speciﬁc portfolio. So it's -again, it's a relatively limited number of cases, but in those cases, we will see claims in the
portfolio of MAPFRE RE.
The second question after that one is to what extent there is reinsurance coverage for
those cases? Because there is sometimes diﬀerence between the insurance wordings
provided to clients and the reinsurance coverage that has been bought and how it has
been designed. It will be a very long-standing discussion and conversation to assess, first
of all, if there is a primary insurance coverage and then how the reinsurance coverage will
be provided. We know for sure that we have cases where there is no doubt that the
insurance coverage has been provided. There are some cases where there is no doubt
that the reinsurance coverage is there. In many other cases, there are a lot of questions.

Page 12 of 20



FINAL

Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2020-05-05

To be honest, at this point in time to give a figure on the amount of claims that we could
have is absolutely -- well, it's putting a figure out there, but it's so uncertain that we would
be misleading at any point. So we prefer not to give any figure to that. What I would say is
a limited number of cases. It's within the risk appetite of MAPFRE RE, we don't see that it
will cause any imbalance on the company in itself. We will be able to deal with it, and of
course, we will have claims, and we would have to pay for some of those, but nothing that
is -- where you would see a surprise in MAPFRE RE. It will be aligned with the market
losses that the industry will suffer and within what we expect in our normal risk appetite
for a large loss.

A - Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much, Eduardo. I think is this question deserved your insight, and it
was very useful, I guess and I hope for our investors. Now we can move to questions
regarding COVID-19. Ivan Bokhmat and Alessia Magni at Barclays ask of the EUR200
million mobilized within the Group, how much do you expect to be reﬂected in your
ﬁnancial results and when? Is any of that already included in ﬁrst quarter 2020?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Fernando Mata Verdejo

{BIO 19676348 <GO>}

Thank you, again, Ivan and Alessia. First of all, I mean, the ﬁgure of EUR200 million, I
mean, is pretty big, pretty important. And this is the way that MAPFRE contributes to
society and also our stakeholders. Let me just split it into 3 components, this EUR200
million. First, this total includes approximately EUR35 million - the direct contributions from
MAPFRE Foundation. So let's say that they aren't in the consolided accounts of MAPFRE
SA. As I mentioned, I mean we're doing these contributions to society. We're doing it
quite coordinated with MAPFRE Foundation in order to avoid duplications and overlapping
activities.
The remaining -- the main -- The remaining amount, the most relevant part is the financing
that MAPFRE is providing to collaborators and agents, which amounts approximately to
EUR100 million. Obviously, this is a financing. This is a credit line. It's like a revolving credit
line. We are anticipating I mean future commissions and also for those that they need
cash and we're providing cash. And the underlying effect is exclusively the interest that
we're getting from financial investment that we are cashing in, in order to give this finance
or credit lines. And the remaining amount, which amounts approximately between EUR50
million and EUR60 million, some of these contributions, they got a -- they have a full
impact in the profit and loss. And others, they have a partial impact in profit and loss.
But before assessing this EUR200 million, let's say that the -- sorry, EUR200 million, let's
say that the ﬁrst thing we've done in MAPFRE is a full and deep review of our expense
budgets for 2020. And it was a signiﬁcant reduction in near a three digit ﬁgure and
because some of the initiatives that they were planned for 2020 didn't make a lot of
sense in the current scenario. So some of them, they were canceled. And some of them,
they were postponed for a better moment. And some of them, we didn't incur, such as
travel or entertainment and other P&L concepts. All in all, we strongly believe that the
savings from the original budget will oﬀset for sure additional expenses from COVID-19.

Page 13 of 20



FINAL

Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2020-05-05

Regarding your second question, on the expenses that there are already in the ﬁrst
quarter, let's say that only the reduction in premiums for self-employed people during the
lockdown in Spain and some donations, I mean, it was a small ﬁgure. They were booked in
MAPFRE Spain. All in all, we expect that the overall, in terms of expenses, general
expenses, we believe that they will be -- the impact quite neutral in 2020. And regarding
underwriting results, we -- let's say that some of the premium returns and also the
ﬁnancing that we're giving into basically the self-entrepreneur -- policyholders. I mean they
will be offset as well from the reduction that we see in frequency, particularly in some line
of business, such as home and also automobile. That's all.

A - Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Thank you, Fernando. Now regarding COVID, too, Andrew Sinclair at Bank of America
would like to know if we have provided premium rebates or discounts to customers in any
key markets. Francisco Riquel at Alantra has also a similar question. So this is it.

A - Fernando Mata Verdejo

{BIO 19676348 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. As the Chairman said at the press presentation, MAPFRE wants to be part of the
solution to this crisis. And we are adopting measures, including premium refunds and also
discounts in order to -- and also credit lines and ﬁnancing facilities to our policyholders and
also collaborators.
In Spain, we made the largest eﬀort with self entrepreneur and small and medium
enterprise policyholders. And they are the key to the economic recovery due to the
multiplier eﬀect that they have on employment and activity. Currently, there are 3
countries in which we already published this sort of aid to policyholders. First, Spain, and
we will return premiums to self-employed claims during the state of alarm with an
estimated total amount of between -- it depends on how long, but it could be a range
between EUR40 million and EUR60 million, nobody knows, because it depends on the
length of the current situation. And out of this, EUR16 million, before taxes was booked at
the ﬁrst quarter.
In U.S.A., we announced as well a premium return amounting to 15% of Motor premiums
on a monthly basis for April and May in the state of Massachusetts and following, let's say,
a strong recommendation from the local -- from the state supervisor. And we're analyzing
other territories, other states and similar measures in other states could be taken. But
obviously, the amount will be much lower due to our smaller presence in the remaining
states.
And ﬁnally, in Panama, we recently announced a 45% return on premiums on a monthly
basis as well in April and May, for Motor own damage and the estimated amount of this is
less than EUR1 million. In addition, which is very important as well as our Chairman stated
at the press presentation, rates are assessed in a majority of the countries in MAPFRE on
an individual basis and according to the risk proﬁle of each policyholder. It means that in
the future with renewals, I mean, we will assess the risk proﬁle and for those drivers that
they got lower frequency in claims, they will get additional discounts as well in tariﬀs at the
renewal date. That's all for me. Natalia?

Page 14 of 20



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2020-05-05

A - Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Thank you, Fernando. We have now 1 question regarding investment income. And that
question comes from Paz Ojeda at Sabadell, and it is, what is the level of equity
unrealized gains?

FINAL

A - Fernando Mata Verdejo

{BIO 19676348 <GO>}

Thank you, Paz. But unfortunately, I can't answer the question right now. We are not
releasing this number today, but the information will be available probably the 29th [sic the 18th] because this is a number that we usually include in our ﬁnancial information in the
management discussion and analysis report. But let's say that there is a lot of volatility in
equities, as I mentioned. They're aﬀecting basically MAPFRE RE and MAPFRE Espana
portfolios. And we have a quite prudent approach on equities. There's been, let's say,
sales in order to avoid further deterioration of some stocks. And let's say that the loss, if
any, and at the end of, let's say, middle of the year, will be, in any case, in terms of both
net equity under IFRS and for Solvency II capital base will be manageable.

A - Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much. Now we can continue with 1 more question for Eduardo
regarding MAPFRE RE. Paz Ojeda at Banco Sabadell says that the impact of Puerto Rico
earthquake has been similar to Hurricane Maria in 2017, whereas the total insured cost for
the industry has been lower. Could you explain why? MAPFRE RE's premiums fall minus
7%, although renewals in January were positive. Could you give us some color?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Eduardo Perez De Lema Holweg

{BIO 20385404 <GO>}

Yes, sure. Thank you, Paz. On the earthquake in Puerto Rico, what we have released is the
net impact. Of course, this is after reinsurance. The main diﬀerence with the Hurricane
Maria is that in Maria, we used very extensively our reinsurance program. And in this event,
it's a net retained loss. As you remember, when we explained our reinsurance program,
we said that we have some proportional cessions and non-proportional cession where we
recover losses that exceed a certain amount.
That amount for a ﬁrst event in a year is $100 million for our Group business. This -- in this
case, the earthquake is well below 100 million, and we -- pretax, we are in the region of
$75 million. Pretax. So it's almost fully retained in MAPFRE. Whereas the Hurricane Maria
was -- we retained a more or less the same ﬁgure, 100 million for the non-Group business
of -- in our insurance group, but we recovered almost -- more than $1 billion from our
reinsurance program. So the loss suﬀered by MAPFRE from the diﬀerent event is very
diﬀerent, of course.
Talking about our drop in premiums, which is true, it's 7%. The reason for that is it's a
merely accounting movement that doesn't have any impact on our earnings and growth
of the portfolio and it's a little bit complex from a technical point of view, but it's related to
a premium portfolio transfer of -- on a large reinsurance program that we have with
MAPFRE Spain. We transferred back to MAPFRE Spain some of their unearned reserves
and this is a pure accounting eﬀect that doesn't have an inﬂuence on the earned
premiums of MAPFRE RE and on the prospective ability to generate proﬁts. Just for you to
Page 15 of 20



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2020-05-05

know, the non-Group business has grown 6.5% in the quarter. If we exclude the currency
eﬀect, it's more than 10%. So the business is growing and developing as planned.

FINAL

A - Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much, Eduardo. Now there are more questions regarding the
investment income. And the next one is from Farquhar Murray at Autonomous and it's
regarding impairments. Please, could you outline what we might expect in terms of
impairments? Should markets remain at current levels? And the likely timing of those
impairments, particularly with respect to equity impairments where outcomes
mechanically follow the accounting rules?

A - Fernando Mata Verdejo

{BIO 19676348 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Thank you. First of all, I mean, we assess -- I mean, we -- on a permanent basis, we
are monitoring potential deterioration, particularly on our equities. We got a deep analysis
at June, usually at the middle of the year. And -- but also due to the current
circumstances, we analyzed particularly those stocks that they were performing badly
during the ﬁrst quarter. The criteria for equity impairments is to establish ﬁrst, if
impairment is necessary in equity investments. We carry out an analysis on an individual
basis, I mean, stock by stock, if there is -- has been a signiﬁcant deterioration.
And this is deﬁned as a long-term fall in value considered as more than 18 months, or a
signiﬁcant fall compared to the cost value of 40%, if -- I mean, 18 months and decrease of
the cost value of 40%. If after an analysis, both conditions are met, the impairment takes
place. Unless there are very favorable indications that the value could recover, for
instance, when we compare to a stock index or other measures we can take.
On the other hand, if only one condition is met, impairment takes place if there are other
circumstances that indicate that the value cannot be recovered. As I said, we carefully
monitor our equity portfolio. And we analyze the situation at the end of the ﬁrst of the
quarter, and the conclusion was that if there is any potential impairment it was negligible.
We didn't book at this quarter because we want to spend -- we wanted to see the
release of the ﬁrst quarter results for the majority of the equities. And we looked at the
shares that have fallen more than 40% compared to the cost value, and our conclusion is
that we're still looking at quite manageable ﬁgures.
Going forward, for the second quarter, the evolution will depend on the direction that the
equity markets take. We saw in April a good bounce in values in the majority of the
markets, but it's during the ﬁrst days of May. So let's say that we are still looking at a lot of
volatility in equities. In any case, we will continue monitoring and analyzing each position
on an individual basis.

A - Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much, Fernando. Now we have a question from Farquhar Murray at
Autonomous regarding Euler Hermes business. This is the question. Please, could you
outline the nature and size of the trade credit exposure MAPFRE has through its Solunion
JV with Euler Hermes?
Page 16 of 20



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2020-05-05

A - Fernando Mata Verdejo

{BIO 19676348 <GO>}

If -- I mean, this is a JV with Euler Hermes, so this is a figure that we do not disclose. And
correct me if I'm wrong.

FINAL

A - Eduardo Perez De Lema Holweg

{BIO 20385404 <GO>}

But maybe if you want to give a little bit of color, Solunion, it's true, it's a JV with Euler and
we are not separately reporting because it's not consolidated to the MAPFRE RE -- into
the MAPFRE accounts. But however, what we can say is Euler is a heavily reinsured
operation that is reinsured with -- to a big extent, with the 2 joint venture partners.
And of course, we get some exposure from -- at MAPFRE RE from that side and also from
some other credit acceptances in the market. To give today, again, an estimation on what
the impact in terms of loss ratio for Solunion will be is extremely premature. At this point
in time, we haven't seen any insolvencies. Definitely in Spain and most of the countries, it
will be something that will develop over time. Just for you to have some information on
the net premiums of MAPFRE RE, all the credit exposure that we have is about 3% of our
net premiums. So it won't be -- even if on that line of business, the impact, potentially, can
be meaningful -- on the overall portfolio of MAPFRE RE and in the wider portfolio of
MAPFRE, it's a relatively small figure.

A - Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thank you very much, Eduardo. Now we have a question regarding Solvency II and it
comes from Paz Ojeda at Sabadell. Does a potential Solvency II ratio below 175%, worry
you?

A - Fernando Mata Verdejo

{BIO 19676348 <GO>}

Thank you, Paz. Very interesting question. Let's say that 175% Solvency II is a quite good
ratio in the current circumstances. but don't see me like answering you back, but there are
other indicators or our current capital base that provide additional comfort to MAPFRE,
particularly S&P, the rating agency, they increased our in one notch our rating. And quite
recently as well, Fitch reaﬃrmed our rating.
Other capital models, such as AM BEST, we're quite comfortable as well. And also the ICS
ﬁeld test that we carried out so far with the international capital standards for Solvency,
the provisional ﬁgures we have, I mean, they're quite comfortable for MAPFRE. So let's
say that this is for Solvency II standard formula, what we're going to see is a V- shape
change or perhaps a U, but our capital base, I mean, is quite solid. And we're quite
comfortable within this range.

A - Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much, Fernando. Now we have a set of questions that are more
going into details that regarding numbers and ﬁgures, that I'm going to ask Eduardo.
Carlos Peixoto at CaixaBank has sent these questions. How much are the MAPFRE RE
premiums that cover business interruption without material damage? How much does it
represent of MAPFRE RE's total policies or premiums?
Page 17 of 20



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2020-05-05

A - Eduardo Perez De Lema Holweg

{BIO 20385404 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Carlos. Unfortunately, I can't give you a figure on that because it's -- no one
would split that premiums -- I would say, on premiums that we accept on a individual basis
on individual acceptances, there is no premium without material damage because we
don't write it. But our problem is sometimes included in automatic treaties, where we
don't control the amount of premium that is there. What I would say, actually, it's relatively
meaningless, how much premium we have there.
What is important is how much exposure we have there, which -- because what we will
see is in the vast majority of the business interruption portfolio, it will have no impact. But
on those that have there, the loss ratios will be going into very extraordinary figures, but
unfortunately, we don't have that figure. What we are controlling is -- what we are trying to
do is to assess the insurance companies that we reinsure that are providing that coverage
and then see how much is their exposure overall and that -- and then try to arrive at that
information. But the premium information, we don't have that. And I don't think anyone in
the industry can provide that figure.

A - Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

And regarding travel insurance policies in the U.K., what could be the value at risk there?
This is also from Carlos.

A - Fernando Mata Verdejo

{BIO 19676348 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

That is probably more information for Assistance. I don't have the figure for that, but --

A - Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Regarding travel insurance policies in the U.K., Carlos, perhaps we can give you more
color in the future when we release the results on the 18th of May because we will have
more insight in ASISTENCIA business.
So we can continue with COVID-19 questions. As expected, there are a signiﬁcant amount
of questions regarding this topic, impacts on future guidance. So actually, most of our
analysts have sent us questions regarding this. For instance, impacts on Motor claims and
combined ratio with information by region, if possible. How the crisis could aﬀect technical
and ﬁnancial results in the main regions? First quarter results only reﬂect a reduction of
activity at the end of March. What have you seen so far in second quarter? Magnitude of
the positive/negative impact on claims from COVID you expect on each line, you
mentioned - Health, Burial Life, Motor and General P&C. What do you expect the net
impact will be on claims? So it's regarding expectations.

A - Fernando Mata Verdejo

{BIO 19676348 <GO>}

Yes, thank you, everybody. As I already mentioned, it wouldn't be logical or prudent from
our side, I mean, to provide guidance at this point in time. It's extremely diﬃcult. I mean to
discuss trends -- future trends. What we can discuss, I mean, a little bit longer, I mean, is
what we booked in the ﬁrst quarter and what we've seen in this ﬁrst quarter rather than
the following quarters. And I will split into 2 regarding underwriting results.
Page 18 of 20



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2020-05-05

FINAL

First, those line of business that are getting a direct impact because of the virus and
those that we're seeing an indirect eﬀect on basically the combined ratio. I'll give you just
one example. And the most painful, let's say, painful line of business from MAPFRE was
Burial expenses in April -- sorry, in March. The increase of cost compared to our expected
combined ratio for Burial expenses was much higher than the savings in Automobile. And
if you compare both lines of business in terms of premiums, Automobile is practically 4x
[sic; 5-6x] Burial expenses. Practically, the combined ratio was double the standard.
On the other hand, we got a small reduction in combined ratio due to the lack of -- or the
lockdown of our policyholders and the lack of drivers on the street. Also, there is a quite
important thing I would like to discuss with you. We've seen a change in the pattern of
policyholders reporting claims. And I'll give you an example as well. If you are locked down
at home and you've got a home accident, probably you report the claim. You call the
MAPFRE's call center and say something is broken.
But the thing is, when the home repair MAPFRE crew, I mean, knocks on your door, you'll
be reluctant because of your home, I mean, is a safe and clean space to live in. And you
don't want external people just stepping in your house. So a lot of claims, they've been
reported or they're in the phase of being reported, but we can't repair them.

Bloomberg Transcript

Same happened with Health, with a lot of scheduled surgeries were postponed, I mean,
basically in private hospitals because the ER and also the beds, I mean, they were
occupied by patients with the virus.
What we're doing is just increasing our IBNR, trying to assess a proper trend to assess this
future impact on loss ratio. But so far, I mean, it's extremely diﬃcult to see a proper trend,
a standard trend. And hopefully, I mean, we will have a clearer view at June 30 in order to
book the proper reserves. And that's basically, I mean, from my side, my apologies, it's
extremely diﬃcult, I mean, to give you any guidance regarding future trends at this
moment. But I guess, it's the most prudent view I can give you.

A - Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Fernando. We have one last question. This is from Paco Riquel from
Alantra. He would like to know if you will be able to oﬀset the Gloria storm with lower
frequency of Motor during the rest of the year.

A - Fernando Mata Verdejo

{BIO 19676348 <GO>}

Well, I think I already explained, I mean, Gloria, the amount was -- the net was EUR13
million more or so, but what really, I mean, hit our profit and loss account was the burial
expenses increase of frequency in March. And also, we will see a similar trend as well in
probably in April.

A - Natalia Nunez Arana

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Fernando. I would like just to end the call. And first, Fernando or
Eduardo want to give some wrap up or whatever. I would like to remind you that this -these figures are preliminary figures and the full disclosure will be released on May 18.
Page 19 of 20



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2020-05-05

FINAL

Unless you have questions related to this disclosure, I recommend, and we would
appreciate if you held your questions until the full disclosure on the 18th.
We are organizing virtual meetings on the 20th of May after you have had time to review
the full disclosure. In these meetings, Fernando Mata, the CFO and also Eduardo Perez de
Lema, will be with us, and we can establish a schedule according your interest. Please
contact the IR team to prepare the agenda for that day. And also, I remind you that you
will have the opportunity to talk to Fernando Mata and Eduardo Perez de Lema. And thank
you very much, nothing more from my part.

A - Fernando Mata Verdejo

{BIO 19676348 <GO>}

Thank you. Thank you, everybody, for being here again with us another quarter. Thank
you, Eduardo, I mean for your presence as well, very helpful.

A - Eduardo Perez De Lema Holweg

{BIO 20385404 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Fernando Mata Verdejo

{BIO 19676348 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

And as a conclusion, I only would like to say that MAPFRE is very well prepared for the
worst and hope for the best. Thank you again for your presence, and bye-bye.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 20 of 20

