Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

Q2 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Beth A. Costello, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Christopher Jerome Swift, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Douglas Graham Elliot, President
Susan Spivak Bernstein, Senior Investor Relation Officer

Other Participants
Brian Robert Meredith, Analyst
David Kenneth Motemaden, Analyst
Elyse Beth Greenspan, Analyst
Jimmy Bhullar, Analyst
Michael David Zaremski, Analyst
Ryan James Tunis , Analyst
Yaron Kinar, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Operator
Good day, and welcome to Second quarter 2020 The Hartford Financial Results Webcast.
All participants will be in listen-only mode. (Operator Instructions) After today's
presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions to ask a question. (Operator
Instructions) Pease note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Susan Spivak, Senior Vice President,
Investor Relations, The Hartford. Please go ahead.

Susan Spivak Bernstein

{BIO 1514699 <GO>}

Thank you, Andrew. Good morning and thank you for joining us today for our call and
webcast on Second Quarter 2020 earnings. We reported our results yesterday afternoon
and posted all earnings related materials on our website.
For the call today. Our speakers are Chris Swift, Chairman and CEO of The Hartford; Doug
Elliot, President; and Beth Costello, Chief Financial Officer.
Following their prepared remarks, we will have a Q&A period. Just a few comments
before Chris begins. Today's call includes forward looking statements as defined under

Page 1 of 24



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

FINAL

the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees
of future performance and actual results could be materially different. We do not assume
any obligation to update information or forward-looking statements provided on this call.
Investors should also consider the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to
differ from these statements. A detailed description of those risks and uncertainties can
be found in our SEC filings.
Our commentary today includes non-GAAP financial measures. Explanations and
reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP measure are included in our
SEC filings, as well as in the news release and financial supplement.
Finally, please note that no portion of this conference call may be reproduced or
rebroadcast in any form without The Hartford's prior written consent. Replays of this
webcast and an official transcript will be available on The Hartford's website for one year.
I'll now turn the call over to Chris.

Christopher Jerome Swif t

{BIO 3683719 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning. Thank you for joining us today. I trust you and your families remain safe
and healthy during this pandemic. Our hearts go out to those grieving ill, or confronting
economic hardships. Let me begin my remarks with some overarching comments. When
we last spoke at the end of April, we were just weeks into the wave of stay at home
orders that would eventually affect most of the country and much of the globe.
In the market was only beginning to develop a sense of how sweeping the consequences
of COVID-19 would be. At that time, there was considerable uncertainty as to the scope
duration and economic impact of the global health crisis.
Now, as we enter the second half of 2020, I am encouraged by the progress, the country
has made in a number of areas. Although tremendous challenges and a host of unknowns
persist. I want to thank our employees across the United States and around the world as
well as our many partners for their extraordinary dedication during these unprecedented
times, as we have navigated this crisis together.
Throughout this crisis, the Hartford has remained focused on serving customers working
closely with distribution partners and taking appropriate steps to safe guard the health
and safety of our talented team.
At the same time, we have continued to execute on our original 2020 strategies,
including realizing the full potential of our product capabilities and underwriting expertise,
becoming an easier company to do business with, and attracting and retaining the talent
we need for long-term success.
In support of these strategic goals, our program focused on elevating customer needs,
simplifying business routines, and further leveraging remote work, and achieving expense
Page 2 of 24



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

savings of approximately $500 million in 2022, as measured off our 2019 expense base.

FINAL

While the initial work on this program predates the pandemic, it is all the more applicable
and responsive to the current environment. I am excited about the impact of this initiative,
which we refer to as Hartford Next, as it represents the next step in our focus to increase
competitiveness and drive operational efficiencies, while continuing to provide
outstanding service to our agents and customers.
Beth will provide additional financial details in her commentary.
Now let me turn to our results for the quarter. Despite the many challenges we faced, we
delivered strong underlying performance, with core earnings of $438 million or $1.22 per
diluted share. 3.5% growth in book value per share excluding AOCI from year-end 2019,
and a trailing 12 month core earnings ROE of 12.7%.

Bloomberg Transcript

These results demonstrate the fundamental strength of our businesses. In property and
casualty, our broader product offerings and expanded distribution are providing more
opportunities to leverage positive pricing momentum in the areas of the market that are
hardening. Group Benefits results reflect continued favorable incidence trends and solid
sales. The quarter was impacted by a number of unusual items including incurred losses
related to COVID-19 of $251 million, which is based on an exhaustive review of all
applicable policies.
$213 million of the incurred loss is attributed to our property and casualty business and
$38 million to Group Benefits. And the P&C side, COVID-19 incurred losses primarily relate
to property, workers' compensation, and financial lines.
Of this $213 million attributed to P&C, a $101 million relate to reserves for a small number
of property policies. In particular, within our Middle & Large Commercial in Global Specialty
businesses. There are a handful of unique policies, which were intended to provide a
broader range of coverage for specific business needs such as Crisis Management or
Performance Disruption.
In addition, we have a small number of highly manuscript policies that do not contain a
physical damage requirement. We believe the reserves established appropriately cover
claims arising out of our property portfolio.
To put this small group of policies into context, nearly all of our property policies include
coverage for business interruption, 99% of them contain a clear requirement that a direct
physical loss or damage to property must occur to trigger coverage.
In addition to this requirement, 99% of our property policies with BI coverage also contain
standard exclusions that we believe preclude coverage for COVID-19 related claims.
And finally, we also have a specific virus exclusion on the vast majority of these policies. As
I've said many times before, responding to customer claims and doing it well is at the
Page 3 of 24



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

heart of who we are, we are in the business of paying covered claims and that's exactly
what we're doing.

FINAL

Unfortunately, when it comes to business interruption claims resulting from this pandemic
we believe it is self-evident that COVID-19 does not cause direct physical loss or damage
to property and that the various stay at home orders were issued to reduce community
spread, not to prevent property damage.
As a result, COVID-19 related claims are outside the scope of our policy terms and
conditions and simply are not covered. We are highly confident in our contract language in
coverage positions and have put up $40 million in reserves to cover the estimated legal
cost of defending our business interruption policy language. Excluding the unusual items in
the quarter, Commercial Lines underlying results continue to benefit from underwriting
actions to improve profitability and drive efficiencies along with accelerating premium
momentum in what can be characterized as a hardest market in decades.
At the beginning of 2020, I shared my outlook for the pricing cycle, anticipating an 18 to
24-month period of significant rate increases. Now I have even more conviction that the
hardening market in many Commercial Lines is sustainable with ongoing price
momentum, despite the challenging economic conditions of a slowing economy.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our core P&C underwriting platform expanded through the Navigators acquisition is
benefiting from higher prices in Middle Market and Global Specialty, with the exception of
Workers' Comp.
Global Specialty results reflect improving risk-adjusted returns in the business acquired,
driven by underwriting actions taken as we integrated the business and robust renewal
rate increases. With the significant pricing momentum in these lines we are on track to
meet or exceed our targeted earnings margin goals. While the largest rate increases are
in lines within our Global Specialty segment, renewal pricing in our Standard Commercial
lines also continues to be strong.
Doug will provide additional detail in his commentary.
Turning to Group Benefits, I am pleased with the operational execution in financial
performance of the business, reflecting our strong underwriting and risk management
discipline. Group Benefits posted solid results for the quarter with core earnings of 102
million in a 6.9% margin. Earnings were down versus prior year due to $38 million before
tax of COVID-19 related losses as previously mentioned, a $14 million in the allowance for
uncollectible premium, and lower net investment income, partially offset by excellent
disability results.
The disability loss ratio was 62.6 improved 10.3 points versus prior year, driven by higher
recoveries and continued favorable incident trends.

Page 4 of 24



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

FINAL

We also updated our year-to-date COVID-19 short-term disability assumptions, resulting
in a favorable adjustment of $5 million pretax. The Life loss ratio was 85.9, increasing 8.1
points from the second quarter of 2019 driven by COVID-related losses of $43 million.
On the top line book persistency remained solid at approximately 90%, and new fully
insured sales were $149 million, up from prior year driven by national accounts. With the
recent spikes in COVID-19 across the country, states are continuing to evaluate their
respective policies pertaining to social gatherings and stay at home orders.
These impacts could continue to affect revenue and results in the quarters ahead. As a
market leader, we are positioned operationally to respond to the challenges of the
pandemic and the economic recession while continuing, to meet the needs of our
customers.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me now close with a few comments about important to the economy and our industry.
As we reignite the nation's economy, millions of Americans will need to safely transitioned
back to work and back to the office. We must ensure that obstacles to this critical
transition are appropriately addressed. To be specific, I believe federal legislation,
creating a timely, targeted and temporary Safe Harbor, against frivolous lawsuits related
to COVID-19 is critical to providing businesses of all sizes the confidence they need to
reopen.
(Technical difficulty) occurred around workers' compensation presumptions. While we
value and appreciate the workers, it is important (Technical Difficulty) that the current
workers' compensation has been an American success story for over a 100 years. We
accept the decision by some states to impose a limited presumption for those who come
into close contact with those suffering from the COVID-19 virus in the course of providing
the medical-aid and treatment.
But, we are troubled by efforts to alter well established principles of the current system.
The significant cost will ultimately be borne by the municipalities and businesses at a time
when they are all struggling to recover. In addition, any measures that impede the ability
of insurers to appropriately account for an increase in the cost of claims in future rates
would represent an unfair tax on the industry.
Third, and finally, the devastation caused by this pandemic is unlike anything we've
experienced before. Since the outbreak of COVID-19 we have seen extraordinary action
to contain the virus (Technical Difficulty) protect live-- (Technical Difficulty). These events in
the magnitude of the (Technical Difficulty) have made it clear that pandemics and other
widespread viral outbreaks are fundamentally uninsurable.
That said, we understand the insurance industry has unique knowledge, expertise and
capabilities that can and should be brought to bear to help develop solutions to address
future pandemics. We believe a federal response is critical (Technical Difficulty), both from
a coordination and a funding perspective. In short, a robust public sector-based solution is
necessary, and we are working closely with our industry trade association and the agent

Page 5 of 24



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

and broker community to support the recently released Business Continuity Protection
Program, or BCPP.

FINAL

This program would provide immediate relief to businesses in the form of revenue
replacement assistance for payroll and employee benefits in other operating expenses in
the event of a future pandemic.
Any federal solution designed to protect against future pandemics should provide timely,
effective and affordable relief to businesses across the country.
I believe the BCCP provides such a solution. To recap, The Hartford's second quarter
results demonstrated solid execution as we adopted -- adapted to the next normal.
Despite the challenges of COVID-19 and the resulting uncertainty of the future, we remain
focused on investing in the business for growth and efficiencies while producing top
quartile returns on equity for shareholders.
I remain confident, our company will manage through the crisis and emerge well
positioned to continue to achieve our strategic goals.
Now I'll turn the call over to Doug.

Bloomberg Transcript

Douglas Graham Elliot

{BIO 3700927 <GO>}

Thank you, Chris and good morning everyone. I can't agree more that the challenges are
unprecedented and certainly contributed to many of the financial impacts in the quarter.
Overall, Property and Casualty and Core earnings were $309 million and written premium
was flat to prior year at $2.9 billion. The underlying combined ratio of 97.6 was quite good
considering COVID charges of $243 million.
COVID charges consist of underwriting losses of $213 million or 7.5 points, and a $30
million or 1.1 points in the allowance for credit losses on premiums receivable. I also
continue to be pleased with the strong pricing in our non-workers' compensation
Commercial Lines.
Before I get into the segment details, let me summarize the actions we took this quarter
with respect to COVID-19, CATs and prior year reserve development.
Recognizing the economic impact of the pandemic on our customers during the quarter,
we responded with several actions, three of which I'll highlight.
First, we endorsed nearly 250,000 policies to adjust for changes in risk returning over $35
million in premium to our commercial customers, since the middle of March reflecting
lower payroll and other exposures.

Page 6 of 24



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

In a related action, we also reduced expected audit premium leading to $100 million
reduction in our audit premium receivable. When netted with losses and commissions this
led to (Technical Difficulty) results.

FINAL

Second, we delivered personal auto refunds of $81 million, or 15% of the second quarter
premium reflecting favorable frequency trends in the quarter.
And third, we extended billing grace periods through May 31 on all policies while waving
late fees that would otherwise apply. The extension drove second quarter personal lines
and small commercial policy count retention 4 to 5 points higher than the historical run
rate, and increased property and casualty allowance for credit losses on premiums
receivable by $30 million or 1.1 points.
Operating losses, the majority of which relate to IBNR reserves, were $213 million for the
quarter or 9.9 points. Property losses were $141 million, including a $40 million provision to
defend certain business interruption denials. Workers' compensation losses were $75
million for those states that enacted presumptive legislation. Offsetting the gross loss
was COVID related favorable frequency in the quarter of $40 million driving a net impact
of $35 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

Financial lines and other losses were $37 million primarily for D&O, E&O and surety claims.
Turning to Catastrophes, Property and Casualty recorded losses of $248 million, including
$110 million for civil unrest. The remaining losses for wind and hailstorms were less severe
than a typical second quarter. (Technical difficulty) for the quarter was $268 million and
contained a number of reserve actions, including $400 million of favorable catastrophe
reserve development, driven (Technical Difficulty) estimates for the 2017 and 2018,
California wildfires (Technical Difficulty) $89 million subrogation benefit from PG&E.
Continued favorable development in personal lines, auto and workers' compensation.
Bond reserve development was also favorable in the quarter, while we strengthened
commercial auto, reserve strengthening of $102 million for sexual molestation station and
abuse claims, and finally net unfavorable ex-CAT reserve development of $49 million on
Navigators reserves, primarily in the Lloyd's Syndicate D&O and domestic general liability
lines. $54 million of the total development was from accident years 2018 and prior, and
therefore economically covered by the adverse development cover.
Turning now to our business line results. The Commercial Lines underlying combined ratio
was 102.9, increasing 9.7 points over prior year, including a 11.1 points for COVID charges,
the remaining variance was primarily due to a lower expense ratio from reduced travel
and incentive compensation costs and some modest early wins from our transformation
program, and improved inland marine losses from a year ago.
As a pivot to pricing, the industry continues to achieve much needed pricing gains as
another positive quarter contributes to a strong 6 months. This is particularly evident in
Auto, Specialty and Excess Casualty lines. For the quarter, renewal written pricing in
standard commercial Lines was 3.6% down 70 basis points from quarter one.
Page 7 of 24



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

FINAL

However, excluding workers' compensation, which was negative 1.3%, pricing was up 7.8%
for the quarter. These results continue to demonstrate our ability to achieve rate
increases across each of our non-workers' compensation Commercial Lines. I would
remind you that the 7.8% is standard Lines only, adding core Global Specialty Lines would
move this pricing measure higher.
In Middle Market, renewal written pricing in the US, excluding workers' compensation,
increased 9.3%, down slightly from the first quarter, but still a very strong result and 520
basis points better than the second quarter of 2019.
Property and General Liability pricing are each in the high single digits and Auto is now in
the low teens. I'm also pleased with the continued pricing momentum and reshaping in
Global Specialty. Strong pricing gains continue in both our US wholesale book as well as
the international portfolio, which is primarily written in Lloyd's.
The US wholesale book achieved 24 points of rate in the second quarter. Nearly 5 points
better than quarter 1. Auto and property lines are strong in the high teens, while excess
casualty eclipsed 30% in the second quarter, up over 9 points from quarter 1.

Bloomberg Transcript

US financial lines also (Technical Difficulty) a particularly strong quarter, achieving pricing a
17%, more than doubling the first quarter results. Pricing gains in the international trend
with very strong results in (Technical Difficulty) cargo.
Commercial businesses. Beginning with Small Commercial, which posted an underlying
combined ratio of 92.9 (Technical Difficulty) second quarter of 2019, including 5.8 points
from COVID charges. Small Commercial written premium was down 9% versus prior year
driven by several factors, new business declined 24%, excluding the 2019 Foremost
renewal rights transaction. Top line was also impacted by a reduction in audit premiums
and negative exposure endorsements, partially offset by strong retention.
With that said, I'm encouraged with our spectrum new business flow in June and July. July
quotes are up 6% and new business is expected to exceed 2019 ex-Foremost.
Middle & Large Commercial reported an underlying combined ratio of 112.9 in the second
quarter, an increase of 12 points over the prior year period including 16 points from COVID
charges. A favorable expense ratio and lower inland marine losses contributed to the exCOVID improvement. (Technical Difficulty) largely driven by lower new business and
expected declines in retention, due to our underwriting and strong pricing actions, our reunderwriting is intended to improve profitability levels in portions of our book. To that
end, I am confident the underlying business is improving as expected.
The decline in new business within Middle & Large Commercial however, is larger than I
expected, causing us to look hard at those levels across lines classes and geographies. I
sense, we're not alone in experiencing compressed new business levels during the
COVID crisis. I also see increasingly competitive workers' compensation marketplace,
however, there is sequential progress with new business from an April low through our
current view of July.
Page 8 of 24



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

Moving to Global Specialty, the underlying combined ratio was 105.5 increasing 14.8 points
from the second quarter of 2019 including 13.4 points from COVID charges. We continue
to be pleased with the Navigators acquisition. The acquired diversification of product
offerings has put us in a much better position to take full advantage of this hard market.

FINAL

Additionally, considerable portfolio reshaping continues, including shifting industry and
geographic mix, raising attachment points and reducing policy limits.
Combining these actions with our sustained (Technical Difficulty) pricing work, I'm pleased
with the, improving risk adjusted returns of Global Specialty. The early returns are positive.
Year-to-date, the underlying combined ratio for Global Specialty was 101, including 6.8
points for COVID charges, considering the impact of the COVID charges and that the
underlying combined ratio for global Specialty was 98.5 in the second half of 2019.
We've seen significant improvement almost entirely coming from the Navigators book.
Shifting over to Personal Lines, let me first say how pleased we were to announce a 10year renewal with AARP in May.

Bloomberg Transcript

We also had strong underwriting results in the quarter. We do however appreciate that
the shelter in place guidelines resulting from the COVID environment favorably impacted
the strong performance and led to the aforementioned Auto premium refund of $81
million.
The underlying combined ratio of 80.7 improved 10.3 points from a year ago. In Personal
Lines, Auto, the underlying combined ratio of 86.3 was 10.4 points better than 2019.
Frequency was down significantly during the first 2 months of the quarter and increasingly
less favorable during June as a number of drivers and the corresponding miles driven
increased with the lifting of shelter in place orders.
Claim severity was consistent with what we expected in the quarter. In Homeowners, the
underlying combined ratio of 70.1 was 9.1 points better than prior year, driven
predominantly by a favorable non-CAT weather in the quarter. We've had a strong 6
months of non-CAT loss performance in our homeowners book.
I mean I'll step back from our business results and reflect on what we might expect for the
second half of the year. As we've seen, predicting the course of this pandemic and its
economic impact can be incredibly difficult. The status of state reopening plans are
constantly changing as new virus hotspots appear across the country.
Within Small Commercial and Middle & Large Commercial, third quarter total written
premium could be down moderately versus prior year. I expect renewal pricing for
Specialty and non-workers' compensation lines will remain strong and mitigate lower new
business levels.
While there have been encouraging signs in June and July with respect to new business,
endorsements and premium cash collections, he actual results for the quarter will also
Page 9 of 24



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

depend upon the success of gradual reopening and macroeconomic conditions.

FINAL

In closing, the second quarter is certainly been extraordinary. Yet as I look through the
impacts of COVID-19 on our business, the foundation is solid and diversified. The work we
have done over the past 5 years with our insurance and risk management platform will
drive new business growth and strong underwriting results. And our talent is poised to be
responsive yet thoughtful to capitalize on risk opportunities in a dynamic market.
Let me now turn the call over to Beth.

Beth A. Costello

{BIO 15349374 <GO>}

Thank you, Doug. Before I (Technical Difficulty) Funds and Corporate, I would like to take a
moment and discuss further our process for establishing loss reserves. Our objective is
always to establish appropriate loss reserves to cover the expected ultimate cost of
claims incurred to date. We rely upon multiple actuarial techniques to formulate our views,
considering estimates for both reported claims and those incurred, but not yet reported.

Bloomberg Transcript

Typically, these techniques project reserve estimates by looking at historical patterns and
trends and establishing a view of how claims will develop over time. Obviously the
COVID-19 pandemic is an unprecedented event. Given the lack of historical claims data on
which to base loss reserve estimates, there is a higher degree of uncertainty and
developing reserves associated with COVID-19.
We took this into account in determining our loss reserve estimates for the quarter. For
example IBNR reserves represent over 80% of our estimate, which is higher than usual as
we expect were extended claim reporting patterns, given the economic disruption
created by the pandemic.
Additionally, D&O, E&O and employment practices liability policies are written on a claims
made basis and our loss reserve estimate is based on claims reported or noticed through
June 30.
In the quarter, we also increased our allowance for credit losses on premiums receivable
by $44 million before tax, including $30 million in P&C and $14 million in Group Benefits,
reflecting a higher amount of aged receivables and the effects of the economic strain on
expected collection of premiums.
Now turning to investments, net investment income was $339 million for the quarter,
down $149 million from the second quarter of 2019, primarily driven by a loss on limited
partnerships.
As a reminder, results for LPs and other alternative investments are reported on a quarter
lag, so the second quarter loss reflects the decline in underlying fund valuations in the first
quarter. While equity markets have improved, we are (Technical Difficulty) expecting LP
results to be better, but still at a loss in the third quarter.
Page 10 of 24



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

FINAL

This reflects the deterioration in business fundamentals during the second quarter, a
more muted recovery in valuation multiples given continued economic uncertainty, and
relatively low public equity market exposure in the underlying funds.
The current investment yield before tax, excluding limited partnership was 3.4% down
from 3.8% a year earlier and up from 3.3% in the first quarter, we expect to before tax
investment yield, excluding LPs over the remainder of 2020 to be about 20 basis points
lower than the 3.4% earned in the second quarter.
The portfolio yield has been impacted by lower reinvestment rates and lower short-term
rates. Our yields have also been impacted by our efforts to increase liquidity. Last quarter,
I mentioned that we were carrying more liquid assets than our normal benchmarks and
that continued in the second quarter. We ended the quarter with almost 7% of our
investments in liquid assets, given improved views for operating cash flows, we would
expect to reduce that to roughly 5.5% in the third quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

The net unrealized gain position of $2 billion after-tax on fixed maturities increased by
$371 million from year-end driven by a decline in interest rates, partially offset by wider
credit spreads.
Unrealized and realized gains on equity securities, which are recorded within net realized
capital gains in the income statement, were $75 million before tax in the quarter,
reflecting an increase in valuations due to higher equity market levels. During the quarter,
we recorded credit losses of $42 million of pre-tax on our investment portfolio, consisting
of a $20 million increase in the allowance for credit losses on fixed maturities available for
sale, and a $22 million increase in the allowance for credit losses on our commercial
mortgage loan portfolio based on revised economic forecasts and updated property
values.
Our fixed maturity investment portfolio is broadly diversified and high quality, with an
overall average average credit rating of A-plus. 96% of the portfolio is investment grade
with nearly 3-quarters of that rated A or better.
Turning to Hartford Funds, core earnings of $33 million were down 13% from second
quarter of 2019, resulting from a decrease in fee income, driven primarily by lower
average daily AUM, partially offset by lower variable operating expenses.
Hartford Funds' assets under management were up 15% compared to the first quarter.
However, they were still down 3% year-over-year. Net outflows were $675 million in the
quarter, compared with net outflows of $105 million in the second quarter of 2019
reflecting the movement in funds, driven by the economic effects of COVID-19.
The corporate core loss was $6 million in the quarter, compared to a core loss of $35
million in the second quarter of 2019. The retained equity interest in Talcott, which is
reported on a 1 quarter lag was the biggest driver, and contributed income of $68 million
before tax, compared with $3 million of income in the second quarter 2019. The increased
income from the Talcott investment largely reflects the result of Talcott's hedging
Page 11 of 24



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

FINAL

program. Given how equity markets increased during the second quarter, we would
expect to give back about a third of that gain in our third quarter reporting.
Moving on to capital management. As you know we paused our share repurchase activity
in March. We have not resumed share repurchases, and we'll continue to monitor the
economic and other impacts of COVID-19. Book value per diluted share, excluding AOCI,
was $45.25, representing a year-over-year increase of 8.9% and an increase of 3.5% from
year-end 2019. The 12 month core earnings ROE was 12.7%.
As Chris indicated, we have initiated a program to improve our overall efficiency, which will
achieve annual operating expense savings of approximately $500 million in 2022, and
contribute to our goal of reducing our P&C expense ratio by 2 to 2.5 points. Our group
benefits expense ratio by 1.5 to 2 points, and our claim expense ratio by 0.5 point. To
achieve these savings, we expect to spend approximately $350 million with $320 million
expensed through 2022 of which $130 million will be classified as a restructuring costs and
will not be included in core earnings.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have included a summary table in the earnings slides, which provides a more detailed
breakout by year of the estimate expense reductions and related costs. In the coming
quarters we look forward to updating you on our progress.
As we look to the second half of 2020, it is difficult to forecast the business climate going
forward, given the recent rise in COVID-19 infections in many states of the country and
uncertainty surrounding the economic recovery. States that had relaxed restrictions on
businesses and lessened stay at home guidelines are now putting restrictions back into
place.
As such, there is a range of scenarios in terms of impacts to our top lines, particularly in
commercial lines and the amount of COVID-19 losses we might expect to see in future
periods. As Doug noted, written premiums could be down moderately.
From a loss perspective, we will see additional COVID losses due to new incidents in
areas like workers' compensation, and Group Benefits. We will continue to monitor claims
within financial lines related to the economic strain created by the pandemic.
Additionally, we could see impact of the frequency trends experienced in affected line.
The magnitude of all these items will be impacted by how the virus progresses and the
actions that are taken to reduce the impact of the virus and the effectiveness of the
economic stimulus from the federal government.
While there is uncertainty as to the full impact of the virus, the Hartford is well positioned
to weather this pandemic with strong underlying performance as well as a strong balance
sheet with ample liquidity as we continue to invest in our businesses and achieve our
strategic objectives.
I'll now turn the call over to Susan, so we can begin the Q&A session.
Page 12 of 24



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

Susan Spivak Bernstein

{BIO 1514699 <GO>}

Thank you, Beth. Andrew will take the first question.

FINAL

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) The first question comes from David Motemadenof Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.

Q - David Kenneth Motemaden

{BIO 18818634 <GO>}

Hi, good morning. Just a question for Doug. If I look at the accident year loss ratio ex-CAT
in commercial lines, and I take out the COVID charges of roughly 10 points, I get to around
a 58% accident year loss ratio ex-CAT. That's better than it's been over the last few
quarters since you closed the Navigators deal of 59 to 60, so I guess I'm just wondering
what was driving that improvement? And if there is any benefit from lower non-COVID
attritional losses that's flowing through that?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Douglas Graham Elliot

{BIO 3700927 <GO>}

David, on our casualty lines, we essentially did not move our picks in the quarter, the year
is still very immature. we did share with you in our workers' comp COVID charge that we
had a favorable frequency that we did recognize, so I'd ask you to make sure you've
made that adjustment in your ex-CAT numbers. But essentially, it was our ongoing loss
trends, we still feel like the loss trends that we had talked to you about expected for
2020 are essentially right where we see them today, ex-COVID and so no, material
changes.

Q - David Kenneth Motemaden

{BIO 18818634 <GO>}

Okay, great. And then if I could just ask a question on the cost save program. And I guess
just if I think about the 2 to 2.5 points in P&C, of expense ratio improvement and 1.5 to 2
points in Group Benefits by '22. Just wondering, I guess what is the view on top line levels
within that expectation for the reduction, or should think about -- should I think about the
potential for greater than $500 million of cost saves in order to get to the 2.5 points in
P&C and 1.5 to 2 points in Group Benefits by 2022.

A - Christopher Jerome Swif t

{BIO 3683719 <GO>}

David, it's Chris. Thank you for joining in the question, it's a combination right. As we
outlined, we are looking to extract $500 million of what we would consider fixed cost
savings in '22, but we're also cognizant of the fact that premium volumes may fluctuate up
or down from where we closed out 2019, which is the measurement base.
So as we go through, I'll call it the next of couple of years -- we'll have to make any
appropriate adjustments, because at the end of the day, we want to get closer to all in
expense ratio that at least in Commercial is close to that 30% mark and if premiums are

Page 13 of 24



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

greater, that means we will have a lower ratio, but if premiums are less, we'll look to so
other fixed and other variable costs due to take out to achieve our results.

Q - David Kenneth Motemaden

{BIO 18818634 <GO>}

FINAL

Great, thanks. So more anchored in terms of the expense ratio than the dollar amount of
cost saves. That's helpful. Thanks for taking the questions.

Operator
Next question comes from Ryan Tunis Autonomous Research. Please go ahead.

Q - Ryan James Tunis

{BIO 16502263 <GO>}

Hey, thanks, good morning. Just on the Hartford Next. I think a couple of questions on
that, I think first of all, Cris, if you could just give us a little bit more perspective on the
genesis of this. I guess sort of -- like what's the long game here? Is it the longer-term view
is that you can offer more affordable policies on or is this purely driver to enhance your
ROE over time? That's the first part.
And thenalong with that $500 million is clearly quite a bit of costs, what are the offsets we
should be thinking about when we think about what might ultimately fall to the bottom line
in 2022?

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks.

A - Christopher Jerome Swif t

{BIO 3683719 <GO>}

Sure. I think the genesis question is -- if you look back over the last 5 years, I mean we've
been investing in the platform, I think quite significantly and appropriately. Whether it be in
product, whether it be an underwriting, whether it be in IT platforms, digital, our data and
analytics capabilities, robotics, and how we could continue to just be more productive.
I think it's just a culmination of those years of investing in stepping back and saying, we
probably need to harvest more gains, and than we have to date and rally everyone. And
this is a company wide effort, everyone's involved all businesses all shared services and
we want to harvest the gains.
Yeah, I think our initial point of view right now is to drop the majority to the bottom line,
but I do want to think about growth (Technical Difficulty) organic growth, particularly in
what we might be able to do in either new areas or existing areas, potentially to capture
more share -- but initial thinking right now is more dropping to the bottom line.
And I would say the timing of all this, it was fortuitous and at least in my judgment. We had
a small team thinking about this in the fourth quarter, doing our benchmarking and then
really first and second quarters, I would say -- and Beth could add their color -- and we
developed the specific action plans on a really, really detailed basis, so that we felt
comfortable obviously announcing it here today, with the appropriate investments that are
Page 14 of 24



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

needed. And when you look at the cost think of in essence that since the separation cost
of separate, but there are also investments that we're still going to make in our platform,
primarily in the technology side to ring out structural savings over the long term.

FINAL

So that's what I would share with you. Brian and Beth, I don't know if you would add
anything?

A - Beth A. Costello

{BIO 15349374 <GO>}

Yeah. Thanks, Chris. The only thing I'd add just to pick up on the comment that Chris
made is, when we have been working on the efforts for planning for this over the course
of the first and second quarters. So we have very detailed plans that we are tracking to
that will achieve these benefits over the next couple of years, well over 600 individual
initiatives and as Chris said, it's across all aspects of the business, but we really are now in
execution mode.
This isn't as if we're planning to determine how to reduce our costs. We have detailed
plans and we will be executing to them and as I said, we'll update you on our progress as
we go.

A - Douglas Graham Elliot

{BIO 3700927 <GO>}

We're off and running-- (Technical Difficulty)

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ryan James Tunis

{BIO 16502263 <GO>}

Thanks. And then a follow up. This is probably and I am guessing -- for Beth. But the
defense cost portion of the BI charge that you took, how do we think about that? Is that
mostly is that your view of what this is ultimately going to cost you? How encompassing is
-- I think it was $40 million or $50 million bucks, how encompassing is that charge? Thanks.

A - Douglas Graham Elliot

{BIO 3700927 <GO>}

Ryan, it's very encompassing, We're very thoughtful about it. Working in conjunction with
our legal team, our General Counsel. Yeah, recognizing that this isn't going to go away
overnight. I mean this is going to be an extended period of time where there is going to
be litigation, disputes, and it's a multi-year view of what we think we are going to spend
to vigorously defend our policy terms and conditions.

Q - Ryan James Tunis

{BIO 16502263 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
The next question comes from Elyse Greenspan of Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.

Q - Elyse Beth Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

Page 15 of 24



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

FINAL

Hi thanks, good morning. My first question, if (Technical Difficulty) we back out that 11.1
points, that the commercial COVID impact from your underlying. That's about 150 basis
points of year-over-year improvement. So just tying together some of the earlier
comments, it sounds like there was nothing kind of one-off, I guess away from COVID in
the quarter.
So, is that the right level of kind of underlying margin improvement we could think about
for the balance of the year? And just given kind of what you know now.

A - Christopher Jerome Swif t

{BIO 3683719 <GO>}

Elyse, just a couple of points to respond to that. First thing is, some of that variance was
expense related. So we had a good quarter on the expense side and you see that in our
printed numbers. I'd also remind you that that's in addition to the allowance for doubtful
account charge we also took in the quarter. So you could adjust the quarterly number for
what we gave you in terms of the $30 million bad debt change.
Secondly, we did talk about inland marine losses being better in middle commercial in the
quarter. So there is some good news on the property side in middle but essentially, I think
you have it well laid out.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Elyse Beth Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

Okay, thanks. And then my second question, we've been hearing some color about how
the workers' compensation market might be bottoming. Do you guys have some
thoughts there? And as we think about a time frame -- when we kind of might get the flat
and potentially could start to see some positive rate in that market?

A - Douglas Graham Elliot

{BIO 3700927 <GO>}

Sure. Let me start and if Chris and Beth, want to add any color there would be great. We
would agree that we think we're seeing some bottoming in the workers comp pricing
that's good news and obviously matters deeply to our company. I would add that if you
just isolate factors, the one factor that will now be joining all of the new filings going
forward is a very different yield curve assumption in all our filings. In fact, if you look at the
10-year over the last 12 months just go year-to-year of filing today versus 12 months ago
were probably talking about 150 basis points plus or minus, and maybe up to 3 to 5 points
of change just on rate need alone for yield curve.
So the yield curve will be one of the stimulants. And then as the experience works its way
through the process, we expect to see more recovery, but I think, a flattening and maybe
a slightly upward trend is fair to look at that scenario.
Chris?

A - Christopher Jerome Swif t

{BIO 3683719 <GO>}

Yeah, I think it's well said Doug. I just look at some aggregate numbers maybe at various
states, California and New York. I mean, we're approaching 100% combined ratio today,
Page 16 of 24



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

so the pressure is only going to get more intense, particularly as you said, as far as
interest rates. Although frequencies continue to behave very well, at least in our point of
view, but I think at all points to -- you could foreshadow 4 to 6 quarters out, there really is
a beginning of an inflection point.

FINAL

Q - Elyse Beth Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

Okay, that's helpful. And one last quick number -- a question on the saving program. Do
the quarter expenses of the charges that you laid out, do those hit segments or is that
just run through your corporate segment?

A - Beth A. Costello

{BIO 15349374 <GO>}

Yeah. So the expenses that are considered core, those would run through the business
segments. Really the restructuring cost would run in the corporate segment.

Q - Elyse Beth Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

Okay, thanks for the color.

Operator
Next question comes from Jimmy Bhullar of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Jimmy Bhullar

{BIO 4278955 <GO>}

Hi, good morning. First, I had a question about just your expectations on claims trends in
the disability business. There are concerns among investors that as the economy
weakens, claims will go up. And wondering how you see the interplay of the weaker
economy versus sort of the work from home environment and net-net, do you see
disability margins potentially improving despite the weaker economy or do you expect
them to get worse?

A - Douglas Graham Elliot

{BIO 3700927 <GO>}

Jimmy, it's clearly a watch area. As historically when unemployment rises, disability claims
tend to go up. I would tell you that our data both on the short-term and long-term side
does not show any pressure.
But remember, long-term disability usually has a 180 day elimination period. So it does
take some time before you would see new incidences then that could translate into more
claims over a longer period of time. So our incidence trends in there continue to be again
at very low levels, all-time low levels, although there might be some modest tick-ups in
certain segments.
So it's clearly a watch item, but it's, it's not emerging in our data yet. But as we make 3year rate guarantees, particularly we're in the 11--'21 season right now, we're taking this all
into consideration to provide ourselves an additional margin or additional buffer for
potentially more incidences and obviously a lower interest rate environment.

Page 17 of 24



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

Q - Jimmy Bhullar

{BIO 4278955 <GO>}

FINAL

And on workers' comp, you mentioned pricing potentially increasing given sort of the
uptick and the combined ratio industry-wide. Your margins in the business have been
pretty good, if pricing does sort of stabilize to improve, do you think your margins could
sustain where they are or even potentially improve from recent levels, which have been
really good?

A - Christopher Jerome Swif t

{BIO 3683719 <GO>}

I think that's a bit premature and now you're out into a '21, '22 conversation, which we're
not prepared to have right now. We've talked about the 2020-year. Our small commercial
book is experiencing some compression in workers' comp margins, that's where we are
relative to those prices being negative.
So we will continue to update you, but I think it's a little premature to talk about improved
margins in workers' comp today.

A - Douglas Graham Elliot

{BIO 3700927 <GO>}

I mean, I would add just again my comments were geared more at accident year results in
calendar year. So I'm not sure what your comment was geared at but mine more clearly
accident year based.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Jimmy Bhullar

{BIO 4278955 <GO>}

Yeah, it was actually the year as well. And I'm thinking more about next year than the year
beyond and 2022 as opposed to this year, but. On LPs, you had a loss obviously because
of the lag effect of the weak equity market in 1Q. I was assuming that in 2Q -- in 3Q, given
that the market has recovered, you would actually be maybe not all of the losses
reversed, but at least, part of them. But I think Beth implied that your marks will still be
negative -- did I hear that correctly?

A - Beth A. Costello

{BIO 15349374 <GO>}

Yes, you did hear that correctly, Jimmy. When we look at it, we have don't expect it to be
as large of a loss, as we had in Q2, but again the valuations are not just based on equity
markets, some of them are also based on forward look of earnings and so forth. So again
given some of the items that I referenced, we would expect potentially to see still a little
bit of a loss there as we go into Q3.

Q - Jimmy Bhullar

{BIO 4278955 <GO>}

Okay, thank you.

Operator
The next question comes from Mike Zaremski of Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

Q - Michael David Zaremski

{BIO 20606248 <GO>}
Page 18 of 24



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

FINAL

Okay, great, thanks, good morning. If we can talk about the workers' comp presumption
issue and changes -- is are the presumption changes largely only focusing on COVID-19 -so when this pandemic is hopefully over, it will kind of be, this will be behind us? Or are
the presumption changes also kind of permanent regarding kind of any virus or sickness
going forward? And so, we should be thinking about this maybe a different claims rate in
the future, even when the pandemic's over?

A - Douglas Graham Elliot

{BIO 3700927 <GO>}

Mike, let's parse that apart, I would say in general the presumption by state new
guidelines are targeted at COVID. And most of them have sunset clauses on the
backside. So we are paying a lot of attention to the particulars state by state. I think as of
June 30, there were 14 states and several of them were very important big states for us.
So I think about it in the context of COVID and we're working with trades and our teams
here to make sure we understand all of the nuances, and it's an ongoing matter because
there are certainly ongoing discussions in various states today that continue to be
important as we think about our workers' compensation line.

Q - Michael David Zaremski

{BIO 20606248 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, got it. That's helpful. And lastly, -- Thanks for the disclosure in the 10-Q on business
interruption. I think you kind of talked to more than 150 cases, it seems like based this,
Hartford is (Technical Difficulty) kind of then involved in a somewhat disproportionate
number of business interruptions compared to the overall pool.
Is there anything, any reason why that's the case? Or anything we should be thinking
about? You clearly gave good color on the IBNR levels and whatnot, but it seems like
there is just lawyers poking at you guys a little bit more than others.

A - Christopher Jerome Swif t

{BIO 3683719 <GO>}

Yeah Mike, I think I've seen your report on that. I don't know if I agree with a completely,
just given how I think things that you might have been counting, but I'm not going to
comment upon any specific litigation. But I wouldn't, I wouldn't draw any conclusion to to
us being picked on by counsel. I think, it's fair game for everyone. I think there's a lot of
equal opportunity to get sued in these areas these days with some of our peers.
But the bottom line as I said in my prepared remarks, I mean we are highly confident in
our policy language terms, conditions and are going to have to defend it over an
extended period of time.

Q - Michael David Zaremski

{BIO 20606248 <GO>}

Understood and I think all investors have been happy to see so far the courts have sided
with the industries and thank you very much.

A - Douglas Graham Elliot

{BIO 3700927 <GO>}

Page 19 of 24



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

Thank you.

Operator

FINAL

The next question comes from Brian Meredith of UBS, please go ahead.

Q - Brian Robert Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Yeah. Yes, thank you. Two questions, first one -- I hope we talk a little bit about, Doug,
about some of the reserving actions in the quarter. First still a little surprised. We're
seeing, auto liability commercial, auto liability, adverse development -- what's going on
there and then also just to Navigators. I know it's going to be stop-loss covered, but still a
fair amount of development there. Is that kind of well above expectations? And where is
that coming from? Does this have any effect on loss picks currently?

A - Christopher Jerome Swif t

{BIO 3683719 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So I'll start with auto liability. Our 2019, 2018 -- I'm sorry -- 2018 pick was just a little light. So
we felt like we had to top that up. Brian, commercial auto liability has been a frustrating
area for us over the last 5 to 7 years. We have, I think, done a lot of underwriting work we
have priced aggressively, obviously we haven't caught all the trends. I think we're on top
of it, as I mentioned in my script, our pricing now is in the teens in our middle market book
and even stronger in our Global Specialty book.
So I think we understand it, I think we're in a better reserve position, and yes, has been a
little bit of a lagging issue that Beth and I just wanted to get on top of. Relative to
Navigators, I would describe the international D&O as specific situations that we had to
make adjustments for in our reserves. There were certain cases that we just felt like our
case reserves were not adequate.
And then in the US book, I talk about general liability, we just strengthened our tail factors
on the backside of some of our curves. So those are the two areas that in Navigators, I
think we made the appropriate adjustments with. Again, we understand that book more
deeply today, then we certainly did the day we purchased it, and I feel good about where
we are.

A - Beth A. Costello

{BIO 15349374 <GO>}

And I just would add that to your other question, Brian. It does not change our view of our
current accident year picks. We feel very good about how that book is performing, feel
very good with the progress that we're making on improving the profitability associated
with that. So from that standpoint no change there.

A - Douglas Graham Elliot

{BIO 3700927 <GO>}

Brian, I think just to add one other comment just on the overall deal. I continue to be really
pleased with the overall performance of the acquisition. The team -- the talent that we
talked about. Modestly, I think our timing was really, really good. Didn't know that we were
going to go through a hard market. But we'll take a little tailwind at our side.

Page 20 of 24



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

FINAL

And again, if you really remember when we announced this transaction, we purchased an
ADC cover because we knew their reserves were short, we were willing to absorb
obviously a -- call it a loss layer of that -- the first $100 million. But then we did transact
with a third party to transfer all that risk from there.
So we knew they were short, that's why we did the ADC honestly. It's not surprising to see
where they're at right now, but that's the context of how we're thinking about the deal,
and specifically the ADC.

A - Christopher Jerome Swif t

{BIO 3683719 <GO>}

And I would just grows, Brian. On the liability piece, is that we've talked about this publicly.
We wanted more general liability expertise in our portfolio. It was an area that we were
working on organically. And so as we acquire The Navigator, which is a core fundamental
throughout their product family, we do that in a time of increased loss trend, we
understand that.
And we've had to make some adjustments along the way. So I think that all sets up what
happened in Q2 and over the last couple of quarters.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Brian Robert Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Great, thanks. And then second question, Chris, just going back to some of your initial
comments about the safe harbors in the federal stimulus that we -- that the industry
needs. I'm just curious as you think about this going forward. What does it mean if we
don't get it? Is that something that you kind of contemplated in your kind of current
casualty picks -- that maybe we do see a pickup in litigious activity? I mean, there's an
article in the Journal about it today.
And is there any way that you can protect yourself as a commercial carrier with policy
wording anything? Are you doing that? --From potential pickup in lawsuits.

A - Christopher Jerome Swif t

{BIO 3683719 <GO>}

Yeah, it's a great point. Brian, I think it would add only to the impacts of social inflation that
we're experiencing today -- that everyone's talking about. So yeah, I would say it's bad
now and it could get worse. Going forward, if there isn't -- as I said temporary relief. I
mean we want we want people to try to go back to work and reopen the economy.
And as long as there isn't -- call it gross negligence -- or just bad behavior at employers, I
think the vast majority would know better. But there still needs to be level of protection. I
don't know what is feasible as far as litigation going forward. I hear of more and more
litigation each day that is happening as people think about returning to work and or
wrongful death claims this morning.
I think really what it means is, particularly in all our policies and we take a proactive stance - and looking at policy terms and conditions and appropriate communicable disease

Page 21 of 24



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

exclusions are already in a lot of our general liability policies. But we'll continue to just be
thoughtful and take necessary action where appropriate with policy terms and conditions.

Q - Brian Robert Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

FINAL

Great, thank you.

Operator
The next question comes from Yaron Kinar of Goldman Sachs, please go ahead.

Q - Yaron Kinar

{BIO 17146197 <GO>}

Hi, good morning everybody. Thanks for squeezing me in here. Just a couple of
questions, one, looking at small commercial, I think you call out a couple of COVID items
that impacted year-over-year results. I think if we strip those out, we get to some yearover-year improvement. So, one wonders what the favorable offsets were. Doug, I think
earlier in response another question, you were talking about potential expense ratio
improvements? But any color you can offer in small commercial would be appreciated.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Douglas Graham Elliot

{BIO 3700927 <GO>}

So I think about small commercial and I'm assuming you're looking at margin and excess -essentially when you adjust our quarterly underlying for COVID, if you get an 87.1which is a
I think, a really competitive terrific answer for their business. I have commented that we
were impacted by COVID-19 relative to production. I've commented, we expected that in
the quarter. We watch that. I also will share with you that our on the glass underwriting tool
-- early March -- when we saw this thing coming, we made adjustments on the glass for
referrals to underwriters in certain classes that we just wanted extra sets of eyes. And I'm
sure that influenced a bit of the flow (Technical Difficulty). There are a lot of subtle factors
that go into how we run that business, but I feel very good about our underlying margins,
the adjustments we've made, and our go-forward prospects.
With all that said, we have to (Technical Difficulty) the reopening across the country. We
can't do this all on ourselves (sic), we have to participate in the economy in large (sic).

Q - Yaron Kinar

{BIO 17146197 <GO>}

Doug, what I was trying to get at is, I think, once you take out the COVID losses, the
margin, the underlying margin actually improved in small commercial. And as you'd called
out some of the negatives, I was just curious as to what some of the favorable offsets
were.

A - Douglas Graham Elliot

{BIO 3700927 <GO>}

Well, there's a little bit of good news on the expense side. And I would say, largely on the
loss side we didn't adjust many of the other picks. So we commented on the workers'
comp news relative to COVID, and quite a bit of that would be small commercial. But I
don't think Yaron, that there's much else to talk about at this point, we're talking about
tenths as opposed to significant points.
Page 22 of 24



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

Q - Yaron Kinar

{BIO 17146197 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Okay and then my second question.
I'll let's start off by saying I thought the disclosures around COVID were really excellent
this quarter. So thank you for that. But you know, (Technical Difficulty) for a little more
(Technical Difficulty) $100 million property COVID loss -- specifically that is a portion of
came from a physical (Technical Difficulty) were you taking full limit losses there? And also
just curious as to why (Technical Difficulty) approach on on those policies -- that have
physical damage? (Technical Difficulty) triggers -- seeing (Technical Difficulty) the other
99% of policies (inaudible), yet your key (Technical Difficulty) virus or more qualitative just
saying, the vast majority. Just wondering what's the thought process around the
differentiating between the two ones?

A - Christopher Jerome Swif t

{BIO 3683719 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It's Chris. So I, what I would (Technical Difficulty) on -- I'll call it the (Technical Difficulty) it's
basically to sort of reinforce -- is that business interruption is standard in most (Technical
Difficulty) policies. And but it does have a physical loss requirement. The second point that
we were, -- we have made (Technical Difficulty) into the people that will listen is that
besides the direct physical loss requirement, we also have nation exclusions in again 99%
of exclusions really bar our coverage for any material welfare.
And then the third (Technical Difficulty) the virus exclusion, and that's how we think about
sort of how policies are constructed and the terms and conditions and how it really works.
And I almost think of it as -- if you don't even get the virus, if you don't have direct physical
loss, -- and that's why I sort of put it last in the waterfall. As far as $100 million and $1
million any additional detail at that point in time as far as policy limits and things like that,
I'm just not going to comment upon. I mean we looked at it in aggregate, we know what
the policy limits are, we know what claims and exposure analysis on that might come in
and (Technical Difficulty) that's our number and that's all I'm going to say.

Q - Yaron Kinar

{BIO 17146197 <GO>}

Okay, thank you.

Operator
To end the question an answer session, I would like to turn the conference back over to
Susan Spivak for any closing remarks.

A - Susan Spivak Bernstein

{BIO 1514699 <GO>}

Thank you. We appreciate (Technical Difficulty) you all joining us today. If we didn't get to
your question on the call, please do follow-up. Talk to you again (Technical Difficulty).

Operator

Page 23 of 24



Company N ame: H artford Financial Services Group I nc/The
Company Ticker: H I G US Equity
Date: 2020-07-31

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You
may now disconnect.

Page 24 of 24

