Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

S1 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Penny James, Chief Executive Oﬃcer and Executive Director
Tim Harris, Chief Financial Oﬃcer and Executive Director

Other Participants
Abid Hussain, Analyst
Andreas van Embden, Analyst
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Dominic O'Mahony, Analyst
Edward Morris, Analyst
Freya Kong, Analyst
Jon Denham, Analyst
Kamran Hossain, Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Thomas Bateman, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Direct Line 2020 H1 Results. My name is Rachel
and I'll be coordinating today's call. (Operator Instructions)
I will now hand over to your host Penny Wilson to begin. Penny, please go ahead.

Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining myself and Tim today for our half-year
results presentation. I'd like to start by saying how incredibly proud I am of everything that
we've achieved so far this year. Being in this position, given the unprecedented
environments we've been trading in, it's a testament to our strategy and our people.
Starting with the highlights on Slide 3, we focused on being a force for good and have
supported our customers, our people, key workers and local communities through the
crisis. And we traded well. The momentum we saw at the end of 2019 and into Q1 has
begun to return. We delivered 2% growth in our direct own brands policy count,
operating proﬁt of GBP265 million, and improved the quality of our earnings even before
COVID eﬀect. Our ﬁnancial resilience in the face of COVID-19 disruption has enabled us
to reward our shareholders' patience by paying a 2020 interim dividend, as well as the
Page 1 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

FINAL

catch-up of our 2019 ﬁnal dividend. And ﬁnally, our strategy helped us navigate testing
ﬁrst half whilst making great progress on our technology transformation.
Now, you may recall our vision, purpose, and strategy on Slide 4. I'll talk more to our
strategy later. But it was designed to give us competitive advantage to how to change and
adapt and be more resilient so that we can improve margins on the business we write and
ultimately grow. Now, there's no doubt that this has been a testing period and our
strategy hasn't just helped us through the crisis, it's enabled us to accelerate our plans in
a way that we simply couldn't have entertained 18 months ago and consistent with the
vision that has customers, people, and society at its heart, we've achieved the success by
doing the right thing for each of our stakeholders.
Throughout the pandemic, we focused on the physical and ﬁnancial well-being of our
people, supporting our customers and contributing to the national assets. And by doing
so, we believe that we are protecting the business for the long term. Repair centers aside,
we moved almost all of our people to home working, that's around 9,000 of them and
rather than access government support, we chose to protect everyone's salaries and roles
through to the autumn.

Bloomberg Transcript

For our customers in ﬁnancial diﬃculty over the altered circumstances, we've reviewed
cover, waived cancellation fees, oﬀered the option to defer direct debit payments and
refunded customers who are driving fewer miles due to lockdown restrictions. And that's
in addition to plying 800 customers stuck abroad back home.
We played our past in the national eﬀort by helping key workers with free Green Flag
recovery and free home emergency cover. But we've also helped around 100,000 of
society's most vulnerable households through our GBP3.5 million community fund and
we've contributed a similar amount to the ABI's COVID support fund. In all, we expect to
invest around GBP80 million to GBP90 million across 2020 on these initiatives and I
believe it helps protect the business for the long term.
Now, we couldn't have done all this without our highly engaged people who have shown
the commitment and ﬂexibility to do what it takes for our customers, resulting in high
levels of customer satisfaction. It's been a real 11,000 strong team achievement and I'd like
to thank all of them for their contribution.
And with that, I'll hand over to Tim to talk you through the ﬁnancials.

Tim Harris

{BIO 16707496 <GO>}

Thanks, Penny, and good morning, everyone. This has been a very challenging ﬁrst half
and I believe the business can be justiﬁably proud of how we've traded through the
period. I would like to start with the key messages before we explore the detail.
I'm starting my presentation on Slide 7. We came into the year with strong trading
momentum and despite COVID-19 uncertainty in quarter two, we delivered a 2% growth
in own brand policies in the ﬁrst half. Today, we are reporting operating proﬁt of GBP265
Page 2 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

FINAL

million. When we adjust for the storms experienced in Q1 and the change in the Ogden
discount rate to minus 0.25% in 2019, our operating proﬁt is GBP5 million higher than last
year. Importantly, we continue to improve the quality of our earnings with current year
operating proﬁt estimated to represent 52% of total operating proﬁt in the ﬁrst six months
of this year, excluding the impacts of COVID-19. Our expense ratio increased in the ﬁrst
half to 25.2%, reﬂecting the additional costs we incurred to support customers, people,
and the national eﬀort through the crisis.
However, we continue to target an expense ratio of 20% by 2023. These savings will be
delivered through the beneﬁts of our technological transformation and we took the ﬁrst
steps towards this through the oﬃce closures and redundancies we announced in
February. Our combined operating ratio was 90.3%, below our 93% to 95% medium-term
range, reﬂecting the claims frequency beneﬁts coming through our Motor book due to
COVID-19.

Bloomberg Transcript

We recognize the importance of dividends to our shareholders and having taken steps to
strengthen our capital and liquidity and observed a mass improvement in credit markets,
as well as a greater conﬁdence around travel and business interruption claims. We believe
it's appropriate to catch up on the 2019 ﬁnal dividend of 14.4p. Even after the dividend
catch up and an interim dividend of 7.4p, our solvency is a very strong 192%.
Turning to the results summary, the shape of result reﬂects the consequences of COVID19, including the signiﬁcant reduction in motor claims frequency, the impacts on our
investment returns and the additional costs that we incurred supporting our customers,
our people, and society. Strong Q1 trading across our own brands oﬀset the headwinds in
Q2 and delivered modest premium growth of 0.4% in the ﬁrst half. Although, we
delivered strong growth in Q1, reduction in Q2 will have an impact on earned premiums
in future periods.
Underwriting proﬁt was GBP144 million, well ahead of H1 last year, largely due to the
Motor frequency beneﬁts we saw at the start of Q2 due to the COVID-19 lockdown.
Installments and other income was lower in H1, which is largely due to lower written
volumes in Q2 and lower claims-related income. Investment return reduced to GBP41
million in the ﬁrst half due to a combination of lower income and higher realized losses
mainly on our commercial property portfolio. That brings us down to operating proﬁt of
GBP265 million, marginally lower than prior year as the stronger underwriting results was
more than oﬀset by lower investment return and the Q1 weather events.
Turning to Slide 9, and here we have split-out the management estimates of the impacts
of COVID-19 on the group's operating proﬁt, which you can see was broadly neutral. This
takes into account changes in the claims environment, costs associated with supporting
customers, people and wider society and movements in our investment portfolio. As I've
said, our headline operating proﬁt was GBP265 million in the ﬁrst half compared with
GBP274 million in 2019. Last year, we had very benign weather and the results included a
hit from Ogden. Adjusting for these, there was a modest growth in proﬁt of GBP5 million.

Page 3 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

We estimate the net impact of COVID-19 on the group to be around GBP7 million beneﬁt,
which you can see broken down in the table on the left hand side. We haven't seen much
impact in Home at the moment, but that may change as claims develop in the second half
of the year. That leaves us with a broadly ﬂat underlying proﬁt year-on-year, but there has
been a real increase in quality with a GBP63 million growth in current year proﬁts, oﬀset
by the continued reduction in prior year reserve releases. This is a good result and
demonstrates the progress being made in increasing the sustainability of our earnings
and we are well on track to deliver 50% of our operating proﬁts from current year by 2021.
On Slide 10 is a summary of a breakdown of the 90.3% combined ratio. The group current
year attritional loss ratio, which is the current year loss ratio excluding weather, improved
by 8 points. We estimate the impacts of COVID-19 is around 4 points with the rest due to
underlying improvements, some of which will come back in the second half. Our weather
estimates from Q1 are unchanged at GBP30 million, which is around 2 points of loss ratio.
The prior year loss ratio was 3 percentage points lower as Motor prior year continued to
reduce in line with our expectations, alongside the timing of reserve reviews in Home.
That gives us a group loss ratio of 59%, which is around 3 points lower than H1 last year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next, the expense ratio is higher due to actions taken on COVID-19 and the commission
ratio is ﬂat. Finally, the annualized return on tangible equity was a strong 19.9%, ahead of
our 15% long-term target.
On Slide 11, we've split out the operating expense movements half-on-half which
increased by GBP9 million. The expense ratio tends to be higher in the ﬁrst half of the
year. And the increase against H1 2019 was driven by higher levy costs alongside the
actions taken to support our customers, people and wider society during the COVID-19
uncertainty, which Penny will share more on later. Other costs have reduced GBP3 million
with lower staﬀ costs and amortization and depreciation, partly oﬀset by higher other
operating expenses.
In terms of our outlook for operating expenses, we estimate we will incur a further GBP20
million to GBP25 million of COVID-19 related costs in H2. The additional costs we incurred
to support our customers protect our people and society do mean we have delayed the
downwards trajectory of our cost base. We remain committed to becoming a more
eﬃcient organization and reiterate our targets as outlined on the Capital Markets Day in
November last year to move to a 20% expense ratio by 2023.
As I mentioned earlier, the key actions that deliver this reduction are linked to our
investments in technology and changes to the way customers interact with us with a shift
towards digital channels. This will also enable us to review our proxy footprint and you will
remember that, in February, we announced the planned closure of two of our oﬃces. Our
new systems will help us to reduce costs further over the next year or two as they become
embedded in our operations. And we will now look for additional savings that may arise
from the changes in customer and workforce behavior following the pandemic.
Let's turn now to Slide 12, which shows performance across policy counts and premiums
during the ﬁrst half. From a trading perspective, the ﬁrst half has really been a tale of two

Page 4 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

quarters. Starting with policies on the left hand side, which are split between own brands
and partners. In the dark blue bar, you can see the 2% own brand growth versus June last
year. If you look at the individual data points, the own brand's policy count grew quarteron-quarter with a very strong Q1 and a slowdown in Q2. On the right hand side, our
premiums, which is at group level, were broadly stable. In the darker blue sections, you
can see growth across own brands was strong at 5.6% in Q1, but fell 2.9% in Q2 due to
reduced Motor new business premium, following lower new car sales and new drivers to
the market.
We now get into the segmental results starting with Motor on Slide 13. Operating proﬁts in
Motor of GBP221 million was well ahead of prior year, largely driven by the impact of
COVID-19 lockdown restrictions on claims frequency, partially oﬀset by higher average
repair costs, lower instalments and other income and lower investment return.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the ratios, you can see a really strong H1 current year performance. Of the 18 point
reduction year-on-year, we believe approximately 10 points is COVID-19 related, which
leaves around 8 points of underlying improvements. This was delivered by underwriting
and counter fraud initiatives introduced throughout 2019. We started recognizing the
beneﬁts from these initiatives in the second half of 2019, meaning the 2020 full-year
improvements in the underlying current year loss ratio will be lower than in the ﬁrst half of
this year, but we still aim to demonstrate year-on-year progress against the full year 2019
current year loss ratio of 81.2%.
On the next slide is more color on Motor trading. I'm not going to go through all of the
moving parts as we've commented on the slide. A few points I would like to mention are,
the strong positive growth was largely driven by Churchill and Darwin, which have both
performed extremely well on price comparison websites. This demonstrates good
progress on our PCW strategy, which Penny will talk about later.
As I mentioned before, the pricing environment in Motor has been somewhat distorted
due to actions taken to help customers and the impacts of lockdown, driving a reduction
in new car sales and young drivers entering the market. This has led to a 3.4% reduction
in risk mix. We continue to price for our view of underlying claims inﬂation on new
business, with some caps placed on the newer pricing increases in Q2 as the group
focused on delivering strong retention. In addition, many of our customers have also
taken the opportunity we provided to reduce their premium, reﬂecting their lower car use.
Overall, risk-adjusted prices increased by 1.8%.
On the claims side, frequency has been increasing since the initial 70% reduction in
claims notiﬁcations we called out in April while the impacts on claims severity is too early
to assess as very few claims have been settled during this period. As a result, we continue
to expect underlying claims inﬂation of 3% to 5%. In terms of the outlook for Motor, we
expect some headwinds as the top line impacts begin to earn through.
Now turning to Home on Slide 15, Home proﬁt was GBP35 million in H1, GBP36 million
lower than H1 2019, but a strong result considering the weather events in Q1 and the
exceptional performance in 2019. In terms of ratios, Home's current year attritional ratio,

Page 5 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

FINAL

which excludes the impacts of weather, continued to improve following actions taken on
escape of water claims in 2019. The combined ratio normalized for weather was around 5
points higher than prior year due to a reduction in prior releases, although, there are
some timing diﬀerences here. So some of it should come back by the end of the year.
On to the Home trading slide, you can see the Q1, Q2 shape on the policy volumes and
premiums. I'd just make a couple of observations. Overall, we are pleased that we grew
own brand's policy count since the end of December and this was due to a strong
performance by Churchill in the price comparison website channel and strong retention
over the period. Gross written premium was broadly level, which reﬂects the continued
shift towards price comparison websites. While PCW business attracts lower risk and
lower average premiums, our team are making great progress on trading proﬁtably
through this channel.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving onto Rescue and other personal lines on Slide 17, let's start with the overall results
for the segment, which was a GBP16 million loss. There are two main moving parts in this,
namely Travel and Rescue. Starting with Travel, where we estimate the net impact of
COVID on the book to be approximately GBP25 million. This assumption is based on the
same criteria we set out at Q1, namely that the Foreign & Commonwealth Oﬃce
restrictions on international travel remain in place until the end of September. As we now
know, this is quite a conservative assumption. The main risk to this ﬁgure is around the
ﬁnancial failure of airlines or travel companies.
In Rescue, the H1 operating proﬁt result was a very strong GBP24 million, GBP3 million
higher than H1 2019, which helped partially oﬀset losses in other personal lines. The
growth was mainly due to lower claims frequency following the COVID-19 disruption
which has since returned to normal levels. In terms of Rescue trading, you can see that
Green Flag had a very strong Q1 as it continues to deliver double-digit premium growth
before COVID-19 drove a material reduction in new business sales in Q2.
Finally, the commercial results on Slide 18. Commercial proﬁt was GBP25 million in the
ﬁrst half, which is a strong result when you consider the GBP13 million of weather event
costs. The net impact of COVID-19 in commercial was slightly positive, up GBP4 million or
0.1 points of loss ratio as the estimated impact on business interruption claims was more
than oﬀset by a reduction in claims frequency during lockdown. As outlined with our Q1
results, our standard business interruption policy wordings on which over 99.5% of
policies are written, provide cover only for certain speciﬁed diseases and do not provide
cover for losses due to the COVID-19 pandemic. For those policies not on our standard
wordings, we continue to estimate claims costs of approximately GBP10 million.
As you can see from the ratios, commercial improved its current year attritional loss ratio
which is the result of the investments in NIG pricing and underwriting initiatives beginning
to come through with rate increases above 5%. This delivered a combined operating ratio
normalized for weather that has improved around 5 points year-on-year.
Turning to commercial trading on Slide 19, here you can see the commercial group
premiums and policy volumes in both Q1 and Q2 to end the ﬁrst half 5.3% ahead of prior

Page 6 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

year.

FINAL

Moving on from trading performance, let's now turn to investment return on Slide 20. The
total return of GBP41.3 million in the ﬁrst half was GBP34 million lower than prior year due
to lower net investment income, some losses on our commercial property portfolio, and
the non-repeat of gains recognized in the ﬁrst half last year.
We've recognized GBP14 million of realized losses in the period of which the majority was
due to revaluations of our commercial property portfolio. In the middle graph, you can
see that our commercial property investments accounts for just 4.6% of the portfolio. The
majority of our portfolio is held in either investment grade, credit securities, or cash. Our
cash holdings have increased over the period as we took the prudent decision not to
reinvest as debt securities came to maturity, although we have now begun reinvesting.
We have seen no material deterioration in the quality of our credit securities during H1.
From a yield perspective, you can see that the realized losses reduced our investment
return yield to 1.4% while net investment income yield reduced to 1.8%. At Q1, we updated
the net investment income yield expectation for the year to 1.8% which we reiterate today.

Bloomberg Transcript

Here on Slide 21, we have presented the capital ratio in a waterfall [ph] so you can see
how our solvency ratio has progressed across half. On the far left, you can see the results
of the prudent decision we took in order to maintain a strong solvency position. After
those actions, our solvency ratio was above the top of our risk appetite range at 189%.
On to the bars in the middle of the waterfall. First, in order to help secure the long-term
ﬁnance of the group, we issued GBP260 million of Tier 2 debt at a 4% coupon. I was
pleased to see a strong appetite for the transaction which was 16 times oversubscribed.
Our existing Tier 2 debt instrument issued in 2012 has a call date during the ﬁrst half of
2022, but at least until then, this provides a useful capital and liquidity buﬀer. Importantly,
the debt issue represents the ﬁrst step in our work to secure the long-term capitalization
of the business that I discussed at the Capital Markets Day last year.
You can see, capital generation is a strong 25 points of solvency or GBP350 million due to
the progress made on current year proﬁtability, alongside a reduction in claims frequency
seen in Motor. Market movements is predominantly impacted by increasing credit
spreads, which delivered a 6% headwind in the ﬁrst half, though, narrowed signiﬁcantly
across Q2.
Capital expenditure was around GBP70 million in the ﬁrst half and we reiterate our
GBP150 million expectation for 2020. So, overall, our solvency ratio at H1 before any
dividends was 213%. This strong solvency ratio means we are able to declare a 2020
interim dividend of 7.4 pence, alongside a full catch-up of the 2019 ﬁnal dividend, the 14.4
pence. While signiﬁcant market uncertainty remains from COVID-19 and other issues like
Brexit, we recognize the importance of our dividends to our shareholders. And believe it
is now appropriate to catch up on the 2019 ﬁnal dividend.

Page 7 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

FINAL

Speciﬁcally, we have seen a marked improvement in the credit market since we canceled
the dividend in April as well as a greater sense of certainty around how claims will be
impacted by COVID-19 in particular in relation to travel and business interruption. Going
forward, we will continue to be prudent in our management of the capital and liquidity
resources of the group.
In normal circumstances, operating around the middle of our 140% to 180% risk appetite
range remains appropriate. We do, however, need to acknowledge the unusual situation
within which we are all operating, including the direct impact of COVID-19 and the
consequences of the pandemic on the wider economy, including our customers.
Accordingly, you can expect us to continue to be prudent in our management of our
capital and liquidity. As usual, the Board will consider our overall position again with our
full year results.

Bloomberg Transcript

Before I hand back to Penny, I'd like to remind you of our targets. We are re-estimating
our medium term expense ratio target of 20% in 2023. As outlined earlier, our trajectory
to get there has been modestly delayed and so we may not be able to achieve the GBP50
million saving by 2021 we talked about in November last year. We are focused on
improving our cost proﬁle by delivering on the actions we had identiﬁed before the
pandemic and some of the new opportunities that will arrive as a consequence of
changes in behavior as a result of the pandemic.
For 2020, we reiterate our targets of a combined operating ratio of 93% to 95%,
normalized for weather and we anticipate our restructuring costs of GBP60 million over
2019 and 2020 will be incurred in full as we strive to maximize the opportunity for
operational eﬃciencies. We remain focused on a targeted combined operating ratio of
93% to 95% normalized for weather in 2021 and over the medium term and on improving
the current year contribution to operating proﬁt to at least 50% by 2021. I should [ph]
acknowledge, these will inevitably depend on the duration and uncertainties of the
COVID-19 pandemic and the pace of economic recovery and consequential impacts on
customer behavior. We expect a net investment yield of 1.8% in 2020 and continue to
invest in force for good activities. We reiterate our long-term 15% return on tangible
equity target.
Thank you. I'll now hand back to Penny.

Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks, Tim. Now before I get into the detailed update, let me start by sharing with you
how I feel about the last six months. While it's hard to believe that only eight months ago
we established our vision and strategy for the group, though uncertainty remains for us
all, I'm really pleased with the substantial progress that we've made in the ﬁrst half against
the strategic objectives, whilst also implementing signiﬁcant operational changes as
we've navigated the COVID-19 disruption.
We've shown we were a team that can make change happen even during a crisis. You can
see some of the highlights in the slide and I'll explore these in more detail shortly. We

Page 8 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

FINAL

haven't just survived during this period, we've thrived. Our people have delivered a great
performance at every level of the business, all done with the creativity you've come to
expect from us, from the new Direct Line superhero creative to Churchill's Little Chapters
of Chill podcasts designed to help kids in lockdown.
But as you know, a large part of our strategy relies on the delivery of material technology.
And what you can see from this slide as well is that, overall, our ability to deliver big
change has not slowed during lockdown. Now, there still remains a lot to do through the
rest of 2020 and into next year, so we are in an excellent shape and we're becoming an
agile and digital company, which is people and customers as well as the world around us
at its heart.
Now moving on to Slide 26, our tech transformation has continued at pace. Moving from
left to right, following its launch last year, All Privilege new business is now sold on the
new platform. Our in-house startup Darwin has gone from strength to strength and it is
now live on four PCWs. The Green Flag team launched their new claim system and in just
two weeks, they made more enhancements on it than they had in the last four years on
the old system. That is agility.

Bloomberg Transcript

Direct Line for Business rolled out another key product, Van, onto its new platform. And
the NIG team continues to move products onto the pricing and underwriting systems,
which helped drive some of the growth Tim discussed earlier. While all that was going on,
our ﬁnance team delivered a new cloud-based Oracle accounting ledger and claims
payment system during lockdown and we rolled out a new telephony system across CSA.
[ph] These changes are material in terms of both delivery and impact.
Taken together, they involved training 7,500 colleagues and eﬀects every customer
conversation and every claim. (inaudible) near the end of the tech transformation, we
moved ﬁrmly into the business transformation phase for the next couple of years,
changing the way we operate to take advantage of the tools we are building and
targeting larger [ph] improvement across the portfolio as we realize the full beneﬁts of our
tech investments.
So let me talk you through the progress against our six strategic objectives. The design is
to help us become a more competitive business with a lower cost base. The aim is to
support the shift in quality of earnings evidenced by the GBP63 million improvement
we've seen this half and grow our market share.
Looking at the ﬁrst three on Slide 27 which are all about making sure that our products are
easy to use and available everywhere. Let's start with Best at Direct, which is where our
margins are the strongest. In the ﬁrst half we've launched a new superhero creative with
Direct Line highlighting the brand's unique proposition. We've been working on some
new fractional products and you may have seen, we recently announced our acquisition
of Brolly, a small ﬁn-tech company that specializes in ﬂexible personal life insurance for
the digital generation. So watch this space.

Page 9 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

Moving to winning on PCWs, since I joined the group, I believed that we could grow our
proﬁtability in the PCW market. As a result of the improvements we've made, we're
beginning to make real headway. A key part of our 5% premium growth in Q1 was
Churchill's growth of 15%. Our Churchill brand has gone from strength to strength since
the brand refresh and Churchill Motor has recently passed the 1.5 million policy milestone
and we hope to continue this growth. Darwin has outperformed all our expectations,
writing more business in Q1 2020 than the whole of 2019. And in Q2, it's still on a steep
growth trajectory.
Moving to our third strategic objective, extending our reach. Our new customer platforms
make it much easier for us to on-board new books of business. We're now in a place
where we can scale up and this opens the possibilities to explore growth opportunities
through partnerships and acquisitions.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now moving to our three key enablers, starting with technical edge. Here, we aim to
create a great experience for our customers and a sustainable competitive advantage.
Throughout lockdown, digitization levels have transformed. In Green Flag, we saw the
number of people accessing the app move from 12% to 35%. In Motor, digital customer
interactions have grown around 40% and now represents 55% of transactions. And there
is a similar picture in Home claims. And in Travel, which has had a particularly busy period,
a new claims triage process means we can handle claims up to ﬁve times faster. The
technical improvements we've made over the past 12 months have enabled us to deliver
around a 5 percentage points improvement in our attritional current year loss ratio in half
year 2020.
As said before, we are not yet a nimble more cost eﬀective as we believe we can be. It's a
reality in a market as competitive as ours that eﬃciency is critical. And that's why hitting
20% in 2023 is one of our key targets. We've made huge steps forward this year, some of
which myself and Tim have already outlined. One of the few silver linings of COVID-19 is
the fact that it opens the possibilities for us to re-imagine the way we work.
For the full year, we set out our agile transformation plan, and after only a slight delay, this
transformation will go live in October. It will really help us to speed up getting changes
and new products to markets, so that we can keep ahead of the competition. The world of
home working means we can be less constrained by our physical oﬃce locations which
not only gives us access to a wider pool of talent, so we can be more diverse and
inclusive, but it can also potentially support signiﬁcant cost eﬃciencies. We're currently
looking how we use our buildings in the future to best support the cultural change and
cost structure we are seeking.
Finally, and most importantly, great people. As you've heard, the pace of delivery during
the ﬁrst half was all made possible by our highly engaged people who have
demonstrated their commitment to improving this business. Not only have they learned
new skills and delivered exceptional results, but they have also refused to let systems stop
them doing what matters to them, including the annual Sprintathon event, involving 350
of our people, which led to GBP110,000 being donated to Stand Up To Cancer. It also
helps to support around 200 local charities with grants of up to 5,000 each as part of our

Page 10 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

FINAL

community fund. And our Mental Health First Aiders have ensured that everyone has had
the access to the support they need during these challenging times.
This period is probably one of the most disruptive that we will see in our lifetime.
Customers overnight have changed their behaviors dramatically. As you can see on the
slide, there are a number of underlying trends you need to be in front of to thrive in the
post-COVID world. Of course, none of them are really new trends. And our strategy was
built within the mind that many of them have been accelerated signiﬁcantly as a result of
COVID-19.
This has just increased the importance of our strategy and shown us that to win in the
future, you need to be agile, digital, and ﬂexible, both for your people and your
customers. You need to have the ability to create new channels and products and get
them out to market quickly. And that's what our strategy and agile transformation is
helping us to achieve, making it easier for us to act quickly to serve our customers better.

Bloomberg Transcript

But we also want to do this in a way that's sustainable. The past months have reminded us
of the importance of the community and the world around us. When we have, as I'm sure
we will, cracked COVID-19, the climate crisis will still be there. And customers will rightly
demand our organizations play that part in addressing this.
Turning to Slide 30 then. Fundamentally, we believe that embracing sustainable practices
leads to a better corporate culture, more reliable product and greater long-term
sustainability. We have long been conscious of our impact on the planet. And as you can
see, we've already met both of our 2020 targets, which we set in 2017. So we now look to
go further to protect our business from the impacts of climate change and to give back
more to the planet than we take out.
To help the business achieve this, we are committing to set science-based targets which
are consistent with holding the global temperature rise to utmost 2 degrees above preindustrial levels. And we intend to do this across all categories of our emissions, including
the supply chain. In the meantime, from this year, we will be a 100% carbon-neutral as a
business by oﬀsetting our emissions by investing in high impact projects, whilst working
towards reducing our emissions over time. And ﬁnally, we aim to be TCFD-compliant by
the end of this year.
So that is the report for the year so far. As we move to the latter stages of the tech
transformation space, we need to make sure that the business is ready to realize the full
beneﬁts of the investments we've made and that is our priority for the remainder of 2020.
We intend to get our cost base back on track as we continue to target the 20% expense
ratio by 2023.
COVID-19 has meant extra investment in the force for good initiative I've mentioned and
some delays to our programs. But notwithstanding this, our business and tech
transformation are starting to drive material cost savings, helping us to improve the
quality of our earnings. From the autumn, a thousand of our people across motor, home,
partnership, marketing, digital and technology will operate in a fully agile way, making it
Page 11 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

FINAL

easier for us to implement change and quicker to service changing customer needs. And
we will move Direct Line and Churchill Motor onto the new platform, helping us to deliver
most to our customers quickly.
Taken together, these are designed to lay the foundations for the future growth of the
business. So this is the investment case that we presented to you at our Capital Markets
Day. Whether it's people and customers at the heart of our business, increasing our
competitiveness, or improving the quality of our earnings, each has stood the test of
COVID and remain as relevant now as they were eight months ago.
So, in conclusion, I believe today demonstrates that notwithstanding the environment, we
are in excellent shape. We focused on being a force for good and have supported our
customers, people, key workers and local communities through the crisis. We've traded
well and our ﬁnancial resilience in the face of COVID-19 disruption has enabled us to
reward our shareholders' patience by paying a 2020 interim dividend, as well as a catchup of our 2019 ﬁnal dividend. And ﬁnally, our strategy has helped us navigate the testing
ﬁrst half while making great progress on our technology transformation.
So that ends our half-year presentation. Thank you very much for listening. And Tim and I
will pass back to Rachel to coordinate the question-and-answer session.

Questions And Answers

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Thank you, Penny. (Operator Instructions) Our ﬁrst question comes from Kamran Hossain
from RBC. Kamran, your line is open. Please go ahead.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Hi, Kam.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Hi, Penny. Hi, Tim. Two questions. One is on -- both on the current year attritional actually.
I guess it's really pleasing to see the measures coming through. You talked about 8 points
improvement coming from these measures in Motor. Are there any other measures or
kind of projects you've got on track that should kind of improve that further? So that's the
ﬁrst question. And then the second question is, you've improved the current year
attritional quite a bit. You talked about the potential for transformational reinsurance once
you do this. Are we getting a little bit closer to that or am I just getting way too excited?
Thank you.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Tim, do you want to take the attritional questions?

A - Tim Harris

{BIO 16707496 <GO>}
Page 12 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

Yeah.Thanks, Kamran. So I think you're right to point that we are pleased with the
improvement on the Motor attritional 18% improvement. About 10% of that's COVID,
which means 8% isn't. So we do have lots of things coming down the line actually that we
hope we will maintain that advantage and potentially improve. And it -- some of it is a bit
further down the line. If you think about the changes we're making to our underlying
systems, lots of those drive changes through our pricing and underwriting practices,
which is exactly how you'd expect us to be trying to maintain that competitive advantage.
So, that I think is very good news.
I should say, just for completeness, that 8 point improvement will not look as good by the
end of the year just by the way things earn through. We have half year's beneﬁt last year
in eﬀect. So we do a have a bit of a comparative thing going on. But last year, overall, we
ﬁnished at about 81.2% overall and we certainly hope to be on the light [ph] side of that
by the time we get to the end of the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of transformation of reinsurance, rest assured, we think about that quite hard,
although we've had quite lot other things to think about quite hard in the ﬁrst half of this
year. And certainly the improvements we make and this transition towards a higher quality
of earnings in the current year would be an enabler to doing that on a really competitive
basis. I haven't got anything to tell you about today, but you can see that we're starting to
make progress on that which is broadly part of our overall capital journey and you saw a
ﬁrst step on that through the debt raise that we did in May. So that's all part of our
broader plan to think carefully about how we provide the risk capital of the business. And
as we come up with more ideas, obviously, we'll let you know.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Tim, Penny, thanks very much.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thank, Kam. Rachel, have we got any other questions?

Operator
Our next question comes from Jon Denham from Morgan Stanley. Jon, your line is open.
Please go ahead.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Good morning, Tim.

Q - Jon Denham

{BIO 19972914 <GO>}

Good morning, Penny and Tim. Thanks for taking my questions. Just coming back to
Kam's question on the attritional, when stripping out COVID, it looks like the Motor
attritional was around 75%. Tim, you mentioned headwinds (inaudible) premiums earned
through. But I'm just wondering what would cause this to increase to the 81.2% in 2H that
you just mentioned? And what are the additional headwinds there? And then maybe just

Page 13 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

a bit more on -- from Motor pricing. And you said risk adjusted prices increased by about
1.8% year-on-year and half and you said it was a tale of two quarters. So I was wondering if
there is any more color you could give around what the changes in risk-adjusted prices
looked like during 2Q and maybe into July. Thanks.

FINAL

A - Tim Harris

{BIO 16707496 <GO>}

So I'll take that one as well, Jon. Thank you for those questions. If it's okay, I'm going to
answer your second one ﬁrst and perhaps just take the opportunity to step back a bit and
give you a bit more color about what was going on in terms of the pricing trends in the
Motor book.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, as you know, ﬁrst quarter, really pleased. Very positive rating period, carried over the
positive momentum we saw in the last part of last year. Certainly much better than the ﬁrst
half of 2019. Our price increases were sticking. We were seeing growth. We were certainly
pricing in our longer-term claims inﬂation assumptions. So that was all very positive. And
then of course we ended up with COVID-19, introduced a huge amount of noise into the
system and obviously working through that, there's been a number of factors.
The ﬁrst thing I'd point to, which is probably the most signiﬁcant on premiums overall is
the eﬀects of risk mix and it's important not to underestimate the eﬀect of that huge
reduction in new car sales and also a reduction in new drivers to the market as driving test
was suspended. And that really meant that some of those higher average premium
policies weren't getting written. And so you saw a reduction in premiums as a result of risk
mix issues. But we also saw some eﬀects on the risk-adjusted rate increases coming
through, partly because of some deliberate actions we took. So we've put through some
targeted caps on renewal prices.
When we ﬁrst went into lockdown, our operational prioritization was to look after our
existing customers. We actually closed down the telephone lines for new business sales
on the direct channel for couple of weeks. And that meant that clearly there was some
action needed to make sure that we could improve retention. So, as I say, for a temporary
period, we've put through some targeted caps on pricing increases on renewal. They
were successful. And we've seen renewal rates respond positively, but that did have an
impact on the rate increase we are seeing excluding the mix results. That is now working
its way through, but certainly had an impact on the second quarter.
It's also true to say that we are seeing some stuﬀ going on in the market more generally.
You can see this actually in the ABI data that came out from May. Some price reductions
coming through in some parts of the market. Certainly, that was a feature end of April,
May time. We think it's stabilized more in June. And then of course the real question of
course is what does that mean over the coming months and the honest answer is, of
course, we will have to wait and see. But I'd just point to some of the factors, which I think
are going to make a diﬀerence.
First of all, we are seeing the miles driven come back to slowly the kind of levels we were
seeing pre-COVID. I think it's important though to say that this change in driver behavior
and, if you like, the nature of the miles that are being driven and that does make the eﬀect
Page 14 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

FINAL

that we are seeing in claims and therefore the unknown [ph] impact on pricing is
somewhat uncertain. Staycation is potentially a feature. But we won't really know until we
see the schools go back in September and to see how much we see people going back
to work on the back of that and how that will aﬀect the performance of the market.
So how pricing behaves of course will depend on how individual companies predict
future claims patterns. We remain committed to our practice, which is to continue to price
on the basis of what we think long-term claims inﬂation will be. Of course, that depends
on knowing what that long-term claims inﬂation will be. We think it will be -- continue to
be within that 3% to 5% range blended for frequency and severity. Obviously, we will see
how the companies respond to that. We do continue to believe, though, the behavior in
the market will be rational and so we remain optimistic over the medium term that the
pricing environment will be satisfactory for our purposes.
Coming back to your ﬁrst question, which was about, we get to 75% and how do we get
back to something more like the 81% or so that we saw last year. There's a bit of a just a
denominator factor going on in terms of, we've got that 81% ﬁgure was a full year where
half year didn't have really the beneﬁts coming through, the second half did. This half
year, you've only got the beneﬁts, if you like. And so just as a consequence of the math,
we think that will pull us back towards 81% ﬁgure, but I don't want to be too pessimistic
about that. We are hoping that we will see some improvements on that 81% ﬁgure, but
probably in real life not as good as a 75% as you can see in the ﬁrst half of the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Jon Denham

{BIO 19972914 <GO>}

Brilliant. Thanks very much. And can I just check, did you say you are -- you still -- you are
currently pricing for your 3% to 5% claims inﬂation expectation?

A - Tim Harris

{BIO 16707496 <GO>}

Yes, that's pretty much what we do in the way we approach our pricing.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Kind of how models work, Jon. We start with that.

Q - Jon Denham

{BIO 19972914 <GO>}

Brilliant. Thanks very much.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Rachel, have we got anymore questions on the line?

Operator
Our next question comes from Edward Morris from JPMorgan. Edward, your line is open.
Please go ahead.

Page 15 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

Hi, everyone. Thank you for taking the question.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

FINAL

Hi, Ed.

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

First one is on reserving. I'm just wondering to the extent to which this period may have
allowed some additional conservatism to go into the reserve, so can you talk a little bit
about that? I wonder if there's been any change perhaps in the reserve margin or it's not
done on that basis. Can you talk about what you've assumed in terms of frequency
beneﬁts versus what was experienced in the ﬁrst half? And then you said that frequency
was starting to tick up again in June. And just sort of understanding how you've
approached that decision would be really helpful.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then the second question is around solvency and capital management. Obviously,
thank you very much for the catch-up payment. I'm sure it's highly appreciated by
shareholders, but just thinking about how you'd approach this when we come to the full
year. Obviously, you've mentioned this ﬁgure of 173, that's sort of ex-debts ﬁgure for
solvency. Is there any reason to think that you might think about capital management
diﬀerently this year or should we just think the same preference for buyback versus
specials and you'll approach it like any other year-end process? Thank you.

A - Tim Harris

{BIO 16707496 <GO>}

Thanks, Edward. I'll pick up those, if that's okay. So let me talk about reserving. So I should
stress, there have been no change in our underlying reserving philosophy. But let me talk
speciﬁcally about how we've dealt with frequency and severity. We've not had pandemic
before, certainly not recently and so trying to reserve in this environment, clearly a lot of
the way you tend to do reserves isn't relevant, because it doesn't really work oﬀ the back
of historical patterns. So we do have to be cautious.
In terms of frequency, we've obviously been tracking frequency very, very carefully. And
as I described to Jon earlier, in sort of the major parts of the lockdown, frequency was -- it
was down about 70% as miles driven have increased. We're certainly seeing that
increasing in line. It's not yet back up to sort of pre-COVID levels. And as I said, that might
be a bit deceptive anyway because the nature of the miles driven could well have
changed signiﬁcantly. But we follow the data on frequency.
I think more diﬃcult to read severity. Anecdotally, there is some evidence that on bodily
injury claims they were a bit more severe during lockdown, possibly as a result of people
driving faster. Also, fact that a lot more people were walking and cycling. So you have
some more accidents involved people who were not in cars. Sort of some anecdotal
evidence around that. But certainly what we've seen operationally, of course, is that
although the number of car repairs on the damage side has been much lower because
(inaudible) your cars to repair. The capacity issues around repairing cars have been
impacted by things like social distancing.
Page 16 of 28



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

We're very proud of our motor repair network. They continue to work throughout the
pandemic, keeping key workers' cars on the roads. But necessarily, we do have some
restrictions on capacity there, which we can manage through. But it will mean some
potential impact on severity. How does that manifest itself? Potentially some higher -credit higher costs if it takes a bit longer to repair cars. And potentially also if we see
some supply chain is [ph] coming through. So we thought about all of those things in
reserving and, as you'd expect, we've been prudent in our approach, which is what you -I think, you expect from us. But fundamentally, the underlying philosophy is the same.
Think [ph] about solvency and capital, moving on to your second question, I think that -as we said, at the time we made the decision to cancel the ﬁnal dividend with a very heavy
heart. We know how important the dividend is for our shareholders and the people they
represent, the pension schemes, the charities. That was not a decision taken lightly, but it
was appropriate at the time, but we always wanted to get back to dividend paying as
quickly as we possibly could. This has been the ﬁrst opportunity and we've taken it. We've
taken it because we've taken positive actions to strengthen our capital and liquidity and
that's meant that when we run stress and scenario testing, we can demonstrate the -- we
can take the decision to resume dividend paying, conﬁdent that we're still in resilient
shape to meet our promises to policyholders.
I think that in terms of what does that mean in terms of overall capital levels, well, I'm sure
that in normal circumstances, what I said last year, the 140% to 180% range being
somewhere towards the middle of that was appropriate, still stands. Unfortunately, I don't
think we're in normal circumstances. The circumstances we are in are fairly extraordinary
and so you can expect us to continue to be quite prudent in the way we're thinking about
capital and liquidity as we negotiate whatever frankly pandemic and the number of other
issues like Brexit ﬂows of those, over the course of the next several months.
We like everybody want to get back to normal as quickly as we can, but we will be quite
thoughtful about that in terms of preference for buybacks versus special dividends, kind
of just depends, doesn't it, on the circumstances that exist at the time and whatever
decisions we might make about returning surplus capital. And I'm going to save all of that
through the end of the year.

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

Okay, thank you. Look forward to it. Thank you.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks. Have we got another question?

Operator
Our next question comes from Freya Kong from Bank of America. Freya, your line is open.
Please go ahead.

Q - Freya Kong

{BIO 20097488 <GO>}
Page 17 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

Thanks.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Hi, Freya.

FINAL

Q - Freya Kong

{BIO 20097488 <GO>}

Hi, Penny. Hi, Tim. Hope you are well? Two questions for me, please. So, ﬁrstly, you're
reiterating your 93 to 95 call for the full year, but you did 90.4 normalized in H1. This is
allowing for pretty tough second half. How much of this is conservatism or are you
expecting a bit more frequency in H2 tough operating conditions? Secondly, premium
per policy continues to drop even though on a risk adjusted basis your pricing is ahead of
claims inﬂation. I understand risk mix was a bit lower in H1, because of COVID. Do you
expect this to partly reverse in H2? And I guess, overall, do you have initiatives to try to
get premium per policy up, not just Motor but also Home?

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I think, well, I will take the second one ﬁrst. On premium per policy, I think on Motor, really
it's a distortion, because of the COVID events more than anything else I think rather than a
particular pattern. We don't particularly target average premium in our pricing approach.
That's not how we do it, but we will see how things develop. We've actually seen over the
last year, pre-COVID kind of more young drivers on the book and so on. So we had
actually seen it moving in the other direction. Let's see how COVID unfolds and how fast
that unwinds.
On Home, I think slightly diﬀerent trend. On Home, we have seen (inaudible) falling over
time because what you've seen is a lot of the growth coming through price comparison
and there, there is deﬁnitely a diﬀerential on the average premium. And so there is a
trend running I think in the Home book as we get stronger and stronger on the price
comparison side.
Targets? (inaudible)

A - Tim Harris

{BIO 16707496 <GO>}

Yes. So, we are reiterating the 93% to 95% call. As you say, we're coming oﬀ a strong ﬁrst
half in that regard. We are expecting increases in frequency. As I said, we're seeing that
coming back as people return to roads. In particular, also in household actually, frequency
is back to pre-COVID levels, albeit the mix of the claims that we're seeing is somewhat
diﬀerent. So, yeah, we'd expect a more normal, if you like, second half of the year as I
explained to Edward, it's somewhat diﬃcult to predict exactly what's going to happen. So
you would expect over the year for this to be in line with our guidance.

Q - Freya Kong

{BIO 20097488 <GO>}

Okay, great. Thanks.

Page 18 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks, Freya. Okay, Rachel, next question, if there is one?

FINAL

Operator
Our next question comes from Oliver Steel from Deutsche Bank. Oliver, your line is open.
Please go ahead.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Good morning.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Hi, Oliver.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Two questions. First is, can I just come back on the reserving -- reserve release issue,
because you've given us quite a lot of guidance on the attritional loss ratio, but actually
there is a sort of not quite equal and opposite move in the release from prior year? How
should we be thinking about what a long-term reserve release should be in your
numbers? That's question one.
And then second question is, Tim, you talked about the risk to your travel claims estimates
coming from travel companies and airline companies going bust. I'm looking -- I mean,
there ought to be a sort of in terms -- I mean, now you've got the sort of whatever it is
(inaudible) sort of insurance cover, which presumably covers that. So I'm just wondering
how much of a risk that is actually to your book?

A - Tim Harris

{BIO 16707496 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks, Oliver. Let me take both of those. So our prior year reserve leases, especially
on Motor, have been decreasing over time and that's actually a result of some of the
development that we see on the bigger bodily injury claims some of which are on the
book for very, very long time. The releases in those reducing because of reinsurance
changes we made a few years ago. And that tends to push down the prior year releases.
As expected, frankly, the best guidance I can give in terms of how you should think about
that is the sort of 50% of proﬁts coming from the current year, which isn't just a result of
improvements in the current year, but it's also a result of reductions in the prior year. And
that's really what's going on.
In terms of Travel, yes, I think it is important that we acknowledge there will continue to be
risks and the risks to the ﬁnancial outcomes on Travel are related to, as far as COVID-19 is
concerned, to the eﬀect on airlines, travel companies, but you're absolutely right that it's
not a straightforward kind of sequence of events that lead to us bringing online. There's a
number of diﬀerent kind of stopping points in terms of liability before it falls on our
books. So you are right to say, the ﬁrst obligation sits with the holiday provider of the
airline. We've then got in the expense [ph] of insolvency schemes like (inaudible) sitting
Page 19 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

FINAL

behind them. And then potentially and depends very much on the facts and
circumstances in the individual policyholders claim, but potentially you've got the credit
card providers behind that before we're liable.
But there is no doubt that if we did see a major airline, for example, to fail, we obviously
hope that doesn't happen, then it would be a consequence of those. The only thing I
would say is that I don't think we're talking about a catastrophic consequence. But it
would be negative compared to our GBP25 million current estimate.

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks, Oliver. Any more questions, Rachel?

Operator
Our next question comes from Dom O'Mahony from Exane BNP Paribas. Don, your line is
open. Please go ahead.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, Dom?

Q - Dominic O'Mahony
Hello, hope you're all well. Thank you for taking my questions. Just to start with, on capital
generation, I am just looking at the walk on Page 21. I'm just comparing the operating
capital generation net of the CapEx with the proﬁt after tax and it's not higher. I mean, it's
about GBP280 million versus GBP193 million. I'm just wondering whether there is sort of a
special factor inﬂuencing that this period. Whether there is a recurring reason why that
would be true, why that delta would be true? Obviously, this is absolutely the main driver
of capital (inaudible) capacity. But then relatedly, the capital requirement increased by
GBP70 million, so 9 points on the solvency ratio and the way you presented suggested
this is not the impact of rates because rates presumably go through market diﬀerences.
Why is the capital requirement going up by I think 5% in the period given that actually you
de-risked the investment portfolio quite a lot? You had the cash rather than reinvesting.
So those are just some questions on capital.
And then I guess more in terms of the regular ﬁnancials. I noticed in Home, the prior year
development is quite lot lower than last year, which last year may have been for the
exceptional risk, is sort of 1% PYD in Home, is that a normal result you think? Is there
reasons that might be lower than normal? If you could give any steer on that, that would
be really helpful. Thank you.

A - Tim Harris

{BIO 16707496 <GO>}

Page 20 of 28



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

Great. Thanks, Dom. Let me have a go at that. You're absolutely right. The capital
generation on Solvency II basis is strong in the ﬁrst half. There are reasons to that and it's
about the way the model works and the Solvency II technical provisions that tend to take a
kind of forward look on the impact of some of the claims things -- claims issues that I
discussed on future unearned premiums and they get modeled in. And as a result,
actually those technical provisions are lower. And in eﬀect what the model does is, it kind
of anticipates some of that beneﬁt coming through in the capital sooner than you'll see in
the IFRS results. So I think that it isn't something that will recur period after period.
Unfortunately, if it was, we would have discovered the sort of magic money tree. It is a bit
temporary and I think, you can expect to see us when we report our full year results to see
a closer alignment between IFRS proﬁt and the capital generation just as those things
even out over the course of the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

So on the capital requirement, another good spot. Actually that's a result of the volatility
we've seen in the debt market. One of the parameters in the model is an economic
scenario generator that looks at a range of outcomes. And the capital of the market -- risk
capital that's required is very much a function of that volatility. This will be feature for all
companies, I should say. In fact, we all tend to use very, very similar economic scenario
generators. There is not that many people that provide them and that has caused the
capital requirement to move out a bit during the course of this half year. Where will I go
into future depends entirely on the level of volatility in the ﬁnancial markets going
forward. And, well, your guess is as good as mine in that regard. But that's been the eﬀect
that we've seen in the ﬁrst half.
In terms of Home, I think that the only thing I'd say -- I can't really guide you on an answer
to what prior development will be by the full year. But there is, though, I should ﬂag a bit
of a timing issue about when we do our full annual reserving reviews and the Home one
will happen in the second half of this year. And I imagine that may well have an impact
when we come to reporting our full year result.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

The other thing I'd add on Home is that last year's prior year development numbers were
buoyed because we'd had a lot of positive experience on escape of water which we
recognized. And you can see that actually ﬂowing through the current year beneﬁts in
Home as well. So it was kind of a bit of a catch-up of prior release. So I don't think we'd
necessarily -- we haven't done the reserve review yet, so, but I don't think we'd necessarily
expect to see in that kind of level again.

Q - Dominic O'Mahony
That's very clear. And thank you both for explaining that. Can I just ask a very quick followup on the capital piece. I get the point about the volatility in the market and not knowing
what will happen there. But on the ﬁrst point you mentioned, Tim, about essentially the
forward-looking element to the solvency model, should we be expecting this to sort of
reverse in H2 such that the full year number will be more in line with sort of proﬁt or is
your point that it will -- the gap will close and essentially this will normalize over time? I
realize it may be a diﬃcult question to answer, but any guidance would be helpful.

Page 21 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

A - Tim Harris

{BIO 16707496 <GO>}

FINAL

I mean, all things being equal, I would expect the -- when we look at the full-year capital
generation compared to the full year proﬁts, I would expect that to be close in alignment
as far as the eﬀect [ph] to work through the IFRS numbers. So that does kind of suggest, I
think, lower organic capital generation in the second half compared to the ﬁrst half.

Q - Dominic O'Mahony
Great. Thank you very much.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks. Pick up another question, Rachel?

Operator
Our next question comes from Andreas van Embden from Peel Hunt. Andreas, your line is
open. Please go ahead.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Good morning, Andreas.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Hi, good morning. Just had one question really. You provided quite sort of substantial
(inaudible) customer rebates to your policyholders (inaudible) Motor. Is there any way you
could quantify the top line impact of those customer rebates? And then tied to that, do
you have a view -- I know it's a bit early in the year, because we're still in the (inaudible)
but do you have any idea as to the second order of fact of [ph] providing those customer
relief measures, what would be the credit risk in the second half of the year and have you
taken any provisions against potential non-performing premiums? Thank you.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Okay, let me take those. I think the easiest way to think about the balance of the customer,
I think as we've talked in the release, about GBP80 million to GBP90 million were of what
we call our force for good initiative. And those cover everything we've done for
customers, they cover what we've done for the community, and they cover what we've
done for our people in terms of guaranteeing roles and so on, so forth.
About half of those are customer-driven and that would include both refunds and our
estimates of what premium deferrals are likely to do across the year. So that's kind of our
working view as to what those sort of customer give-backs will cost. Obviously, we will
keep monitoring premium deferrals because the shape of that may change as the
furlough schemes and so on unwind. But at the moment, we've allowed -- that's the
allowance that we are considering.

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}
Page 22 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

And what do you think about the credit risk tied to that -- to your sort of insurance
receivables in the premium (multiple speakers)

FINAL

A - Tim Harris

{BIO 16707496 <GO>}

So I haven't got a ﬁgure for you, Andreas. But we do look at the credit risk and we do
make provision for that. In the greater scheme of things, we're not expecting that to be a
very material number, but it is something that we consider.

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks, Andreas. Rachel, have we got anymore?

Operator
Our next question comes from Abid Hussain from Credit Suisse. Abid, your line is open.
Please go ahead.

Q - Abid Hussain

{BIO 20229932 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, morning, all. Thanks for taking my questions.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Good morning, Abid.

Q - Abid Hussain

{BIO 20229932 <GO>}

Morning. I think I've got two left. One is really a follow-up on the claims outlook. I was just
trying to get a sort of longer-term sense of your view on where we might end up with on
claims post-COVID and based on the Motor book and the Home book as behaviors
change and people sort of adopt to more working from home, more ﬂexible working. You
said sort of fewer miles driven, fewer journeys, but the nature might be diﬀerent. Just a
little bit more color on what that might mean for claims in Motor. And then sort of on
Home, I guess we'd expect fewer thefts, (inaudible) ﬁre and water leaks, but that might be
oﬀset by more accidental damage. But I'd love to hear your views on how you see that
playing out on the sort of medium to long term?
And then the second question is on inorganic growth opportunities versus any buybacks.
I guess the question really is, what's your view on kind of growth? Would you consider it? I
think you have said you wouldn't in the past, but really sort of thinking about that versus
resuming the buyback which you've canceled and possibly doing additional buybacks. So
what sort of order of priority would you put that -- blend [ph] that in? Yes, those are the
two questions.

Page 23 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

A - Tim Harris

{BIO 16707496 <GO>}

FINAL

So thanks for those questions. I'm going to answer the second one. And we -- and talk
about motor claims and then Penny will pick up the home claims trend.
So on inorganic growth, we said last November at our Capital Markets Day that inorganic
growth and that might take the form of acquisitions. It might also take the form of more
partnerships. We think those make strategic sense. We haven't got anything to talk about
today, but I think that probably still is the case.
In terms of a prioritization call, I think we've got a number of things going on and the ﬁrst
one I'd come back to is, we are in the middle of a pandemic. And we do need to continue
to be really thoughtful about capital and liquidity when we're thinking about capital in
terms of what might be surplus and might not. Generally, actually I think about things a
little bit separately. If there was a compelling reason to make an acquisition, then that's
something we would expect to -- depending on the scale of course, but it's something
we'd expect to be talking to shareholders about over time. And I'm sure we would -generally the capital policy that we have, as I say, in normal circumstances would be that if
we think the capital surplus, then we will return it to the middle of our range.

Bloomberg Transcript

Coming back to your ﬁrst question on claims outlook, very diﬃcult to read, as I say, on the
basis that we've not really been here before. But what we are seeing, ﬁrst of all, on
frequency is the frequency of claims increasing on the Motor book, pretty much in line
with the increase in the miles driven. Although, I would say, it's not yet reached what we
would consider to be normal levels, still -- claims frequency is still down a bit, but much,
much less than it was in April.
But as I say, underneath that was probably some things I'd like to mention in relation to
the nature of the claims. And I think there is some evidence that driving behavior is
changing a bit. There is less commuting going on for the obvious reason that fewer
people are in the oﬃces. There is much less school travel going on, obviously, in the
summer because schools are closed, but before the summer holidays because those
schools weren't happening. We'd expect those to come back over time. We think that
there will be a lot more miles driven this year through people's tendency to take the
holidays in the UK rather than overseas. Exactly how these will work through in the long
run, frankly, it's a bit diﬃcult to tell. But we expect those to be the trends which will inform
that.
I'll hand over to Penny on the household claims.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Yeah. Household, so what have we seen through lockdown? We've seen -- we have seen a
reduction in frequency, nowhere near the same levels as Motor but there has been some
reduction. In terms of the mix, some of it I guess is expected. So you've seen less big
escape of water type claims because our assumption is people are identifying it faster,
less ﬁre -- less theft and sort of personal possession type loss type claims. But on the other
end, [ph] an increase in sort of smaller accidental damage type claims. But what we have

Page 24 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

FINAL

also seen is severity increasing, because actually just on frequency, we're just kind of
waiting to see how much of that is real and how much of it's delayed reporting. Our sense
is most of the delays are probably getting out the system now as we come back to pretty
normal levels of frequency now.
Just on severity, severities increased because what you've seen is a higher alternative
accommodation cost where people have had to put up longer because their houses are
under repair for whatever reason, and obviously people have not been able to access
their homes and the supply chain has been disrupted because of furloughing and so on
and so forth. So you've seen some increases in severity for that. I don't think it's obvious
to us how much of this in home is an ongoing pattern. So we're already seeing frequency
kind of write itself and the supply chain seems to be returning to normal pretty rapidly
now. So I don't feel necessarily like they are necessarily long-term trends, I think.

Q - Abid Hussain

{BIO 20229932 <GO>}

Great. Thank you. Thanks a lot.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks. Got another question?

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Our next question comes from Andrew Crean from Autonomous. Andrew, your line is
open. Please go ahead.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Good morning, you two. Couple of questions, if I can. Firstly, reinvestment rate on the
ﬁxed interest portfolio, I mean it's less than three years in duration. Can you tell us what
the reinvestment rate is because if the portfolio yields comes down by 1 percentage
points, you need to bring the combined ratio down by 2 in order to retain proﬁtability.
And I suppose that leads into asking whether it's time to -- in this very low rate
environment, whether it's time to review the 93.5.
And then the second question is on capital. In trying to give us some sort of guide on
when specials occur, because you've given us the 140, 180 and the 160, then we've got to
add in whether it's normal conditions or not. In the old days, you said this in abnormal
conditions you needed 10 points more. You also said historically that you'd never operate
outside the 140, 180 in return, anything above 180 or now 192 in the buyback hasn't been
reiterated. What should we really think? Should we just be operating in abnormal
conditions that you will be aiming to be 10 points above the 160 after you allow for the 22
call on the debt?

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

If I take the second one...?

Page 25 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

FINAL

A - Tim Harris

{BIO 16707496 <GO>}

Well, I'll have a go at the reinvestment rate. I haven't got a ﬁgure for you, Andrew. But the
reinvestment rate is down. I guess you got two eﬀects going on at the moment. You've
got the reduction in interest rates, which is clearly unhelpful. You've got compensating
that at the moment a bit of an increase in credit spreads, certainly compared to where we
were beginning of the year. And broadly, we think that (technical diﬃculty) assessing at
the moment. But it does -- as you say, it mean that the impact of investment return on the
overall performance of the business is less positive than it was. And that's certainly one of
the factors that's driving our view that the impact of the pandemic overall on the business
is broadly neutral and a big part of that is the deterioration in investment return.
In terms of does that mean we should be changing the 93% to 95% guidance? At the
moment, we're not doing that. It still remains our objective to meet that in the medium
term. And that does mean there will be consequences on the underwriting results. You're
absolutely right.

Bloomberg Transcript

So I'll have a go at capital and then any comments Penny might like to add. I know it's
frustrating, but I haven't got a kind of ready reckoner for you in terms of exactly what the
levels of capital we will hold at the end of the year will be. And I just want to explain why.
The ﬁrst thing which I hope is helpful is that we obviously can't make any announcements
about the action we might take on whether we call the 2012 Tier 2 instrument, which is
ﬁrst callable in 2022, that's GBP250 million outstanding. But one of the reasons we
moved to reﬁnance that early was because of the positive impact it gives us in terms of a
bit of a capital and liquidity buﬀer for at least the next 18 months or so, but we do have to,
in all probability, think about redeeming that at some stage. So I think you need to
remember that when you're thinking about our capital outlook over medium term.
In terms of the 140, 160, 180, believe me, I would love to be able to tell you that we were
going to move to the middle of that range. That was certainly where we hope we would
be when we stood up in Doncaster in November last year, somewhat inconveniently the
sort of pandemic came along. And I think that is exceptional and I've got to say that. We
do need to make sure that we are being quite prudent in our approach to capital
reserves. We really didn't want to have to cancel the ﬁnal dividend in April, but we made a
sensible decision at the time to do so. We've returned to paying dividends as soon as we
possibly could and we paid full catch-up. I think that's a really important ﬁrst step, but
beyond the no doubt, in the long run, we're here to return capital to shareholders and we
get that.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

I think that's completely right. Our job is to look at this prudently, Andrew. It's really
important that we get back on returning money to our shareholders and meeting our
commitments, which is what we've done today. But I think there is plenty of uncertainty
between here and next March and we'll view that when we get there.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}
Page 26 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

Okay.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks, Andrew. Rachel, any more questions on the line?

FINAL

Operator
Our next question comes from Thomas Bateman from Berenberg. Thomas, your line is
open. Please go ahead.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Hi, Thomas

Q - Thomas Bateman

{BIO 21707516 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning. Hi, there. Thanks for taking my question. And good to hear you both so
upbeat and making excellent progress on the group strategy. Just one question on the
FTA's review. (inaudible) agree the excellence of what they had in Capital Markets Day
and I was wondering if you'd give us any sort of further update on this. You ﬂagged that
home premiums are down 2.5% and that's partly due to the mix eﬀects we see [ph] in
PCWs. Investor perception is that you're a little bit more exposed to this review. So I was
just wondering if you could give us any comfort if there are other mitigating actions that
you've taken and what the sort of impact may be later in the year? Thank you.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks, Thomas. Well, I think the short answer on the fact of the FTA review has been -kind of pricing review has been delayed twice now. It was due in April and then I think in
July. Somewhat understandably given everything that's going on. We don't have a revised
date for it. So we don't know -- I don't believe the FTA has a set landing date for it yet. So
presumably at some point later in the year as you suggest. And I don't think in that sense
things have materially moved on from a regulatory discussion point since Kate did that
update at the Capital Markets Day. So that remains -- that's probably the best insight.
In terms of what we've been doing and we continue -- and Kate laid out that we put, if you
like, lines into the book in terms of margin and pricing. We continue to tighten those over
time. So we continue that process and there's probably a small impact from that in the
average premium movement that you can see. I think it's outweighed by the sort of mix,
the book shifting towards PCW, if you like. But clearly there are some changes in there
and that would be a component of that movement. And we will continue to keep moving
forward on our sort of (inaudible) pricing arrangements and making progress until we're
clear from the FTA what it is and how it is they want to approach it. So, yeah, so way the
longer -- the longer the review takes, the more progress we would have made. It's
probably the way for investors to think about it I think.

Q - Thomas Bateman

{BIO 21707516 <GO>}

No, great. That's great. Thank you.
Page 27 of 28



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2020-08-04

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks, Thomas. So are there any more questions, Rachel?

Operator

FINAL

We have no further questions. So, back to you, Penny.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Okay. In which case, I'd just like to thank everybody for their patience this morning. I'm
sorry, it's a call rather than face-to-face. It's never quite the same, but it was the best we
could do. The best we could muster in the circumstances. But thank you very much for
your time and if anybody has got any other questions oﬄine, obviously you know where
we are. Have a good summer. Take care.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call. Thank you for joining. You may now
disconnect your lines.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 28 of 28

