Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-05-13

Q1 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Guido Maria Nola, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Massimiliano R Riggi, Head of Investor Relations
Massimo Rosini, Head of the Mail Communications & Logistics Department
Matteo Del Fante, Chief Executive Oﬃcer, General Manager & Director

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Poste Italiane Q1
2020 Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. I
must advise you that this conference is being recorded today.
And I would now like to hand the conference over to your ﬁrst speaker today, Massimo
Riggi. Please go ahead, sir.

Bloomberg Transcript

Massimiliano R Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Apologize for this short delay. Welcome to Poste
Italiane ﬁrst quarter 2020 results presented by our CEO, Matteo Del Fante; and our Group
CFO, Guido Nola.
Starting from now, participants can submit questions, which will be gathered in writing via
the webcast platform only. During the Q&A session at the end of the presentation, we will
read and answer your questions based on the order we receive them.
Now, let me pass it over to Matteo.

Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Thank you, Massimiliano. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for joining us
today. I hope you and your families are well and safe. Let me send our thoughts to those
aﬀected by COVID-19 in Italy, and all over the world.
In the last few months, we had to face an unforeseen environment on very tough
operating challenges. I'm very proud of all people at Poste Italiane for their continuous
commitment to provide uninterrupted service to the whole country, special to those who
lost their lives because of COVID-19.

Page 1 of 21



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-05-13

FINAL

Our eﬀorts and continuity in operations in the last 10 weeks had been recognized by all
our clients, which were almost surprised by our resilience and presence in such a diﬃcult
environment. I'm conﬁdent that our reputation has been strengthened and this will
beneﬁt our future commercial initiatives.
Let's now move to Slide number 3 please. This quarter has been characterized by
diverging trends in the ﬁrst two months versus March. We will therefore present results
highlighting the trend for January and February on one side and on a separate basis for
March. We can cautiously say that in April and May with a gradual relaxation of
emergency related restrictions. We are seeing a slow resumption of economic activities
across Italy and at Poste. And where possible, today, we will try to give you some
highlights.
Nevertheless, there is still not enough visibility on what the new normal will be and when
it will actually begin. We have therefore decided not to update our on 2020 guidance,
fully aware that COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown have aﬀected our 2020 ﬁnancial
performance making our original targets not achievable.

Bloomberg Transcript

Poste Italiane has a diversiﬁed business with a sound ﬁnancial proﬁle. We only distribute
loans and mortgages, so with no underwriting credit risk. Therefore, we're not exposed to
downside related to credit deterioration. We do have a high cash ﬂow generation
capability with wide liquidity buﬀers. Limited outstanding debt, signiﬁcant undrawn credit
lines and our insurance and ﬁnancial businesses are strongly capitalized both in terms of
Solvency II and CET 1 ratios.
At the same time, thinking about our Deliver 2022, there is nothing that today I would
change in the strategy. As a matter of fact, all the underlying trends at the macro level had
been accelerated, making our strategic decisions of Deliver 2022 even more compelling.
Our mindset is basically not to lose a good crisis, seeking cost cutting and operating
eﬃciency initiatives that today are easier to implement. We will also put in place certain
organizational changes to beneﬁt from emerging trends and accelerate the
implementation of the plan.
Our goal is to continue to be a pillar for our communities. This strategy has increased
general client penetration over the last three years, and I'm conﬁdent that it will support
our future growth. We therefore need to change and adapt, and in this presentation we
will give you some sense of such an evolution, which is already underway.
On Slide 4. We summarize our eﬀorts to face the health emergency. With timely actions to
take care of our employees, safeguard our customers and support our communities. I
want to thank again all our employees, and especially those in the frontline for remaining
strong, ensuring the continuity our services. I'm very proud of the strong commitment to
do their jobs, supporting the whole company initiatives.
To protect our colleagues' health and safety, we choose to voluntarily reduce our services
in, Mail and Parcel and Distribution partially and to cut physical presence in post oﬃce
and sorting centers also reducing the eﬀorts of our Postina and Postini. We immediately
Page 2 of 21



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-05-13

FINAL

appointed an internal emergency committee and a contingency task force with over 500
people for crisis management to coordinate initiatives across the country.
Throughout the crisis and especially during the peak of the outbreak, our presence was
guaranteed across the country with over 9,000 post oﬃces open, one for each
municipality at least once per week. We agreed with the government with large utilities
and banks to postpone mass mailings allowing us to dedicate all our eﬀorts to more
essential client needs. And for our people working on the frontline, we acted quickly to
assure extra protection for their safety.
As a matter of fact, we delivered over 5.2 million sanitary masks over 12 million disposable
gloves and sanitizing kits. We installed 14,000 protective plexiglass screens, thermal
imaging cameras. We run extraordinary clinics and sanitize our logistics ﬂeet and 20,000
buildings all over the country. 15,000 people work at home with a positive impact on
productivity.
In order to comply with social distancing measures and restrictions on movement of
people, we decided to reduce our marketing eﬀorts, limiting customer footfall in our
oﬃces to essential needs. At the same time, we promoted the use of our digital channels.

Bloomberg Transcript

During lockdown, we prioritized parcel delivery, despite the reduced workforce as part of
our response to rising client needs with e-commerce obviously strongly accelerating. In
coordination with the government and the relevant institutions in March, we distributed
over EUR5 billion in pensions to ﬁve million seniors on a pre-agreed schedule over six
days with a new operational model. We supported our communities in a number of ways.
Let me mention a few. In cooperation with the government, we are service provided of the
emergency income to ﬁnancially support most vulnerable citizens. For those eligible
customers whose salaries credited with Poste, we took immediate action to provide them
with advances on State wage support. In close cooperation with local municipalities and
thanks to our distribution network, we supported local communities to ensure a timely
distribution of ﬁnancial aid measures and PPEs to citizens.
We also signed an agreement with the Carabinieri Corp to home-deliver pensions to most
vulnerable seniors over 75 years. We run a sustainable business and promote initiatives to
support all our stakeholders. We have always been a beacon for the country and we
contribute to set new standards in the new normal.
In this emergency, Poste felt the responsibility to live up to its role as social and economic
backbone of the country. We have once again strengthened our reputation in the eyes of
our customers, our colleagues, central and local institutions and stakeholders in general.
Let me conclude with two achievements regarding our brand and reputation. First, in
April our corporate reputation measured by Reptrack increased by 5.4 percentage points
with an average reputation of companies around Italy remaining broadly stable, since the
COVID-19 outbreak of February 2020. The signiﬁcant increase in the reputation of Poste is
based mainly on growing performance on the perception of the workplace, leadership
Page 3 of 21



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-05-13

FINAL

and product and services. Second achievement, we're very proud that last Monday, Brand
Finance awarded Poste Italiane the ﬁrst ranking within the Top 100 most valuable
insurance brands worldwide.
On Slide 5, we highlight the solidity of our ﬁnancial proﬁle. Poste Italiane has a strong
capital position. Our Solvency II ratio in insurance has been reinforced over the past two
years signiﬁcantly reducing volatility. Our CET 1 ratio for BancoPosta is high and
predictable. Our ﬁnancial services business is capital-light as we only distribute loan and
mortgages without any credit risk.
We're aware that 2020 ﬁnancial will be impacted by lower fees, while we do not
underwrite loans and only distribute products on behalf of third parties. Besides our CET 1
ratio is not exposed to the volatility of BTP swap spread that has the related portion of the
fair value reserve is ﬁltered out.
Overall, we have a large liquidity buﬀer with up to EUR5.2 billion liquidity resources
potentially available. In particular, in March, we took immediate action to activate around 1
billion credit lines retaining maximum ﬂexibility for extreme scenarios. In a nutshell, our
position when entering the crisis was extremely safe and remain so.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to Slide 6. We have a high cash ﬂow generation capability with sound funds from
operation, while the schedule of repayment of our low outstanding debt is extremely
manageable and smooth over time. Hence, not only we do have a strong balance sheet,
but it's sustainable over time as we have the capability to generate cash. Thanks to our
proﬁtable business and diversiﬁcation across segments.
Moving to Slide 7. To eﬀectively react to the emergency and be ready for the new normal
we put in place a speciﬁc actions capitalizing upon new emerging trends. Business wise
most of the initiatives were embedded in our Deliver 2022 strategy, and this crisis is
projecting us into the future at an accelerated speed. In fact, in logistics, we are observing
around 18 month acceleration in Mail and Parcel trends. Speciﬁcally, B2C volumes
increased signiﬁcantly conﬁrming the validity of our strategy focusing on e-commerce to
oﬀset the mail decline.
In April and May, we saw peak volumes comparable to Black Friday and Christmas
periods, driven by inbound ﬂows from China. Just to give you an idea, in late April
volumes from China were comparable in size to our larger customers and sometimes
even higher. We're also noticing an improvement in the shift from low margin products to
higher value-added delivery solutions. Thanks to targeted proactive initiatives on the
commercial side in the Chinese market.
As already mentioned during our innovation workshop back in January in London, we
entered into a partnership with Milkman for premium delivery services and with Sennder
for long-haul transportation. We are accelerating the pace, as this strategy proved to be a
winner in the current environment. In ﬁnancial and insurance, the increased use of our
digital channels as well as higher liquidity on current accounts and postal passbooks
created a condition for business growth going forward.
Page 4 of 21



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-05-13

We have already launched a new remote advisory model to oﬀer our customer investment
and protection products. And we will gradually upgrade this model reaching from remote
our customer across the country has a natural complement to the face-to-face
interactions. We are ready to resume our modular P&C oﬀer, which was starting to
perform before the lockdown, when it was just launched in February. On life insurance,
we will focus on our multi-class accumulation product with a gradual exposure to risk
launch back in January, which proved right when we choose to eﬀectively protect our
customers from the impact of strong and sudden market corrections.
In payment and mobile, Poste's web and app presence has been greatly appreciated by
customer, conﬁrmed by an acceleration in the usage of our digital platform with a
signiﬁcant increase in online transaction. The in-app use of Postepay was up by 34% and
BancoPosta by 20%. Also, our third-party network played an important role, contributing
with a 92% increase in transaction.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our QR code product shows how we are already preparing for a cashless word, an
example of new digital payment solutions avoiding touch point, like pulse, systems and
pin buds and easily available in neighborhood shops for home delivery services. Our
digital strategy is clear and is a competitive advantage in the implementation of Deliver
2022. Beyond payments and across all segments capturing new key trends through our
physical, digital and third-party networks.
Just to give you an idea of our impressively widespread reach. In the ﬁrst 10 days of May,
we reached 2.8 million daily online users on top of the 1 million daily visits in post oﬃces
and 400,000 transaction across our third-party networks. Finally, thanks to our state-ofthe-art platform during lockdown. Our fully digital customer assistance managed to
record inﬂow of customer services and inquiries, responding automatically to nearly
170,000 questions per day on average via Chatbot and Voicebot, leveraging on our
accelerated cloudiﬁcation and AI developments. This is quite an achievement for us, and
it was also recognized by major tech players.
Our focus on innovation and enhanced digital experience is also conﬁrmed by the
partnership with Microsoft announced last Friday, aim at accelerating Poste digital
transformation and the joint delivery of advanced cloud services to private and public
clients.
Moving to ﬁnancial results at a group level on Slide 8, please. As anticipated this quarter
has shown divergent trends with January and February on one side and March on the
other. Overall, the underlying trends in January and February were in line with 2020
guidance. Lockdown impact was on the other hand, mainly visible in March and April
across segments. Group revenues amounted to EUR2.76 billion, down 3% year-on-year or
4.4% adjusted for capital gains.
The eported EBIT for the quarter is down to EUR441 million, down 29% and down 40% on
adjusted basis impacted by one-oﬀ costs to face the emergence. Lockdown had a major
impact on Mail, Parcel & Distribution and ﬁnancial services through the quarter which has

Page 5 of 21



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-05-13

-- which was mitigated by the positive performance in insurance services as well as
payment and mobile. Reported net proﬁt reached EUR306 million, down 30%.

FINAL

Let me now hand over to Guido, who will take you through a more detailed business
review. I will then provide, as usual, some ﬁnal comments before we answer to your
questions.
Over to you, Guido, please.

Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Matteo, and good afternoon. It has been an
eventful quarter and I hope all of you and your families are well and safe.
Moving to quick overview of segment revenue on Slide 10. As mentioned before, we have
split the quarter to highlight the results of January and February when underlying revenue
trends across all segments were in line with the drivers of our 2020 guidance, and then
separately March results which are impacted by a slowdown in the lockdown.

Bloomberg Transcript

Following the slowdown in business activity due to the measures taken by the
government to face the COVID-19 health emergency, we quickly adapted to the changes
occurred in the macro-environment.
Starting with Mail, Parcel & Distribution which is segment most impacted by lockdown.
Revenues were down in the ﬁrst quarter, as we voluntarily reduced speciﬁc activities in
March, while parcel revenues held up. Thanks to accelerated B2C volumes. Financial
service adjustment -- adjusted revenues were slightly down in the quarter to EUR1.17
billion, excluding capital gains as sales of ﬁnancial and insurance products were
suspended in March. Both payments and mobile as well as insurance grew in the quarter
up respectively 18.4% and 5.1%.
Payments and mobile capitalize on synergies between card payments and telecom and of
the increased online activity during lockdown. Life insurance services grew, thanks to high
volumes realized over 2019, fully oﬀsetting the reduction of new business in March 2020.
The negative trend continued in April, and fewer than planned gross written premiums
are therefore expected in 2020. Resulting in lower segment revenues over the next
quarters for insurance and lower upfront distribution fees for the network, as we will see
within the Mail, Parcel & Distribution results. The non-life business was also impacted,
despite positive early results from the distribution of our new modular product for just
one week before lockdown.
Let me now take you through each segment. Starting with Mail, Parcel & Distribution on
Slide 11. Overall, segment revenues were down 12.4% in the quarter. An inevitable mail
decline was already embedded in our plan, but lockdown has accelerated it and longterm eﬀects will be assessed in the coming quarters. Mail revenues were down 19%, also
impacted by the voluntary reduction of our operations.

Page 6 of 21



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-05-13

FINAL

Indeed, as Matteo mentioned, since the beginning of lockdown, our priority has been to
continue providing our services while safeguarding customers and employees. For this
reason, we promptly suspended delivery of direct marketing products and we reduced
delivery of some unrecorded mail, such as bills and ordinary banking bulk mail with a
partial recovery at the beginning of the second quarter, although it remains away from
budget. On the other side, to meet client needs in this critical situation, we focus on home
delivery and e-commerce goods, despite a reduced workforce.
On the Parcel side, revenues increased by 5% with lower B2B transactions aﬀected by the
economic downturn oﬀset by the speed up in B2C during lockdown. Notwithstanding,
pandemic was already aﬀecting Asian markets in the ﬁrst two months of the year, parcels
were up 8% in line with our expectations for the ﬁrst two months of the year. March was
instead fully hit by reduced activity related to lockdown in Italy, while volumes from China
rapidly recovered, a trend which we believe will remain steady and contribute to diversify
our customer base. Distribution revenues decreased by 5% impacted by lower fees paid
to the network due to a decline in the sale of ﬁnancial and insurance products.

Bloomberg Transcript

On Slide 12, we look at the core volume and pricing trends for Mail. Overall Mail volumes
fell 14.4% in the ﬁrst quarter mainly due to lower sales of higher margin products. Nonmarketing material was distributed -- no marketing materials distributed and delivery of
utility bills and bank statement was suspended. Higher margin recorded mail, such as
ﬁnesand judicial documents declined 22% in Q1 with volume postponed in part to the
coming quarters.
Let me remind you that within the Mail line we also include packets from China sent with
deferred delivery services. This business slowed down in January and February due to
Asian lockdown. Average prices for mail were down 5% in the quarter due to the
described mix of products.
On Slide 13. Although Mail volumes were aﬀected by lockdown and self-imposed
reduction of activities from early April, they started to recover. Recent trends show an
acceleration of this substitution whose development, we will monitor closely in the
upcoming months.
On Slide 14. We show Parcel volumes in the quarter, which increased 9.7% boosted by
over 22% increase in B2C. As said, B2C volumes were supported by increasing ecommerce activity with inbound ﬂows from China growing strongly from early March. The
partnership we launched last year to strengthen our logistics chain have proved key
Sennder in long-haul transportation and Milkman in last mile delivery. Both enabled
parcel volume growth.
Senders successfully managed workloads so far recorded only in speciﬁc short peak
periods, while Milkman supported a housebound community with premium delivery
services. Our third-party network is also expected to continue to an accelerated B2C
volume growth, leveraging on 7,300 alternative delivery points, which we expect to
expand going forward. On the other side, the economic downturn resulted in a decrease
of B2B and C2X in March versus January and February. The average price index for

Page 7 of 21



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-05-13

FINAL

parcels was down 5% in the year reﬂecting the change in volume mix with a greater
contribution from B2C.
Slide 15, shows the weekly evolution of parcel volumes until April. We've already seen
over the past months volumes from China have grown very rapidly outpacing the market
and we are targeting further increase of our market share, leveraging on our cooperation
with Chinese partners to boost volumes as well as speciﬁc higher margin products. Also,
thanks to inbound ﬂows from China, in April we reached record high peaks comparable
to those normally registered by the main market place during Black Friday and Christmas.
To give you a sense of scale, our Bologna Hub increased the average number of items
managed daily compared to 230,000 items dealt with before lockdown, we reached peak
up to 400,000 parcels daily. At segment level, early May, we managed a one day peak of
over 1.1 million items. This conﬁrms the success of our logistic transformation also in
automating sorting, which will position us better within the sector also in the new normal.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to Slide 16 on Payment, Mobile. Card payments and Telecom activities continue to
increase with quarterly revenues up 18.4% in a challenging environment. Card stock
remained stable, and the gradual shift from Postepay towards higher margin evolution
cards further supports revenue as a result of increased recurring fees and higher usage.
Lockdown caused reduced sales of both mobile and payment cards in March, but we
recorded an average higher customer base year-on-year and high volumes, which
resulted in a strong increase in card payments. Although we lost some relative ground
during lockdown, we saw a signiﬁcant increase in volumes from sale of Postepay evolution
cards since early April.
As Matteo said, we're now able to sell online Postepay Connect with home delivery of the
cards and soon we'll be selling fully digital plastic free Postepay Cards automatically onboarded in our e-wallet. Our integrated strategy for Telco and payments paid oﬀ with
telecom revenues up by a strong 33%, outpacing a competitive market leveraging on a
loyal customer base.
We gained momentum, thanks to a product oﬀer widen to meet the needs of a
housebound community. Traﬃc volumes both on mobile and ﬁxed line increased,
especially during March and even further in early April both for voice and data.
Intercompany revenues from ﬁnancial services were down more than 6%, due to a slight
decrease in bill payments, partially compensated by increased transactions through our
digital channels and third-party network. For payments and mobile as well our third-party
network proved to be a resourceful channel during lockdown.
On Slide 17, we focus on the emerging trends in payment with speciﬁc attention on our
ﬂagship Postepay prepaid card, leader in e-commerce transactions. During lockdown, the
increase in digital payments has been conﬁrmed and reinforced with a signiﬁcant growth
of transactions on our apps, both year-on-year and year-to-date. Although from a diﬀerent
mix of purchases. Before lockdown, the use of Postepay was mainly concentrated on
services, such as transportation and leisure.
Page 8 of 21



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-05-13

FINAL

In March, we registered a broader scope of transactions with a strong increase in food
and pharma. In March for the ﬁrst time, a 145,000 of our customers ﬁnalized e-commerce
transactions, 83,000 bought food online and 99,000 recharge a Postepay card online,
while 70,000 used Postepay to pay a bollettino. This conﬁrms the validity of our digital
infrastructure for payments, and we expect an acceleration of the trends already
envisaged in Deliver 2022.
Moving to Slide 18, on ﬁnancial services. Segment revenues were down 6.2% in the
quarter to EUR1.6 billion. The halt of commercial activities during lockdown of both
ﬁnancial and insurance product heavily impacted the performance in payment. Interest
income remained broadly stable year-on-year. Thanks to average higher volumes of
setting yield compression. So far, we've been experiencing higher inﬂows of deposits
which we invested in BTP for about EUR4 billion, EUR2 billion of which in Q1. Postal
savings fees were down 4% due to fewer campaign bonds distributed in March. New
products are, however, in pipeline, which we will resume, promote and distribute also
remotely.

Bloomberg Transcript

Asset management fees were resilient year-on-year, thanks to recurring management
fees. Loan and mortgage distribution upfront fees were impacted by signiﬁcantly reduced
commercial activity in March. Although we are not exposed to credit risk deterioration.
For the rest of the year, we will focus on distribution of salary-backed loans, which are
suitable for our customers and less risky.
Transaction banking fees were down 7%, mainly due to a strong reduction in payment
slips. This item is broadly neutral on EBIT as these revenues are paid back to Payment and
Mobile for this service and Mai, Parcel & Distribution for network remuneration.
Net capital gains realized in the quarter amount to EUR234 million, mainly related to
forward contracts signed over the past months. Intersegment distribution revenues were
down, mainly due to lower sales of insurance products in March, these upfront fees are
paid back to the network. Most of the negative impact was borne by advisory driven
products.
As you can see on Page 40, in the appendix, growth inﬂows related to insurance, neutral
funds and postal bonds, signiﬁcantly reduced during lockdown. Looking forward, our aim
is to resume the dialogue with our customers who are becoming more familiar with digital
channels, complementing in-person interactions with remote advisory services.
Just to mention a few initiatives, we are strengthening remote advisory via web and
phone to sell P&C insurance and investment products. We will use data to maximize hit
ratio. During the time of reduced presence in post oﬃces, we provided speciﬁc training to
our sales force. We will also resume our P&C modular oﬀer, which is well appreciated to
meet increased protection needs. Finally, in our commercial eﬀorts, we will leverage our
large liquidity on carried accounts and postal passbook as well as on signiﬁcant expiries
of products in the upcoming months.

Page 9 of 21



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-05-13

FINAL

Moving to Slide 19. TFAs are up by EUR2.6 billion, reaching EUR539 billion with EUR6.4
billion positive net inﬂows, more than oﬀsetting market impact which negatively aﬀected
TFAs for EUR3.8 billion. Customers conﬁrm their trust in our brand and showed a higher
preference for liquidity products such as deposits and postal savings.
Deposits increased by EUR4.2 billion, EUR2 billion of which coming from early pension
payments in March. Postal savings registered new ﬂows for EUR1.3 billion. Thanks to
postal saving books. Insurance volumes are much lower than expected, due to the hold of
activities in March, recording EUR1 billion net inﬂows in the quarter. Thanks to the new
multi-class product with gradual risk exposure launched in February. Lapse rate was down
2.5%, conﬁrming the loyalty of our customers. In mutual funds, new inﬂows oﬀset outﬂows
in a volatile market.

Bloomberg Transcript

Looking forward, we expect our mix of new ﬂows for 2020 to be diﬀerent than planned,
with clients increasing their balances sheets on accounts and postal saving books rather
than investing in insurance product and postal savings bonds, with an obvious impact on
revenues, partially mitigating -- mitigated by interest income. Nevertheless, as mentioned
earlier, we're working on accelerating the evolution of our service model, leveraging on
available liquidity to oﬀer investment solutions, such as multi-class accumulation
insurance products.
Moving to Slide 20 on insurance services, where life insurance contribute to increased
segment revenue by 5.1%. Life revenues up 6% as a result of higher margin higher
ﬁnancial margin. With volumes and product margin increased year-on-year, despite lower
distribution activity put on hold in March. This was due to positive inﬂows and higher
proﬁtability products sold over 2019, such as multiclass insurance products. The above
mentioned eﬀect more than compensated lower upfront fees from new policies sold. This
decrease in fees is neutral on EBIT as upfront commissions are paid to the network.
In non-life premiums increased across all business lines, despite heavily reduced activity
in March. Net revenues were down as 2019 beneﬁted from a EUR9 million release of onclaim reserves.
As said, in the ﬁrst week of March, just before lockdown, we launched our new modular
oﬀer receiving positive feedback from customers and increasing daily sales. We expect a
gradual recovery after the end of lockdown with a proposition of a wide range of
products to respond to customers' needs in the new normal, and we are working to
enlarge even further the P&C segment.
Let's move to Slide 21 now. PosteVita groups Solvency II ratio was 226% above the
managerial ambition of 200% through the cycle. Since December, we registered a
negative impact on the ratio from higher BTP-swap spread, lower risk free rates and
negative performance of all asset classes corporate bonds overall. The reduction of the
ratio was mitigated by the positive impact of the currency volatility adjustment, which was
up 39 basis points allowing to withstand liabilities at a higher rate and providing a beneﬁt
of about 24 percentage points.

Page 10 of 21



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-05-13

Let me comment on the Core Solvency II, which was down 10 percent points to 149%. This
component contributes to the resilience of the overall ratio to market shocks. In fact,
market volatility impacted valuation reserves, while shareholders' equity including
retained earnings and subordinated liabilities contributed signiﬁcantly to stabilize the
ratio. Including traditional measures Solvency II ratio is up 259%, and they provide a
beneﬁt of 33 percentage points and represent an additional buﬀer to address market
volatility. Since the end of the ﬁrst quarter, markets continue to be volatile particularly
regarding the widening of BTP-swap spread.
Moving to Slide 22, where we present sensitivities on the Solvency II ratio, even excluding
transitional measures, Solvency II is above our risk tolerance threshold in all scenarios we
assumed. A sudden increase of Italian government spread by 100 basis point would result
in a ratio of 144% as country volatility adjustment would not be triggered. Nevertheless,
this corresponds to a BTP-Bund spread of about 300 basis points. In order to test an
extreme scenario, we ran a simulation combining a shock on interest rates down further
25 basis points, equities down 30% and corporate and government bond spreads up a
100 basis points.

Bloomberg Transcript

In this case, the outcome will still be in line with our risk tolerance, as the currency
volatility adjustment would rise to 77 basis points, mitigating market volatility. Finally, let
me remind you that PosteVita has already started the process to develop an internal
model, which we expect will further contribute to reduce the volatility of Solvency II ratio
in the future.
On slide 23, we look at Poste's continuing workforce evolution. Our average headcount
decreased from 129,000 in December 2019 to 126,000 FTEs at the end of March. This is
the result of an average decrease of more than 6,000 FTEs for turnover and subsidized
exits leading to 12,000 FTE reduction since December 2017, out of an overall target of
15,000 by 2022. This conﬁrms our ability to actively manage headcount in a ﬂexible way
to adapt to the evolution of business needs and create eﬃciencies for long-term growth.
The key emerging trends conﬁrm the validity of the strategy and we will continue to rightsize our workforce. We will keep targeting early retirements taking into account
organizational sites and skills required in speciﬁc geographical and business areas. Our
average cost per FTE has increased since year- end as a result of conservative accruals in
the ﬁrst quarter. The value-added per FTE held out despite lower revenues.
Moving to Group Costs on Slide 24. Ordinary HR costs are down 2% year-on-year. Thanks
to lower FTEs. The salary component is up year-on-year as the one-oﬀ paid in 2019 was
entirely booked in the last quarter of the year. COGS increased EUR26 million in January
and February due to volume driven items, while the slowdown in activity of March
resulted in lower COGS for EUR10 million. Non-HR cost overall are down, excluding the
EUR23 million one-oﬀ costs incurred so far to face the emergency.
Let me highlight that our cost base is ﬂexible as we can leverage on both HR and non-HR
cost initiatives to mitigate the impact of lockdown, still our approach is not focused on
short-term results only but rather making sure that the cost base is the most eﬃcient to

Page 11 of 21



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-05-13

FINAL

support our growth in a sustainable way going forward. So we are reassessing the size of
our workforce in light of recent developments, such as accelerated e-substitution to
eﬀectively balance FTE reduction and the quality of our services.
Now let's move to Slide 25, to summarize the eﬀect of revenues and costs at operating
level segment-by-segment. Quarterly operating proﬁtability was down almost 29% yearon-year with all segments impacted by lockdown. Please note that this quarter does not
take into account nor beneﬁt from cost-cutting initiatives currently under assessment.
As anticipated, the most relevant impact of lockdown is borne by Mail, Parcel &
Distribution. This is because the emergency compromised all activities entailing
interpersonal relations, sorting and distribution of mail and parcel as well as the sale of
ﬁnancial and insurance products, whose distribution fees are ultimately paid back to the
network and shown with this segment.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning on Slide 26. We present some of the levers it is in our hands to activate to reduce
costs and mitigate the impact of lockdown depending on the severity and length of this
crisis. Please bear in mind that our objective here is not cutting cost in 2020 to mitigate
the impact on this year's EBIT, but to take the opportunity to rethink and act on our cost
base in a structural way, while preserving the long-term sustainability of our business. We
have a ﬂexible cost-base and signiﬁcant potential levers to activate, but our goal is to
intervene in a targeted manner preserving proﬁtability for 2021 and onwards with the
rightsize of FTEs, skills and tools. Hence in this slide, we show the cost base and the
review and our propensity to trigger the related measures in 2020.
Let's start from HR costs. We are reviewing performance-related incentives. As a ﬁrst step,
a few weeks ago we cut 2020 MBOs based by 50% for over 1,300 managers. The
payment of commercial niche incentives will depend on the achievement of targets and
salary increase for white collars are under assessment.
Moving to headcount ﬂexibility. As you see, over the past two years-and-a-half, we have
demonstrated to adapt the size of our workforce to the evolution of the business. Aside
from natural turnover at present, we have -- we are a green subsidized exit at a lower
average cost than budgeted and leverage on ﬁxed term workers to manage business
peaks. As said, our target is to reduce costs in the long-term. So we intend to conﬁrm our
early retirement plan because it will allow us to achieve a lean organization that maximizes
business growth and adapt to new trends.
Other cost savings within HR will be reached with ongoing initiatives such as smart
working as well as state wage support to our people during the crisis. On non-HR cost, we
are putting in place both tactical and strategic actions. In the short-term, we are reviewing
discretionary expenses to make sure that planned costs are in line with our changing
business needs. As a result of a thorough evaluation, we are canceling or rescheduling
some costs to address new priorities within beneﬁts expected already in 2020.
We launched a dedicated project of in-sourcing to save costs on those services which can
be managed internally by our people following speciﬁc reskilling programs. From a
Page 12 of 21



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-05-13

strategic point of view, we are reviewing processes across all segments to maximize
eﬃciencies across the company, while sustaining our services in the long run. Of course,
this needs more time to bear fruit, but it will allow us to do business in a more eﬃcient
and productive way starting from 2021. More details will come during Q4 as part of our
Deliver 2022 review.

FINAL

Let me now hand back to Matteo to some closing remarks, and thank you again.

Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Thank you, Guido. Before taking your questions, let me close with some key messages
that you ﬁnd on Slide 27.
We're clearly navigating uncharted territories, but our business is safe and sustainable
and our operations are resilient. Poste Italiane is well-equipped to continue to meet our
customers, communities and shareholders' expectations. It is actually in crisis times that
people see what a company is really made of, what is principles and priorities are? I
strongly believe that in the past two months our key social and responsible role has been
conﬁrmed.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our reputation and trust among stakeholders strengthened. We are promptly adapting to
our clients' changing needs and our constant attention to digitalize solution provide us
with the right tools to accelerate the digital journey across all our business segments.
While it is too early to assess the eﬀective macro and ﬁnancial eﬀects of the lockdown, the
pillars of Deliver 2022 remain unchanged.
Of course, 2020 performance will be aﬀected as we said. We're already focusing on the
key medium and long-term emerging trends, which are embedded in our strategic
direction and that have actually been accelerated. For example, we're experiencing a shift
towards e-substitution and e-commerce as well as an acceleration in the use of digital
tools, that we were expecting in 18 months to 24 months' time frame.
Looking at the execution of our Deliver 2022 plan, so far and the contingency we're
facing, I am proud to say that I will not do anything diﬀerent. Indeed, consistent ability to
meet and anticipate those targets so far allow us to be steady in this crisis and well
equipped for the new normal. We will learn from these unprecedented times and review
our cost base to gain additional managerial ﬂexibility and create operational eﬃciency to
be ready for the new normal in the upcoming months, but above all for a fresh start in
2021.
Finally, last November we paid an interim dividend of EUR0.154 and the balance of
EUR0.309 will be therefore paid next June 24, following AGM approval next May 15, next
Friday. The AGM will also formally appoint the new Board of Directors for the next three
years. We will then review our Deliver 2022 targets and disclose them later in Q4 this year.
When we have gained greater visibility on the macro scenario.

Page 13 of 21



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-05-13

Before Massi reads the question you submitted so far, let me thank you again for joining
us today. And obviously as you can imagine, we're not traveling after these results.
However, we will organize future road shows, and I hope to see you then. Thank you.
Massi, please.

FINAL

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)

A - Massimo Rosini

{BIO 20101636 <GO>}

Thank you. So the ﬁrst question is from Anna Maria Benassi from Kepler. I appreciate you
will pay the balance of the dividend in June which has become unusual in the current
trouble times and also that you will review the dividend policy at year end. But may I ask
you if you feel conﬁdent to keep it at least unchanged to EUR0.46 as of last year?
Second question, congratulation on providing the numbers of March, unusual as well as
helpful. Do you see a change in client attitude since reduced -- since lockdown on May 4?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay. On dividend, as you just heard, we kept our promise for 2019 dividend which was
not obvious. We still have in mind our Delivere 2022 plan, and we're fully aware of how
important is the dividend for our shareholders and for our stakeholders. Last March, we
also conﬁrmed our commitment to a 5% dividend increase for 2020. We all know that
2020 ﬁnancial performance will be aﬀected. But we also know that we have ﬂexibility as
we have returned earnings reserves, and starting from a low payout ratio below 45% in
2019. And at this point in time, on dividend, I must say this is all we can say.
On the second question, yes, we thought it was useful to give to investors a sense of the
impact of March in terms of speciﬁc ﬁgures for two reasons: one, we were showing you
that January and February, we're actually fully in line with our ﬁve year plan; and two, to
see in which areas we were experiencing an impact.
The last, let's say, 10 days from the reduced lockdown that started in Italy on the 4th of
May, we have actually seen a resume activity, as I mentioned in my presentation. And we
are back to around 1 million visitors in our postal oﬃces. To give you a feel, we reached a
low around 400,000, if not below. And we were starting in February on 1.4 million, 1.5
million. So we are, let's say, more than halfway back to where we were in February.

A - Massimo Rosini

{BIO 20101636 <GO>}

Thank you. The next question is from Alberto Cordara, Bank of America Merrill Lynch. I
see from the Slide 26, that you can cut up to 1 -- more than EUR1 billion in costs. How
much willingness do you have to trigger these levers in 2020?

Page 14 of 21



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-05-13

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. On Page 26, you have the perimeter of the cost-cutting initiatives. You don't have
the actual target. The reality is that, we really see, and we don't want to be too cynic, but
this is also part of our job. We see the current phase as a very good opportunity to push
on some initiatives and ﬁnd room to implement cost-cutting initiatives that in a normal
and rosy scenario sometimes a diﬃcult to implement.
And speciﬁcally you see that the HR component is very important in that chart. I would
recommend to look at the by the pie -- the color pie that gives you a feel of how much, we
call it propensity -- how much do we think we can activate in that base of cost space,
under review. And again, the exercise I think is very useful because it's providing the
company with a stable cost base reduction that will beneﬁt 2021 and onwards.

Bloomberg Transcript

In a way, we are sort of looking at this phase, the next few weeks and months with the
following priorities. The ﬁrst priority is to take the opportunity and do everything we can
in this window to have a stronger company from next year onwards. The second is to do
our best to protect and fulﬁll our commitments of 2020. And obviously, we look also at
doing our best for the 2020 accounts, so that's obvious. But it's very important that we do
and take this window has an acceleration.
We mentioned a few initiatives, the one related to customer care inbound calls for
170,000 people in a day with robo answering supported by AI cloud technology that was
recognizing the last name of the person it was directing for the day and the oﬃce to the
right place, the client was done in three days in an emergency. A project like that, that we
could have done anyway, but my feeling, I've been clear in the company, it would have
taken a few weeks.
So this is really time to try new things. It come to my mind the initiative about selling at a
distance. We have 8,000 consultants, as you say, and they're now fully equipped to sell
on the phone, the lowest change. We have the right to sell on the phone, and we gave
them video support to show the product to clients. Many clients really appreciate this.
They wouldn't expect it from Poste. And this will stay with us.

A - Massimo Rosini

{BIO 20101636 <GO>}

Thank you. The next question is from Ashik Musaddi from JP Morgan. What are the macro
GDP assumptions you are using in your current planning? And would you use those
assumptions to support your base case dividend for 2020, i.e. plus 5% year-on-year
growth? Let me read also the second one. What sort of revenue decline should we expect
for businesses like insurance and mail in coming two quarters based on your experience
in April and March?

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Hi, Ashik. Hi, everyone. So on the ﬁrst point, I think Matteo was quite clear on what we
were looking at for dividend on 2020. So towards -- the quick answer for you is that
before all of this we were planning in the guidance we gave in March, we were planning
something close to 1% GDP growth.
Page 15 of 21



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-05-13

On the second question, I think we try all our best to give you as much data as possible
and to share what we are looking at the moment. We gave you a quarter separated
between January, February and March to give you a sense of the worst possible month.
We gave you on Page 13, 15, a sense of what April looks like. And we also gave you Page
40 in the appendix, which gives you a sense of what is happening in our work in our post
oﬃces. So all of this to say, that is unfortunately very diﬃcult for us to assess, not only the
guidance for '20 but also what the few next quarters will look like because we are really
experiencing every day, it's diﬀerent from the previous one.
The good news is that as of yesterday, the numbers are looking much closer to what they
were before the lockdown. So this is very promising, but it's just one point. So creating an
expectation just based on very few points, would be a bit early. But again, we believe we
are optimistic any the trends we've seen in the past few days continues, then we will, next
quarter, be able to give you more guidance about the coming quarters.

A - Massimo Rosini

{BIO 20101636 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. The next question is from Elena Perini, Banca IMI. As regards the insurance
services, given the very good growth year-on-year recorded in the ﬁrst quarter EBIT, are
you still conﬁdent to meet EUR1 billion target as a result of lower revenues and lower
premiums and lower costs essentially inter segment? Can you elaborate on the
underlying trends and mix for life and P&C? Many thanks.
So allow me to answer myself as this is basically based on the answer, we though just
gave. So let me add factually. As we've said, the visibility is not enough to talk about
targets for 2020. But factually let's remember that our ﬁrst quarter results are beneﬁting
from higher volumes year-on-year because, as you -- not perfect you were during 2019,
we had positive net inﬂows. So remember also that in the ﬁrst quarter '20, we had the
decline in gross written premium because of reduced activity. So as soon as this
slowdown of Premiere are visible, we might slowdown also in terms of contribution to the
top line factually.
In terms of P&C mix, let me ﬂag that on Page 45 we also give you, let's say, some detail on
the production on both life and non-life. As said, on the life side we are suﬀering from
lower production related to lockdown. On non-life, I would say that most of the lines are
healthy, especially the welfare side. And let me just ﬂag that going forward, the
combination of the protection and investment needs will be key for reviewing our
commercial proposition as soon as we exit lockdown. Thank you, Elena.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Yeah. If I can just add, in terms of big picture, the EBIT of the insurance will suﬀer more
potentially next year because of the lack of underwriting, and therefore we will have less
ﬁnancial margin next year. And this year we're still protected, as Massimilliano said, from
last year at the EBIT level. But given this was the segment which was in Deliver 2022, most
advance versus the original plan, we will do our best to keep the 2021 as strong as
possible.

Page 16 of 21



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-05-13

A - Massimo Rosini

{BIO 20101636 <GO>}

Thank you.

FINAL

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

If I may also, on a positive note, I think this is good for not just insurance product, but also
for postal bonds, for example. Let me remind you, as we said few times over the last few
weeks, you should remember that the balances of accounts and postal checkbooks are
growing signiﬁcantly. And this is all cash that stays with us, stays within the group. And this
is exactly what our commercial people will focus on to start the commercial eﬀorts as soon
as the situation stabilizes.
So we are fortunate that our clients choose us to keep liquidity. Obviously, this is not
investing at the moment. But this makes us feel that at some point we will have the
opportunity to turn that cash into investments.

A - Massimo Rosini

{BIO 20101636 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. The next question is from Manuela Meroni from Banca IMI. On postal savings,
revenues for postal savings declined quarter-on-quarter and year-on-year, despite a
positive net inﬂow in the quarter. Could you please elaborate on this tend? At EUR1.25
billion net inﬂow in postal savings is a very positive result, is this due to a ﬂight of quality
eﬀector to speciﬁc commercial eﬀorts you made during the quarter? May we consider this
trend as a recurrent reverting the net outﬂow trend that you had in the past?

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Well, I think it just continues with the last one sort of.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Yeah, I mean, it's -- I don't think it's ﬂight to quality. I think it's simply the fact that we had
maturities and money stays in our, as we do say it, passbook and speciﬁcally for postal
savings current accounts that technically is where you credit the postal bonds when it
goes to maturity. So I don't think you can extrapolate a reverse of the trend. But it's still
money that is in the account that will help us restart selling. And this is the ﬂip side of not
seeing revenues in postal bond fees because we are selling less bonds. And so we're
making less commission on selling them.

A - Massimo Rosini

{BIO 20101636 <GO>}

Next question from Manuela Suella. B2C volume trenads were impressive in Q1 and they
further accelerated in April. Do you expect this trend to continue? Do you have an update
on the negotiations with Amazon or on the renewal of the contract?
If I may, let's combine this with another question from a Jacky [ph] from JP Morgan. She is
speciﬁcally asking, please may I ask a question on inbound parcels from China, what
percentage of parcel volumes is from China? How sustainable is the high volume from
China? Was it partly driven by posting medical supplies to the pandemic?

Page 17 of 21



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-05-13

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

FINAL

No, it was absolutely not related to the PPE supply for the pandemic. It was an
acceleration of use of the digital and e-commerce channel by clients, which lucky enough,
we were able to deliver because we started three years ago establishing strong
partnership in China and moving ﬂows from all the mail networks to faster parcel routes.
So this is there to stay.
As far as Amazon is concerned, obviously, increasing volumes in Amazon. Good news
from our standpoint, a reduced reliance in terms of the market share of Amazon in our
B2C. And I think one question that is emerging is, are this volumes in your expectation
going to stay for the next two years? Are we going to restart the growth from this level? I
believe that really and I talk to my colleagues around Europe, is the same perception that
we have gone fast forward 18 months.
So the volumes we're seeing today, even this week which are higher than the one of
Christmas, I don't think will be there in three to six months. But certainly the base from
which we will resume growth is higher than one we would have had without CIVID. So we
went 18 months fast forward, and we restart the trend from there.

A - Massimo Rosini

{BIO 20101636 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. Our next question still from Manuella [ph]. Interest income is it fair to expect
that an increase in the contribution of interest income in 2020 thanks to higher average
deposits and higher proﬁtability of government bond portfolio?

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

So, in -- when we last spoke on the 6th of March, we gave you our guidance, we expected
a lower rates and lower volumes. So the answer is yes, we do have in this case
expectation. We can't predict as we said. We have more volumes, we have about EUR2
billion in March and EUR2 billion extra cash in April sitting on our bank accounts, which
we can invest, and we are investing at a higher yield than what we had planned.
Obviously, we are conﬁdent that part of this liquidity will end up being invested, so we are
investing more at the short end of the curve. But still as you saw what happened to BTPs
in this week, we -- in these recent weeks, we were able to invest even at short term, short
end of the curve at positive rates.

A - Massimo Rosini

{BIO 20101636 <GO>}

Thank you. The next question is from Giovanni Rizzoli from Equita. Any comment on the
increased prudence required by regulators for insurance players on dividend distribution.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

That's easy. We make our oﬃcial and formal distribution of dividends from the companies
in the group in the last quarter, so we were not aﬀected by that initiative for the time
being. So we will assess the situation. As you know, the assumption is a 50% payout from
the insurance company to the holding company.

Page 18 of 21



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-05-13

A - Massimo Rosini

{BIO 20101636 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you. Another question from Giovanni. Is it correct that next year as per the lever
2022, the contribution of capital gains from sovereign bonds will be zero? If so, I think we
shall all be more relaxed with the evolution of mark-to-market over the BancaPosta digital
portfolio, right?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

I think you are right to be relaxed, but its' not zero. You have seen in the presentation, I
think it was Page 16 that we already made EUR234 million capital gains in the ﬁrst quarter.
We have less than EUR100 million to go and we have in excess of EUR 1 billion of portion
of the portfolio that has capital gains.

A - Massimo Rosini

{BIO 20101636 <GO>}

So next questions are from Fabrizio Bernardi of Fidentiis and Irene Rossetto, Mainﬁrst.
Allow me to say that we had answered both of your questions. So if you have any doubt,
call me later after this call, so that we can proceed with Alberto Villa, Intermonte, with the
following two questions.
Could you give us guidance on operating costs for 2020 and 2021 in light of the current
situation? Do you envisage any speciﬁc cost eﬃciency and personnel costs and the COGS
besides what's already indicated in the plan?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Well, I think we answered also this two questions, especially on cost. I think our CEO was
very clear commenting on the levers that we have to activate. We can brieﬂy remember
that on HR cost, there are a number of, let's say, performance related costs. And also we
mentioned the headcount ﬂexibility that we always had, and we showed that we are quite
able to work both on the number of FTE based on the service, the level of service we have
to provide and we want to provide.
Also on non-HR cost, we mentioned that we're doing basically a tactical and a strategic
approach to tactical. It's about reviewing all discretionary costs, looking at them in this
new world and trying to assess if they're still relevant. If they need to be canceled or
postponed. Obviously, I'm talking about all those costs that are not related to volumes.
Then we're taking a more strategic approach. And once again, I refer to what the CEO has
said. This is a huge opportunity to revisit all our processes and go deeply into them and
try to assess if you can do the same thing in a more eﬃcient way, in a more cost-eﬀective
way. And this is, I call it, strategic because we think is going to be there to stay.
We mentioned one example that we believe is in between strategic and tactic is the
internalization of some processes. Which means we will have some of our own people upskilled or re-skilled to run certain activities that were dealt with outside the company
before. And these are things that, as the CEO said, you can do pretty well in extraordinary
times. It is more complicated to do it in ordinary times.
Page 19 of 21



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-05-13

A - Massimo Rosini

{BIO 20101636 <GO>}

Next question is related to the state of the art of negotiations on a USO obligation,
Universal Service Obligation.

FINAL

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Yeah. The Universal Service Obligation has been conﬁrmed for the next ﬁve year, stable at
EUR260 million. And I think I owe an answer on the negotiation of Amazon. There is not a
speciﬁc negotiation every year. As you know there is a peak at December and we see a
few months ahead of the peak to make sure that we have the capacity, and this will
happen also this year. Obviously, this year is going to be even more diﬃcult for
everybody, given the unexpected growth of B2C.

A - Massimo Rosini

{BIO 20101636 <GO>}

(Inaudible)

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

No, I mean it's very early in the process. We had to sign something before December.
And it's not been -- we have not opened the ﬁle.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Massimo Rosini

{BIO 20101636 <GO>}

Thank you. And the next question -- the last question actually is from Federico Braga from
UBS. Yield on the BTP banking portfolio decline from -- to 2.46% in Q1, down 20 basis
points year-on-year. Can 2.46% be the new run rate for 2020 and the coming years? Or
the recent spike in BTP yields can oﬀer upside risk in the coming quarters?

A - Guido Maria Nola

{BIO 20719012 <GO>}

Well, it is diﬃcult to comment if that's going to be the new normal. The reality is that the
volatility we've seen on the BTP has happened also after the close of the quarter,
especially April and May. So the quarter -- after the quarter, I would expect the average to
come up. Being that the new normal, I think it's impossible to say. So I think I'll take the
positive eﬀect from now.

A - Massimo Rosini

{BIO 20101636 <GO>}

Yeah. And sorry, again, a top-up of the answer on the CDP agreement. As a matter of fact,
the new Board which will be appointed on Friday by the General Assembly, for the ﬁrst
time is going to include one senior representative of our shareholder, which is the
Ministry of the Treasury. And this is a signal the way we read it that the funding channel of
the postal savings that from retail through Poste goes on CDP balance sheet. And then on
the state balance sheet is clearly considered to be strategic. So we are comfortable that
we will manage with CDP to ﬁnd the right agreement, especially on the back of the fact
that we revert the trend in the last 3 years and we exceeded targets for the ﬁrst 2.5 years
of the plan.

Page 20 of 21



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2020-05-13

So thank you. We have a few minutes left. So I think we can also answer the follow-up to
the next question from Federico Braga, UBS, about postal fees. Given the expected
weaker sale in the ﬁrst half of 2020, is there any risk to see postal saving fees close to the
lower end of the fee range, i.e. EUR 1.55?

FINAL

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

It's clearly going to be, I believe, below our February targets. But if the recent trends,
recent I mean the last very few days are conﬁrmed, I don't think we're going to go as low
as 1.55 billion.

A - Massimo Rosini

{BIO 20101636 <GO>}

The time is over.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Thank you very much, everybody, for ﬁnding the time and putting forward a lot of
questions. If there are more, we will clearly doing the virtual road show go, more in detail
with each one of you. Thanks a lot again.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

That does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for participating. You may all
disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 21 of 21

