Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-09-10

S1 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Cheryl Agius, Chief Executive of Insurance, Executive Director
Euan Sutherland, Group Chief Executive Oﬃcer, Executive Director
James B. Quin, Group Chief Financial Oﬃcer, Executive Director
Stuart Beamish, Group Chief Customer Oﬃcer

Presentation
Euan Sutherland
Good morning, and welcome to the Saga Interim Results Presentation, which includes an
update on our latest strategic plans and the details of the proposed capital raise.
Overall, we are pleased with progress in the ﬁrst half of the ﬁnancial year 2021 and have
been consistently delivering against the plans outlined to shareholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

We will demonstrate progress and growth in insurance, and we have limited the
downside impacts from the pandemic on crews, while resetting our Tour Operations
business to a higher quality and more eﬃcient model.
Consistent with the actions completed in the ﬁrst half of non-core disposals, agreeing a
reset to our banking covenants and securing cost eﬃciencies, the proactive placing and
open oﬀer underpinned by Roger De Haan is another example of this planned approach
to improving the ﬁnancial strength of the company.
I plan to give you an overview of the ﬁrst half and headline of the business unit
performances before handing over to some of the executive team to take you through the
details of our ﬁnancials and business plan.
James Quin, our CFO, will outline the results for half one, the stress test focus we've
adopted and the mechanics of the placing an open oﬀer before I headline the strategy
and approach we've agreed for the next stage of Saga.
Stuart Beamish, our Chief Customer Oﬃcer, will then outline the overriding platform for
the group's development with our investments in data, digital and brand. And Cheryl
Agius, our Insurance CEO, will take you through the priorities for that business unit. I will
then highlight the signiﬁcant work already completed in our Cruise and Holiday divisions
to enable conﬁdent and proﬁtable operation in a COVID world and then I'll summarize.

Page 1 of 21



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-09-10

FINAL

In headline terms, progress in the ﬁrst half has been good, with insurance performing
well, despite the impact on travel insurance from COVID-19. Our cruise operation has seen
continued strong levels of customer retention and advanced bookings, while we have
reduced the level of cash burn from the enforced lay-up and through a rapid response to
lockdown, we were able to repatriate all of our crew, ensuring their safety and enabling an
ongoing lower cost base.
In our Tour Operations business, the same comprehensive response saw over 3,000
passengers repatriated home without the help of the government, and a signiﬁcant cost
actions have lowered the ongoing cost base, while we have refocused that business over
the summer.
In total, we've identiﬁed GBP20 million of ongoing cost savings and delivered GBP15
million of that already in half one, while at the same time, ensuring all colleagues are safe
and productive working from home alongside disposing of non-core businesses to the
value of GBP35 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

In January, pre-COVID, we committed to updating the strategy of our business and
reporting back in September and despite the pandemic, this has been achieved. While I
will go into more detail on this in the second half of the presentation, we have found a
business under-invested by private equity and missing its commitments in the early years
of public ownership.
The principles of the reset in insurance last year still hold, and we've built out the strategy
to align the business and harness a single Saga customer and ﬁnancial plan based on 5
core priorities. We intend to return Saga to its core DNA of exceptional service and
innovation set in a contemporary data and digital world.
In the next stage and strengthening our business, it was to look at further actions to
improve the robustness of the balance sheet and lower our debt. Just to be clear and in
line with our previous updates, we do not need to urgently raise money today, and this is
a proactive capital plan to give the company more ﬁnancial ﬂexibility, taking into
consideration a balanced view of trading and our risks while signiﬁcantly reducing our
short-term covenants debt.
During the preparations for this, I began conversations with Roger about our revitalized
approach to Saga, focusing on our core customer, disposing of non-Saga branded noncore businesses and returning the core of the business to what made it successful, while
setting this in the context of today's digital baby boomer customer.
I discussed how we had an ambition to rebuild Saga into a great British business. And we
found common ground on the values and principles of that reset. We are very pleased
that Roger stepped forward to underpin our placing an open oﬀer with an investment of
GBP100 million and has agreed to become our next Chairman. He clearly has a lifetime of
experience at Saga and a deep understanding of our customers.

Page 2 of 21



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-09-10

FINAL

The funds raised by the placing an open oﬀer will be used to pay down debt and critically,
to invest in growth, principally in data, digital and brand. We plan to hold the EGM to gain
ﬁnal shareholder support for the placing an open oﬀer later this month.
So moving on to the business unit performances. I'm pleased to report that the Insurance
business has seen the ﬁrst growth in policy numbers for 5 years, growing by 2.5% in the
ﬁrst half. Direct share is also up by 4 percentage points to 58%, with strong retention, up 6
percentage points, led by our 3-year ﬁxed Motor and Home products, which now account
for 30% of the book. And delivering retention of more than 10 points above our standard
essentials products. Margins remained well within guidance at GBP71 and we have
lowered our operating cost as part of the group-wide eﬃciency program, which was
delivered and expensed in half one. A very solid ﬁrst half trading despite the drag from
travel insurance, and does not recognize any COVID-19 beneﬁts.
In Travel, it's fair to say this was not the ﬁrst half that we were expecting with our new
cruise proposition performing well and to plan right up into the lockdown. Since then,
however, we have minimized the ﬁnancial impact of the crisis and maximized customer
loyalty and retention through a set of clear and consistent actions.

Bloomberg Transcript

All crew and customers repatriated, completion of the sale of the Saga Sapphire on plan
in the midst of the lockdown, which was a major achievement by the team, reduced total
burn cost to between GBP6 million and GBP8 million per month and maintained retention
rates of over 65% in Cruise and 40% in Tour Operations.
While we are ready to cruise now and demand does not look like it's going to be an issue,
we are waiting for the updated government advice, which is expected this month. We
have worked closely with the government and public health agencies to agree new
protocols for safe sailing. And our new and technologically advanced ships are in a good
place to operate in a COVID world. Our newer ships Spirit of Adventure is due to arrive
later this month.
So in summary, it's been a busy, productive and successful ﬁrst half across Saga. Our aim
was and is to emerge stronger from this crisis than we went in. And after 6 months, we are
very much on plan, with a conﬁdent, capable and focused workforce operating well from
home. Cost and capital plans are well underway, and we are seeing the early shoots of
improvement in our insurance business. We have a clear strategy endorsed by a
cornerstone investor in Roger, and we have conﬁdence in our propositions and in the
transformation we can deliver through the data, digital and brand reset that is also already
underway.
Underpinning all of that, we have invested signiﬁcantly in the people, leadership and
cultural transformation needed at Saga, which I will talk to in the second half of this
presentation.
Without the hearts and minds, focus and capability of our people, all we have of the
strategy is a set of words. So we had to secure this ﬁrst and I'm pleased to say this is in a

Page 3 of 21



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-09-10

good place. Saga feels like it is a business that is now playing to win, not a business that is
playing to avoid losing.
I'll now hand over to James Quin, our CFO, to take you through the numbers.

FINAL

James B. Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Good morning. My name is James Quin. I'm Group CFO for Saga. I'm going to spend a
few minutes setting out our ﬁnancial performance in the ﬁrst half. I'll then explain in more
detail the group's current ﬁnancial position and the background to our proposed GBP150
million capital raise.
Group revenues and proﬁt before tax have been signiﬁcantly impacted by COVID-19 with
travel revenues down 77% in comparison to the prior period. However, Insurance
proﬁtability has been very resilient and overall, underlying proﬁt before tax remains
positive at GBP15.9 million for the ﬁrst half. This is in line with our expectations and the
scenario testing that we ran in March.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition to the impact on underlying proﬁt before tax, COVID is also a key inﬂuence on
non-operating items in the ﬁrst half. And this has led to the group reporting a loss of
GBP55.5 million. The most signiﬁcant item is a GBP60 million write-down of Travel
goodwill. Given uncertainty regarding the Travel outlook and a signiﬁcant increase in the
travel industry's cost of capital. We've taken the decision to impair this balance in full.
Other COVID-19-related impacts outside of underlying PBT include provision for exit costs
relating to non-core operations as well as restructuring charges from cost reduction
initiatives. These adverse items were partially oﬀset by a GBP10 million gain on the sale of
the healthcare business and a GBP5 million gain on the sale of the Saga Sapphire in June.
I don't expect that we will see further goodwill write-downs, all material additional
restructuring costs, and all business exits have either been completed or prudently
provided against.
As a result of the cash support provided to the Travel business, available operating cash
for the ﬁrst half was a cash outﬂow of GBP23 million, and net debt increased by around
GBP50 million. However, we are well within our covenant tests, with net debt-to-EBITDA,
excluding Cruise of 3.6x at 31 July, signiﬁcantly below the covenant level of 4.75x.
On the next slide, I set out underlying proﬁt before tax by division. The Insurance result
for the ﬁrst half is at the same level as in the prior year, with a GBP7 million increase in
underwriting proﬁts and a GBP7 million reduction in Retail Broking. Retail Broking
earnings reﬂected a GBP13 million reduction in written proﬁts, partly oﬀset by a GBP6
million swing in the written to earned adjustment. The change in written proﬁts is due to a
combination of COVID impacts, pricing actions started in July last year and lower results
from Bennetts, which has now been sold. Higher underwriting proﬁts are a function of
good experience on large bodily injury claims relating to prior years.

Page 4 of 21



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-09-10

FINAL

More broadly, in Insurance, the ﬁrst half demonstrates the start of a recovery, following
the stabilization in the second half of last year. Cheryl will talk more about this in detail
later.
For the Travel business, the suspension of all Cruise and Tour Ops departures from midMarch, has had a signiﬁcant impact on ﬁrst half results, with the business reporting a
GBP35 million loss for the period. The Travel result is within expectations and while, of
course, it has been a very challenging few months. The group overall has still reported an
underlying proﬁt for the period. I'll go into more detail on the moving parts of Retail
Broking results on the next slide.
Home and Motor written proﬁts reduced by GBP4 million due to pricing actions
implemented in July 2019, partially oﬀset by increased new business proﬁts as a result of
lower advertising spending. The average margin per policy across Saga branded Home
and Motor reduced from GBP78 per policy in the prior period to GBP71 in the ﬁrst half.
Excluding the pricing actions and a roughly GBP1 per policy COVID impact, the average
margin per policy would have been at the same level as in the prior period. The absolute
level in the ﬁrst half was in line with expectations.

Bloomberg Transcript

There are, of course, various moving parts in underlying margins and the competitive
environment in motor has had some impact. This, however, was oﬀset by a 4% increase in
the number of Home and Motor renewals, which was the main reason for the overall
growth in the policy count in the ﬁrst half.
Other broking proﬁts reduced by GBP7 million, mainly due to a signiﬁcant impact from
COVID-19, including a sharp reduction in sales of travel insurance as well as lower fee
income in relation to motor vehicle repairs and claims handling. Overall, this was a very
resilient performance from Retail Broking and we continue to make good progress
against the strategy set out last year.
On the next slide, I set out the results of the Underwriting business. A core proﬁt before
tax increased in the ﬁrst half of the year due to higher reserve releases, which were above
expectations. This is a function of continued favorable experience on large bodily injury
claims and settlement of speciﬁc open claims for less than they were reserved at.
For the current year, we have booked the loss ratio to plan assumptions. While we have
seen a signiﬁcant decline in claims frequency since the start of the lockdown, we have not,
at this stage, reﬂected the potential beneﬁt in our results. We are evaluating the size of
any beneﬁts, given various uncertainties in overall claims costs and actions we will take to
return part of this upside to customers.
As previously indicated, reserve releases will be much lower in the future than in the
recent past. And our expectation of a reported combined ratio of around 97% from next
year is unchanged. Nonetheless, AICL has made good progress in enhancing core
capabilities, all of which will be key in supporting the group's insurance strategy.

Page 5 of 21



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-09-10

FINAL

On the next slide, I set out the Travel results for the ﬁrst half. This has been an
exceptionally challenging period for all travel companies. We have now been operating
for nearly 6 months with 0 revenues, and the travel team have had to adapt to a fastchanging environment.
Admin and marketing costs in the ﬁrst half reduced by around GBP12 million compared to
the prior period, mainly in relation to marketing costs, where we are able to turn the tap
on or oﬀ quite quickly. While there is less ﬂexibility in short-term admin costs, we took
actions in June and July to prepare the business for ongoing disruption, speciﬁcally in
Tour Ops, where we now expect 0 revenues until spring next year. This means that travel
overhead costs in the second half will be signiﬁcantly lower than in the ﬁrst half.
At the time of the year-end results, I look to provide some guidance for the impact of
COVID on travel proﬁtability by reference to a drop-through rate. The drop-through rate is
the forecast impact on proﬁt as a percentage of the expected decline in revenues. Back in
March, I signaled an impact on proﬁt before tax of 15% to 20% of the reduction in Tour
Ops revenues and a drop-through rate of 55% to 60% for Cruise.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the ﬁrst half, the actual drop-through rate was 19% for Tour Ops. So in line with
expectations, albeit at the higher end, and 41% for Cruise. The Cruise results beneﬁted
from good cost control and proﬁts generated in February and March. And for the full year,
I would now expect the Cruise drop-through rate to be between 50% and 55%.
The other question I was asked at the time of the full year results was about the monthly
burn rate, which is the cash cost of running the travel business in suspension mode. This
excludes non-cash items such as depreciation, but also includes ﬁnancing costs. It also
excludes CapEx and changes in working capital. For the second half of the year, we
expect a monthly cash burn rate of GBP6 million to GBP8 million a month, depending on
whether we have 1 or 2 ships in operation, and the extent of our marketing activity for next
year. There's no change to this from previous indications.
On the next slide, I set out the change in total group costs. Marketing and overhead costs
were GBP20 million lower in the ﬁrst half of the year in comparison to the prior period. A
signiﬁcant portion of this reduction was a response to COVID, speciﬁcally, a reduction in
marketing costs in Travel and short-term actions to reduce discretionary spend. We have
reduced headcount by 36% in total and 31% excluding disposals, with roughly half of this
amount being due to short-term actions during the period of travel suspension.
While there is obviously a range of possible outcomes for the Travel business in the
second half, broadly speaking, we would expect around a GBP35 million reduction in cost
for the full year, excluding disposals, with second half savings more weighted to admin
expenses and less to marketing. This reﬂects the need to support a reduced, but still
active level of marketing activity for travel departures next year.
On an ongoing basis, we are targeting sustainable cost savings of around GBP20 million
per annum, excluding disposals. Much of this, around 75%, has in eﬀect already been

Page 6 of 21



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-09-10

achieved, with the balance relating to further initiatives in relation to property and
procurement.

FINAL

As Euan will explain later, we expect some level of reinvestment of these savings in the
near-term in supporting strategic initiatives. This is expected to be around GBP5 million in
the second half of the year and up to GBP10 million in the next ﬁnancial year. Beyond that,
we expect additional spend to be self-funding.
In the ﬁrst half, we incurred a signiﬁcant level of restructuring costs, mainly in relation to
redundancies. While there may be some further costs incurred this year and next, I would
not expect them to be at anything close to this level.
On the next slide, I set out the group's operating cash ﬂows with a reconciliation from
opening to closing net debt.
Excluding Travel, the group has continued to be highly cash generative, with free cash
ﬂow of GBP45 million in the ﬁrst half, only slightly down on the prior period. Excluding the
direct impact of COVID-19, Insurance operating cash generation would have been higher
than in the prior year.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've also taken a prudent approach to recognize any COVID upside in AICL, with the
dividend paid by AICL in the ﬁrst half, excluding any claims frequency upsides.
The Travel business, of course, has seen a signiﬁcant cash outﬂow in the period, with
nearly GBP70 million of liquidity provided to Cruise and Tour Ops to support payments to
customers, colleagues and suppliers.
In terms of other movements, the ﬁnance cost included here is interest costs on all the
group's debt. And the other ﬁgure mainly comprises proceeds from the sale of the
healthcare business and restructuring costs paid. The net cash outﬂow for the period of
around GBP50 million was funded by a net drawdown on the RCF of GBP40 million.
We've not needed to draw down on the RCF since March. And since the end of July, we
have repaid GBP10 million of the drawn balance from the Bennetts sales proceeds. I'll
show you more information on the change in travel cash on the next slide.
On this slide, I set out a reconciliation of opening to closing cash within the Tour
Operations ring-fenced fund and analysis of the cash support provided to Cruise. The
reason for the diﬀerence in approach is because Tour Operations is fully ring-fenced,
while the Cruise business is in part of the group for cash ﬂow purposes.
For Tour Ops, cash outﬂows of GBP76.5 million were funded by utilization of GBP25
million of cash from within the ring-fenced and with GBP51.5 million provided by the
group. The Tour Ops cash outﬂow includes supply payments of GBP23 million, mainly
relating to the period when the business was still trading. Since all such suppliers have
now been paid, we expect to see much lower cash outﬂows in the rest of the year.

Page 7 of 21



FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-09-10

As at July 31, advanced receipts in the ring-fenced funds were 88% covered by cash,
which is well above the requirements set by the CAA. We are now in discussions with the
CAA about moving to an alternative approach called trust accounting, whereby we would
hold all cash in a separate fund and would not release any cash from this fund until after
the customer has returned from holiday. If applied to both existing and new bookings, as
is likely, we estimate that it would lead to around a GBP10 million near-term increase in
the cash funding needs of the Tour Ops business. There would, however, be beneﬁts
here. And that's our additional bonding requirements as set by the CAA, and which are
on top of the existing 70% covenant, would no longer be necessary.
In addition, we think that customers are likely to be increasingly discerning over how their
cash is protected. And so this would give us a distinct marketing advantage.
The Cruise business operates in a diﬀerent way and reﬂects the fact that we are not just an
intermediary, but of course, we own the hardware.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the ﬁrst half, the Cruise business operating cash outﬂow was GBP23 million, mainly to
support a modest level of customer refunds. On top of this, we provided an extra GBP6
million of cash to fund restructuring costs and ﬁnance costs relating to the Spirit of
Discovery loan. We are very pleased with the level of cruise retentions, which is
signiﬁcantly better than in all modeled scenarios. And is a testament to the loyalty of our
customers. In terms of restarting, we're conﬁdent that demand generation will not be an
issue.
On the next few slides, I'll provide an update on the group's ﬁnancial position. Once it
became clear that COVID-19 was going to be a signiﬁcant issue for the travel industry, we
moved quickly to maintain our ﬁnancial resilience. The focus was on protecting customers
and colleagues, ensuring we had suﬃcient liquidity, reducing costs, agreeing
amendments to our bank covenants and scenario stress testing to ensure we would be in
a strong position in all reasonable scenarios. This planning has stood up well to the realworld stress test of the last 6 months. We're fully in compliance with all bank covenants at
July 31, and we have not needed to draw down further on the RCF since March. Indeed,
as mentioned, we repaid GBP10 million of this in August.
The travel cash burn rate has been reduced. We expect a lower level of customer refunds
in the second half and the insurance business is performing well.
We also estimate that AICL solvency ratio at July 31, 2020, was over 200% and around
165%, excluding all COVID beneﬁts. As a result, we expect to remain in compliance with
our banking covenants at January 31, 2021 even with travel suspended until next year and
before any further management actions. This is consistent with the outcomes we modeled
in March.
That said, as we have formally announced today, we believe that the company now needs
to take further actions to support the Travel business during a period of ongoing COVID
disruption and to ensure that we remain in compliance with bank covenants beyond
January next year.
Page 8 of 21



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-09-10

FINAL

We are also thinking ahead to the repayment of the bank facilities, which mature in 2023.
Hence, our decision to raise an additional GBP150 million of equity capital, and to seek
conditional amendments to our short-term bank facilities, as I explain on the next slide.
Following the completion of the proposed capital raise, we will reduce the term loan from
around GBP134 million at the end of August to GBP70 million. This portion of the term
loan will remain in place until May 2023, with no further amounts to be repaid until then.
We will also repay the GBP40 million drawn amount of the RCF. The full GBP100 million
facility will remain in place, also until May 2023.
Net of the cost of issue, this leaves us around GBP36 million, which will be used to
provide further cash support to the business. Following the conclusion of the capital raise,
our net short-term debt will be at low levels. We will have no debt repayments due until
after March 31, 2021, when we expect to resume payments on the 2 cruise loans. And we
will have a signiﬁcantly higher level of headroom to our existing covenants.
Nonetheless, to provide further ﬁnancial ﬂexibility, we've also agreed with our banks to
make some amendments to covenants in the short-term debt as shown on the next slide.

Bloomberg Transcript

While we would have a headroom to our existing covenants upon completion of the
capital raise, our desire here has been to further de-risk the outlook given the uncertain
pace of recovery from COVID-19. This has been mainly focused on covenant testing at 31
July 2021, since it is possible that this will now be the most challenging point assuming
further delays to the resumption of travel well into next year.
As a result, we have now agreed with our lending banks to increase the leverage
covenant at this date from 4.25x to 4.75x. And we have reduced the interest covenant
from a minimum 3x to 1.5x at the same point. We have also amended some of the
quarterly tests either side of this. While we don't expect to be close to these covenants,
this provides us more security over the outlook.
To be more speciﬁc in relation to the assumptions we're using, I set out an update of our
planning scenarios on the next slide. Our core assumptions include a return to service of
the Cruise business later in the current year. And we believe we are well placed to achieve
this. As Euan will explain, our ships and our cruise proposition are as well suited to a
COVID world as exists anywhere. And demand generation for next year is in line with plan
assumptions, despite us having signiﬁcantly reduced marketing spend in the ﬁrst half.
For Tour Ops, our base case is for a small-scale return in March next year with the launch
of the Spirit of the Rhine river cruise boat and then a broader but cautious revival from
April onwards. We assume that all Tour Ops customer receipts are fully ring-fenced in the
new trust accounting setup that we will move to in the next month.
For Insurance, the business is performing well, and our base case assumes continued
solid performance and with much lower reserve releases, in line with our expectations for
AICL. We have included zero beneﬁts from reduced motor claims frequency.

Page 9 of 21



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-09-10

FINAL

In addition to our base case, we've continued to evolve our downside scenarios. In this
outcome, we assume that the Cruise business starts at the end of the year, but is required
to be put on pause from January until May. We then allow for lower load factors and
higher costs in the next few years.
For Tour Ops, we assume a slower burn recovery and we then allow for several downside
scenarios in relation to the Insurance business, including lower earnings in Retail Broking
and lower dividends from AICL. An important point to make is that post the capital raise,
we would have had headroom to our old leverage covenant at 31 July next year of 4.25x
in the above scenarios. The covenant amendments agreed now, therefore, mean that we
go into next year with a further strengthened position.
On the next slide, I'll provide an update on our debt outlook. This slide will be familiar to
many of you and is an update of the debt trajectory we anticipate in the next few years.
There are, of course, a wide range of outcomes for COVID-19, but we've looked to model
these within the scenarios I discussed on the previous slide.

Bloomberg Transcript

Following the capital raise, we expect a signiﬁcant reduction in our net debt. As at the end
of August, our net debt had increased by around GBP35 million since the end of January,
and it will reduce by GBP140 million after the capital raise. Next year is likely to see a
smaller reduction in net debt as a transitional year and dependence, of course, on the
pace of recovery from COVID-19.
From '22, '23, we expect to be back towards run rate earnings and cash generation. Our
goals here are fairly simple. We will continue to put a high priority on debt reduction and
are targeting a ratio of total leverage to EBITDA including Cruise of less than 3.5x. We
expect this to happen by the end of 2023, even in the more cautious scenario set out
above.
While this remains the priority, the Board is unlikely to consider resuming dividend
payments. This is not because of external constraints placed on the company, but reﬂects
a desire to reduce leverage to materially lower levels post the delivery of the 2 ships.
Let me now summarize on my part of the presentation. Despite the challenges of COVID19, we have shown good progress in the ﬁrst half. The insurance business is performing
well. And there are some encouraging green shoots. We completed 2 disposals and have
taken actions decisively to exit non-core parts of the company and reduce costs. We
amended our banking covenants, our scenario planning has withstood real-world stress
tests, and we have managed our liquidity well.
With the additional capital we propose to raise now, we will have the headroom to
navigate further COVID uncertainty and to support the execution of our strategic
initiatives.
And with that, I'll hand back to Euan.

Page 10 of 21



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-09-10

FINAL

Euan Sutherland
Thank you, James. Before we outline our plans, I wanted to share with you my
observations on what I found when I arrived at Saga to ground us and where we're
building from. After the ﬁrst 55 years of growth, innovation and development, the
business was and still is recovering from a period of over 15 years of changing priorities
from private equity to public ownership and having largely lost sight of the customer and
the need to invest in brand and the proposition.
Despite clear signs of failing to adapt to changing customer needs and wants, the core
brand dynamics remained surprisingly robust with sector-leading trust pilot scores and
core loyalist supporters. Like most great brands, the brand will always be polarizing, but
Saga had forgotten to serve their loyalists with a consistently good and contemporary
oﬀer.

Bloomberg Transcript

The operating model had been allowed to grow and become complex with multiple silos
and a lack of cohesion across the group. Customers of one business were served with a
diﬀerent set of values to the next and in a slow and costly way. Debt was high post the
private equity regime and further added to with a 2 new ships, which have formed the
basis of our cruise transformation, but were justiﬁed a forecast that were built on the
issues identiﬁed above.
As we've all seen, this has led to a number of consistently diﬃcult impacts for investors
with falling customer numbers, increasing costs and the failure and closure or sale of the
acquisitions that were not invested in adequately or lacked a true Saga point of
diﬀerence. In short, there was a lot to do to put Saga back on the right path.
So having phased into these issues and making a series of tough, but clear choices, we
are beginning to see early signs of recovery, but with a long way still to go. Retention in
Insurance is improving by innovating our products and implementing new systems and
processes. The transformation of Cruise was working well pre-COVID lockdown, and our
customer satisfaction and feedback has taken a step change with our Net Promoter Score
consistently moving positively as we remove customer pain points, and respond to issues.
To give you an example, throughout the COVID crisis, we have prioritized customer wellbeing through being ﬂexible to their changing needs. Customer service agents in
insurance and travel have served customers every day without an interruption from home,
unlike many of our competitors, with extra time on the calls to help our older customer
base and to actively help and relate to the challenges on our human level, often with pets
and children in the background.
We have also been ﬂexible to allow customers a full travel refund if they wanted it.
Prioritizing long-term brand loyalty over short-term ﬁnancials has not only paid back in the
customer feedback, you can see on the top right of this chart, but also in the conﬁdence
of customers to leave their travel bookings with us for next year. This focus and these stats
are shaping the new Saga as we aim to create exceptional experiences for our
experienced customers every day and return the business to its DNA and to growth.

Page 11 of 21



FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-09-10

So having diagnosed the issues and begun to test solutions, we are focused on creating a
new and more conﬁdent mindset across the business. We have researched our
customers, providing insight and clarity as to why Saga exists and where it should focus.
We start and end with the customer now. This is our primary focus and everything we do
is in service of them. Age has always been a hot topic at Saga, but it's really not the point.
And certainly, not how we win going forward. Let me explain by using this chart. We
believe that people over 50 no longer and likely never did deﬁne themselves by age, but
rather by attitude, aspiration and adventure.
Attitude, as we show from our research here is a far more accurate determination of
consumer behavior than age and provides important insights into how we grow revenues
and proﬁt as well as become more eﬃcient. The average 74 year old thinks they are 58,
the average 50 year old, thinks they're 42. While outside our target consumer, the
average 17-year-old thinks they're 21, certainly true in my house.

Bloomberg Transcript

As a customer of Saga, I don't think about my age, but having had experience in life, I do
have clear expectations, aspirations for me and my family and want to explore the world
as soon as we are all allowed to do so again. Leading the business, I also believe that
Saga is at its best when it's innovating, leading and shaping its products and services,
speciﬁcally for its customers. And it is clear that when we do this, our customers love it
and buy into it in volumes, such as 3-year ﬁxed insurance, boutique cruises and most
recently, COVID inclusive travel insurance.
So Saga is here to create exceptional experiences for its customers every day, whilst
being a driver for positive change in our markets and our communities. This is our mantra,
our purpose and is the common goal across every part of our business in service of our
customers. Creating these exceptional experiences every day will set us apart from the
competition and return the business to its core DNA.
So putting that in context and sizing the opportunity, it is an attractive place to operate.
The 55- to 73-year old baby boomer generation have innovated throughout their lives and
across the world and they are not about to stop today. Baby boomers have the greatest
level of wealth in the UK today, 20% of them being millionaires. They are ﬁtter, wealthier
and have more conﬁdence and are more digitally savvy than ever before. And at over
25% of the UK population today, this segment is forecast to grow at 22% for the next 10
years and only 8% are Saga customers, implying signiﬁcant headroom for growth.
People aged 65 and over have experienced the greatest increase in household wealth in
the last 10 years, up 96% and their disposable wealth is largely unaﬀected by COVID-19.
Our customers have gained life experience, have high standards and know what's good
value. Saga will focus within these parameters. The Saga diﬀerence and DNA was always
to serve our older people with innovative, high-quality and good value products and
services, speciﬁcally designed for them.
Providing exceptional experiences was always at the heart of Saga. Our return to this DNA
in a modern digital context underpins our strategy and we have captured how this feels
Page 12 of 21



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-09-10

FINAL

for customers in a few of their quotes on the right hand side of this chart. Simply
experience is everything for our customers, experience in adventure, traveling the world,
experience in luxury on their cruises and on holiday, experience in service across all of our
businesses. Experience is what our customers have gained in their lives.
So to deliver for this customer, we have focused on 5 key priorities: people and culture
reset, simply a step change in performance, productivity and engagement. Data, digital
and brand transformation, a bigger, bolder connected strategy. Optimizing our
businesses, exceptional experiences for our customers every day, lowering our cost base,
constant drive for eﬃciencies. And ﬁnally, debt reduction, further strengthening our
balance sheet. And we'll take you through the highlights of these now.
Before Stuart and Cheryl take you through more of the detail, I wanted to start with the
people, leadership and cultural foundations we have been establishing this year within
the business. 2020 was always a year of reset and rebuild critically inside out, and we are
already well underway with these plans. Our aim is simply to maximize performance and
productivity and engagement with a happy and motivated team who will serve our
customers with the same conﬁdent mindset.

Bloomberg Transcript

So far this year, we have taken some tough decisions and reduced the headcount by 36%,
to create a simpler and more eﬀective organization, whilst lowering the management
layers from an unbelievable 17 down to 5. Some of these headcount savings are a
permanent reset and up to 500 roles are likely to return as we bring back our travel
businesses into service.
The net ongoing reduction in heads will be around 23% from the 2019 levels. We have all
of our 2,500 colleagues eﬀectively working from home and have invested in
communications, engagement and critically mental health support.
As we move into half two, we are further engaging on our purpose, cultural development
and the reinforcement of the performance culture that will underpin our plans. Continued
training and investment and capability will drive greater success as we build out the plan.
Let me now hand over to Stuart and Cheryl to talk you through more detail.

Stuart Beamish

{BIO 20609682 <GO>}

Thank you, Euan. Good morning, everyone. Today, I'm going to talk through major
changes we're undertaking in data, digital and brand and our progress so far, all
designed to ensure we deliver exceptional experiences for our customers. These 3 areas
are key growth drivers for our business, and together, generate greater value from the
some of the parts of the group.
First, we're driving greater value from Saga's data assets, an unique insight into people
over 50 in the UK, though we're signiﬁcantly improving our digital services and
experience to create a go-to destination for our audience. And ﬁnally, we're planning an
ambitious relaunch of our brand, to attract new customers to Saga, and we're delivering
Page 13 of 21



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-09-10

FINAL

these as one program of transformation because they work together to drive higher
retention, grow multi-product holdings and drive a better return from spend on customer
acquisition.
Turning ﬁrst to data. We're already well underway with a major transformation focused on
what we believe is Saga's crown jewel, a growing database of 9 million UK households
and a rich view of our customers. As you can see on the left, we've delivered a single data
platform to serve our whole business. We've also completed the rollout of the Adobe
Marketing Cloud and built a new data analysis platform. These changes have sped up
analytics queries from hours to minutes and driven eﬃciencies in marketing.
And as you can see on the right, we're now focused on further value generation as we
migrate our data to these new platforms. Our immediate priority is insurance, driving
beneﬁts in pricing and marketing and then using our data to serve customers with
relevant cross-sell propositions based on their preferences and interests.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now our customers were very digitally savvy, but during lockdown, like everyone else,
we've seen a bigger shift in digital usage. We already have 2 million unique visits a month
across Saga's online platforms and 1 million customers signed up to our online
membership proposition.
Now Euan touched on membership earlier. So I'd just like to pick up on that point. We've
earned a signiﬁcant amount from launching our membership program. But we're now
moving on from this approach to improve our customer experience, remove complexity
from the business and focus on improving our digital services for all customers. This
means that from the end of this year, we'll remove the separate membership branding
and sign up process.
Customers will still have access to their beneﬁts, but instead of one experience for
members and one for non-members, we're building a single digital hub for all customers
to easily access everything Saga has to oﬀer in one place. That's insurance and travel
products, service, rewards, oﬀers and content without requiring customers to sign up to a
scheme. We believe this will be simpler for customers and colleagues and will be well
placed to drive up retention and cross-sell through our digital platforms.
We're also launching a redesign of our website from early 2021, improving the look,
speed and features of the site to improve sales conversion and cross-sell. And the reason
we're focused on early 2021 is the next part of our transformation, our brand relaunch.
Now the Saga brand has very strong underpinnings. Over 69 years, we've built strong
awareness and it is seen as a brand people can trust. But the relaunch will mark a major
change in how we communicate the Saga brand. It's our chance to restate Saga's role and
the beneﬁts of choosing us. And it will also galvanize all of the transformation eﬀorts that
our colleagues across the business are working on to reinvigorate Saga.
We've gone right back to why Saga exists and spoken to many customers and our
broader audience. We've drawn heavily and take inspiration from Saga's heritage,
Page 14 of 21



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-09-10

FINAL

returning to the core brand DNA, which Sir Roger De Haan created. And we'll bring this to
life in a modern way, which reﬂects today's consumer. The campaign will be big and bold,
making our brand much more visible than it has been for many years. It will celebrate the
experience of our customers, our 70 years at Saga and our commitment to delivering
exceptional experiences. For us, experience is everything.
The campaign itself is still under wraps at this point, but I did want to share some of the
fantastic feedback from our audience in testing research. As you can see, they show
exactly the shift in perception that we're aiming for. Winning over more of our market by
showing Saga is a brand for them and opening up a new audience to Saga who've not
tried us before.
I've set out on this slide this commercial beneﬁts that a stronger brand will provide, but
there are also many softer beneﬁts supporting our work on building Saga's culture
internally, galvanizing our business and providing a real focus for transformation.

Bloomberg Transcript

Saga Magazine has always played an important role at Saga, but it had become a bit of a
hidden jewel. Its subscribers includes some of our most valuable customers and
advocates, but you probably won't be aware that it is the UK's best-selling monthly
subscription magazine. This is developed entirely in-house at Saga, it's unique to us and a
real advantage over other brands.
So Saga Magazine is going to play a bigger role going forward. We're going digital with a
full digital version launching this autumn alongside the paper version. And we've already
delivered changes in editorial and design generating signiﬁcant PR every month with
columns from the likes of Jeremy Paxman and Paul Lewis.
Going forward, we will grow the leadership of Saga Magazine to drive brand engagement
among more of our current customers and future customers.
This is my summary showing how each of these initiatives I've covered will create beneﬁts
for Saga and customers. We have had major transformation programs before, but a big
diﬀerence this time is the alignment of the entire business around one cohesive plan and
the bringing together of all of these things with an ambitious brand relaunch to transform
our business.
Thank you. I'll now hand over to Cheryl.

Cheryl Agius

{BIO 20013065 <GO>}

Good morning. Today, I will share with you my reﬂections on the Saga Insurance business
over the last 8 months, the progress on our strategic priorities and how we are building
on our core foundations for future sustainable growth.
As Euan and James has outlined, we have steered our business through COVID, delivered
on our insurance performance and focused on our strategic priorities. We responded
Page 15 of 21



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-09-10

FINAL

promptly and we're one of the ﬁrst insurers to relaunch a travel insurance product for our
customers to include COVID cover and cancellation.
When COVID took place, our colleague safety was our priority, whilst we focus on
remaining open for our existing customers and new customers. We have the telephony
and technology in place prior to COVID for some of our call center colleagues and we
were able to scale up to get our full call center capability working from home within 2
weeks. The Insurance business remained open as normal, with 97% of our calls answering
within 20 seconds at the end of March.
On our trading, our 3-year ﬁxed has performed very well with over 500,000 policies in
force at the end of July. This has been one of the drivers of increased retention and policy
growth. We also secured reinsurance on our 3-year ﬁxed product as part of our broader
reinsurance strategy.

Bloomberg Transcript

As James shared, we have maintained strong pricing discipline throughout with margins
in line with expectations. We have had positive experience in personal injury claims, and
attritional claims is in line with expectations. As we manage through COVID and normal
trading, we have also progressed our strategic priorities, some of which we set out last
year.
At the start of the year, when we went through our business transformation, we simpliﬁed
our business and aligned the business under one leadership team. We have focused
building our direct proposition capabilities, investing in pricing and data and
transforming our technology infrastructure and digital. I will take you through more detail
on some of these in just a moment.
The progress delivered to date has started to deliver value in our business. We are
delivering on the principles set out last year. We have grown our direct sales with a clear
targeted proposition in our 3-year ﬁxed, which in turn has been a contributing factor to
our increase in retention rates of 10% on Motor and Home on our 3-year ﬁxed and an
increase in policy count. We have maintained strong pricing discipline in line with
expectations, and become more eﬃcient by reducing our insurance cost base by 4%.
We have also focused on understanding our customer needs. Saga has a considerable
advantage in our target market because of our relentless focus in customer insight and
data to understand each stage of our customers' lives.
A large number of our customers are retired with a retirement income and want certainty
and ease. The 3-year ﬁxed for Motor and Home was launched in April 2019 and these are
some of the customers' feedbacks of which are common themes from customers, peace
of mind, reassurance and ease.
Our distribution will continue to focus in direct to our customers. A direct relationship with
our customers provides opportunity for proﬁtable growth by meeting the targeted needs
of our speciﬁc customer base. The 3-year ﬁxed is a good example of product innovation,
distributed directly to our customers. We are modernizing our marketing, reaching more
Page 16 of 21



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-09-10

FINAL

of our customers through digital and the recent appointment of Head of Insurance,
marketing who has strong digital experience has accelerated the journey. We have
invested in Guidewire and live on motor, with the intention of rolling out home later this
year.
We will also distribute through PCWs to attract those customers in our chosen growth
segments. PCWs are the largest source of new business, and we will target new
customers that align with our proﬁle. We will have diﬀerentiated propositions for direct
and PCW speciﬁcally designed for each of those channels, and we are on track to launch
a new cover level for motor against speciﬁcally designed for PCWs.
Overall, our strategic priorities are to build broader and longer relationships with our
customers. Our strategy is split into Phase 1, which focuses on building the core
foundations in technology, data and pricing, coupled with strengthening our capabilities
in core products, customer experience and deep customer insights. Our Phase 2
leverages oﬀ this and focuses on distribution excellence, increased value, margin and
retention to drive sustainable growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

If I turn to Phase 1. We spoke to you last year about investing in our core foundations, and
we have made strong progress. We have replatformed our motor book onto Guidewire,
implemented telephony analytics, robotics and in-sourced our claims technology hosting
whilst at the same time, our pathway through simplifying our claims handling processes.
In Q3, we are on track to deploying Guidewire with home implementation. And by the
end of the year, we will have initial stages of online self-service for our customers. Our
new platform makes it easier to broaden our relationships with our customers.
In pricing, we have deployed radar live into our broker and underwriting business. And as
Stuart has shared with you, we have a program of work underway to modernize our data
infrastructure and enrich that database on customer behaviors across our entire Saga
business, including sourcing pricing data from internal and external sources. For our core
products, as I mentioned, we will have launched a new product on motor and PCW.
Phase 2 is focused on building on Phase 1 to provide sustainable growth with a particular
focus on delivering on initiatives that will drive broader relationships in our Insurance
business and increased longevity. We have started to build out our digital capabilities and
customer acquisition, so we provide targeted, relevant oﬀerings to our customers. Stuart
has shared with you our vision for an integrated customer journey in Saga for our
insurance and broader customer base that is easy to use, and so they can service their
insurance products. We will build on our 3-year ﬁxed to reward them for their loyalty, and
we will build up suﬃcient data and pricing capability to share in more of the value chain
where it makes sense.
So to summarize, there are 5 things that I am very proud of. We have delivered strong
results despite the headwinds of COVID. The underlying business is in line with
expectations and showing initial indication of return to growth. We are making strong
progress in direct with our 3-year ﬁxed product. We are well progressed on delivering
Page 17 of 21



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-09-10

Phase 1 of our transforming our core foundations. And ﬁnally, we have started on the
initiatives that will leverage of our core foundations to deliver sustainable growth.
And now I'll hand you back to you.

FINAL

Euan Sutherland
Thank you, Cheryl. In Travel, the team has completed a huge amount of work over the
summer and have reset the businesses to operate successfully and proﬁtably in a COVID
world.
Firstly, on Cruise, our core Saga proposition has always been to create exceptional service
whilst giving peace of mind and extra care and attention for our guests. Therefore,
building on this into a COVID world has been arguably easier for Saga. Having said that,
we have landed over 100 improvements on board and with the provision of safe and
secure cruising, giving us the conﬁdence to be ready to cruise today and certainly later
this year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Taking these in turn. Our ships are the newest cruise ship ﬂeet in the world with 100%
fresh air, air conditioning, meaning the air you breathe in your cabin is not breathed by
anyone else on board. And we also have the technology to control airﬂows around the
ship without recirculation. On top of this, we have the capability to use ionization and
ultraviolet to kill pathogens in public spaces.
We have 100% balcony cabins and with a maximum of 1,000 guests, meaning social
distancing and capacity management is easily achievable. And in the ﬁrst instance, we will
be capping load factors to 80%. In addition, we have extensive prevention planning with
full COVID testing before you leave home, our car service to the port, testing at the port
and a car service home at the end of your cruise.
Crew welfare and testing is top of our minds, too, with daily COVID testing of whole crew
and a dedicated isolation zone and a doubled medical team for all who are on board. All
of our cruises are UK to UK. So there is no ﬂy risk for our guests, and we are conﬁdent in
strong demand driving pre-COVID metrics.
In Tour Ops, we have reset the business to be a smaller, but high-quality business aligned
to the cruise proposition, focused on oﬀ-peak and adopting many of the same COVID
measures and this is set to return to service from March 2021.
There are 3 strategic drivers of the new travel oﬀer at Saga, with an enhanced proposition,
data and digital step change and a revitalized focus on exceptional customer service. The
Saga propositions across cruise and tour operations have been aligned behind delivering
exceptional experiences, enhancing safety and peace of mind with everything that we do.
Both cruise and tour operations have seen strong customer loyalty, underpinning this
proposition.

Page 18 of 21



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-09-10

FINAL

The travel businesses will beneﬁt from the same data, digital and brand investment as
insurance, making it easier for our customers to have longer and deeper relationships
with us. And aligned digital crews and tour operations marketing development creates
more opportunity for cross-sell. And the travel websites are being overhauled in early
2021, and we're taking each of the travel businesses more direct to control the quality of
customer experience end-to-end.
In Cruise, we are conﬁdent in achieving our transformation promises when sailing
resumes, but we've assumed lower load factors in the early months post lockdown being
lifted. Both ships were on budget and prior to the lockdown, the key metrics of greater
than GBP275 per diem and greater than 80% load factors were being delivered.
As I've said, we've worked closely with the government, the cruise trade bodies and
public health agencies in establishing safe cruise protocols and are expecting publication
of these later this month. We are conﬁdent about our ability to cruise again and demand
does not look like it's an issue today.

Bloomberg Transcript

There was a lot to ﬁx in our Tour Operations business in 2020, constantly changing
leadership and priorities alongside constant experimentation over the last 5 to 10 years
has meant that we'd simply lost the Saga DNA, resulting in lower customer numbers
across the board. We have reset this business over the summer, taking it back to its core
heritage in a new digital context. The reset is built on 5 pillars. Firstly, our commitment to
quality. We will not be the cheapest, but we will ensure added value and quality
guarantees in every product. As such, we've reduced the product SKU count to only those
holidays that meet our standards.
New product development is key. We are reintroducing an innovation program, adding
longer holidays, a focus on oﬀ-peak across the world, cultural and special interest tours
and we have our new river cruise ship program setting sale from March 2021. Our direct
and digital marketing has been reﬁned, and our operations have been streamlined and
refocused. The Saga Holidays proposition caters for our core audience of 70 plus, while
the Titan Travel operation caters for a younger and more venturous audience, both with
the same attention to detail and underpinned by group synergies.
Our new 2021 season launches this month, including the key elements of our return to the
Saga DNA inspiring destinations, peace of mind reassurances and including travel
insurance now including COVID cover too. We have the launch of our new river cruise
ship, the Spirit of the Rhine in March, which is fully booked. We will reach, reconnect and
hopefully inspire almost 2 million people this month with our new proposition.
In Tour Operations, our principles are simple and clear in every touch point now with the
Saga charter, underpinning every holiday, inspiration, quality, service and value for money
with holiday speciﬁcally designed for our customers, inclusive travel insurance is even
more important today than ever before and topped up by the reintroduction of the Saga
price promise to give conﬁdence to book now. Underpinned totally by the availability of
our exclusive car service from your home. We believe the care and attention, alongside a

Page 19 of 21



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-09-10

FINAL

brand history, oﬀering peace of mind with inspirational destinations is a very strong
proposition today and into the future.
So in summary, the team and I hope we have demonstrated our passion and
determination to return Saga to being a great British business again. With our clarity and
realism around the challenges that we face, our unrelenting customer focus and the
development of a new performance culture. Our investments are disciplined and will
drive growth from a focus on data, digital and brand, once the balance sheet has been
strengthened.
We are already underway with improvements they need to drive the returns our
shareholders deserve, and we are focused on creating a simple, compelling and
proﬁtable business for the long term. We will measure our success across a balanced
scorecard. In Insurance, we have already turned a corner, and we're aiming to deliver
strong retention of over 80%, alongside consistent policy growth of 3% at stable margins
with a combined underwriting ratio of 97%.
In Travel, our ﬁrst objective is a safe return to service and then picking up where we left oﬀ
in Cruise with highly proﬁtable cruise ships delivering GBP 40 million of EBITDA, while
returning our Tour Operations business to a quality operation and consistent revenue
growth of 4% per annum post COVID.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our central cost will remain a focus, and we will not let them get out of control again,
while investing in data, digital and brand to ensure more of our growing customer base,
engage with the business for longer.
Finally, we will continue to be cash generative, with a cash conversion of 85%, while
lowering our leverage to less than 3.5x by 2023.
Overall, our objective is to deliver improved quality of earnings on a sustainable basis
across the group.
As you will already be aware, we are looking to raise GBP 150 million of gross proceeds.
Roger De Haan will subscribe for shares equivalent to 20% of our existing share capital at
GBP0.27 per share. This will raise around GBP60 million and he will own 16.7% of the
company. We will then have a placing an open oﬀer to raise a further GBP90 million.
In the ﬁrst instance, all investors will be able to subscribe for shares proportionate to their
existing holdings. Roger will maintain a 16.7% stake, and so we'll invest a further GBP15
million at a maximum price of GBP0.15 per share. Any shares not taken up will be
allocated to shareholders willing to increase their holdings. Roger will invest up to around
a further GBP25 million in this part of the capital raise again, at a maximum of GBP0.15 per
share.
The placing and open oﬀer are fully underwritten by JPMorgan, Numis and HSBC and
completion of all elements are conditional on shareholder approval. Completion of the
Page 20 of 21



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-09-10

FINAL

changes to the banking terms are also conditional on successful completion of the capital
raising and the transaction is expected to complete later this month.
So in conclusion, we have a clear strategic plan based on 5 priorities: people and culture
reset, a step change in performance, productivity and engagement. Data, digital and
brand transformation, a bigger, bolder connected strategy, optimizing our businesses,
exceptional experiences for our customers every day, lowering our cost base, a constant
drive for eﬃciencies, and ﬁnally, debt reduction, further strengthening our balance sheet.
And these are supported and underpinned by Roger de Haan as our cornerstone investor
and new Chairman.

Bloomberg Transcript

As a team, we are already building a track record of good execution across all elements of
the business and have acted with precision pace at each stage of the COVID pandemic.
We are conﬁdent in consistently delivering the balanced scorecard of measures for
shareholders over the long-term and driving greater quality of earnings. I hope our
customer focus is clear. And our customer demographics are attractive, strong and in
double-digit growth over the next 10 years. Our objective is for Saga to emerge stronger
from this crisis than it went in and to rebuild a great British business again. And we are
underway with the steps to achieve that. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 21 of 21

