Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

Y 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Alban de Mailly Nesle, Chief Risk and Investment Oﬃcer
Andrew Wallace-Barnett, Senior Vice President & Head of Investor Relations
Etienne Bouas-Laurent, Group Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Jacques de Peretti, Chairmand and Chief Executive Oﬃcer of AXA France
Scott Gunter, Chief Executive Oﬃcer - AXA XL
Thomas Buberl, Chief Executive Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Colm Kelly, Analyst
Farooq Hanif, Analyst
James Shuck, Analyst
Jon Hocking, Analyst
Kamran Hossain, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Nick Holmes, Analyst
Thomas Fossard, Analyst
Unidentiﬁed Participant
William Hawkins, Analyst

Presentation
Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

Good afternoon. Welcome everybody here in London for AXA's Full year '19 Earnings
Presentation. Welcome to those of you in London, who just come through the rain.
Welcome to those of you who are dry and not just walked through the rain, who are with
us on the webcast. Good to have you here. For those of you on the phone as well. If you'd
like to ask questions later on in the Q&A, of course we'll give priority to the people here in
the room, but we will take questions also from the webcast. Just follow the instructions
you're given and we'll happy to -- I'll be happy to have your questions as well.
I'd like to welcome, of course, we have with us Thomas Buberl, our CEO, Etienne BouasLaurent, our new CFO, as well we have some of the management team, we have Jacques
de Peretti from France, Antimo Perretta, from Europe, Alban de Mailly Nesle, who is -- I
always get that wrong. Alban is here as the Group Chief Risk Oﬃcer -- Investment Oﬃcer,
I'm sorry, Alban and we have Scott Gunter, and that's a lot easier for me to pronounce.
Page 1 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

And Scott welcome, who is the very new CEO of AXA XL. All of them will be available to
answer your questions later on.
And without any further ado, Thomas, I hand over to you.

FINAL

Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you, Andrew, and good afternoon to all of you. Very glad to see you here in
London. When we look at the highlights of the results, they follow the rule 5, 5, 7 -- 5, 5, 5,
7. 5% growth on the top line and across the board, 5% underlying earnings per share,
reﬂecting a very strong technical result 5% more solvency in an environment that is
characterized by continuously low interest rates and certainly in our case, characterized by
a signiﬁcant portfolio shift between AXA Equitable and AXA XL, and the proposal to the
shareholders will be plus 7% on the dividend, leading to a dividend of EUR1.43 per share.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's have a look into the details. The ﬁrst 5%, plus 5% revenue, leading us to 104 billion
revenue. What is interesting to see is that this is happening across the board. So all
geographies are contributing to it, and I would like to draw your attention to the bottom
right, which is AXA XL, we'll come back to that again, plus 10% is really a very good
growth number, certainly resulting from strong price increases.
But if you go to the top part, you will certainly see that this strong growth was again,
driven by the preferred segments that we are focusing on commercial lines, where we are
today, the biggest in the world; health and protection, where we are also very strong on a
global level. But what is nice to see that all the geographies, France, Europe, Asia and the
international markets have really contributed to it, and I'm sure, we will talk later on with
Jacques, with Antimo about more details.
When we look at the earnings, as I mentioned earlier, that's the second 5%, we will see 5%
earnings growth in terms of underlying earnings per share, which results in a 6% adjusted
earnings per share growth, resulting in a proposed 7% growth of the dividend per share
to EUR1.43 at a payout ratio that is slightly higher than last year, but very stable at a 52%
level.
If we look at the priorities that we had, and there were clearly three priorities that we
mentioned here as of last year. One was the selling down of AXA Equitable. You see here
on the left hand side that we used to have a year gross to 51%, we now have 0. So AXA
Equitable is now in the hands of American shareholders and free in the market.
Second priority was clearly reducing our temporary increased leverage. A year ago, we
had -- we were at 32%. Now we are at 29%, with a very clear way downwards to the target
range of 25% to 28%. You've already seen the announcements of the necessary means in
order to get there. And certainly, on Equitable, we have achieved 100% of what we
wanted to achieve because we issued, at the time, at $20 and never sold below $20,
always above.

Page 2 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

What is also interesting is to look at the solvency. The solvency has continuously increased
now, and there is still some upside in it. You remember, we are still -- putting XL into the
internal model of AXA, which will hopefully happen this year. But what is also interesting
not only to see that there is a ﬁve percentage point increase, we are also, for the ﬁrst time,
not relying on equivalents anymore. This was certainly a discussion that we used to have a
lot on the US business. Today, it is a solvency that is pure without any equivalents.
When we look at AXA XL. AXA XL, as I said earlier, has had a very strong growth. So 10%
growth of the premium, very much based on a strong and disciplined re-underwriting of
the book, and this is very diﬀerent across the diﬀerent lines. So you have some lines, for
example, in the US, liability, which is at 22%. You have the excess casualty, which is at over
40%. So the hardening cycle is there. We are making use of it.
And when I look at the January numbers, I see that this trend is continuing. So we will see
this continuing in 2020, and we will also see the beneﬁt of this earning through in 2020
and 2021 because this 10%, if you take it on a net earned premium of 10 billion, you can
make the math yourself, this is a very interesting ﬁgure.

Bloomberg Transcript

Second point was very much around the questions, which are related to social inﬂations,
are the reserves adequate. We had these questions plenty of times in this room. As you
know, we have built a very signiﬁcant reserve at the time of the opening balance sheet
through the P-GAAP. We, obviously, have a continuous look at this and we can state today
that the reserves are adequate and that we even have 0.8 billion of additional annual
unallocated reserves at the end of 2019.
The result of XL is, for 2019, 0.5 billion, with a natural catastrophe fee experience that is
beyond what we normally would expect. I personally have a much higher ambition than
0.5 billion. And so we have taken three key decisions in order to get to a more proﬁtable
XL in 2020.
Number one is we have increased the prices signiﬁcantly, and we will continue these price
increases, which we see, we are beneﬁting from a signiﬁcant growth. ﬁrst decision.
Second decision, we have reduced our volatility, reduced our volatility, so two means.
One is we have reduced our exposure in underwriting to natural catastrophes. So for
example, on the Reinsurance side, in natural catastrophes, we have reduced our exposure
by 10%, which means also less premium and less proﬁt or less losses in case there is a lot
of natural catastrophes. Secondly, on the question around liability, we've reduced the line
sizing. So in the past, we used to write much bigger net lines than we do today. Same
logic again, less risk equals less premium, but also less losses. And then thirdly, in this
category of reducing risk, we have taken out more reinsurance to protect ourselves better
against volatility. That was the second decision.
The third decision was a new management. We are passing now from a phase of
integration, which was a very successful phase, where it was very diﬃcult to bring two
large organizations together in a very short time. We have succeeded well on this. Today,
AXA XL is really a new combination, works well. Greg Hendrick has done a fantastic job in
Page 3 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

really bringing those two worlds together in bridging, let's say, the cultural diﬀerences as
well that used to exist that we are now passing into a new phase, which is around
acceleration. The strategy will remain exactly the same.
We are focusing on increasing the proﬁtability, on getting the cost synergies that we have
communicated, but we felt it's time to do this with a new man, and I'm very pleased that
Scott Gunter today is with us, and I would like you, Scott, to stand up quickly, introduce
yourself to the audience today. And maybe talk a little bit about what you have seen so far
because today's your ﬁrst day as CEO, but you have been on board for quite a few weeks
already, preparing yourself for this new challenge. And if you could stand in that box to
talk to us quickly.

Scott Gunter

{BIO 20129741 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you, Thomas, and I'm very excited to be part of the AXA Group. As Thomas
mentioned, I've been on board for a couple of weeks and sort of studying it from afar, and
I'm very excited. When you look at the AXA XL organization, we have a tremendous
product breadth. There's a lot of product capability across a number of geographies.

Bloomberg Transcript

What does that do for us? That allows us to operate in marketplace and ﬁnd where there's
pricing that ﬁts what we need to get. If the pricing is not there, we can turn the dial down
on that business and go, okay, we'll get that later and write more where the margin is. So
the breadth of product and the breadth of geography is a fantastic opportunity.
Also impressed by our hidden gem. We have a large risk consulting organization, over
400 engineers. And they not only do work for the underwriters, they do work for clients,
for a fee. So we're collecting non-risk revenue from that operation. I'm excited by that
because that is a risk-taking business. You always like non-risk fee business, for sure.
And really, the third excites me is the combination of XL and AXA. XL, great organization,
lots of product geographic spread, leveraging the assets of AXA, the relationships in
Europe, relationships in the UK, right, the relationships in Asia, just leveraging all of that
and selling more product, where we wrote property casualty business, and they'll bring
those products to those brokers. So you put those three together, very, very excited.
Now, and what we're going to work on? Thomas mentioned it. We're going to work on
the margin, right? The pricing environment allows that to happen. We're going to
constantly look at our portfolio, again, where do we need to get pricing, pricing is right
now is looking very good. We get a lot of products that are running ahead of trend, right?
That's a great sign, right? We're going to continue to work on the margin. So margin
expansion is an important part of it. Thomas mentioned about volatility, continue to work
on that. The line sizing started, we continue that process. The good news is, you can
reduce your line, charge more. So the impact on the revenue isn't as much, right,
continue to work on that.
And the third issue that we really want to work on is growth, right? So we're going to ask
the underwriters to do two things, right? Renewal book, work on your margin, get ahead
Page 4 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

of loss trend. Secondly, as prices go up, there are more and more opportunities that are
attractive to us. Two years ago, when the price was at x, we may not have been that
interested. Today, it goes up 25% last year, 25% this year. Also, it hits our number, and
now we're interested. So we're going to work on the margin, grow the business and deal
with volatility.

Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Scott. So you heard from Scott, no change in strategy, acceleration
of the existing strategy in order to get to higher proﬁtability. The forecast for this year is
1.2 billion, and you've got the equation how to get there. People have asked me, well,
what about the 1.4? Well, we are talking about exactly the same thing. 1.4 means with less
volatility. We've decided to buy additional reinsurance to reduce the risk exposure, which
has a cost of 200 million. So the 1.2 is the 1.4 minus 0.2 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

What have we achieved in 2019? Remember, the Ambition 2020 was focused on two
pillars: focus and transform. On the focus side, we've clearly seen that we have gone back
to growth. When I started as a CEO, we were at 0% growth. We are now at 5% growth with
the focus on the preferred segments, and the whole organization is fully aligned on this,
which is really good. You can also ask my colleagues here, when they talk about their
business, we all talk the same language.
In addition to that, we've also achieved to increase our presence in China, and there
might be a question later on about the coronavirus. Does it put in question your
engagement in China? It doesn't, because in insurance, we don't look at the short term,
we look at long term, we look at the demography, and this remains fully intact and fully
attractive to us.
On the simpliﬁcation side, we have clearly communicated the segmentation of our
countries. 10 countries that make 80% of our proﬁt, 6 countries with high potential that
makes 16% of the proﬁt and over 40 countries that make 4%. We clearly communicated
that we want to reduce our footprint and reduce the complexity of our countries. You have
seen, we have delivered AXA Bank Belgium, AXA Life Europe, CEE with the three
countries, Poland, Czech Republic and Slovakia.
On the balance sheet, we have changed the balance sheet from being 80% focused on
ﬁnancial risk to 80% technical risk, having a very resilient balance sheet, having a stronger
solvency, having a solvency that doesn't rely anymore on equivalents, and certainly having
a gearing that will come back to the place, where we started.
On the transform side, this shift that I mentioned earlier from life & savings or from
ﬁnancial risk to technical risk has been accompanied by signiﬁcant transactions, the
quotation and the IPO of XL -- of Equitable, which is done. The Swiss Group Life
transformation, which is announced, which is in the process of being done. And certainly,
the XL acquisition and integration is on a good journey. We are now completing the
integration, and that means we can now move to a new phase, which is around
acceleration of the proﬁtability, acceleration of the simplicity of the company.

Page 5 of 32



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

The one thing I'm personally very proud of is the customer experience because when you
change a company, it is always diﬃcult to ﬁnd the right balance between change and
making sure that you also progress on your existing business. And there is a famous
French saying, which is, "the sales need to continue while you rebuild your house," and
I'm always reminded of this. And it's very nice to see that certainly, on the NPS front, so
the customer experience, the customer satisfaction, we are at 75%, which means that 75%
of our markets are at least at market average or above and certainly, the new brand
positioning, the Know You Can campaign has helped us to also boost this both internally,
but also externally.
And then certainly, transform also means transforming into new business models, ﬁnding
new business models. And it is also very good to see that we've tried new models that are
starting to work. So you might remember the vertical integration in Mexico, where we
have built together with Keralty Clinics in Mexico City and other cities, where we are
going and oﬀering medical services to Mexican customers. We are in the process of
doing the same in Egypt.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the ING partnership, and Antimo is responsible for that. Across diﬀerent countries in
Europe, we've built a very innovative solution that is working really well and where we
have really changed also the game when it comes to bancassurance in Europe.
And then on the climate side, we've been very innovative when it comes to parametric
insurance, both in developed markets, but also in emerging markets. And this is really
good to see that when you look at the number part, again, of Ambition 2020, you see that
we are fully in line with what we said. On the underlying earnings per share, we want to be
in a corridor of 3% to 7%. We are on the average now of the four years at 5%. There's one
more year to go to the end of 2020. So we are on a very good journey.
When it comes to the free cash ﬂow, we said between 28 billion and 32 billion. On a
cumulative basis, we are at EUR billion by the end of 2019, again, on a good journey.
When it comes to the adjusted return on equity, the initial target was below the range that
we have now. So now, we have already upgraded to 14% to 16%. We are now at 16%,
which I think is a very attractive return on equity. And on the solvency, I spoke about it
earlier. We want to be in the range of 170 to 220. We are now at 198. And the 198 of today
is a very diﬀerent solvency to four years ago because we do not rely on equivalents
anymore. So I'm very pleased with where we are.
And I'll now hand over to Etienne, who will lead us through the details of the ﬁnancials.
Thank you

Etienne Bouas-Laurent

{BIO 16523089 <GO>}

Thank you, Thomas, and good afternoon to all of you. I'm very pleased to be here and to
present this very solid set of numbers. I'm going to start with the presentation of the
earnings by geography of business line of, sorry, business units. The second presentation
are the same earnings by line of business, just to have an existing view of the situation. I'll

Page 6 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

then move to roll forward from underlying earnings to net income. And lastly, we'll ﬁnish
with the balance sheet items.
Starting with the underlying earnings by geographies. What you can see is that the
growth is driven by France, Asia and international new markets, which represent quite a
lot of diﬀerent countries. Europe remains positive despite the restructuring of the group
life business, so which is very sign of strong resilience. XL is up versus last year. It's
certainly below the expectations we had in '19, but represents a very strong upside
potential for 2020.
Moving to or starting with France, you see that the growth is solid, 4%, driven by Health
and Life & Savings, while P&C is relatively stable with some pluses -- strong plus in
commercial line, oﬀset by a negative on personal lines.
If we look at the net ﬂows, which is -- it may be very interesting to understand the dynamic
of France, where you have two good news. The ﬁrst one is that the Protection & Health
business is growing big time in terms of net inﬂows. And on the savings side, you see that
the growth comes from the unit-linked more than from the general account, which bodes
very well for the future. And we think that AXA France is a very, very solid and giant, not
only today, but for the future of this company.

Bloomberg Transcript

While looking at the underlying earnings, the growth is driven this year by the P&C
business. You see that the combined ratio is down minus 1.6 to 90 -- 11 -- 91%, which is a
very strong performance, and it's driven not only by the current year, but also by the prior
year reserve development and by the expense ratios. So a very solid business.
The health is temporarily hit by an adverse claims experience in the group, group health
business in one international contract. It's very much related to the strong growth we have
in this business, and we expect a reversion to the mean next year.
Lastly, in Life & Savings, the resilience of our investment margin is remarkable. It's
certainly due to the fact that we have a capacity despite lower investment yield to manage
a crediting rate in a very dynamic way.
Europe, growing as well by 4%. Here with a very balanced growth among the diﬀerent
business -- lines of business, P&C plus 3%. UK is a very strong contributor. We are number
two in the UK market with 8% market share. It's a combination of prices and new business.
Germany, which is a leading health insurer in its own market, with a 5% market share, very
strong price increases, leading the gross revenues. And lastly, Life & Savings, growth 6%,
strongly driven mainly by Italy, with strong multilines contract, and you'll see the very
strong growth, not only in (inaudible) savings, but mostly also on unit linked. So very
strong momentum and very well balanced.
Underlying earnings is up 1%. As you can see, the P&C is extremely solid, with a combined
ratio down 1.3 points to 93%, with an improvement across the board, across the countries,
Page 7 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

and due to both currency experience improvement and prior year reserve development
improvement as well.

FINAL

Moving to health. There, again, there is a one-oﬀ eﬀect, nonrecurring of a very -- an
exceptional experience in the UK PPP last year, which is, as you all know, a reference
between the UK market in health.
Life & Savings, the transformation of the Group Life business and the amortization of VBI
due to the low interest rates, explain the decrease. Without this impact would have been
ﬂat on the life business. Showing, again, the resilience of our model.
Asia and international is, of course, a source of growth, not only in top line, but also in
terms of bottom line. Very well balanced in terms of top line between P&C, Health and
Life & Savings, P&C, driven by Turkey, 18%, very spectacular growth. I must confess as well
with very high pricing component, two-third of it where -- market where we are number
four player with a strong position.

Bloomberg Transcript

Mexico, Thomas referred to the vertical integration, which certainly makes our subsidiary - our entity there, which is number two in the market with an 18% market share, a
dominant player, beneﬁting from a very strong new business momentum, as well as tariﬀ
increases.
And lastly, Hong Kong, with a solid growth last year, especially in the ﬁrst half of the year.
For reasons you might understand, the second half of the year was more of a slowdown,
but the growth was so much, so high in the ﬁrst year that we ﬁnished on a positive note.
Underlying earnings, up 6%, driven by P&C and Health. The P&C, like in the other regions
of AXA, is improving, minus 2.5 points, mostly this time due to the variation in prior year
reserve development but with a strong growth, as we said.
Health is up 16%, mainly driven by Asia and notably, Japan. Life & Savings is down 4%.
And here, it's mainly due to our JV with ICBC, which has invested in the distribution
networks of the bank and in an asset management services.
XL, I would say, lastly, for this geographic presentation. So as Thomas highlighted, the
result has been up this year, but not at the level we expected. Why? First, because we
experienced an abnormal level of nat cat, EUR0.3 billion. So on the normalized level, we
might have expected 0.8 billion. Second, we had -- we observed, and we experienced a
currency deviation [ph] from long tail lines in casualty, EUR0.2 billion. And lastly, elevated
large losses all over the year, partly oﬀset from -- by positive prior year's development.
So the question is what we do. And we have tackled issue with two components. The ﬁrst
one is the pricing, very spectacular pricing, 10% -- sorry, revenues. But 8% price increases
on the insurance side, with a very strong acceleration of the price increases quarter-byquarter, as you can see here. And to give you an idea, to give some ﬂavor to this, this is an

Page 8 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

average, but actually the lines hit by social inﬂation and adverse experience have
accelerated even more.

FINAL

In Q4, excess casualty in North America was up 29%. At the moment, it's plus 43%,
January. On professional, up 19% in Q4, it's up 22% in Q1. There are not so many times in
a cycle, where you see such a high level of experience of price increases, and we intend
to beneﬁt from it. But of course, the impact will be partly in 2020, partly in '21.
The second aspect we wanted to tackle are the three problems I just described, with the
experience of this year, which is ﬁrst nat cat; second, large losses; third, casualty lines.
And we have taken measures on these three issues over the recent months. So we have
not been waiting. We have addressed this in a very proactive way.
Starting with the nat cat. We have underwritten less risk, minus 10% gross revenues in '19.
There will be another minus 10% next -- in 2020. And we have put in place a quota share,
15% quota share on the reinsurance nat cat, which we hadn't last year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Second, on large losses, we have set up an aggregate cover with an attachment point,
which is not very far from the current level of experience, which means no further
deviation is expected. And lastly, on the casualty, we have not only increased massively
the prices, we have also reduced our capacity. So line sizing in a market, which is -- whose
capacity is shrinking by 25%, which is actually both a risk today and an opportunity for
tomorrow.
So the last point, which we'll tackle in the balance sheet is the reserving. Thomas said,
he's comfortable with the level of reserve. I can say that I feel very comfortable with the
level of reserves because we are reviewing it regularly and very -- over the recent weeks.
So based on the pricing dynamic, based on the measures we have taken to reduce the
volatility and based on the adequate level of reserving, it makes the EUR1.2 billion
underlying earnings very achievable. And beyond, I mean, from 2021, we will get the full
beneﬁt of these measures, notably from the pricing.
If we take a view by business line, I would say, in terms of messages that, ﬁrst, of course,
the P&C business is the main contributor, but with a strong double-digit growth, which is
very satisfying. Second, Life & Savings business, down 1%, but in a context of very low
interest rate environment, so very resilient. The third, Health is a steady growth business in
line with the revenues. And lastly, Asset Management, ﬂattening result, what I call minus
3%, but with upside potential, and I'm going to get back on these four statements, right
now.
Starting with P&C. The increase is, of course, helped by the growth in revenue, the 5%
growth in revenues, but also -- and mainly by the lower combined ratio. You can see here
the numbers, minus 0.6 points on a reported basis. Excluding XL, we would be at minus
1.1. And this minus 1.1 points is due to current year experience, minus 0.5, due to better
business mix, a better pricing, a better frequency, partly oﬀset by a more -- by higher
severity.

Page 9 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

On the prior year reserve development, minus 0.7, we have three main explanations. The
ﬁrst one is France. Very strong proﬁtability, very high level of reserves and the reserving
ratio is now decreasing in France. Switzerland, same mechanism. And lastly, in the UK,
Ogden eﬀect with the change in this country, generating some surplus. So all of this
allows you -- us to more than oﬀset the decline in asset yield of 17 bps. So a very -- a
business, which is in excellent shape.
Life & Savings. Life & Savings is resilient, as I told you, starting with something which
might look odd, which is the investment margin. So further to the Swiss Group Life
transformation, we had a slight decrease in reserves because we have transformed
ourselves from an insurance provider to an insurance manager, I would say. But the delta
between the investment yield and the crediting rate is positive. Therefore, the 2 bps is at
constant scope, so excluding any adverse or any exceptional items. And I think this is a
very encouraging number. Slightly lower technical margin due to non-repeat of the oneoﬀ from last year. Higher fees and revenues, very much in line with the growth in revenues
with the growth in volumes. So a very, very expected number.

Bloomberg Transcript

And lastly, we are -- there is a negative component, which is the -- which are the expenses,
of course, expenses increased revenue -- with revenue, but we have two other elements,
which are ﬁrst the VBI due to lower interest rates, it's quite mechanical. And second, some
more investment in -- notably in quality of service, to improve the quality of service. And
Thomas insisted on the importance of the Net Promoter Score and the quality of service
with a customer ﬁrst approach. And so this is absolutely something which we accepted.
On the Health side, I told you, very steady growth, revenues up 6%, earnings up 5% with a
balanced growth between the individual part and the group part, which we think is a very
good balance, with a slightly higher combined ratio with a lower expense ratio due to the
growth, but also with some less favorable group claims experience, and I -- we expect a
reversion to the mean in 2020.
Asset Management. I call the performance of asset management sort of ﬂattening. It's not
for me a decrease economically speaking, because the assets under management are
going up by 10%, mostly from the market eﬀect and partly as well from a net inﬂow eﬀect
about 13 billion. So the main explanation for the decrease is a non-repeat of performance
fees of last year. So if we exclude that, put this aside, it's a relatively ﬂat number.
What is interesting is the development of the alternatives. So the management of
nonquoted, nonlisted assets. This is an expertise few companies have. We have it at AXA
Investment Managers with real asset, but also with structured ﬁnance. It's growing big
time, plus 13% to EUR137 billion, and it's high -- it has a high proﬁtability. So if you make
the math, in principle, everything being equal, you should expect an increase in earnings
next -- this year, in 2020.
Let's move now to the roll forward from underlying earnings to net income. So of course,
the number looks good, plus 75%. But it's something, which was expected because we
had the last year, the goodwill impairment of Equitable, which is nonrecurring, of course.

Page 10 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

So what are the real elements to understand the diﬀerence between underlying earnings
and net income? First of all, the usual program of capital gain, mostly driven by real
estate, France, Belgium. Second, change in fair value, we have three subcomponents
there. The ﬁrst one is equities, equity hedges. We have equity hedges. So when the equity
markets are going up, the value of the hedges are going down. I want to reinsure -reassure you the increase in the shareholders' equity is much higher than the decrease of
the value of the derivatives. So economically speaking, no problem.
Second, we have some forex hedges. It's exactly the same. We have, with the weakening
of the euro against the other currencies, a stronger balance sheet, stronger earnings.
However, the value of the derivatives is going down. So all these elements are quite
mechanical. And lastly, we have interest rate swaps because the ﬁnancial debt of AXA SA
has been moved from variable to ﬁxed. So when the interest rates go down, you have a
negative value. So these are the three components.
Then we have, of course, the big part, which are the exceptional and discontinued
operations, with the really -- and those elements are and where expected related to
equitable AXA Life Belgium, AXA Life Europe. Integration and restructuring costs, 75% of
them being incurred at AXA.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to the balance sheet. So the shareholders' equity is going up, which is a good
news, but also something which is quite mechanical because the main value driver is the
change in unrealized capital gains. Fixed income assets are going up by EUR5.9 billion,
mostly rated to the drop in interest rates of around 50 bps on average. And equity is up
EUR1.7 billion, mostly related to the average 20% market increase in '19.
Net income for the period and dividends are clear. Change in pension beneﬁts, driven by
low interest rates, mostly in Europe. For your information, tangible net asset value is up by
EUR10 billion to EUR36 billion. Following the higher unrealized capital gains and lower
that from Equitable Holding, which is something which is interesting, and I just wanted to
ﬂag it. Return on equity up to 16%. We think it's a very solid number, both on an absolute
level and relative level.
Solvency ratio, up 5 points, 198%, which is, we think, a pretty good number in the low
interest rate environment. Banking, in line with our target range of 700 -- 107 -- sorry, of
170% to 220%. It's explained, of course, by the recurring operating return. And we have,
as expected, and very much in line with the key sensitivities we have always been
publishing. The interest rates impact was a negative in '19, partly oﬀset by the sell-down of
our US activities. So as a whole, in the context, we think a solid number. You look at the
key sensitivities on the right-hand side, we should not forget them. But this is something,
which is manageable. And we wanted to give you some indicative outlook for 2020.
So I think most of the elements, which are here listed are not new to you, operating retail,
net of dividends, disposals, the conversion of AXA Group from a standard model to an
internal model and the deleveraging, we intend to pursue to reduce our gaming.
However, I would like to highlight the seasonality. Everything will not be in AR. So when
you make your projections, don't forget from quarter-to-quarter, these elements will play,

Page 11 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

certainly, in '19, but not all at the same time and in a linear way over 2020. So here, no
other signals, that's just the seasonality and the prospects to get some more Solvency II
points this year.
We spoke about the adequate level of reserves, Thomas in his introduction. I get this
message as well when speaking about the P&L of XL. Here, we have two messages. The
ﬁrst one is that the level of prudence has increased at AXA, excluding XL. While the
second message, the level of excess reserves at XL remains suﬃcient. So if we go on the
right, if we look at the left-hand side of the slide, you see that what we hear, what we
compare is the IFRS reserves, which is accounting, and we compare this to the best
estimate liabilities and discount it to make them comparable with the IFRS reserves, which
are themselves, undiscounted. In the previous presentations, we were comparing IFRS
reserve, I think, with discounted best estimate liabilities, which made the -- which gave the
impression that the number was higher. But here, this one is more comparable and more
fair, I would say.

Bloomberg Transcript

So you see that excluding XL in '18, we had EUR5.2 billion. Here with XL, we are EUR6.8
billion, with an increase excluding XL, which is relatively strong. And despite all the prior
year reserve development you have been looking at.
On the right-hand side, we want to explain to you how we manage the P-GAAP because I
think this is a recurring question. We started the year with EUR1.5 billion, which includes as
well, AXA Corporate Solutions excess reserves. So all in, EUR1.5 billion. There's excesses
were unallocated. So what we have decided this year is to start allocating the risk we had
identiﬁed in the opening balance sheet to certain lines of business, mostly on the long tail
casualty lines. And we have -- we are left with EUR0.8 billion at the end of this year.
So the -- I would like to make something clear. This P-GAAP is not a sort of buﬀer we
booked just in case. It was a result of audit reviews, clearly identiﬁed a certain number of
risks, including social inﬂation. So therefore, it's absolutely normal to use part of it to -when the risk appear and to allocate them. EUR0.8 billion is a number which is -- which
has been reviewed in the recent weeks by the Group. So it's not only XL. You have always
the entity makings as a precision of reserve and the group review. And it makes us
comfortable with the level of reserves of XL at the end of '19. And I don't see the risk from
now to have a deﬁcit on this side, so relatively comfortable.
Cash at the holding level has been reinforced from EUR1.7 billion to EUR3 billion. Gross
ﬁnancial debt has been reduced by EUR5 billion. EUR1.8 billion at the level of AXA SA, the
rest being linked to the ﬁnancial debt of Equitable Holdings, which has been
deconsolidated. But it's very signiﬁcant, and it explains the debt gearing. So the debt
gearing, we told you that we would get back to debt gearing level comparable to the pre
-- to the levels before the acquisition. So our objective is to be between 25% and 26% this
year, so 2020. And everything being equal, if you reimburse between EUR2 billion and
EUR3 billion level of ﬁnancial debt, you are there. So it lies in -- it is in our hands, I would
say, everything being equal.

Page 12 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

So the drivers for the evolution of the cash, our ﬁrst to cash remittance, EUR5.6 billion,
which includes EUR0.5 billion of one-oﬀs, including the Swiss -- the proceeds from the
Group Life transformation in Switzerland. Dividend paid, which is normal holding costs,
including the interest charges.
Then we have the M&A proceeds, I would say, pluses and minuses, but the Equitable selldown was a major event. The reimbursement of the external debt at the level of AXA SA,
cash buﬀer we built, which is that there is, I would say, fungibility of cash within the Group.
We used some of this fungibility to fund the XL transaction, and we have committed to
come back to the pre-acquisition level. So we have reimbursed part of it this year. We'll
certainly reimburse the other part in 2020. And the other is a very, very diﬀerent items,
including margin calls.
This is the end of my presentation. I hand it over back to Thomas, and thank you for your
attention.

Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Etienne. And now we have the opportunity -- or you have the
opportunity to go into Q&A, and we are ﬁrst deal with the Q&A in the room. And then
later on, go to the digital Q&A. Let's start with Jon.

Bloomberg Transcript

Questions And Answers
Q - Jon Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Good afternoon, everybody. It's Jon Hocking for Morgan Stanley. I've got three questions,
please. Firstly, overall XL, I'm afraid. So ﬁrstly, looking at the casualty reserves. So I think in
the narrative, the Company results, you're talking about litigation ﬁnancing, ﬁnancial lines,
et cetera. I wonder if you could give us a little bit more commentary in terms of what
speciﬁc factors you take into account when you were setting the reserves at year end?
That's the ﬁrst question.
Second question. Just looking in the B slides, the B appendices, you look at B 17. If you
look at the sort of volume changes versus pricing, it looks like the exposure actually went
up the most in casualty and ﬁnancial lines, which seems a bit surprising given those are
the areas where the reserving issues emerge in the back end of the fourth quarter. I
wonder if you could talk a little bit about how comfortable you are with that mix of
exposure movements over the course of the year.
And then ﬁnally, just looking at the earnings bridge to get to the EUR1.2 billion. I see
there's nothing in there unless I'm sort of missing another in terms of into rebuilding the
reserve buﬀer at XL. So is the message eﬀectively that you've got suﬃcient aggregate
reserve buﬀer at a Group level that we shouldn't be too concerned about, the sort of solo
XL silo? Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}
Page 13 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

Very good. I suggest that Alban, you start with the ﬁrst question. And also the second
question, and then Etienne, you'll go for the third question.

FINAL

A - Alban de Mailly Nesle

{BIO 20387796 <GO>}

So good afternoon. So the ﬁrst question was on the quality of the reserves and what we
factor in. So when we review the reserves, obviously, we look at diﬀerent things, and to
name only one or two. One is, obviously, the cost of litigations in the US. Only 2% of the
claims that we have on the casualty go to court, 98% are settled, fortunately, obviously,
before we go to court. Nevertheless, the court settlements drive the trend for the overall
reserves and the claims to be paid. So that's something that we look at and we look at it
on a claims by claims basis. Looking also, obviously, at the previous trends.
The other thing that we look also, which is slightly diﬀerent. Those, sometimes, it's under
the same word of social inﬂation. It's systemic risks such as (inaudible) child abuse and so
on. And so what we do is, we review our exposure over the last 10 to 15 years on what has
been our underwriting on those lines in the past. And we reassess what could be the
losses given what we hear, what we see in the market on those fronts. That's something
that we monitor systematically, and that has been the case for a long time because those
systemic risks have always existed.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the third part that you should also keep in mind is that those casualty lines in the US
are signiﬁcantly reinsured through quota shares between 40% and 60% from one year to
the other. So that, obviously, also reduces the impact of what I described earlier in terms
of litigations of settlements.
The second question was on the growth in casualty and in growth in volumes in casualty
and ﬁnancial lines. So I think there, we need to be extremely clear that if you look at
ﬁnancial lines, you have a number of diﬀerent aspects in that and diﬀerent aspects in
terms of geography, US versus Europe, and diﬀerent aspects also in terms of customers,
large versus mid-market. If you look at the ﬁnancial line and notably, DNO, the issue was
more in the US on large corporates. It is much safer, much sounder when you look at midmarket and European. So we shifted the underwriting from the latter to the former. And
you've seen despite the reduction in US launch, that overall, we have grown the volumes
on selected segments.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you, Alban. Third question, Etienne, on the EUR1.2 billion.

A - Etienne Bouas-Laurent

{BIO 16523089 <GO>}

Yeah, on the EUR1.2 billion, we have absolutely not reﬂected any release of provision of
any kind. So the P-GAAP was set in place originally to face with the development of prior
year claims up to the end of '18. So this -- we consider that it will -- there will be -- the PGAAP will neutralize the possible adverse elements from these years.
When selling and this -- so this is neutralized. When looking at 2020, and you'll see how
the work forward is constructed, we just have a sort of economic approach on this, right?
Page 14 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

So we started with EUR0.5 billion, which embedded some good news, some bad news,
but more bad news than good news. And then from this, we look at the impact of our
actions, the impact of the pricing. And the cost of the -- which is not the cause of earnings
impact of the volatility measures, and this is how we come to EUR1.2 billion.
So in the EUR1.2 billion you don't have a positive from the reserves of a release, if there is
some allocation within the P-GAAP, it will be only to compensate some new views on
other risks, which have been identiﬁed during the P-GAAP and not yet allocated, which is
a diﬀerent mechanism. So we are not -- and I think this is a key message. Why do we
believe in this EUR1.2 billion? Because we have all the elements, which mechanically
expect that in the normalized year, it will happen. And as a CFO, I feel very comfortable
with this target.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Nick?

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 3387435 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Nick Holmes at Soc Gen. A couple of questions again on XL. I wondered if you could give
us just a little bit more color on the decision-making behind the EUR600 million
allocation, what were the key drivers? Was it environmental? Was it changes in your own
conservatism, if we can call it that?
And also, with the EUR800 million, you sound extremely conﬁdent that this is a suﬃcient
number. Can you draw on any sort of illustrations relative to market, relative to your own
perception of risk proﬁle, why you do think that this is suﬃcient?
And then secondly, a rather simpler question, I hope, is how conﬁdent are you that XL's
internal model will be approved in, I think, you're saying, Q4, which is an acceleration, is it
not? No, Alban, you're saying no.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

We've always said end of 2020. So if it is in September, it's an acceleration. Good. two
questions. I think, again, for Alban. On the reserves, how comfortable are we on the
EUR600 million or the EUR800 million, and then the question around the internal model.

A - Alban de Mailly Nesle

{BIO 20387796 <GO>}

So on the EUR600 million. As Etienne said, when we bought the Company 18 months
ago, we had identiﬁed a number of potential risk or potential issues, that led us to the
booking of the P-GAAP reserve. And now we're saying, okay, we have more certainty on
the risks and the need for booking that -- for identifying those reserves. And that's related
to exactly what I described a minute ago. In terms of US casualty, mainly where we had
seen that there was a deviation because of social inﬂation. And social inﬂation was -- did
not appear in 2019 nor in 2018, we had identiﬁed that at the time of the acquisition. So it's
just the realization of this.

Page 15 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

Now the EUR800 million buﬀer. At this stage, as Etienne said, we are comfortable. Now
we know that it is a business where you have some uncertainty. You have potentially large
cases, and that can go one way or the other. But we think that the EUR600 million
allocation today is suﬃcient, and that the EUR800 million is a good enough buﬀer against
that potential volatility.
Again, having done that analysis of our potential exposures on the path to casualty, social
inﬂation and systemic risks. And on the internal model, so we have discussed at length
with the ACPR, the changes in the model and the fact that we want to include XL into our
model. The formal application is in June. But by then, we will ﬁnalize the discussion. And
you know that you submit six months before the approval. So we will submit in June in
order to have XL in internal model in December, as planned.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

And, Nick, just to add to that, on the casualty piece. I mean, when you look at the whole
market, if your prices are increasing by over 40%, if your exposure is signiﬁcantly reduced
and if some competitors, which was the case are even exiting the market, you have an
issue of insurability. And so what you've seen always in the past that when there are these
anomalies, at some point, it will come back to normality.
James, maybe you can just hand the mic, it's easier to.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

James Shuck from Citi. So three from my side. I just want to go back to Slide A 30, if I can.
So the margin over best estimate. And I'm just initially thinking of the diﬀerence between
the EUR5.2 billion and the EUR6 billion. Can you just explain to me what drove -- so
excluding the XL part of it, what actually drove that increase in the margin over best
estimate that you're showing there? And kind of linked to that, if I look at that -- what's left
in the P-GAAP margin in XL in relation to the reserves, it's 3% of XL reserves. And the total
of the EUR6 billion is closer to EUR12 billion. So kind of returning to Jon's question earlier,
at some stage, will you look to increase the XL margin over best estimate more towards
the Group adequacy level because it's the Group adequacy level that's driving the
expectation for the 1.5 to 2.5 points of PYD? That's my ﬁrst question.
Secondly, Thomas, I mean, the EUR1.2 billion in 2020, that includes about EUR200 million
to EUR300 million, probably, from legacy AXA Corporate Solutions. So if you look at the
EUR12.4 billion acquisition price, this is post synergies you're doing this. It looks like a kind
of 7% or 8% ROI on the deal. I'd just like to get your insight into whether you think that's a
suﬃcient number?
And then ﬁnally, just around the dividend. You -- I think you've been pretty clear that you
would grow the dividend in line with underlying earnings. You increased the payout ratio
of target range last year from 40 to 50, to 50 to 60. We've got this year, which is
depressed earnings. So you can argue whether you've hit 50 or not. At some stage, you
need to rebase that dividend up. Otherwise, what's the point in increasing that target

Page 16 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

range? If we're not going to get that this year, then we're going to be next year, perhaps.
But just like some guidance over how to think about that payout ratio, please?

FINAL

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Very good. I suggest Alban, Etienne, on the ﬁrst question around the margin of best
estimate. And then linked to the question, P-GAAP, 3% of XL reserves. Are you bringing it
to the Group adequacy level? And then I will talk about the other two questions.

A - Alban de Mailly Nesle

{BIO 20387796 <GO>}

So on your ﬁrst question, to the same extent, we review the XL reserves very regularly. We
review the whole Group reserves very regularly. And we assess what is our best estimate
liability for Solvency II purposes. It so happens that over the last year, the diﬀerence
between the best estimate liabilities and the IFRS reserves has increased. Why? Simply
because we can have a change in the best estimate reserve, in best estimate liabilities that
does not ﬂow immediately through the P&L. And it might ﬂow afterwards. But then when
you look at the PYD that -- the PYD positive that we release every year, that comes
fundamentally from that diﬀerence.

Bloomberg Transcript

Do we want to bring XL to that percentage? No, not speciﬁcally because we want to
manage this at Group level, and XL is one division, among others. The excess of a best
estimate is not proportionately dispatched among the various entities of the Group. For
instance, Etienne said that this year, we had positive project developments coming from
Ogden. So it can pop up in one entity and not one -- not in another. And we're not
planning to have a proportionate allocation in all our entities.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

So on the two other questions. Number one is the question around the EUR1.2 billion in
2020, is it post synergies still an attractive deal. Again, let's go back to the rationale of the
deal at that time. The rationale was, how do we reduce our exposure and ﬁnancial risk
and how do we move towards technical risk. Always looking at the question, how do we
make sure that we are not too much exposed to interest rate risks, where we have no lever
to act.
So the ﬁrst question would be, let's compare the exposure to Equitable against the
exposure to XL. Fortunately, we have sold the totality of Equitable, but for those of you
who have followed Equitable, you have certainly seen that in the last year, towards the
end of the year, AXA Equitable has made a signiﬁcant increase necessary in reserves
when it comes to policyholder behavior. This was just below EUR1 billion. This would have
certainly hit us had we owned 100% of Equitable.
For this amount, you can allow yourself quite a few natural catastrophes.
Second point, I wish AXA Corporate Solutions would have made EUR300 million.
Unfortunately, they made only between EUR150 million and EUR170 million, and would
have been hit exactly in the same way on the topics that we've been discussing. So no
separate treatment. When we come to the question around the EUR1.4 billion or the
Page 17 of 32



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

EUR1.2 billion, at the end of the day, nothing has changed. The EUR1.4 billion has been
designed in AXA XL, or XL at the time, plus corporate solutions plus the cost synergies.
We are well on track when it comes to the integration, so the cost synergies are ﬂowing
through. We still have not achieved everything, but they are ﬂowing through. We are
working on the proﬁtability of the portfolio, which you've seen, we have taken very clear
measures in up pricing the portfolio, again, 10% increase of a premium, 10% increase on
net earned premium of EUR10 billion is certainly a signiﬁcant upside that will come
through the earnings.
And then thirdly, we have taken a decision which was after the combination of the
acquisition of reducing volatility. So when we talk about EUR1.2 billion at reduced volatility
or EUR1.4 billion, we're talking about exactly the same thing. So for me, nothing has
changed. The strategy is exactly the same. And again, coming back to my ﬁrst point, have
we taken the right decision of shifting our risk proﬁle from ﬁnancial to technical risk,
deﬁnitely in this environment.

Bloomberg Transcript

Your last question on the dividend. When we speak about the dividend and when we look
at how do we determine the dividend, we always said we want to have an adequate and
attractive growth in the dividend. So what we'll do, we'll look at where do we need to
position the dividend, how should we be increasing the dividend and the payout ratio is a
resulting ﬁgure of it and not a determining ﬁgure. And so that's why you see, with the
Board, we have been very comfortable to have a 7% increase in the dividend, which is
more, as you stated yourself, than the 5% underlying earnings per share, but we took
account of the fact that we had more than normal natural catastrophes. And by the way,
this was the same for the full year of 2018 that came to the 7% dividend. And that's how
we will continue to look at it.
The ﬁrst question is, how do we get to an attractive dividend growth and the resulting
ﬁgure is the payout ratio. And I guess, what you're saying, between 50% and 60%, we are
still at the lower end, and there is a big room for ﬂexibility.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Could I just clarify one point there? Just, I mean, one way of hitting that is to shrink
earnings, I suppose, let's hope you don't go that way. But if you want to --

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

I wasn't thinking about it this way.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

But if you want to -- I mean, if you're going to raise the target range, I mean, are you
categorically ruling out a rebasing of the dividend to the midpoint of the range at some
stage and then grow in line with underlying earnings?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Page 18 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

The reason why we changed the range at that time was exactly the change in the risk
proﬁle and the taking account of the fact that we have more volatility through natural
catastrophes. You've been following AXA for a long time. The volatility of Equitable, which
was also very high, was always absorbed to the DAC. So you didn't really see the volatility
because it was inherent in the deferred acquisition cost. Here, we don't have that
mechanism. What is volatile here is volatile at the bottom.
And so we said, in order to take account of this and to make sure that we have the
ﬂexibility of breathing, we need to move from the initial payout ratio of 45% to 55%, to
50% to 60%, but always in the spirit, number one criteria is we need to have and
determine what is attractive dividend growth and the payout ratio is the resulting ﬁgure.
Let's move -- sorry, I can't see who it is because the light is very diﬃcult.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. It's William Hawkins from KBW. Picking up on one of the points you've just
made to James and you've made a lot about the improvement in the volatility in XL. I'm
surprised that you have been clear about the earnings hit of your derisking but you
haven't been clear about the capital beneﬁt of your derisking. I mean, if you bought more
reinsurance protection, your volatility has gone down, there should be some capital
release from that? So if you're able to say to us, look, we've freed up EUR2 billion of
capital from this, for example, that would usefully oﬀset the downside to earnings. So I'm
surprised you haven't been clear about the capital freed up, could you be clear about the
capital freed up, please?
And then secondly, with regards to the cash buﬀer rebuild, Etienne you showed on Slide
31. You showed that EUR1.9 billion of cash buﬀer rebuild. Can you just remind us where we
are with regards to the stock on that number? My original memory, correct me if I'm
wrong, was that when you did the XL deal, you talked about cash at hand of EUR3.5
billion being spent. If we just subtract the EUR1.9 billion from that, are we saying that
you've got another EUR1.6 billion to go? Or is the number bigger or smaller, Alban?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Those were your two questions. So thanks, Will. First one is for Alban. Is the capital release
from the further protection. Second one for Etienne, where is the stock on the cash.

A - Alban de Mailly Nesle

{BIO 20387796 <GO>}

So I'm afraid, I have to be a bit technical for a second, so bear with me. The -- when you
reduce the -- the way our internal model is built, there is a beneﬁt of diversiﬁcation. And
when you look at the investment risk, there is little diversiﬁcation from one country to
another, because when you have a crisis, that goes everywhere. So when you hedge your
ﬁnancial risks, you do have, immediately, a beneﬁt on your capital.
Going to your question on hedging or reducing our insurance risks. Because there is a lot
of diversiﬁcation, because when you hedge a windstorm in Japan, you don't have, at the
same time necessarily, a casualty issue in the US, reducing hedging part of the book
Page 19 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

doesn't lead to a signiﬁcant amount of capital reduction because of the beneﬁt of
diversiﬁcation from what is done locally to what is needed at Group level. You see? So if I
were to do a 50% quota share of my whole book in P&C, yes, you would see it. But
reducing the cat nat from EUR500 million at 20 years to EUR400 million, you would
hardly see it in the capital required.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Farooq, I think, yeah. Sorry.

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 1822411 <GO>}

So the second question was --

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry. Yeah, the stock. I'm sorry. Too fast.

A - Etienne Bouas-Laurent

{BIO 16523089 <GO>}

Yeah. So around EUR2 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi, Farooq Hanif from Credit Suisse. Firstly, on the walk to get to EUR1.2 billion. When I
look at the EUR600 million uplift, I think to myself, you talked about EUR400 million pretax synergies. You had EUR200 million of excess large losses last year. Pricing drive the
top line, but also margin expansion, presumably. So what's the negative factor in that
EUR600 million that you haven't really talked about, is question one.
Question two, I personally am quite surprised that you are reducing risk in property. I
agree that you've got a reinsurance business, and it's volatile, and you probably want to
reduce exposure there. But given where -- given the strong increase in property pricing,
also the fact that it's got a short-tail business. So yes, you reduce volatility, but you don't
get things biting you, if you'll excuse my French here. Then at the backside, ﬁve years
later, it was what we're seeing in social inﬂation. So why tilting more towards long tail
business, which pricing might be going up, and it's going up for a reason? Just wanted to
understand the philosophy.
And then lastly, on the cash holding, I mean, you started to show this number now? And I
was kind of wondering what signiﬁcant it has? So next year, obviously, you'll get this -- it
sounds like another EUR2 billion hit from buﬀer rebuild, but over time, obviously this is
built given your payout ratio, given your earnings. So I'm just kind of wondering what
level do you -- would you like to have at the holding, what -- why are you showing this
number, in essence? Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

So I suggest, Etienne, you take the ﬁrst question, why EUR0.6 billion were the negative
factors. Then the question on reducing property are quickly answered. And then Etienne,
Page 20 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

you'll go back to the holding question.
When it comes to property and when it comes to taking risk, it's always the question of
what you'll get for the risk. You are absolutely right that prices are increasing. And what
you see as a phenomenon, and Scott will certainly agree with that, that prices in primary
insurance are increasing far more than prices in reinsurance. So you have roughly a factor
of one to two. So we have in primary insurance, 10% to 12%. In reinsurance, 5% to 6%, if
you look at the renewal.
So yes, prices are increasing, but you have to ask yourself, are they increasing enough so
you can make a decent return. And what you've seen, certainly in the property area is that
there is a lot of alternative capital streaming into this market because they have exactly
the same logic that we have applied with our own portfolio, how can I go into risks that
are not correlated with ﬁnancial risks. And if I was a pension fund not being subject to
Solvency II, not maybe being subject to the same economic rationale that an AXA is, not
having a 16% return on equity, they will come in with a very diﬀerent view, and they will
write that risk for, I don't know, 5% return on equity. This is not what we can aﬀord.

Bloomberg Transcript

So you have to see how do you balance your exposure that you, yes, get the right price
and get the premium increase, but also that you get the right return. And at the moment,
in particular, in reinsurance, we are, in some areas, and notably in Europe, not at the right
levels of return. Therefore, the exposure reduction, you've seen that the 10% exposure
reduction that we mentioned is linked to the reinsurance nat cat area, and that's the
rationale.
Etienne, question number one and three.

A - Etienne Bouas-Laurent

{BIO 16523089 <GO>}

So we start -- the question will refer to EUR0.6 billion. The EUR0.6 billion reﬂects mainly
the pricing eﬀect, net of the possible claims inﬂation. That's it. So when you start from the
EUR0.5 billion, of course, you have EUR0.2 billion deviation in large losses. We have not
said, for the large losses, that there would be a reversal to the means because this works
for the natural catastrophes, we have models. For large losses, it's not the same
mechanics.
So we have -- we are not averaging the large losses. They are in the EUR0.5 billion, and
we consider that this day. I don't say this is what will happen. I just said this is how we
build our forecast, right, in a very structured way. So it's mostly the pricing at an inﬂation.
There are, of course, some cost synergies, but as Thomas was saying they are well
advanced. So if we speak about big numbers, I really think this is the pricing, net of further
claims inﬂation. Knowing that what I said for large losses it's also true for the social
inﬂation impact, it's in the EUR0.5 billion and we don't say it comes back to zero
immediately and we'll rebase everything. So EUR0.6 billion encapsulates all those
diﬀerent items.
The second question, why do you show that? I must confess that we get always a lot of
questions about the cash variation in the holding. Therefore, I thought you would be
Page 21 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

pleased to see that and that you would not ask us why do you show us what we want you
to show us.
So thank you very much for your question, but I was not prepared for this one. So
seriously speaking, we are on the long run, we are happy with some cash buﬀer at the
holding level. Just in case there would be a very stress test for, let's say, one year of
ﬁnancial catastrophes or whatever. So between let's say EUR1 billion and EUR3 billion we
are happy. The intention is not to build, you know, like Microsoft hundred billions of euros
in cash and not returning it to the shareholders.
So the message here is really bringing clarity on what are the ﬂows, so that you can better
understand. There is no hidden message. And we will not put as a headline the level of
cash in the holding in the front page, never. It's just to give you a hint of where we are and
how we manage the cash.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Just a quick comment, rather than a question. It seems to me that you've lost the cost
synergies although it's a general revenue and cost synergies because they weren't quite
there in 2019. We didn't really talk about them in 2020 they were going to come, but now
it seems to be gone. So yes...

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Etienne Bouas-Laurent

{BIO 16523089 <GO>}

No cost synergies starting in '18 continued in '19. I must confess that in terms of cost, we
had some -- a slightly positive element, non-recurring for next year, but the synergies will
continue to play in 2020. But if you look at -- if you compare that with the impact of
pricing, it's much lower. But don't forget that it was already in the '18 and '19 numbers. So
when thinking about '20, you cannot take the EUR250 million total announced because
part of them were already in the previous numbers.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Let's just move. Sorry, I can't see because --

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Hi, thank you. Ashik Musaddi from JP Morgan. Sorry to go back on that EUR600 million
number again, I mean if that is net of price -- net of the claims inﬂation. I mean was that
already expected when you gave the EUR1.4 billion number because pricing more or less
happened last year and EUR1.4 billion number was given before that if I'm not wrong. I
mean I've just started following AXA more closely for the last six months. So, any thoughts
on that? I'm just a bit confused on that one. So that's ﬁrst one.
Secondly, you mentioned that some of the pricing improvement will follow in 2021as well
and more volumes as the 10% volume growth will follow in 2021. So how should we think
about that? What sort of numbers are we talking about? Is it an incremental number or is it
still within the range amount of EUR1.2 billion?

Page 22 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

And lastly, just one simple question, maybe a bit naive question, but you mentioned that
the volatility, it would most likely go down. I mean, what are we talking about here in
terms of volatility? I mean let's say we have another 2019 and 2020, what sort of XL
number would be? What sort of proﬁt XL would print? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

So, Etienne, it's best if you take those three questions. I think for the third question, we
should maybe have a look at one of the slides B-39 or whatever it was, 59, I can't
remember.

A - Etienne Bouas-Laurent

{BIO 16523089 <GO>}

52.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

52. Sorry. Exactly. Etienne?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Etienne Bouas-Laurent

{BIO 16523089 <GO>}

So I must say that back to '18 when the target of EUR1.4 billion was set, a lot of things were
diﬀerent. So we expected certainly lower level of large losses, and we expected social
inﬂation but not by the magnitude and the speed of increase we are facing now. So -- and
of course on the -- at the same time, we didn't expect such high level of prices. So I think
it's pretty clear. And therefore, a lot of things have changed and if you look at the end of
the day what Thomas was saying, what's the diﬀerence between EUR1.4 billion and EUR1.2
billion. It's just the same with less volatility and less risks so this is another way to look at it.
So, yes, certainly, we didn't expect so much volatility on the market -- on this market.
And to make the link with your second question, which is what happens in '21-'22? Of
course, the EUR1.2 billion is our forecast as of now for this year. We don't set a target for
'21, for '22. What you can just mechanically expect is that the pricing increase as we see it
today we continue to produce some positive -- incremental positive results, but we don't
want to quantify at all, the -- and it's -- we don't expect to minus for '21. We expect
mechanically a plus, but we don't want to quantify it today.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Let's have a look at the last question, which is around, is volatility actually going down?

A - Etienne Bouas-Laurent

{BIO 16523089 <GO>}

So the horizontal line is the best estimate in terms of CAT charge forecast today. So if you
were to draw the line more on the left-hand side would come with one out of two years
with everything at EUR800 million. So when you look at what happened in '19 you see that
our experience was much above EUR1 billion. It was between so, one out of 5, or one out
of 10 years. We were not far away from EUR1.3 billion, something like this net of insurance.

Page 23 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

So the supplementary measures we have taken is -- are now bring us to a result which is
the right -- the dark blue bar, which shows a decrease in terms of volatility of around 25%.
And second what is interesting is that you see that there is an impact short-term for the
one in ﬁve, but it's ﬂattening as well to one out of 50. So it's a very -- it's -- and this is
where it's the most eﬀective, especially if you look at the euro numbers. So when looking
back at '18 and '19, we would have saved in '19 $100 million in '18 $200 million.
So there is a real impact at the XL level.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

That's quite clear. Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Let's move over to this side, so far right.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

(inaudible) from Berenberg. I had a question. So you mentioned that XL earnings will go
up. It sounded as if Life earnings will go up because they were a bit depressed this year. It
sounds as if asset management also, you're very conﬁdent if I add all these I get to EUR1
billion more, which would mean that your earnings would be up like 13% -- 14% this year.
And I just wondered, is there anything I'm missing either on the plus or maybe on the
negative side here?
The other thing is, on the debt. So you have a slide where you use the word limit down, I
hope, of cutting the leverage to the bottom end of the target range 25% and I just
wondered what will nudge you -- at what stage, will you decide or we'll do the maximum
or we'll do the minimum and what will inﬂuence that decision?
And the last question, is that France which seems to be the star of the show today is the -how sustainable is that EUR1.7 billion, what can we expect this year?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Etienne, three questions for you.

A - Etienne Bouas-Laurent

{BIO 16523089 <GO>}

Thank you. Maybe you missed the contribution of AXA Equitable Holdings, if I understand
your question well. So you will have positives from asset management, even if it goes up,
it will not be very signiﬁcant in absolute numbers, but the contribution of AXA Equitable
will disappear fully next year. So I think this is the, maybe the missing element in your
projection. Second on the level of debt, I would say the -- it's pretty simple. The -- I told
you the main value drivers reduction of debt but you must have available debt if you see
what I mean. So debt which -- where we have the possibility to reimburse in advance.

Page 24 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

So if you make the math, you will understand what kind of number we are talking about
and then it's purely a question -- and this is an information we cannot disclose, what are
the debt, speciﬁc debt that we are going to reimburse.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

And your third question, it was for Jacques. AXA France is EUR1.7 billion sustainable, I
think that was the question.

A - Jacques de Peretti

{BIO 18970697 <GO>}

Thank you very much for the question. Concerning AXA France, we have very, very solid
engine that is growing each year at the same level. So it's not new that we are performing.
So the question is are we going to perform into the long-term? Deﬁnitely yes. If you look
at, for example, the P&C business. The P&C business we are a 90 combined ratio, now,
but if you look at what is the level of the improvement is deﬁnitely very strong level. It's
level concerning the current year reduction of claims and that is due to our underwriting
which is each day improving and it's also due to the reduction of the -- the decrease of the
expense ratio how and that is just the fruit of the work we are always doing in order to be
better.
And if you look now at the Life business, Life business, we are at the tipping point now
and we are jumping in the new era where we have wonderful potential, of course. And
this potential relies on four pillars that you have to have in mind. First is the reform of the
pension in France. We -- and this reform is done. It's not the reform that is discussing now
at the assembly. I am speaking about the reform done that went into eﬀect in October
with PACTE law. This has created a tremendous potential of development of our volumes,
but also of our proﬁtability. We, as you know, just as a reminder, we have now an eﬀective
product, you can take, you can go upon retirement with the lump-sum, you have
proﬁtability, you have the remaining -- the keeping, let's say, of the favorable ﬁscal
treatment. And on this market, the pension market in France, we are a leader with roughly
18% market share. And if you look at the expectation of the government on this market,
the government expect to go from -- in three years by 2022, to go from EUR220 billion
asset under management to EUR300 billion asset under management. It's a 40% growth
in two years.
And if you look at the revenues that's involved, it's a triple of the revenue each year to
reach this target, and if you look at the ﬁrst months on this new market that is opening
now. And you look at it we -- on the ﬁrst three months, we have improved. We have
increased our revenue by 60% and if you look at our market share, it's was more than the
last market share, we used to have. Our market shares is 22%. And if you look at year-end,
and if you know that this market has 60% plus unit-linked rate compared with the market
we have in saving with, let's say, 27% unit-linked bucket, you can calculate with math what
will give for the leader in France who has very strong track record on this market and in
taking the opportunity. And you know that we have been the ﬁrst one in France to deliver
this product, a few days after the law took into eﬀect.
Second pillar EuroCroissance. EuroCroissance is now EUR200 billion, it is increased by
40% compared with last year and this EuroCroissance I think that in the shift of the
Page 25 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

behaviors that our client must have been in her head due to the change of the
environment of low interest, this EuroCroissance will be a very strong answer, a very
strong response to what they need, because it will permit them to have a guarantee at the
end of the contract a choice, but also to have a potential of a good performance.
The third pillar is innovation, innovation on Health. We have a large bull war in front of us
because you know that you know that we have always had very good UL rate in France, in
XL France compared with our peers and I can tell you that this year with 39% UL rate we
are -- we have even closed the gap between us and the market, the gap is now 11 points
and we -- we can still grow it through innovation. Innovation we did it we structured fund
that was in the early ' '20s, but we did also in 2012 with real estate. We are doing -- we will
do it with private equity in the few months thanks to the (inaudible) that have softened,
let's say, the whole concerning private equity enough.
And the last but not the least is -- will concern our contract. The term of our contract, we
are able to adapt the term of our contract to the low environment, we face -- the low rate
environment we fact. We are -- we can modify this term in order to adapt the guarantee to
what we can serve. And also the last one, the underwriting policy you know that all the
French insurers are taken now more stringent policy underwriting to raise the unit-linked
rate.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, thanks to our track record, thanks to our expertise, thanks to the strong links we have
with AXA Invest Manager in France, we are very, very conﬁdent in the capacity we have to
grow the underlying earnings in the coming years.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you, Jacques. Michael, you must be convinced now. So. Let's just move forward,
yeah.

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Thank you. Colm Kelly, UBS. Most of my questions have been asked and answered, but I
have a few remaining. In AXA XL to what extent have the changes announced today
impacted on the diversiﬁcation beneﬁt you expect to achieve with the merger of the
internal models. So the risk exposure here as measured by the best estimate liability has
increased, but also there is an accelerated mix shift that is diﬀerent to what was expected
at outset from the transaction. So, to what extent will that impact on the capital synergies
as dictated by the diversiﬁcation credit?
And then secondly, related to that you have the guidance for capital synergies of 5 to 10
[ph] percentage points, but I suppose, what's driving that conﬁdence ahead of
discussions with the ACPR around what that number will end up at, I mean it's diﬃcult to
predict what the outcome of those discussions between regulatory authorities and
companies will be on the diversiﬁcation credit is always a key lever of change in those
discussions.

Page 26 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

Then lastly on the operating free cash ﬂow, which typically used as a good measure of
dividend, progression and capacity. The operating free cash ﬂow was down 5% this year
but hasn't either exhibited growth over since 2015. It was pretty much the same number.
So I mean how important is this in setting the dividend, I mean it's the cumulative free
cash ﬂow is one of the main targets within the Ambition 2020 plan it's not exhibiting any
growth at the moment. So, I suppose, how is that supporting conﬁdence to grow the
dividend at 7% this year?
And when I look at the next plan. How does that give me conﬁdence in the progressive
dividend strategy within that plan, if the cash ﬂows themselves are not exhibiting growth?
Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

So before Alban is answering the ﬁrst two questions, let us remind ourselves that we are
here to discuss the full-year results 2019 and not the plan 2021 to something. So when we
are ready to discuss the plan we should go back to the question around cash ﬂow, I don't
know if Etienne wants to make a statement afterwards concerning Ambition 2020, but
let's be clear, we're not talking about the plan today.
Alban, on the question about diversiﬁcation beneﬁt, business mix shift, and then the
question on the capital synergies. What is our conﬁdence?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Alban de Mailly Nesle

{BIO 20387796 <GO>}

So the -- your question on the change in business mix and its impact on the model, it's a
bit the same question as the one earlier on the release of capital or the absence thereof.
It's not signiﬁcant enough, that change, to impact the amount of capital that we need to
hold at Group level. So don't expect to change coming from that shift.
And on your second question, we started the discussions with the ACPR. We have
explained to them, how we plan to integrate XL in our internal model. Now those
discussions are still being held. We have not come to a conclusion yet and I would say
nothing leads me to believe that the 5 to 10 points is -- wouldn't be achieved, but I don't
want to put pressure on the ACPR by saying this. And so that will come in the next month.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Good. Let's move on. Let's go ahead. Sorry, I -- yeah, the cash, one, I think I just to
checked with Etienne. We'll come back to that when we talk about the plan because for
the existing period, we have seen EUR28 billion to EUR32 billion. We are at EUR25 billion
there should be no reason to believe that we are not achieving the range that this
targeted for Ambition 2020 and what everything else that concerns afterwards, let's deal
with it when we talk about the afterwards.

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Thank you. Thomas Fossard from HSBC. Two questions left on XL, so if you come back to
this one. The ﬁrst question would be regarding the claims inﬂation you're seeing coming
Page 27 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

into your book. Actually, could you help us to better understand how this compared to
the 8% price increase in commercial lines or even better how the claims inﬂation is
currently versus 14% price increase that you have recorded in Q4 standalone that will help
us to better understand what is the potential underwriting margin improvement in 2020
or 2021 that you're talking about?
The second question would be related to Slide B-17 where you, in fact, you're splitting XL
by diﬀerent business lines. Sorry to insist again, but I think that's from this slide it's diﬃcult
for us to understand what is XL exposure to the most tricky line of the US casualty market
at the present time? What do you have in terms of business on the lead umbrella, on
excess liability which is as part of the book where you're insuring Fortune 500 in the US, I
think that these type of granularity we're still missing. And also on the premium in the
reinsurance side, where you've got more than of EUR3.5 billion what is the volatility of the
business which is behind? Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Good. Thank you very much. Etienne, Alban, do you want to talk about the ﬁrst question.
Who takes it, Alban?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Alban de Mailly Nesle

{BIO 20387796 <GO>}

So, on the claims inﬂation. I think the main message that we want to give is we do believe
that we are ahead of the trend i.e., that the price increases are greater than the claims
inﬂation that we're seeing. That's a very strong message. But then when you look at the
claims inﬂation and the price increases what we see the mix -- the price increase that you
show -- that we showed is an average. On excess casualty in the US, as Thomas said at the
beginning, we see 40% price increase in January 40%, 4-0. And so depending on the
layer you're at and the business you're in you would not have the same price increase
because you wouldn't see the same claims inﬂation.
Obviously, when you are in the umbrella layers, you do see a signiﬁcant claims inﬂation,
but that's also where the price increases are greatest and that's also a place where we
have signiﬁcantly reduced the layers there. Typically on that one, we used to provide a
EUR25 million capacity, we now provide a EUR10 million capacity. So that's the kind of
underwriting measures that we have taken on umbrella, but same on others, but
obviously not all of them are aﬀected the same way by claims inﬂation. And, therefore, our
price increases need to be selective but signiﬁcant.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thanks you, Alban. Scott, maybe it is an opportunity for you to talk a little bit about XL and
by business line. And I think it would also be important to shed a bit of light on the social
inﬂation is not a general problem everywhere it's very focused on some parts like rail, like
commercial auto. If you talk a little bit about that so we get more into perspective?

A - Scott Gunter

{BIO 20129741 <GO>}

Yes. And in the casualty number, you see that is a basket, as Alban says, that is a basket of
goods. There is motor in there. Our work comp book we have United States is in there.
Page 28 of 32



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

And so it's a geographically spread book plus diﬀerent products, it's not just excess
casualty in the United States. But yes, so social inﬂation is lots of conversation about that,
it aﬀects as Alban says, it aﬀects the excess casualty, particularly on the larger risk more
prevalently than the smaller middle market accounts, right. And then it's just the jury
award, you see in the United States and the tenancy for the plaintiﬀ's part to ask for more
money from bigger companies. You can see it in the settlements and you can see it in the
court cases. So it is not a universal number across the entire portfolio that says everything
goes up, but it is still all going up. It just goes up at diﬀerent levels.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Let's move on.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

All right. Kamran Hossain from RBC. On results being going, I guess we haven't hit
coronavirus. Yes, so let me just ask about that.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

It took a long time.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

In terms of I guess being prepared for, I think we can probably ignore the claims
environment due to coronavirus, but if you look at SARS post that happening back in the
early 2000s, there was a huge spike up in kind of Health sales following that. How
prepared are you to kind of take advantage of that? That's the ﬁrst question.
The next Q, sadly, are both on XL. Coming back to the EUR0.6 billion. To what extent are
you already rationalizing what you hope are margin improvements on long-tail price
improvements there? So we've seen claims inﬂation spike, to what extent do you think
that doesn't happen again?
And the second question is that slides on cat exposures is fantastic. But I would expect
that your Cats -- your kind of average Nat Cat number should probably come down
because I know one in 5-year basis it comes down quite a lot. So is the 4% Nat Cat
number for AXA XL is still the right one going forward? Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Good, thank you very much. I'll do the coronavirus one. And then Etienne, if you could do
the other ones on the EUR0.6 billion and the margin improvement and the question
around does the Cat exposure come down. So on the coronavirus, look the short term is
certainly that we are being aﬀected by it both operationally so just to understand people
cannot work anymore in the company, they have to work from home, which of course is
always operational diﬃculties. We have been dealing with it. Both in Hong Kong and in
China. You see that because people don't leave their home anymore, there is also a
negative impact on sales.

Page 29 of 32



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

Luckily, we've been investing signiﬁcantly on our digital capabilities. So for example in
Hong Kong, we've launched a service still under the leadership of Etienne at the time,
called Emma where we have most services being digitally present and the digital
interaction numbers have skyrocketed. So that is actually very good to see that if you can't
move physically anymore, you can still move on digital basis. You were absolutely right
that a reminder, a function of this crisis means that people are thinking more about health
and when I think about the upside that is exactly that. We are focusing on expanding our
Health business with now the fully-owned AXA Tianping. You've probably seen that we
have launched three products recently that exactly focusing on the Health area always in
combination of -- I've got a Health insurance oﬀer plus I've got a physical of Health care
delivery. In this case with Tencent-trusted doctors. So yes, we see a great opportunity.
Once the dust is settled and we are getting back to normality and that is exactly where we
want to focus on.
Etienne, on the other two questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Etienne Bouas-Laurent

{BIO 16523089 <GO>}

So EUR0.6 billion -- the famous now EUR0.6 billion XL. What I can tell you -- can reiterate
in the EUR0.5 billion starting point, we have minus EUR0.2 billion of casualty deviation.
We didn't touch this because we think there is a lag between the pricing -- some lag
between the pricing and the eﬀect on the recognition of the claims inﬂation. So the
EUR0.6 billion, reﬂects a level of price increase, which is substantial and which is
supposed to grow more or less in line with the further potential inﬂation. So this is an
estimate that you had a lot of assumptions behind that, as you can imagine. And I think
the opportunity just to come back to a question which was related to the page B-7 on the
casualty line and saying that around 20% refers to the lines, particularly hit by the social
inﬂation.
So if I come back to question number three, which is the Cat exposure, I would say that
the main beneﬁt of what we are doing is to reduce the volatility. This being said, it's true
that the average the average load of Cat Nat net has come back from the sort of 4% plus
to a 4% minus which is mechanical mathematically. However, in our forecast, we are very
near to -- still to the 4%. The main beneﬁt is -- comes from, the volatility.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

So last question. And Andrew Crean, you've got the mic. So I can't prevent you from
asking that question.Go ahead.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Three questions, One -- only one on XL.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

That's a record.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}
Page 30 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

So ﬁrstly as you going back -- and this is on XL, going back to James Shuck's question, I
think the EUR0.8 billion, excess of the best estimate is a 2% margin, which looks a bit
scarily low. Is it right to apply it against all the reserves of XL, rather than just the casualty
lines? I noticed that the P-GAAP reserve of EUR1 billion was applied just to the casualty
line, in which case you get a margin of 5%, which is slightly more comforting?
And then secondly, coming back to Colm's question, could you address the question
related to 2019 as to why the cash ﬂow went down 5% in 2019. So we're not looking
forward too far.
And then thirdly, your reinvestment rate on new business, I think it was 2% in the ﬁrst half,
1.7% in the second -- in the full year, so it was about 1.4% in the second half and is
probably now down at about 1%. What is the outlook for investment margins? Do you
intend to keep cash in crediting rates to maintain your margin? Or do you look to the fact
that the policyholders are getting rather a bad deal?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Andrew, for those three questions. I suggest, Etienne, you take the ﬁrst two. So
the question around, do we have to relate the reserves to casualty only or the total?
Second question as well, why has the cash ﬂow gone down in 2019? And then, Alban, you
take the question on the reinvestment rate and also may be linked to the question of the
crediting rate and if you need some help from Jacques because that is very much linked
to France, we can happily do that. Etienne?

A - Etienne Bouas-Laurent

{BIO 16523089 <GO>}

So the P-GAAP identiﬁed a certain number of risks at the end of 2018, most of them being
related to casualty. But, of course, they are basically unallocated. The EUR0.6 billion this
year are focused on the liability lines on the casualty lines because those are the ones
where we observed a deviation. So the EUR0.8 billion is left open. I expect that the big
bulk of it will be there to cover casualty lines because we don't see negative or much less
negative deviations on the other lines.
Second, fundamentally if we want to increase our earnings and dividend at 5%, let's take
that as a sort of average, of course, the cash upstream, the operating cash upstream, we
have to follow this path going forward. It's purely logical. So then from year-to-year, you
have some variations related to speciﬁc country situations, which are I would say, nonrecurring, so generally, we share the view that this cash ﬂow streams more than the
operating free cash ﬂow themselves, which is a proxy, have to increase by the same level
of pattern than the dividend and the and the earnings per share.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Alban, on the reinvestment rate.

A - Alban de Mailly Nesle

{BIO 20387796 <GO>}

Page 31 of 32



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

Thank you. So on the reinvestment rate, you're right in saying that in 2019, the investment
rate was around 1.7% on average. We expect the same in 2020 and the way we achieve
that is by beneﬁting from something that Etienne mentioned earlier, which is the expertise
of AXA IM in alternatives. So we are progressively increasing the share of alternatives in
our balance sheet. We were at 20%. We want to move to 25%, that's higher yield without
more capital and therefore it's good for everyone.
In terms of margin on the Life side. So we've done projections with the whole group and
notably with AXA France, with the current level of interest rates and reinvestment rate
similar to the one I've just described. And over the next 10 years, we believe that we can
both keep margin similar or close to what we have today and still give a very decent
return to our policyholders, notably when you compare with the negative interest rates
that you would have today on the market.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good. Thank you, Alban. We, unfortunately, have to come to an end. I know there is
plenty of questions. We will still be here so if there are any urgent questions we can deal
with them bilaterally, I want to thank all of you for being here for your numerous
questions. Thanks to my colleagues for having supported us here, and I wish you a great
afternoon and hope to see you soon. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 32 of 32

