Company N ame: Sabre I nsurance Group PL C
Company Ticker: SBRE L N Equity
Date: 2020-04-07

Y 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Adam Westwood, Chief Financial Officer
Geoff Carter, Chief Executive Officer
James Ockenden, Chief Actuary
Trevor Webb, Claims Director

Other Participants
Andreas van Embden, Analyst
Ben Cohen, Analyst
Ming Xu, Analyst
Nick Johnson, Analyst
Trevor Moss , Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Welcome to the Sabre Insurance (Technical Difficulty) your host today, Geoff Carter from
Sabre Insurance to begin. Geoff, please go ahead.

Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Thank you. Good morning everyone and welcome to our Annual Results Presentation
session. Clearly, this is not our usual approach as we're all phone based and we're all in
different places. So please bear with us if we have any IT challenges, but hopefully not.
We're obviously very aware presenting these results in a difficult and challenging period
for many people and at a time of the fast moving change.
We are going to discuss our thoughts on COVID-19 in some depth, but don't want this to
be the sole focus of this session. Though you're aware people have access to the slides,
if you haven't they are on the sabreplc.co.uk website. And me sitting in the room by
myself, reading out the slides to you could become fairly dull, fairly quickly. So we're going
to pick out the highlights in the slides and then allow plenty of time for questions at the
end if that's okay.
I will try and remember to say when I turn pages on the slides. If you go to Slide 2 and
whose is presenting, same faces, same old faces here, myself, Adam, Trevor and James.
At least, I assume they are out there and I'm pretty certain they're not dressed like that if
they're dialing-in from home.
Page 1 of 19



Company N ame: Sabre I nsurance Group PL C
Company Ticker: SBRE L N Equity
Date: 2020-04-07

FINAL

To move on to the agenda, we're going to talk through the 2019 highlights, the financial
results, the market context, a brief reminder of our strategic approach and then a
summary and our outlook, sort of pre and post the COVID-19 impacts. And then as we
said at the end, we'll have a Q&A session.
So perhaps, if you move forward to Slide 5. As a headline, we're very pleased with the
results for last and we're confident we can trade well this year as well. We start tightly to
our strategy and principles, both of which we will recap later. We delivered robust results, I
think in a very turbulent market. Underwrite -- even underwriting performance -- year-onyear premium delta, the premium gap closed slightly in the later months of the year. So
we ended up slightly better in terms of premium than we expected. And that's despite
having pushed through rate increases in excess of 10% during the year. Maybe tight focus
on covering the ongoing significant claims inflation and also other cost inflation, that we
will speak about later.

Bloomberg Transcript

After much discussion as a Board, we are declaring the final ordinary dividend today of
8.1p. We are deffering the special dividend declaration pending greater clarity on the
COVID-19 impacts, and we fully considered, at great length, the recent PRA and the IP
[ph] communications. The Board may propose an interim -- additional interim dividend
later this year to return excess capital. It's probably noting our thoughts on capital haven't
changed at all. We view anything over 160% of our capital range to being surplus during
our requirements and far better return to our shareholders who can invest it more
creatively. So no change to our principles here. Our coverage -- our SCR coverage was
214% at the end of the year, with this slightly reduced ordinary dividend, a 180% post the
interim dividend.
You can see the key numbers on the right hand side, very good loss ratio. Expense ratio
exactly we expect and combined ratio also pretty much exactly what we expected at
slightly below our long-term target of 75%. We move on to operational highlights. We're
seeking to be boringly consistent in our focus on the things that really matter. We're
looking to track and cover the long, long claims and cost inflation. We want to optimize our
profit within our COR corridor, broadly that 75% to 80%. We'll talk about them in a few
slides time how we do that. We're looking to understand the possible changes during the
whiplash reforms. And I think as everyone on the call knows, we are prudent and
conservative in our outlook on how much benefit they might deliver.
We're continuing to rollout innovative new rating factors, and they're continuing to do that
despite the fact we're all working from home at the moment. Increasingly, we are
integrating machine learning into the claims and the underwriting process. And clearly at
the moment, we are responding to the COVID-19 operational challenges, but we return
to many of these points later in this session. Few of the more interesting things we've
done, Insure2Drive, our direct van product, is now rolled out to almost all price
comparison websites.
We've agreed a new distribution agreement with Saga, to launch mid-2020. Clearly,
everyone work from home gives us some challenges around the time scales on that, but
we intend to get that way as soon as we can. We've appointed Goldman Sachs to help us
manage our investment still within very conservative guidelines, our views have not
Page 2 of 19



Company N ame: Sabre I nsurance Group PL C
Company Ticker: SBRE L N Equity
Date: 2020-04-07

FINAL

changed that our investments are there to fuel on the underwriting profit, not to be a key
driver of our profit. Fully high levels of staff retention, over 90% of the colleagues
recommend Sabre as a place to work, which is fantastic.
As I think, we've not spoke about much in previous years is we do look to reward our
colleagues who are supporting our success. We have a range of share schemes, bonus
schemes. And we also pay an annual bonus, I think net of tax this year that was GBP1,250
for all staff. Importantly, we continue to try and expand our underwriting footprint, so we
can offer our prices to more and more customers. At the moment, we're up to about
98.5% quotability.
So at that point, I'm going to pause and hopefully Adam is out there somewhere and can
talk about the financial results.

Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

I am. Thanks Geoff. I do hope everyone can hear me and is well.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's move straight on to a summary of our 2019 result which is on Slide 9 of the pack.
Top-line premium came in at GBP197 million for the year. So below 2018, but as just said a
little ahead of our expectation, given the level of price increases that we put through
during 2019. Net earned premiums, down of course, but it does benefit from the earned
through premium written in 2018, and being a net earned premium also benefits from a
small decrease in our reinsurance rates from July 1, 2019 renewal.
The combined operating ratio remains pretty healthy at 73.4%, albeit adversely impacted
relative to 2018, both by claims costs and slightly increased fixed cost base set against a
reduced premium. We'll talk in a few slides about how we think about writing premium at
different levels through the cycle. Our investment return continues to reflect the market
value movements on our gilt-based portfolio. And the gains in 2019 reflect market-wide
movements in gilt-yields. And I'll talk a little bit more about investments as well in a couple
of slides time.
Profit after tax is, as you would expect function all of these metrics with earnings per share
being proportionate to profit. We declaring, as Geoff said, a total dividend of 12.8p for the
year, which is approximately 17% of our adjusted profit after tax. And as such represents
our ordinary dividend as per our dividend policy. As Geoff mentioned, we are deferring
payments of any special element of the dividend at this point. We've discussed the
dividend with our regulator in the context of recent communications from EIOPA and the
PRA.
We consider the dividends to be prudent and full within our own risk appetite. The
distribution of capital we are making, demonstrates our confidence in the robustness of
our business and the strength of our balance sheet, while recognizing the challenges and
uncertainties presented by the unprecedented environments in which we currently
operating. Our solvency position remains very strong at 214% prior to the announced
dividend and 180% after the capital required to fund the dividend is subtracted.
Page 3 of 19



Company N ame: Sabre I nsurance Group PL C
Company Ticker: SBRE L N Equity
Date: 2020-04-07

FINAL

So if you move on to the next slide, there is a breakdown of our underwriting
performance, that's Slide 10. As ever, we should look at our expense and loss ratio
separately. Our loss ratio has continued to benefit from strong prior year releases, with
the financial year loss ratio of 51.5%. That's net of a prior year benefit of 11.3%, which is a
little higher than in 2018.
During 2019, the group sought to optimize profit by writing business towards the top end
of its preferred combined operating ratio corridor, which is between 70% to 80%. That
along with the historically high levels of short-tail claims inflation resulted in a higher
current accident year loss ratio than in 2018. First glance, our expense ratio appears to
have improved year-on-year. However, we are keen to point out that this did benefit from
a one-off reduction in an accrual held against industry levies, which reduced our overall
expenses by around GBP3.3 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

Without the benefit of that, our expense ratio would have ticked up a little year-on-year to
around 24%, which is driven by an increase in underlying levy cost, an increase in our staff
costs, both of which were effectively fixed against a lower top-line. Together these
contributed around 1.5% to the increase in combined ratio this year. The increase in staff
costs, the result of the combination of inflationary increase in salaries and through share
scheme costs at our commitment around an excess of resource in our claims team in
anticipation of future growth. The increase in industry-wide levy across is -- as I say,
industry-wide. And as ever, we've implementing rate increases to cover the costs going
forward. This all remains well under control and we continue to cover the increase in cost
of claims and underlying buying expenses within our prices.
If we move on to the next slide on investments and our conservative approach to risk. Our
investment portfolio during 2019 will be familiar, being almost entirely invested in gilts.
And in January 2020 we appointed Goldman Sachs to assist with our asset management,
with a mandate to maintain low capital, low risk portfolio still predominantly gilt-backed
and to markedly increase our yield over the long-term.
We've chosen to step carefully into a revised portfolio and currently have invested 5% of
our assets into highly rated corporate bonds. We've got no direct exposure to the equity
markets, and a well placed to write out the current market turbulence. I should add, that
we have also chosen to increase our cash reserves since year end, in order to make sure
we maintain sufficient liquidity and can easily meet the cash requirement of our dividend.
So if you move on to the next slide on capital generation. We have continued to generate
significant capital during 2019, and we've carefully considered the level of dividend will pay
against the current market conditions. We're confident in our business model and
continue to consider the best use of our excess capital to be to return it to shareholders
in a prudent and orderly manner.
Our dividend policy remains to pay out 70% of our profit after tax and to consider an
additional special dividends to distribute any capital we considered to be surplus to our
requirements. We are announcing a total dividend of 12.8p in respect to 2019, which
means at year end ordinary dividend of 8.1p due to be paid in May. We will continue -- we'll

Page 4 of 19



Company N ame: Sabre I nsurance Group PL C
Company Ticker: SBRE L N Equity
Date: 2020-04-07

keep our level of surplus capital under review as events develop, and hope to return to
our preferred SCR range as soon as it makes sense to do so.

FINAL

The solvency capital ratio having subtracted the cash required to fund the dividend,
remains a very healthy 180%. I would add that we've seen no significant adverse impact
on our solvency as a result of the current economic and market conditions.
Moving on to my last slide, approach to capital management, Slide 13. It's really a
reminder of the -- our overall approach to capital management, and it will be familiar to
people that have been in these presentations before. As I said, in normal circumstances,
we prefer to operate within a capital range of 140% to 160%. And generally manages
through the distribution of surplus capital via dividends.
As by convention this is measured as being the period end position less the cash required
to fund any year-end dividend payment. And as the dividend is not paid until some time
after the period end, the actual level of capital held over the last two years has actually
being considerably higher, as it demonstrated by the chart at the bottom of the slide.
And on that note, I will hand back to Geoff who is hopefully still there to talk through the
market context.

Bloomberg Transcript

Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Thank you, Adam. Funny, you say that, my own phone dropped out. I hope you (inaudible)
for the last two minutes. Okay. So we all -- as usual, I'm going to go into some detail on
our view of the current market position, and we'll try and maintain our position as given
the most (inaudible) for the annual results presentations. If we move on to the claims
inflation side, importantly, we don't see claims inflation tied enough. Our view is virtually
the same as we had last year. And if anything, we think the long-term trend might be
slightly upward. The fact is we've got -- very similar, our overall inflation is 7.5% to 12.5%.
The bent metal costs still at 10%, theft over 25%, while PI frequency is flat, and severity is
still inflating.
I guess, importantly, the mix of business underwritten maybe a factor in different insurers
having different views. On the claims inflation number our best guess is that, if you start
writing any high-theft risk policies, that might be worth 1% to 1.5% on claims inflation. So
we could see happy to maybe at a level of around 6.5% compared to our quote [ph].
Importantly, over the medium term, we really don't consider claims inflation a problem,
providing its identified quickly and we can increase prices appropriately.
We're going to the next slide, Slide 16, to break out the bent metal claims, in a bit more
detail. This isn't just about the parts and the cost of repairs, it's also about the migration
to credit repair models, which as I'm sure most people on the call now are significantly
more expensive than fixing the car ourselves through our own network. We're looking to
capture our own and third-party vehicles to mitigate these industry driven increases.

Page 5 of 19



Company N ame: Sabre I nsurance Group PL C
Company Ticker: SBRE L N Equity
Date: 2020-04-07

FINAL

We thought it might be interesting just to breakout on the next few slides some of the
drivers of the bent metal cost inflation. I think as people know, we outsource our first
notification of loss and management repairs to the innovation group. The innovation
group facilitate repairs across a whole range of other insurers and partners. Our best
guess is this gives us the same buying power as and insurer with about 4 million motor
policies, which takes away any concerns we may have that our smaller scale, those has
exposed to a disproportionate claims inflation.
This analysis is across all the repairs, not just the Sabre portfolio. So if you flick on to the
first one, which is a Ford Fiesta, the key information here is a manufacturer of list price
increases over the last six years. So if you take an example here, the front bumper on the
Ford Fiesta has increased by 7% between 2018 and 2019. Probably slightly simplistically
front-end damage could be fault claims and rear-end damage non-fault claims.

Bloomberg Transcript

If you flip to the second slide, you can see a very similar thing shown Vauxhall Corsa. If we
take the headlamp cost, increasing by 23% year-on-year. So, not quite worked out why a
left headlamp is more expensive than the right headlamp. No doubt, Trevor going to
explain to us later if people are interested. And finally, Volkswagen Polo, very similar
message across all these cars. And the key message here for us, is that parts are getting
significantly more expensive even for fairly normal much of super-tech or very advanced -very advanced vehicles. So I'd -- this looks to us very clear evidence of one of the drivers
of ongoing claims inflation.
If you flick on to Slide 21, look at the premium inflation position. This is our view of what will
happen on premium. We believe right, gently increase in late 2019, but then there was a
sharp acceleration as we came into Q1. But always a bit cautious here to say, it could be a
premium increase or it could be people moving away from the types of risks, that we
tend to underwrite. It's probably too early to say what impact COVID-19 have on this in the
medium term. Our belief is any impacts on COVID-19 should be fairly short time, and we'll
talk about this in much more detail in a minute. Importantly, any of the short-term impacts
are not changing the fundamental drivers of claims inflation.
If you go to next slide, Slide 22. Last year you may recall, we presented a seesaw, which
showed the market pretty finely balanced between the drivers for price increases and
decreases. That's not how we see it this year. We believe it's very heavily weighted
towards the need for price increases. You can see on the left hand side, the premium
inflation factors. So that's the underlying claims inflation. That will inevitably lead to some
competitive margin squeeze. The whiplash reforms, we will talk about in a second. The
lawyer response (inaudible) legal reforms, we think will be fairly assertive.
The FCA pricing review will have an impact. As will the industry luggage around the MIB,
which perhaps doesn't get much exposure, and the Insurance. We'll talk about all these
now -- bit more detail in a minute.
On the other side, the only deflation -- long-term deflation factor, we see the whiplash
reforms. It seems unlikely to me that will happen this year, given the current operational
challenges. So that still feels a little way-off. And at best, we view that as fairly modest. To

Page 6 of 19



Company N ame: Sabre I nsurance Group PL C
Company Ticker: SBRE L N Equity
Date: 2020-04-07

FINAL

dive into few of those in more detail, the FCA pricing review, it was back to June -- I
suspect now somewhat later before we see the remedies. I have no specific insight into
where these will go. We do know the FCA has been listening to the industry, they are
aware of the equal impact between new business and renewals.
To reiterate, we don't utilize inertia pricing or propensity modeling, all our prices are
calculated purely from risk factors. The market claims premium inflation, I think we've
touched on, we don't see claims inflation tailing enough, and we will continue to seek to
fully cover claims other cost inflation, as we go through this year.
On Slide 24, the MIB levy is one that perhaps doesn't get spoken about terribly much. This
levy is almost certain to increase due to the Ogden cost impacting the MIB's normal
claims. In addition, some of the recent Supreme Court judgments have met the MIB
responsible for accidents occuring on private land involving uninsured vehicles. Our best
view is, have increased this year to about 17% to 20% on the previous levels and probably,
more to come later.

Bloomberg Transcript

In our case, we spend about 3.5 million here at the moment on the MIB. On the FSCS,
there's been quite a lot of insurance company failures in '19, not by people regulated by
the PRA, I don't think in any cases. We're aware that non-UK regulators are having an
increased focus on solvency levels. Whilst the failures of some of these insurers is
reasonably good news for us in terms of opportunities, there is a risk of an increase in the
FSCS levy to compensate customers.
We move on to insurance costs, I think these are well flagged in previous competitors
presentations, very significant market price increases at the end of the year. Some midsingle digit, see in excess of 30%, driven mainly by the Ogden impact. It's fair to say that
the size of the portfolio and your claims experience will drive the level of that increase.
Our renewal is not till mid-year. We certainly wouldn't expect to be at the high end of
those increases, but we are increasing prices now to ensure there is no risk in a funding
gap, if we get a reinsurance price increase.
The whiplash reforms, we put into a (inaudible), which we're not going to sell through now.
But we're very happy to take any questions, so at the end of the session or afterwards.
Our view hasn't changed but the outcome from this could be mildly positive or mildly
inflationary. And it's going to be some time before those impacts can be accurately
assessed.
So let move forward, if it's okay, to Slide 28. Very briefly on Ogden, not a big impact on
our results. We are concerned about Ogden (inaudible) indicating a different discount rate
of minus 1.75%. That would require a very significant price increases in that market, if that
were to come through.
On Slide 29, I think we're really keen to start to talk about cost inflation rather than claims
inflation. So these are just sort of small summary of things we see coming. So from
reinsurance cost increase in levy's and the underlying claims inflation, our view is that cost
inflation will be in excess of 10%, this year. Many of those industry factors are not specific
Page 7 of 19



Company N ame: Sabre I nsurance Group PL C
Company Ticker: SBRE L N Equity
Date: 2020-04-07

FINAL

to us. Okay. Now to change focus slightly, a brief reminder of our strategy, although I'm
sure it's becoming quite well known.
So on Slide 31, our strategy hasn't really changed at all. We want to maintain a very wide
underwriting footprint, which as we've discussed, broadly in excess of 98%. And we want
to continue to be very defensive on our non-standard positioning as well. We want to
maintain our market lead in underwriting performance, that really means writing in mid70s to 80% ratio range. Strong cash returns, as I mentioned earlier, our approach to
capital hasn't changed. We want to maintain the capital range of 140% to 160% and return
excess capital to shareholders, as we -- and when we can. And we still believe we're
going to get attractive growth across the cycle. We'll talk about our view on timing on that
in a minute.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think it might be useful this year to provide a bit more context to our pricing approach,
which is on Slide 32. Any point in the cycle, we're looking to optimize our long-term pound
profit by balancing volume and margin within this target corridor. If such a thing was stable,
market conditions exist, we view 75% as our bulls eye. At that point, the optimal point
between volume and margin. In weak market conditions, which is where we were for
much of 2019, we're very comfortable to be right in the 80%, to right hand side of this
graph. As market conditions improve, we seek to take enhanced margin ahead of
premium growth. So we're looking to move back from the right hand side towards the
bulls eye. In our view that is always the most profitable approach to take, not to chase
volume.
We only we would expect to end up on the left hand side of this graph in the low-70s, in
periods we've had to increase rate as volume has outstripped our operational capacity to
take it, all where we've seen exceptional reserve releases coming through from prior
periods. So stable conditions, 75%, soft market conditions, very comfortable and towards
the right hand side of this graph.
We as a company, tend to be pretty prudent. I think in our approach to life, we tend to say
we are very quick to react to possible bad news and cautious responding to what could
be positive news. Our view is the risk taking business prudent is being prudent is key. Our
view is exactly the same as the last year. If it turns out, we're being too prudent on any
assumptions, they do demonstrate that over time and allow us to reduce our rates. If
we're right, they're still paying to come to the market. We've already taken our pricing
action on that, will allow us to grow at that point.
If we try and sum it up, if we are too prudent, then we may give up some volume, that will
deliver (inaudible) combined ratio result at some point. And we can then also reduce our
prices and grow. If we're overly optimistic and -- you can significantly undermine the
combined ratio and it can take years to recover from that position. Okay. Perhaps on to,
one of the more fast-moving bits of the presentation, which is the summary and outlook.
And this is all considerably more confusing than it was just a few weeks ago.
I'll summarize what we think we are today, what we were pre the COVID impacts. Very
focused on our long-term strategy, prioritize loan growth and profitability and remaining

Page 8 of 19



Company N ame: Sabre I nsurance Group PL C
Company Ticker: SBRE L N Equity
Date: 2020-04-07

FINAL

centered on the mid-70s combined target. Signs of market price increases coming
through the end of this year and into this year, to cover off claims inflation, but not to
close the jaws in our view, between the gap that we'll have opened up for many
competitors between claims and premium inflation.
We're very comfortable with the pricing we achieved on the renewal business in '19. If
market conditions had persisted, we'd been seeking to move lower in our combined
corridor back towards the bully eye, we just described, ahead the more material volume
growth as the market price have continued.

Bloomberg Transcript

Go to Slide 36, and haven't really mentioned COVID-19 impacts, and I think we do now
need to talk about our views on that. First of all, I do want to reemphasize, we fully
appreciate difficult time for many individuals and companies. So just to give some context
or approach here, we intend to continue, since all of our colleagues on their full service.
We do not believe we're going to need to take any advantage of the government
support currently available. We're looking to proactively support our smaller suppliers and
local stakeholders in the (inaudible) area through this period and that includes (inaudible)
offering colleagues paid levy to support NHS or other voluntary activities. We're trying to
maintain flexibility in our approach to customer issues, as we know customer
circumstances could be changing fairly rapidly through reasons outside their control. But
generally, trying to do the right thing without undermining the ongoing foundations of the
business.
So how might COVID impact our result? In the short term, there is going to be a
significant reduction in claims frequency. At the moment around 60% down to these initial
weeks. However, we do think as a potential subsequent significant increase in claims
costs, that could come through, things like (inaudible), a lot of parts are made in China,
there is about a two-month lead time to get parts into the UK.
Body shops may have a limited capacity, immediately post the lockdown period. And
there is going to be claims types, trends emerging. So we are concerned here that we
might see increases in theft, in vandalism, potentially joyriding. And the risk of wider
economic influence is also having an impact here. So for example, customers becoming
financially stressed and leading to cancel their policies. We also view, as we go forward a
risk or a significant increase in personal injury claims, again, financially stressed people -customers. That whiplash reform was not happening in the immediate future and claims
management companies looking potentially take advantage of that situation, could lead
to an increase in exaggerated or unfortunately forging of claims.
On the next slide, we re-purposed our scales here little bit, just to show our view on how
this might impact. So on the cost reduction side, clear reduction in claims frequency on the
right hand side, probably worth about 0.5% on our combined ratio for each week, this
goes on. Balance in that is parts availability, body shop capacity, potentially a significant
increase in miles driven, post the social distancing, increase in stress -- financial stress,
increased less [ph] of the earning claims. And sadly, potentially poor management and
claims management firms.

Page 9 of 19



Company N ame: Sabre I nsurance Group PL C
Company Ticker: SBRE L N Equity
Date: 2020-04-07

FINAL

Our view is these are short-term impacts, they don't impact the underlying claims inflation
drivers. We'll talk a bit more about the outlook in a second, in terms of premium. Pick up
on the other direct influences on our business. I'd like to really pause and thank all our
staff for this huge effort, a very successful effort they've put in to be work from home,
they're working highly efficiently, we haven't missed a day. We have no backlog building
up, we have no fund [ph] delays coming through.
Our IT team has put in an fantastic effort to put in place a radically different BCP plan, and
we do not have all of our staff working from home completely effectively. We're going to
look to prioritize essential work that claims has required. We're taking a sympathetic view
towards some of these data [ph] changes. For example, being a taxi drivers become into
delivery, is we are fully supportive of the ABI principles that was set out in mid-March,
about how we help customers through this period.

Bloomberg Transcript

Taking things as a whole, we've done some extensive scenario modeling, the example
we put in the RNS [ph], is a 50% drop in premium, is not designed to be a planning
assumption, it was to show an extreme position and even in a very extreme position we
would still be capital generative and profitable going forward. As we sit here today,
people are continuing to buy policies. We haven't seen a massive step up in cancellation
of policies. What I do believe is we're going to see lower volumes in the market for the
next few weeks. Some research came out yesterday on car sales being down by 20% or
25% year-to-date and I think 40% odd in March.
We're seeing the volume of quotes to aggregators being around 20% lower at this stage.
What might that do? We may see some competitors starts over discount because of the
short -- relatively short benefits and lower claims frequency. And we may see potentially
some competitors start to chase that lower volume through discounts.
Our priory is we need to stick to our underwriting discipline and continue to ride at the
combined operating ratio, and if we need to let the top-line move around a little bit. Our
investment case in these market conditions is probably just we're touching on. We've got
a very consistent and stress tested strategy, that has delivered very consistent profitability
in a fairly narrow band across all parts of the cycle. Whereas, I think most of you have no
debt. And right now, an 80% combined saving, that generate significant capital and leaves
us confident we can continue to pay an attractive dividend. The vast majority of our
earnings generated from underwriting profits and we have very little dependence on
investment income to drive profitability.
On Slide 41, we've restated our dividend decision, but I think Adam has given a good
explanation in his section, I won't touch on that, again now. On the outlook slide, if we put
in two slides, the outlook we would have given about a month ago which would broadly
have been a central base case of margin enhancement this year, before potentially
modest top line growth. On track to deliver an earned combined ratio over slightly ahead
of our long-term 75% target. Before that -- reduce to below in our combined range during
'21, very strong capital generation to fund growth to support dividends. And having
covered and continued to cover claims inflation being well positioned to take that margin
and volume growth.

Page 10 of 19



FINAL

Company N ame: Sabre I nsurance Group PL C
Company Ticker: SBRE L N Equity
Date: 2020-04-07

Clearly the COVID-19 impacts on Slide 43 have thrown in a great degree of uncertainty, I
would say. The premium out-turn for the year must be uncertain, reduced car sales and
customer behaviours may impact our currently driving lower quotation volumes. As I
mentioned, the list of competitors chasing that volume to discounts. In my view this may
set the market -- turn back, the markets have to turn back by upto 12 months. We will
continue to price rationally and maintain our COR corridor. I think it's far too early to talk
about windfall profits or excess profits. And for the year, we can see it been a bit of a tale
of two halves, excess profitability in the first half, unwinded in the second half of the year
as some of those claims inflation factors and potentially quite some claims inflation factors
come to the floor. So my best guess, as I hit here today, is a combined operating ratio
slightly above our long-term average and a premium income, somehow we decided for
that. Clearly we will update as we get more clarity as the year develops.
To state the obvious, we don't have a crystal ball on this. The impacts aren't yet known.
The key thing for us is staying focused on righting that combined operating range. I would
say we expect to emerge from this period in a very strong and well positioned state,
ready to take growth as the market turns. I think at that point, I'm not going draw
(inaudible). And hopefully we have both way to take question, some of which I'll handing
on to Trevor and James.
Well, I think perhaps the operator can help us take any questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

Questions And Answers
Operator
Of course. (Operator Instructions) The first question we have comes from Ben Cohen
from Investec. Ben, your line is open. Please go ahead.

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

Hi, Geoff. Thanks very much for taking my questions. I have two questions please. Firstly,
sort of backing out your average premium per policy for last year, it looks like there was a
fall in the average premium. I was just wondering if you could give some color around that,
presuming it relates to risk mix. And any outlook, you could give for this year? And my
second question was in terms of reserve releases, you had higher reserve releases last
year. I just wondered, the extent to which your sort of updated guidance for the loss ratio
for the combined ratio reflect a view that you're taking about the sustainability of reserve
releases at similar levels? And maybe you could just put that into the context of the sort
of benefits that you're seeing at the moment from the social distancing and how that
could come through in terms of reserve releases? Thank you.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Yeah, sure. James, perhaps you can take the third one and the second about reserve
releases and social distancing. On average premium and risk mix now, average mix
changes all the time. It depends partly which of our distributors are pushing hard on
volume, some of them tend to target slightly lower average premium than others. I would
say overall as we came through the end of last year, our average premium grew pretty
Page 11 of 19



Company N ame: Sabre I nsurance Group PL C
Company Ticker: SBRE L N Equity
Date: 2020-04-07

strongly. We were knocking on the door GBP700 as we came into this year. So, if that
does change all the time then depending on the mix of business we're writing at the time.

FINAL

At the moment reserve releases and how they impact our numbers, do you want to
comment on that?

A - Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

Yeah, just briefly. So, our reserve releases or prior year reserve movements benefited our
combined ratio to the tune of 11.3% for 2019. I have stood here a number of times and
said that those reserve releases are going to move from exceptional to sort of BAU levels
of reserve release. It can be difficult to quantify and particularly difficult to guide on the
timing of that. Clearly, we have been fortunate in that -- those exceptional releases
haven't dried up in 2019. But, I am putting strong guidance towards the fact that they will
reduce during 2020, they are clearly by nature exceptional. So, I do expect those to come
down, absent any other factors during 2020.
We should be part of the reason. We're guiding towards a COR for '20, which is above
that for 2019. So, yeah, I mean what -- what I've said previously is that, when reserve
releases were 10%, probably about half of that was the sort of the run-off of just
prudence within reserves and half of that was exceptional, that's still not the terrible rule
of thumb. And like I said, I do expect them to come down in 2020.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

Thanks. James, the third question was around social distancing and whether that has any
impact on our sort of backlog reserves, I think.

A - James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

So, I'd just echo Adam's comment on the reserve releases, but to talk about social
distancing, I mean, I think like every other insurer we will be looking at our claims statistics,
previous reserving statistics. And looking to see, are there any trends emerging, clearly
such distancing start on the 23rd of March. So it's quite early to say, so whilst we see
some operational benefits we kind of need to shift out the volatility potentially because
it's 13th of the first quarter.
So this is something we're going to keep a very close eye on. I mean, our approach to
how we treat claims within the claims department has remained the same. And the way in
which we reserve has remained remain the same. So, I think we just need to keep a very
close eye on the diagnostics and see things as they emerge as the data comes through.
And I think as Geoff alluded to, there's lots of potential, inflationary trends that may arise
as a result, both from a frequency and a severity point of view. So again, we're just
remaining mindful to this and looking for things in the data as it becomes available.

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

Great. Thank you very much.

Page 12 of 19



Company N ame: Sabre I nsurance Group PL C
Company Ticker: SBRE L N Equity
Date: 2020-04-07

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Thanks, Ben. Next question?

FINAL

Operator
The next question comes from Ming Xu from Panmure Gordon. Ming your line is open.
Please go ahead.

Q - Ming Xu

{BIO 17285759 <GO>}

Thank you. Hi. Good morning, everyone.

A - Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

Hi Ming.

Q - Ming Xu

{BIO 17285759 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Just two questions please. Hi. And the first question, you just mentioned that you guiding
slightly higher combined ratio in 2020 than 2019 due to reserve release is not going to be
as exceptional as before. So I get that bit. But what I can't get my head around is, you said
and you've increased your premium pricing around 10% last year, which is more than the
claims inflation, 7.5% to 8.5%, you expecting. And should that sort of help your combined
ratio for this year?
And I mean, that's the bit -- I'm sort of missing, maybe I don't think I quite understand that
bit. And second is special dividend. Could you give a little bit more color in terms of the
timing and amount? So are you going to pay for that special dividend and together with
the interim dividend? Or is it going to come as a separate interim? And is that still going
to be 5.2p or a bit more than that? Thank you.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks, Ming. If I start -- Adam, in fact you can chip in as you are allowed at the end.
I think maybe on the premium place and claims, what we really decided, claims inflation is
(inaudible), let's say around (inaudible). You then need to add on the reinsurance cost
increase is potentially the MIB increases. So our view is that the total cost increase is going
to be over 10%. So we believe, we are broadly keeping track with the overall cost inflation
picture. So we would have expected to be having this year to be -- move our way down
the combined operating range a little bit. I'm not sure we're going able to sustain putting
through very significant price increases in the current market conditions. So, I think we
need to break out cost and claims inflation, think about cost inflation as we look at our
price increases...

A - James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

Geoff, it's James. Sorry, -- so I just going to see if I could just add to that. I think, yeah, I'll
talk about -- when we do claims inflation, we tend to view a probably a low -- we don't just
look at the past 12 months, to take a medium term view claims inflation. And clearly the

Page 13 of 19



Company N ame: Sabre I nsurance Group PL C
Company Ticker: SBRE L N Equity
Date: 2020-04-07

direction of travel has been upwards. So things continue, I think all else being equal, we
would expect claims inflation itself to increase.

FINAL

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

On the special dividend question, I think what we've said in here is, well, a couple of
things, really. One is our approach to excess capital hasn't changed. We think our excess
capital is better off in the hands of our shareholders, than it is us keeping it under the sort
of (inaudible) on very low returns. I don't know when the situation is going to become
clearer. It could be two weeks, it could be two months. The Board wants to return that
excess capital at an appropriate time. But I think that would be -- I think I'd be foolish at
time put a timescale on that given right we're in the midst of the current uncertainty.
(Multiple Speakers) Well, I mean, I think we have been showing in the RNS where we were.
We think the COVID-19 is going to -- is going to generate an increased level of uncertainty
for the rest of this year, until we understand what the net impact is at the first half benefits
and the second half unwinding of those benefits simplistically. So I think we showed you
where the Board was a few weeks ago. I think the Board will have to think about that
special dividend as and when things quantify and as and when we get a better view on
how the year looks. So I wouldn't want to over speculate at this point.

Q - Ming Xu

{BIO 17285759 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks Ming.

Operator
Your next question comes from Andreas van Embden from Peel Hunt. Andreas, your line is
open.

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Yeah, hello, good morning. I just had one question. Just interested in your stress test
scenarios. I know you -- an extremely worst case one with a 50% decline in premium. So I
just want to see within the range of stress tests you sort of run internally, to what range
does your solvency ratio fall from that 180%? Thank you.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Yeah. And I'll just give (inaudible) numbers in his head. I mean, so the 50% we put in there
was really a sign, if you went back a few weeks, our big concern was a very significant
amount of cancellations, if the lockdown had really hit to a point where (inaudible) that
doesn't seem to have occurred. So who wants to say how bad could it look if half of
customers canceled and stayed canceled for the rest of the year. That was not a planned
assumption, that was designed to be a very extreme scenario. Perhaps I think you got a
chance to cover your thoughts on that?
Page 14 of 19



Company N ame: Sabre I nsurance Group PL C
Company Ticker: SBRE L N Equity
Date: 2020-04-07

FINAL

A - Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

Yeah, I mean it's been an interesting challenge for us to think through the impacts of the
current environment. Most insurers are asset holders, we probably look at the variations in
the values of their underlying assets, that could lead to solvency strain, and sort of how
that trading might be effective. If we take one and then the other, on the asset side, as I
said we are primarily invested in gilts. We've got considerably more cash on our balance
sheet now that we have at the year-end to make sure that we've got enough liquidity.
And we do have a small amount, so GBP10 million, GBP15 million worth of high quality
corporate bonds on the balance sheet.

Bloomberg Transcript

We're not exposed to the equity markets, clearly yields can move around, as kind of the
values of corporate bonds. We are asset liability matched, to the extent we can't be
against the technical provisions. So movements in the low-risk assets are reflected in the
movement in the discount rates, in the Solvency II balance sheet. And therefore volatility
on that side doesn't really call the huge amount of capital strain. I'm not going to put an
exact number on it, at this point. There is some indication in the accounts, but generally
we're well protected against movements in asset values. So the other thing is the more
operational and trading things we've looked at has been, for example, the reduction -the extreme reduction in premium that we called out in the RNS. In that scenario, we were
still generating capital. So we are still writing enough business to cover our cost base and
a little bit more.
So there was no real immediate or indeed long-term capital shock [ph] in that
perspective. But clearly, that impacts our ability to distribute capital in the future, because
we would be earning quite smart. Where else do we look, I guess at increases in loss
ratio, unexpected increases in claims which happened too quickly for us to be able to
price. Again, we've got a considerable amount of headroom on our combined ratio at
70% to 80%. We -- that 20% to 30% of headroom for loss ratio to deteriorate. And we
don't think that it is likely to deteriorate by that much. So again, we would continue to
generate capital in that scenario and therefore there wouldn't be any immediate,
significant strain. We then look at things like counterparty risk and what might happen
there. We don't have a significant amount of counterparty exposure on our balance sheet.
Our brokers generally pay us for the premium upfront. And therefore the outstanding
balance of them is pretty small. We do run a finance policies on our direct book which -our direct book is 30% of our overall book.
So again, there is not a huge amount of exposure there. Where are our big counterparty
exposures? I suppose the reinsurance market. That said, that's a well diversified
reinsurance panel. They're all highly rated. They're clearly under a significant amount of
scrutiny at the moment. And we would need for really more than one of the reinsurers to
fail to cause a significant movement in our capital base, which we consider to be unlikely.
But even if they did, that wouldn't take us below 100% of our capital requirements. So
that's the kind of thought process that we've had on modeling the impact of COVID. It
might seem sort of mildly simplistic, but when you think about the nature of the
investments, I think it makes sense to think about it in that way. So, yes, so that, Geoff
that's my summarized (inaudible)...

Page 15 of 19



Company N ame: Sabre I nsurance Group PL C
Company Ticker: SBRE L N Equity
Date: 2020-04-07

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

I think, I think just to give a bit of context, I think 180 and 160 is about GBP12 million, Adam,
something of that...

A - Adam Westwood

{BIO 20481660 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah, that's right.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

And so down to 140 would be GBP24 million. So we've got a lot as capital before we go
anywhere near a danger. And as you go all the way down to 100 would be as -- be about
sort of GBP48 million, GBP49 million so we've got a lot of spare capital here, before we
get concerned about our capital range. Andreas, did that answer the question?

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Yes, yes. Yeah. Thank you very much. Very clear.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
The next question we have comes from Nick Johnson from Numis Securities. Nick, your
line is open. Please go ahead.

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Hi, good morning all. Just one or two questions, one follows on from Andreas, actually. So
in terms of how insurers are responding to COVID-19, there is an article on the BBC today
saying that U.S. insurers are handing back some premiums to customers to reflect lower
claims during lockdown. I appreciate the U.S. is a very different market, but is there any
sense that you could do something similar in the UK? Any discussions that you're aware of
at the moment, perhaps you can just talk around the issues on that, please?
And the second question was on rollout of new rating factors. I was wondering if you
could elaborate a bit on where you are on those? Were there a significant factor in the
2019 numbers? Or is there really more to come in 2020? So where can we see the likely
benefits of those new factors? Thank you.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Okay. Yeah, thanks Nick. Yeah, I mean obviously, I think all states, some of the people in
the states have started giving sort of two months (inaudible) a discount for two months. I
think in the UK that would be a very, very valid thing to do, given we don't know what the
full-year impact is. So we can see some impact for the last few weeks. So as we
mentioned in our presentation, we can see those benefits in the short-term being

Page 16 of 19



Company N ame: Sabre I nsurance Group PL C
Company Ticker: SBRE L N Equity
Date: 2020-04-07

FINAL

unwound in the second half, and we don't know what the net position of those two
competing factors will be.
So I don't think we're in any position to say we're making surplus profits at this point. I
think the UK market is also a bit different. We mentioned that I can see in the market, vast
discounting going through. So I think there is already market movements for some
insurers, discounts in the price -- on the assumption there may be lower discounts coming
soon. So I think also that first question, I think it would be -- I don't think we have any data
that proves we could possibly discount premiums at this point. On the rating factors side,
James, do you want to say anything on that? I know you're not given any details what
you've actually done, but any more general comments?

A - James Ockenden

{BIO 20485926 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So we did introduce a small -- I mean, I think, Nick, the -- it's pretty much more of the
same side. We -- obviously we are continuously tweaking the right thing, across the
portfolio responding to changes in risk. We did introduce a new factor, which looked at
relationships between individuals and the policy (inaudible) any more than that. So it is a
quite small factor, but we believe it was predictive of additionally predictive risk on top of
our car modeling. We are continuing to look at new data sources is becoming more tricky
to find new bids. But then we have something in the pipeline. We've had it in pipeline for a
little while, but it's the (inaudible) in the detail of deployment and how we deploy it. So
hopefully we will be looking to get that done this year, and take the rating forward even
further.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Thanks, James.

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks very much.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

(inaudible) balance of your question, Nick?

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Yeah, I'm happy with that. That's great. Thank you.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Thanks a lot.

Operator
Next we have Trevor Moss from Agency Partners. Trevor, please go ahead.

Page 17 of 19



Company N ame: Sabre I nsurance Group PL C
Company Ticker: SBRE L N Equity
Date: 2020-04-07

FINAL

Q - Trevor Moss

{BIO 1741504 <GO>}

Very good morning Geoff. Good morning everybody. Very comprehensive presentation,
Geoff. Thank you. Couple of things if I may. Credit repair, talk a little bit about that, how
prevalent it is becoming as a trend? How you might tackle it? And how much more
expense will it sort of add to claims? It looks slightly worrying to me, not that it's
necessarily a particular issue, but it's an interesting one. The second thing is just could you
talk a little bit about Saga, what you're intending to achieve there? What sort of policies,
you think you might pick up through Saga?

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Yeah sure. So if I take -- start the question first, and then Trevor you can pick-up credit
repair. Going further, I think quite interesting, obviously it's all people over (inaudible). I
think what we see here is (Multiple Speakers) the full year -- the actual full year policy is a
differentiated offering, which I think is going to be quite attractive to certain customer
demographics. So I understand, and I don't want to talk too much about their business,
generate more business on a direct basis than through aggregators. So that's quite an
interesting sort of new customer pull, that perhaps we don't currently get -- to get sort of
efficient. So I think we can add value by -- to Saga had by providing some of the more
lively cars and some of the more non-standard customer risks. And I think what Saga
brings to us is a slightly different pool of customers.
Trevor, do you answer about credit repair?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Trevor Webb

{BIO 21909270 <GO>}

Yes. Okay. So when we talk about credit repair, we talk about the cost of repairs, we also
talk about some of those additional costs. For example, vehicle recovery and towing and
storage charges. So we're seeing two things going on, really. And if I look back over the
last five years, we are seeing a greater penetration of credit repair, so a greater
proportion of the claims are being subrogated or pursued against us -- on a credit repair
basis. And that's going up year-on-year. I'm looking at some data since 2014, so that's
gone up year-on-year over that period of time.
And in addition, the cost of the repair through that model is significantly higher than the
cost of the repair, that's being recovered if it goes through a traditional insurance model.
So the inflation levels on repair are exceeding inflation of straightforward bent metal. How
can we do with it? The way in which we look to deal with it is we look to capture that
innocent [ph] third-party and manage that individuals repair through our own processes,
and contain costs that way. The extent to which we are successful is does vary, but it's
something that we're highly focused on addressing, so that we can look to control that
claims inflation.

Q - Trevor Moss

{BIO 1741504 <GO>}

Yeah, okay. Trevor, thanks.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Page 18 of 19



Company N ame: Sabre I nsurance Group PL C
Company Ticker: SBRE L N Equity
Date: 2020-04-07

So, do that -- okay, thanks.

Q - Trevor Moss

{BIO 1741504 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah, that's fine.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
There are no further questions on the line.

A - Geoff Carter

{BIO 20756770 <GO>}

Okay. Well, in that case, thank you all very much for dialing-in. We finished just inside the
hour, I think. Hopefully, that works okay for you doing it by phone. Any other questions,
we've not been able to pick-up now or if it wasn't clear, me and Adam are available all
day. So, please feel free to get in touch. Thank you very much for your time, and hopefully
be able to see you in person next time. Thanks a lot. Bye now.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call. Thank you all for joining. You may now
disconnect your lines.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 19 of 19

