Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-04-02

Y 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Euan Sutherland, Group Chief Executive Oﬃcer
James Quin, Chief Financial Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Abid Hussain, Analyst
Ben Cohen, Analyst
Edward Morris, Analyst
Nick Johnson, Analyst
Penelope Fitzherbert, Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Euan Sutherland
Good morning and thank you for joining the call everyone. Our intention is to highlight
the progress made by Saga across three time frames in, what is a slightly more complex
update than a normal trading update and mindful of the FDA guidelines, which have
delayed the publication of our annual report and accounts until April 9. We will cover the
highlights from the last 12 months up to the ﬁnancial year end of 31st of January 2020,
where the business has shown strong progress of turnaround plan set out last April. We
will also talk through the fast start we've made into 2020 with further actions on cost and
debt, completed before the end of February. And then as I'm sure everyone will want to
know the deep, but we will give a comprehensive update on our response to the COVID19 situation.
Saga has made strong progress as we work to improve our ﬁnancial position, lowered
short-term debt and operating expenses and improved cash ﬂows. This has been
achieved while maintaining the highest levels of customer service at all times. Even during
the last few weeks of country locked down, where full working from home capability has
been set up across the business. I'll make some summary comments and then I'll hand
over to James Quin, our Group CFO to go into the ﬁnancial detail for you and then we'll
open up for questions.
We will use a slide on the screen to help illustrate points and the presentation should take
around 20 minute to 25 minute to help with your planning. Upfront, however, let me
reinforce three critical points. Firstly, that while many are focusing on recent travel sector
impact of COVID-19, Saga has the beneﬁt of its complementary insurance business based
mainly in Motor and Home, which is not only largely unaﬀected by the current COVID-19
situation, but is also performing well as we enter the new ﬁnancial year. This performance
Page 1 of 19



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-04-02

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

is underpinned by being able to achieve full work from home capability across the Group
with over 2,300 colleagues already operating successfully at home. We are 100% open for
business in insurance with what surely must be the large home- based call center in the
UK today, with over 850 colleagues keeping up a seamless service for our customers. This
is a vital service for our customers and is working really well.
Secondly, the while our Cruise business has been imposed and many of you will have
questions on future trends we are seeing strong demand for later in the year and into
2021, and I will update with more details in a minute. Thirdly, I'd like to be clear, we've
inherited a turnaround situation with Saga and therefore, we are moving at pace to
address a series of historic issues that have not been fully dealt until now. So moving on to
slide three. Three time frames in focus right now. For the year end 31st of January 2020,
Saga has made good progress on the goals that tied last April with underlying proﬁt
before tax of GBP110 million, in line and in fact slightly ahead of the wider expectations,
while reducing short-term bank debt by 20% or GBP30 million.
Our Motor and Home insurance business continues to show progress and the launch of
the new three-year ﬁxed product has been a success with over 320,000 policies written in
the last ﬁnancial year. Overall, we are pleased the progress that our wider Insurance
business and conﬁdent about the future. Cruise had a good year in 2019 with the ﬁrst of
our two new ships coming into service and achieving the metrics laid out in the business
case. With GBP20 million EBITDA for the half year or diems of GBP278 and average load
factors of 86%. Finally, in January, we strengthened the executive team who have landed
with pace and our step changing a bit. Our focus was a fast start into 2020 which has
served us well so far this year. As we enter 2020, we have made that fast start into the year
with progress being made on non-disposals, with a further GBP37 million of cash secured
in half one with the sales of Bennetts and the healthcare businesses.
We also took rapid action in January and February, on the organization design and
capability, ﬂattening the, frankly unbelievable historic 17 colleague levels down to ﬁve,
lowering headcount by 285 colleagues, cutting out non-value-added activity and lowering
operating expenses by GBP15 million and CapEx by GBP5 million, all before the end of
February and before the COVID-19 crisis took hold across the UK. These savings have
been put to work with investments in the areas of digital, data and brand that have been
poorly executed in the past. These early actions on cost are the right things to do for the
long-term eﬃciency and eﬀectiveness of the business and we know at the time that they
would prove to be still helpful so quickly, given the environment the world is now in.
These are also key and important proof point of the new management team approach.
Our action to respond to the COVID-19 situation is multi-layered. Insurance is operating
well and unaﬀected in the main businesses at Motor and Home and we have been fast
and eﬀective in moving the entire business to working from home. Our priorities have
been to protect our colleagues and to protect our business. And our actions have been
swift and comprehensive, alongside a full eﬀect of cash protection and maximization
measures in place including a precautionary drawdown of our RCF, resetting our debt
covenants and posing the dividend. We are in good shape to weather the unusual set of
issues hitting the world this summer and our insurance business continues to generate
proﬁt and cash in line with plan.
Page 2 of 19



FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-04-02

Moving on to slide four. It's worth reinforcing some of the key metrics in insurance with
now over 400,000 three-year ﬁxed policies sold by the end of March 2020 under
reinsurance solutions in place. We have seen good retention with Home up 3.2% and
Motor up 1.5% year-on-year and margins are at the top end of our range. Our goal to
drive our direct business is own plan with 57% direct share and the cost base is well
managed. While travel insurance has been impacted recently, this is a smaller element to
the Saga and is more than oﬀset by progress in Motor and Home, as well as the likely
lower claims frequency through the summer. And alongside the beneﬁts of combining
broking and underwriting under Cheryl Agius, our new insurance CEO, which all mean
that our insurance business is in a stronger position after the reset last year. I've said is
largely unaﬀected by the current COVID-19 situation. Albeit, we recognize that the
insurance business is subject to a further technical goodwill impairment to year-end and
James will walk you through the details in his section.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving then on to slide ﬁve. Cruise had a good year in 2019 as we began the
transformation of that business. Customer feedback is consistently excellent and the
proposition is working well with a high-quality boutique ship for under 1,000 passengers.
Load factors across both ships remained strong throughout the year. And importantly,
really in January and February and up to the government shutdown where our guest
wanted to continue cruising with us. We are seeing strong demand for bookings in the
second half of 2020 and into 2021. Importantly, looking forward, we have 81% load factors
in the period September 2020 to January '21 and we are building a strong pipeline for
the '21 season with 16% already booked. This pent-up demand, we believe, is based on
the Saga proposition of quality, peace of mind and extra care, which has driven strong
customer loyalty.
Moving then on to slide six on Tour Operations. Tour Operations, in contrast to insurance
and Cruise has had a tougher year in 2019 with Brexit and the wider economic conditions
hitting demand in the sector. Despite falling demand, the tour ops margin grew by 5
percentage points in half two versus half one and within the Group Titan performed well.
But there is a clear need to reset and improve the Saga Holidays business, which is
already a priority for us this year. Focus is on the more successful tours and river cruise
oﬀering with two new river cruise ships ordered and arriving in Spring 2021 and Spring
2022. The Saga diﬀerence has been ignored for too long in tour ops and we are returning
to our heritage of quality, peace of mind and added value services within this business.
Moving then on to slide seven. Importantly, much of our focus for this update is on Saga's
response to the COVID-19 situation. And in summary, we are in good shape, both
operationally and ﬁnancially and remain focused on further mitigating actions if and when
required. Firstly, within cruise, our two ships are made at Tilbury with an estimated GBP50
million impact to the end of May. We have taken action to mitigate layup costs, while
maintaining the good working order on both ships, so that we are ready to sail again as
soon as the government advice changing. Very signiﬁcantly 57% of customers aﬀected by
the current cancellations have already re-booked future cruises rather than taking a
refund. This is a strong indication of the Saga brand loyalty and gives us conﬁdence in the
future demand. As you can see we've built signiﬁcant capability within Cruise and we
have a positive outlook in booked revenue and passenger days, both up year-on-year.

Page 3 of 19



FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-04-02

On page eight, in line with government guidelines, we've also paused our tour ops
business with an estimated GBP9 million impact through to the end of May and 20% of
our customers having already re-booked their holidays with us. Importantly, the customer
repayments have been met from the CAA ring-fenced group cash and advance bookings
have been impacted with booked revenue from September 2020 to January '21, down
from GBP89 million to GBP79 million and passenger numbers down from 39,000 to
33,000. We've applied a number of stress tests to the travel business and James will take
you through these in a minute. I am conﬁdent we have planned in a cautious and prudent
way. And I want to stress that these are ﬁnancial stress test scenarios and not prediction as
to when travel will resume. It's clear from our customer feedback that as soon as the
government changes its advice on travel, then we can resume Cruise and Tour Ops with
conﬁdence and strong demand.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving on to page nine. Overall, Saga is in good shape operationally given these
extreme circumstances we ﬁnd ourselves in and we have acted swiftly and with care for
colleagues and for customers. In addition to the 2,300 colleagues working from home
eﬀectively we are working through the details of the government furloughing scheme
over the coming weeks. Saga also lived up to his brand promise in repatriating over
3,000 customers from all over the world in our tour ops business ahead of government
guideline. And we ensured all cruise colleagues were able to return to their homes across
the world, including 645 crew members able to ﬂy home to the Philippines before the
lockdown. As you can imagine, this has been a huge amount of work and Saga has
stepped up to the plate very well. All of these actions have left the business in good
shape and able to operate, as well as ensuring our customers and colleagues are safe.
I'm now going to pass over to James to run through the headline ﬁnancial numbers, and
I'll come back and summarize in a minute. James?

James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Thank you. Good morning, everybody. Now in normal circumstances, I go through our
results in some detail. Given COVID-19, I'm expecting the main focus will be on liquidity,
bank covenants and stress testing. However, let me make a few comments on last year's
results, before I turn to the main topic. I'm going to start on slide 11. As Euan has
mentioned, we expect underlying proﬁt before tax for last year to be GBP110 million, in
line with our target range of GBP105 million to GBP120 million, and also in line with the
indications we published in January.
Given how challenging Travel and Insurance markets were through most of last year, this
is a solid result. There are a number of signiﬁcant items that are excluded from underlying
proﬁt before tax, as we have looked to address several legacy issues. Most notably, we've
taken a GBP70 million impairment of insurance goodwill. I want to stress that unlike the
impairment that we took a year ago, this is not due to a change in underlying cash ﬂow
expectations for the insurance business. Our model cash ﬂows for Insurance are broadly
unchanged from a year ago and with both years including areas of prudence. What has
changed is a discount rate we used in the goodwill calculation, which has increased from
8.55% to [ph]10.7% and this reduces the value of goodwill by GBP320 million. The reason
for this change is due to external inputs we need to consider. Most notably, the share
Page 4 of 19



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-04-02

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

price of the Group in January of this year. I want to emphasize that this is not a
reevaluation of the prospects of the insurance business. We would not expect to have to
revisit the discount rate again, as a result of COVID-19.
The other items excluded from underlying proﬁt before tax includes an impairment of the
goodwill intangibles of the Destinology business of GBP20 million, restructuring costs of
around GBP6 million, a write down of property, plant and equipment around GBP10
million and losses relating to the insolvency of Thomas Cook of GBP4 million. These are
for the most part non-cash items, as is evidenced from the fact that net cash generation
for the year was better than expected. While we will incur some further restructuring costs
in the current year, we do not expect to see anything like this list of items in future
reporting periods.
I'm now going to return -- to turn to slide 12. As already mentioned, underlying proﬁt
before tax is expected to be in line with the target range we set a year ago. The key point
here is that we have not needed to rely on expense reserve releases to get there, which is
in mark contrast where the company was in previous years. I'll expand on this point
shortly. I will now turn to slide 13 and the Retail Broking business. On this slide, I show the
movement in Retail Broking earnings from year to year. For new business, we've invested
in advertising launching our ﬁrst TV campaign. New business acquisition costs have also
increased the direct business, and that is in part because of a switch from direct mails to
Internet channels. This was all expected. For a new business proﬁtability reduced due to
the impact of discounting in the prior year and price cuts for long-term customers that
were implemented in July. This was also in line with expectations. While not shown on this
chart, average gross margin per policy was GBP74, at the top-end of the range of GBP71
to GBP74. This beneﬁted from a mix shift in terms of lower new business volumes and
higher renewals.
Last year, I indicated that the margin per policy for the 2020/2021 year, would be between
GBP67 and GBP70 per policy, reﬂecting a full year of the price cuts just mentioned. On
our latest numbers, I see a likely range of GBP69 to GBP73 per policy for the current
ﬁnancial year. So a bit better than previously indicated. As I also said a year ago, we would
look to get external reinsurance in place for our three-year ﬁxed product and I'm pleased
to say that we do now how cover -- has cover in place reduces our exposure to extreme
inﬂation scenarios and that is with a third-party reinsurer.
Turning now to the underwriting business on slide 14. One of the main reasons for the
reset last year was the recognition that period of exceptional insurance reserve releases
was drawing to a close. A year ago, we indicated that reserve releases would likely be with
within a range of GBP30 million to GBP40 million for the 2019-2020 year and our actual
reserve releases last year were GBP36 million. Based on what I've seen in the last 12
months, my expectations for reserve release trends are unchanged. For the coming year
and assuming no major ups or downs from COVID-19, we would expect reserve releases
to be in a range of GBP15 million to GBP25 million. Looking into 2021-2022 and again as
signaled a year ago, I expect reserve releases to be at relatively low levels consistent with
a target reported combined ratio of around 97%.

Page 5 of 19



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-04-02

I'll now say a few words on cash generation, on slide 15. Net bank debt excluding Cruise
debt, reduced from around GBP390 million to around GBP360 million. And with several
one-oﬀ factors here with a net impact of an adverse GBP15 million. These factors include
two items that I highlighted a year-ago plus one new one. We see the GBP23 million
increase in available cash from the carve-out of the Cruise business from the travel ringfenced. This is something we were asked to do by the CAA in order to more fully separate
Cruise from ST&H which is the parts of the business that they regulate. Going forward, the
cash ﬂows of the Cruise business will be shown as part of Group available operating cash.
Now let me now turn the information you are perhaps most interested in, which is of
course, how we are responding to COVID-19. Starting with slide 16. Since the end of
February we've been running numerous business resilience stress tests. As you can
imagine the scenarios we are using are constantly evolving and I'm sure they will evolve
further in the next weeks and months. Our analysis is centered around a scenario in which
we experienced a long suspension of both Cruise and tour ops. Speciﬁcally we assume a
six months suspension of Cruise and with all tour ops departures suspended until
September. We assume a three-month delay for the Spirit of Adventure. Increasingly we
also assume a slow burn pickup in travel departures in the following months. For example,
we assume a load factor for Cruise in December of 54% and we have seen a 40%
reduction in passengers for tour ops departures from September to January compared to
our plan. In this scenario, we estimate the full year revenues would reduce by around 65%
for tour ops and Cruise, in comparison to our planned assumptions.
We illustrate the potential impact of this decline in revenue on underlying proﬁt before tax
by reference to a drop-through rate. Not applying the expected decline in revenue by the
drop-through rate would give you a view of the impact from COVID-19 comparison to full
year planned earnings. Note this is a relative change not absolute position. The game
here is how analysts and investors model the potential impact of COVID-19 on travel
results and on our overall ﬁnancial strength. There are two other points I would make.
First, although we expect insurance results to be resilient, we have incorporated some
downside stress tests into our analysis. And second, we've taken a prudent approach in a
number of our assumptions, in particular, we assume almost all travel customers take cash
instead of re-booking. We make no allowance for any payment deferrals and although we
allow for mitigating actions in divisional costs, we do not factor in further Group level
savings at this stage.
I'll now expand on the ﬁrst of these points on slide 17. In our analysis, we have, as you
would expect consider stress test apply beyond travel again relative to core plan
assumptions. Speciﬁcally, we have considered downside risks to demand for travel
insurance and PMI, and potential risks to motor claims costs as a result of supply chain
issues. However, we also see areas of potential positive oﬀset too. We start in a prudent
reserving position. We think that motor frequency is likely to dip albeit temporarily. We
think there is upside to customer retention as the ﬁrst round of three-year ﬁxed policies
come up for renewal and we also think we're in a good position in terms of customer
service relative to some of our competitors. Overall, we see the position as fairly
balanced. So we have still applied a level of downside sensitivity for insurance in our
scenario analysis.

Page 6 of 19



FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-04-02

On the next few slides, I'll expand on our current ﬁnancial position and capital structure,
starting on slide 18. To keep the balance sheet resilience relates to our good starting
liquidity position. At the end of March, we had around GBP92 million in available
shareholder cash resources, increased from GBP33 million at the end of February. This is
mainly to a precautionary drawdown on the revolving credit facility of GBP50 million in
the months and the receipt of GBP14 million from the sale of two healthcare companies,
oﬀset by GBP7 million cash injection to the ring fence travel business. We are to receive
around a further GBP23 million in cash, when the sale of Bennetts is complete, which
should happen in June. In addition to our own shareholder resources, we have GBP55
million of cash in the ST&H ring fence fund. This cash is backing GBP69 million of advance
customer receipts and we are voluntarily holding a higher level of liquidity in the business
than is required by the CAA.

Bloomberg Transcript

Finally, as mentioned previously, we've applied prudent assumptions in our working
capital projections. We expect to see a level of working capital outﬂows in the next few
months and this may peak over the summer. In assessing the downside risk here, we've
assumed that only 20% of Cruise customers defer bookings, when experienced to date
points to conversion rates in excess of 50%. We've also not made allowance to tour ops
customers re-booking for later departures even though a portion are doing exactly that
and we've made no allowance for any provision of government support other than an
element of colleague furloughing within travel mitigation action.
Overall therefore, we see ourselves as being in a good liquidity position. On slide 19, I set
out our banking facility. There is no change to our capital structure, with no maturity
events until repayment of the term loan in May 2022 and the maturity of our RCF which
occurs in May 2023. As previously mentioned, we drew down GBP50 million of the RCF in
March, and we have a further GBP50 million available if needed. Into the debt repayment
this ﬁnancial year, we are due to repay GBP20 million of the term loan on the 31st of
January 2021 and we have two instalments of GBP10 million each due on the Spirit to
Discovery reﬁnancing. No amounts are due on the Spirit of Adventure until the next
ﬁnancial year. While there are no changes to our capital structure, we have however,
agreed amendments with our lending banks in relation to the debt covenants in banking
facility and this is shown on slide 20. As the COVID-19 crisis unfolded, and as we ran
sensitivity analysis, it became clear to us that we needed to talk to our banks about debt
covenants in the current exceptional circumstances. We therefore approached our banks
in early March to discuss with them potential relaxation of the covenants relating to the
term loan and the RCF. Following the conclusion of these discussions, we have agreed
pleased to the main covenants, which is the ratio of increased debt to exclude EBITDA
from [ph]4.5 times to 4.75 times. We've also agreed other changes that will help ensure
we have the ﬁnancial ﬂexibility we need to navigate the current crisis.
As you would expect this does come with some conditions including a moved quarterly
covenant testing and we need to reduce ex-Cruise leverage to below 3 times before we
can resume paying dividends. The practical impact of this is limited since we would in any
case be unlikely to consider paying dividends until this level has been achieved. There are
also covenants in the ship debt and we will apply for a one-year waiver of these covenants
will be available as part of our package of support provided to the cruise industry. We are
currently assessing whether to apply for a debt holiday enabling us to defer the GBP20

Page 7 of 19



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-04-02

FINAL

million of capital repayment due this year on the Spirit of Discovery. This is not factored
into our central scenario planning. I'd like to thank all our banks for the support they've
shown us and extremely rapid response to a challenging environment.
Let me conclude by providing an update of the chart that will be familiar to those analysts
and investors who know us well, on slide 21. Of course, the current environment is highly
uncertain, cannot predict when our travel business will return to normal. We also cannot
predict what normal will look like at least in the next year or two. That said, with a good
starting point for liquidity and resilient insurance cash generation, as well as the proceeds
from announced disposals, we expect to signiﬁcantly de-leverage the business in the next
few years. With headroom to our new debt covenant in our central scenario and further
mitigating actions available in the event of a longer travel suspension, we expect to be
able to trade through an exceptional period.
With that I will hand you back to Euan.

Bloomberg Transcript

Euan Sutherland
Thank you, James. And just moving on to the summary on page 23, you can see our clear
focus across the business and I just want to conclude with four comments. Firstly, Saga
has made good progress and is on track with the turnaround outlined last April with
proﬁts in line with guidance, debt and operating cost reducing alongside a fast start into
2020 with the new management team. Secondly, the current environment we are
preparing for the worst with the better prudent and cautious actions across the business
alongside a strong Motor and Home insurance business that is largely unaﬀected by
COVID-19 and continuing to contribute strong proﬁts and cash ﬂows. We have a tight
control of costs and cash and we have further mitigating actions that can be taken if we
need to. Thirdly, and saying that we are planning for the best with over 2,300 colleagues
working brilliantly and in agile way from homes across the UK delivering great customer
service for our loyal customers and we believe we have the largest at home call center in
the UK with 850 colleagues manning [ph]this post for our customers. This is not only
achieving record call answer rate, but it's also helping fulﬁll an essential service and the
connection with our older customers.
We have the capability to do this for the duration of the lockdown no matter how long this
lasts and a huge thank you to our amazing colleagues. And ﬁnally, my sense is that this is
a great and strong business at its core. It is beginning to operate at its best and it will get
even better as we improve further. Insurance has begun to turn the corner. Our new cruise
ships are in a winning proposition and our tour operations will be better once we
relaunch it in the autumn. While it's diﬃcult time for everyone across the UK and across
the world, Saga as a small part of that is focusing on emerging as a stronger and better
business, and we want to play our part in supporting the UK at this time.
So with that we'll pause and open up for any questions that you may have. Thank you.

Questions And Answers
Page 8 of 19



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-04-02

Operator
Thank you, Euan. (Operator Instructions) So ﬁrst question today is from Nick Johnson from
Numis Securities. Nick, please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Hi, good morning all.

A - Euan Sutherland
Hi Nick.

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Two or three questions please, hi. Firstly on your cash projections in the six-month
scenario, do you envisage further drawdown of the RCF in that scenario? And I guess
same question for more severe Jan 2021 no Travel scenario. That's the ﬁrst question.
Secondly, Euan, really I think you mentioned that you view this business under invested in
digital, data and brand, just wondering if you could elaborate a bit on the speciﬁc areas,
perhaps some examples. And will the upgrades require involve incremental additional
CapEx and operating cost or that was oﬀset by eﬃciencies elsewhere. And then thirdly on
Motor Home insurance, obviously most due to work from home capability there, could
you just say in the last weeks since UK is nearly locked down, have you seen any
discernible impacts on the business volumes? Thank you.

A - Euan Sutherland
Great. Thanks Nick. I'll pick up the points on digital, data and brand and the work from
home and perhaps James can pick up the detail on the cash projections even though I
think we feel in a good place with our cash position. So I guess, picking up the underinvestment, I think there are good examples around the business where we feel we can
accelerate the move to digital, in insurance, in travel, in the operational capability of our
website through to the digital capability that all of our customers need and want today. I
think in data, while there has been some good foundational work there, we haven't
turned that into really useful information yet. We have a data lake, so we have some good
base capability, but we really have to turn that into something which is enabling our
colleagues to connect with our customers in a far better way and we feel that -- that
example has a fairly short lead time. So as we focus and continue to focus the business
through this diﬃcult time, there are some early wins in there. And then I think on brand to
be honest, I think that we have not kept up with the relevance and temporary nature and
modern outlook of our core customers who are using digital, who want to feel
empowered as they travel the world and as they live their lives and there is some really
interesting and exciting brand work going on in the background, which we hope to
update on in September as we outline more details of the strategy.
In terms of costing that you're right that we've looked at taking some of the ineﬃciencies
that were evident in the business from an early view from the new management team and
to reinvest that into those areas. We think those three areas are the priority for the
business. So we're being right disciplined in where we take the cash out or when where
Page 9 of 19



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-04-02

FINAL

we put into. So we are cutting back on CapEx this year but we're refocusing what we have
into those three areas. So hopefully, that gives you a bit of a ﬂavor of where we're thinking
but more detail in September when we update the full reset of the strategy.
In terms of working from home, I guess we have worked with speed and accuracy, I guess,
huge amount of eﬀort to move from everybody working in what we're ﬁve oﬃces to
working from home. We, on the last time yesterday we had 23 colleagues across ﬁve
oﬃces in the oﬃce, every other colleague was eﬀective and working at home. We have
the capability digitally to do that. We have moved at pace, which has meant that there has
been no interruption at all in our service provision for insurance or from travel. And clearly
both of those areas of the business working in credit card. The insurance call answer rate
response times have actually gone up. And so we have been very impressed with the
colleagues. They are working together on the technology, which has worked well for us
and I think we were helped by getting on to this very quickly and even being very singleminded in our focus. And on travel, we are managing and helping thousands of
customers move their holidays and their cruise bookings so that side of the business is
very busy as well as we focus on customer care. So, hopefully that again gives you some
sense of where we're working and the conﬁdence we've got through this very unusual
time.
James, could you pick up the cash projection point, the RCF drawdown.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Yes. So I mean I think what we did in March, as we look to set ourselves up really for the
sort of the liquidity scenarios that we've been running and again employing some pretty
prudent assumptions around the return of travel customer cash and that was why we then
drew down GBP50 million on the RCF and that included some relatively prudent
scenarios now. I would, deﬁnitely not want to say that there are no circumstances when we
would draw down maybe a bit more. But that isn't the expectation right now and I think
that certainly as we look out over the the next six months what I think we would see is that
the cash requirements in the business will probably peak over the summer because that
will be the low point for advance receipts and if we start to trade again in September,
October, or even actually in January, given that we collect customer cash three months in
advance of departure you would then start to see some of that cash coming back in. So as
I say, the peak cash drawdown period is probably going to be in the next three or four
months, and then we'd expect it to pick up and that means, I guess there wouldn't be a
huge diﬀerence as to whether we're in a six months lockdown or whether it's a 12 months
lockdown. But you can never say never, but I think that in the RCF drawdown that we've
done, we've looked to give ourselves a bit of buﬀer looking out over the next six months.

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Okay, thanks, thanks. I'll quickly go back to the Motor Home insurance business. So you
saying that service levels were seamless and actually call answer rates have gone up. I
mean just to clarify, should I take from that, that there has been no real change in
premium written or gross premium deemed in the last week.

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}
Page 10 of 19



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-04-02

FINAL

I can take that one Euan. I think the, what we've seen is the new business has been a little
bit lower in the last couple of weeks. Maybe sort of 15%, 20% down on the two weeks
before that. Having said that, retentions have been very good. And I think that in the
aggregate, we deﬁnitely don't see any big change in the overall level of business that
we're writing.

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Okay, great, that's very clear. Thanks very much.

A - Euan Sutherland
Great. Thanks Nick.

Operator
The next question on the line is from Ben Cohen of Investec. Ben, please go ahead.

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning. Hi, I had some three things that I wanted to ask. Firstly just the stress test
on the health insurance volumes and proﬁts. If you could say a little bit more about that.
Secondly on the AICL solvency, just remind us the key sensitivities that I think you say
there is no, there is no risk to the capital position, but obviously the solvency has come
down from year end. And the third question was it just if you had a comment on cost
inﬂation in the ﬁrst quarter of this year, year-to-date weather that had changed from the
end of last year. Thank you.

A - Euan Sutherland
Great, thanks, Ben. James, you want to take those ones up.

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Yes. So I think ﬁrstly on PMI and I think this is a, probably simple answer to this question. I
think that we're still working through the impact on the prior [ph]medical care with with
our (inaudible) provider. Now, I think that what we do think is that in the short term, there
will be a decline in obviously the sort of discretionary operation inevitably because of
course the hospitals are going to be focused on treating people with coronavirus. Equally
though, I think that the, probably about half of the products is still serviced and that isn't
dependent on essentially either in hospital treatment or it would be on in hospital
treatment that is still continuing such as cancer care for example.
What, what we're doing is we're working to essentially add new features into the product.
So for example, potential sort of in hospital treatment cover not the Coronavirus, but on a
sort of per diem basis. And we're also stepping up some of the sort of treatment at home
features as well. So I think the point here is that we think that there is going to be, there is
a bit of uncertainty in the short term, but actually we think that the long-term prospects for
the products are probably going to be quite good because coming out of this, there's
going to be a period where people will probably not feel comfortable relying internally
Page 11 of 19



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-04-02

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

on the NHS. So, I think there's a number of implications for the product. We have built a
downside into our stress test, as I mentioned before, as well as for travel insurance. But I
think in the aggregate, we would still see insurance as being resilient.
In terms of ACIL solvency I deﬁnitely will say there is no risk to the capital position. I think
what, the way, I would characterize this is that when we got to the end of the year we ran
the ACIL solvency numbers. That was coming out of 160% solvency ratio, was actually
better than we've been anticipating. And so we started the year with a bit of buﬀer over
what we were expecting. What we see is that in allowing for the market moves I guess a
combination of widening and also the impact of the down in the yield curve that in the
ACIL solvency position back down to probably, a probably a shade over 140. Certainly
that's actually where we had been planning for it to be at the start of the year. So why I
wouldn't, deﬁnitely wouldn't say there is no risk to the capital position, I would say that in
allowing for the things that we know about, that's really just sort of taken us back to where
we thought we were going to be anyway.
In terms, so I mean I think practically speaking, of course, what that means is that the ACIL
dividend plans that we had for the year shouldn't be materially impacted. And when I say
that what we're not doing is making any allowance for the possibility that claims frequency
will decline in Motor and obviously that would in an itself of course help in terms of ACIL
proﬁtability at least in the short term. Now I think in terms of inﬂation, I think it's probably
fair to say it's, I mean it's a bit too early to say. I mean inﬂation. I think that we certainly
haven't seen any acceleration in what we saw before and I think that obviously what we're
going to see now is the impact of COVID-19 on pricing. So I think it's a bit early to judge
what that will mean. I think a critical point there is, of course, it doesn't really matter what's
happening in the short-term because we're selling 12 months, or in our case 36-month
policies. So a temporary dip doesn't really feature as an inﬂuencing factor.
In terms of the overall market environment, I think we can say it deﬁnitely has got a bit
better and this is before Coronavirus. I'd hesitate to get carried away with that. But I think
at the margin, certainly through January and into February, things felt that perhaps the
market was starting to be a bit from a certainly compared to where it was in the fourth
quarter of last year. I wouldn't want -- I actually wouldn't want to extrapolate that.

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

All right. Okay, thank you very much.

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Thanks.

Operator
(Operator Instructions) The next question on the line is from Edward Morris from JP
Morgan. Edward, please go ahead.

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}
Page 12 of 19



FINAL

Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-04-02

Hi, everyone. Thanks for taking my questions. Sir, for you in just on the sort of overall
strategic direction of the Group in your assessment as you come into the business. It's
clear that you're sort of accelerating the attempt to dispose of non-core assets, but I just
wondered in your bigger picture view around whether you think Travel and Cruise
continues to belong with the insurance business and obviously COVID-19 introduces new
challenges for Travel. Does it change anything in your view there? And the second point
is, I mean a lot of the actions that you're taking you clearly been quite successful in raising
cash, but you are still left with a fairly restrictive debt position overall even ex-Cruise, but
then if we think about including the Cruise debt, it's obviously very signiﬁcant. So just
wanted your thoughts whether raising actually has been a consideration and why so far
you decided against that.
Second question relates to goodwill, obviously second consecutive year with quite
signiﬁcant write down to the Insurance business, you mentioned that the share price was
one factor that drove the decision, does the -- does this recent share price suggest
anything in terms of what might happen in the current year. Or is there a reason why that
might change again. And can you just explain whether there is any need to test the values
of the cruise ships in light of what's going on COVID-19? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Euan Sutherland
Great, thanks Ed. I'll ask James to pick up the answer on goodwill. But just on the strategy
I guess that the top line thoughts on that is that we are not being distracted by the current
COVID situation in delivering and thinking through the strategic reset of the business. We
see that there is a core of our business, linked around a very attractive core consumer
group that makes sense across the balanced oﬀer of Travel and Cruise and the wider
Insurance business. And as we develop the plan there around driving a stronger brand,
more engaged membership, then we believe that there are some quite interesting
strategic plays that we can deliver. Within the core of the business though, the ﬁrst stage
for us is to get a far more eﬀective eﬃcient business, which is what we have underway
already and you've seen early examples of that with operating expenses reducing and a
refocusing on the three big strategic priorities of data, digital and brand, which is the ﬁrst
level and foundation level against building a stronger business across all business units.
As we go through the summer and into towards September, we will pick up and show you
where we believe the compelling element of Saga as a brand ﬁt, and how does that
should be consistently applied across all business units. I think there is some
inconsistency today in what you see across the oﬀer from Tour Operations to Cruise to
insurers. And I think as we align those then it gives us the opportunity to present a single
Saga proposition across not only those business units but potential new business units,
that's [ph]part of our core target market. As part of those foundation levels then, our focus
is on lowering our debt and clearly we've made some further inroads into that. And while
we have had to pull any further non-core disposals there is still opportunity for us to pick
up that mantle again when the wider level of upstead tops, but no, I think in total, we are
very clear that the strategic direction is about optimizing where we are today and driving
a core brand membership proposition for our core customers in the future. And as part of
that having a stronger Saga business at lower debt and more eﬃciency, are the ﬁrst
stages in that overall strategy. James, did you want to pick up the goodwill point.

Page 13 of 19



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-04-02

FINAL

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Yes, so on the goodwill write-down, I think, Ed ﬁrst question, does the recent share price
happen or could it have an inﬂuence on a further goodwill write-down, I think the answer
is no, not anything we can see right now. Clearly when we decided on the the ﬁnal
number here, that was done with a view that I really don't want to ever have to talk about
insurance goodwill on another conference call anytime soon or indeed ever. I think in
terms of the cruise ships, and I guess Travel goodwill, I mean we only have GBP60 million
of goodwill for the Travel business and when we tested that for impairment I actually
couldn't really see a scenario when we would be able to take a write-down there. So there
is, even if we allow for -- our sort of leave the worst case Coronavirus impact there will still
be quite a lot of headroom to the goodwill for the Travel business.

Bloomberg Transcript

And in terms of the cruise ship speciﬁcally, obviously what we are seeing is a one-time
impact. I mean I think it's interesting if you were to look at, you obviously apply our stress
test on proﬁts for this year. You would say, of course, that those are relative to our plan
assumptions. And the plan assumption is a very cash generative business. Clearly, it won't
be cash generative this year, but I think there is nothing that changes our view
fundamentally of the long-term and certainly even if demand was signiﬁcantly lower than
we had been anticipating before and EBITDA would not reach the GBP40 million level,
we wouldn't see at the moment the need to impact the value of the discovery, of course,
adventure is not even actually on our balance sheet right now. But even then we wouldn't
see a need to impair that obviously ahead of its delivery.
I think, I guess you asked another question about the capital position and raising equity.
And I guess I'll get -- I'll give you my view and I'm sure Euan will probably give his is as
well. I mean I think that there is no question of course that we do have a lot of leverage on
the balance sheet and I don't think there's any secret about that and I think we've also
been very clear, we, we need to reduce that. I think our view is that we need to do that
through self-help measures. And I think that was obviously one of the areas that has been
a high priority for me and for others in terms of setting up the -- some of the non-core
businesses. And I think we made, made some quite good progress there. And I think the
other factor here is, of course, the fact that it is a very cash generative business. So I think
really our starting point is making the most with what we got. And I think that in that
sense, managing through the situation at the moment and demonstrating that we can still
make good progress with our investors. But Euan, I'm sure you have a view on that as
well.

A - Euan Sutherland
Yes, I mean I would be in the same place James, as you know, this is a strong set of selfhelp measures. We're making good progress on those. I see no reason to change that
focus and I think we've beneﬁted from having very single-minded focus on a couple of
very big things in the last few months and we proved that Saga can deliver. And so I think
that we're in the same place. As the wider longer term situation moves on it's kind of
never say never, but it's, we have a clear focus of self help right now and we're making
good progress. So I think that still will be up.

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}
Page 14 of 19



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-04-02

Okay, that's great. Thank you.

A - Euan Sutherland
Thanks Ed.

FINAL

Operator
The next question on the line is from Abid Hussain from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead,
Abid.

Q - Abid Hussain

{BIO 20229932 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning.

A - Euan Sutherland
Good morning.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Abid Hussain

{BIO 20229932 <GO>}

Thank you for taking my questions. I really just have one question part I guess, and that's
on the travel business. I was wondering if you could give us a sense of the cash burn rate
for the Cruise business and the pool business separately. And then following on from that
how long do you think would it take for you to use up all your available liquidity and cash
resources before things start, use them all up. And are you basically, how long do you
think travel restrictions need to be in place before you use up all of your available cash
resources especially the second part of the question.

A - Euan Sutherland
Okay, thanks. I guess just in headline terms we think we're in a good position with cash.
And we've given what we think are pretty prudent and pretty cautious set of stress test
into the model that we put into the presentation deck. We don't believe that that is
actually what's going to happen but there is a high degree of uncertainty out there. And
clearly the overall decision for lifting any travel bans is out of our hands but I don't think
it's a cash issue per se and James would go into the detail on that and I think we've got
two parts to that which is further considerations. First is that there is a set of further
mitigations that we can take that we haven't taken yet. And we've also put into the stress
test a number of non-travel related elements so that we are super prudent in our thinking,
but James, you want to pick up the detail of the cash burn rate.

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Yes, I mean I think that, I mean I think that, I mean, Euan made an extremely important
point here, which is, it really isn't a question about running out of cash and I think that
there are a number of reasons for that. One is, because we do have a lot of cash. And
secondly, of course we do generate cash from the insurance business and of course, that
gives us a lot more ﬂexibility compared to a pure play travel company. And I guess the
third point is, if we were to look at the the tour ops business as well. I mean it operates on

Page 15 of 19



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-04-02

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

a ringed funds basis and we held cash equivalent to 80% of all of the advance receipts. So
I think the cash position is a good one, say we've taken the actions in drawing down on
the RCF which we think give us the cash ﬂexibility to operate through the, certainly in the
next six months.
Now I think in terms of your sort of the burn rate question, I think you can probably work it
out from some of the disclosures, which we've given you because we've given you the,
the delta in revenues. And then the sort of the drop-through rate and essentially that is
the proﬁt on the cash is essentially the same here, that we're not changing depreciation
rate or anything like that. Clearly as you have, if you have no revenues there are of course
some operating costs, the ships actually don't cost that much to run or just to keep them
ticking over but certainly would be a couple of million a month just to sort of keep the
lights on. The tour ops business probably has more in the way of a sort of overhead cost,
but of course, the longer the crisis goes on the more that you would think about taking
bigger actions. So I think that the in many ways it's not that we've got a sort of regular
cash outﬂow. Clearly, if you were taking a view that this business will not operate for nine
months, there are basically a range of things you would do, and of course, under no
circumstances would we allow one part of the business to become a sort of a tail wagging
the dog.
So I don't know if that answers your question. I mean I think fundamentally the issue for us
and of course what we have agreed with our banks is the maintenance of the debt
covenants and so it's not really a question of liquidity for us, it's more about ensuring that
we continue to comply with those covenants because providing we do, there'll be, as
we've got loads of liquidity and there is more liquidity available. And so for us, that's really
the question for us and of course, when we had the discussions with the banks over the
last few weeks of course, we look to ensure we have a level of headroom above our sort
of central scenarios that give us some downside protection in a range of diﬀerent
outcomes.

Q - Abid Hussain

{BIO 20229932 <GO>}

Okay, thanks, that's helpful.

A - Euan Sutherland
Thanks.

Operator
(Operator Instructions) We have a question from Penelope Fitzherbert from Guy Butler.
Please go ahead Penelope.

Q - Penelope Fitzherbert

{BIO 16415186 <GO>}

Thank you. Good morning.

A - Euan Sutherland
Page 16 of 19



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-04-02

Good morning.

Q - Penelope Fitzherbert

{BIO 16415186 <GO>}

FINAL

Could you just clarify with the second cruise ship which may be delayed, can you just
clarify when the payments will occur and how you sort of viewing managing that
transaction as the situation unfolds.

A - Euan Sutherland
Sure, we can do that. I'll ask James to jump in on the detail. We don't have conﬁrmation
that the second ship will be delayed. We're just taking a prudent position that that might
happen with the current prices impacting the airport for as being constructed but James
do you want to just outline the ﬂows of cash, which are quite important.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Yeah, so, so when we take delivery of the Adventure there is actually a small cash inﬂow to
the company and that's because essentially, the loan that we draw down from the banks is
slightly higher than the amount of money that we owe to Meyer Werft ship builders. And
that's to cover something called owner supply. And that's the basically the money that we
forecast ourselves for various elements of the ship build. So, actually when we, when we
complete on the Adventure there is and it's not very big but it's, it's a small cash inﬂow to
the business. Now we, we obviously won't, we won't take on those loans until we actually
have the ship. So at the moment we are assuming that the that we are assuming certainly
from a cash ﬂow purposes that the ship will be due for delivery on the date, but has
meant to due which I think is aﬀordable list and actually in terms of the cash ﬂow outﬂows
then there is no amounts due on the Spirit of Adventure loans until at the moment
(inaudible) either in interest or capital. Now obviously if the Adventure arrives late, then
we will not draw down on the loans. Obviously, we would look to draw down the loans at
the point of which we need to pay the money to Meyer Werft and we will obviously the
money ﬁrst on delivery of the ship. And then of course, essentially the funding will work in
the same way. So it would be, presumably six months after delivery of the ship we will
then have the ﬁrst cash outﬂows on the interest and the capital.
And one thing we have actually modeled, and just for our own internal purposes of
course in terms of our stress test is the impact of a delay on the Adventure on our own
numbers and it actually doesn't have that big an impact and the reason it doesn't have
that big an impact is because we assumed in our sort of central scenario some pretty low
load factors in October, November time anyway. So actually, at that point it becomes a
little bit marginal as to whether the ship is running or not.

Q - Penelope Fitzherbert

{BIO 16415186 <GO>}

Okay, thank you. So, basically, yes. If the ship is delayed it just pushes everything back
and there is no, there is no extra or it is no --

A - Euan Sutherland
No. that's right.
Page 17 of 19



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-04-02

Q - Penelope Fitzherbert

{BIO 16415186 <GO>}

Pulls if you like. Thank you.

FINAL

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

No, mean, I mean obviously we, we would need to, there is a little bit of, we've got a bit of
exposure around currency and things like that we'd need to manage. But I think that,
frankly, in the circumstances and we've had various discussions with the bank to
administer the ship lending, they are being wholly pragmatic in, in the circumstances. So I
think the main aim is to ensure that Adventure get delivered, the ﬁnancing works and
everything will continue as as we would expect.

Q - Penelope Fitzherbert

{BIO 16415186 <GO>}

All right. And just one more if I may, is what -- under what circumstances would you or the
other side, say look the ship can't come. I mean it's probably pretty much where by the
ﬁttings at this point, but is there any way that you could prevent that transaction
happening at a later stage.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Well, I don't think so. Because I mean, the ship is pretty (multiple speakers) as you
imagine, pretty well completed and in fact it actually had its ﬁrst ﬂoating out I think this
week or next week which is sort of more testing the engines and everything else. But, it is
a very long way towards completion and actually the head before this there was an
expectation that it was going to be delivered early and so I think that there's certainly no
sign the ship won't be completed. I mean is -- I mean, as a ship I actually the engineering
is largely done anyway, the bit that needs to be done until the cabin ﬁtting out. And of
course, we don't, we don't want to not arrive, we wanted to arrive (multiple speakers)
really good bookings for it and I think as we've mentioned in one of the slides, I think
when we look at the bookings for the period from September to January, we've still got a
booked rate on those ships of about 66% of target. We've given obviously that's still six
months away from, I mean that's Discovery and the Adventure together, but I don't think
there's a big diﬀerence between them. So at the moment, we've still got customers who
very much want to probably looking forward to getting on those cruises.

Q - Penelope Fitzherbert

{BIO 16415186 <GO>}

Great. Okay, I'll hand it back to --

A - Euan Sutherland
And the extra point to that is that, what has helped us in the summer, is that we were
planning to take the Sapphire out of service as of June anyway. So compared to our plan,
we were only planning to run one shift through this period where we've been locked out.
So it's helped us if you like with just one ship capacity through what is likely to be the
lockdown period from the government. But as James said, the next ship is on plan. We're
just being proportionary with our guidance.

Q - Penelope Fitzherbert

{BIO 16415186 <GO>}
Page 18 of 19



Company Name: Saga PLC
Company Ticker: SAGA LN Equity
Date: 2020-04-02

Okay, thank you.

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Thanks.

FINAL

Operator
(Operator Instructions) It appears we have no further questions, so I'll hand back to you,
Euan.

A - Euan Sutherland

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. And thank you for being part of the call today. If there are any other follow-up
question, James and I are around all day, happy to take a call with you. I hope you've seen
that we are strongly positioned and to manage through the current external environment,
and we're very pleased by the prospects for Saga. So thank you for being on the call and
look forward to catching up later. Thanks very much everyone.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 19 of 19

