Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2020-08-07

Q1 2021 Earnings Call

FINAL

Company Participants
Takayuki Yuasa, Executive Vice President, Group Chief Financial Officer, Representative
Director

Presentation
Takayuki Yuasa

{BIO 17941516 <GO>}

I am Yuasa, group CFO. Once again, thank you all very much for participating in our
conference call today despite your busy schedule. And as Mr.Ishiguro just mentioned,
conventionally, group CFO has not participated in earnings calls. But since we announced
our full year projections, I decided to join this conference call today. Let me now present
to you actual results as well as projections.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please turn to Page 3 of the presentation material. First, top line results. During the first
quarter, on the current -- on the currency-neutral basis, net premiums written increased by
8.3% year-on-year and life insurance premiums declined by 3.8% year-on-year, both of
which were affected by COVID-19. And excluding the impact of the coronavirus, we
realized steady growth in both domestic and international business.
Next, please turn to Page 4. This is the statutory consolidated net income in the first
quarter, mainly due to the impact of COVID-19 by JPY 29.3 billion, net income declined by
JPY 13.4 billion over the year to JPY 99.2 billion. Excluding the impact of COVID-19, despite
the following net investment profit, which were expected from the beginning of the year
in the international business, thanks to a decrease in large and medium-sized losses in
TMNF as well as top line growth, net income increased by JPY 15.9 billion from a year ago.
Next, please go to Page 5. Here's adjusted net income, which is calculated by subtracting
the impact of cat loss reserve and goodwill, amongst others, from the statutory net
income that I just touched upon. Adjusted net income decreased by JPY 6.6 billion to JPY
141 billion. This is also impacted by COVID-19. And excluding the impact, adjusted net
income increased by JPY 22.2 billion from a year ago, demonstrating a steady
enhancement of our earnings capabilities.
I will now discuss FY '20 full year projections. Please proceed to Page 18. Our full year
projections were not available since it was difficult to make a reasonable calculation as of
May. But we decided to disclose our projections today because: one, while situations are
still quite mixed in different countries in the world, economic activities are now gradually
resuming; and second, in the international insurance business that is mainly impacted by
COVID-19, first 6 months have passed and we now have visibility into full year
performance. Back in May, we projected our underlying adjusted net income of JPY 410

Page 1 of 3



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2020-08-07

FINAL

billion on the pre COVID-19 basis. And this time, we are projecting the net income of JPY
310 billion, subtracting JPY 100 billion as the impact of COVID-19.
Please go to Page 19 for impacts of COVID-19. In May, we explained the impact on
underwriting profit for the full year fiscal 2020 to be JPY 30 billion to JPY 40 billion. This
was based on a scenario where the situation in and around May will continue until the end
of June, after which economic activities will recover towards the end of the year. This
time, we estimate the full year impact to be negative JPY 52 billion, mainly coming from
event cancellation and business interruption that explicitly cover communicable diseases,
minus JPY 35 billion, which is in line with our original forecast to be JPY 30 billion to JPY
40 billion. In addition to this, a total of JPY 17 billion in additional impact is factored in to
our new forecast by including: one, impact of COVID-19 on premiums written in April to
June period; and two, impact of non-damage BI that are emerging from litigations
overseas regarding coverage, among others.

Bloomberg Transcript

This type of BI, we believe, is not necessarily what we should be paying for. And
therefore, we will assert what we should be asserting. However, having said that, we
decided to factor it in as conservative estimate. While most up-to-date situation in the
field has been taken into account as our best estimate, the possibility of second and third
waves of COVID-19 and the extent of economic recovery is quite unpredictable. However,
even under such circumstances, the company's losses will not be doubled as explained in
May. BI and workers' compensation in the United States, we think, is currently moving in a
well-balanced favorable direction, although there are -- there remains some areas of lack
of clarity in politics and litigation. We will continue to keep a close eye on the
development.
Next is investment. Full year impact is estimated at JPY 48 billion. In May, we showed first
quarter results overseas to be minus JPY 32 billion. During Q&A, by way of comparing
default losses from credit risk investment during the global financial crisis, we explained
the possibility of an additional loss of JPY 30 billion to JPY 40 billion. Our new estimate
reflects best estimates of investment units in and outside of Japan based on most of
today's situation. This breaks down into minus JPY 15 billion impact in income, such as
decline in interest rate and dividend income and minus JPY 33 billion impact in capital,
such as default losses of credit risk assets, such as municipal bonds, losses on sales or
valuation of stocks.
We often receive questions of CLO or CRE loans. But we have almost no impairment
losses as of end of June. If however we see double dip or triple dip, we could be affected
in the short term. We will continue to keep close watch. As explained, the company will be
impacted by COVID-19 to a certain extent, especially overseas. However, it will be shortlived and will be an earnings event. Under such a situation, the company is working on a
corporate strategy in a -- with COVID-19 and after COVID-19 world.
For example, how are we to capture opportunities of a hardening market by leveraging
our risk selection capabilities or how to deal with M&A pipeline. Deliberation is ongoing in
order to ensure ourselves to achieve our goal of adjusted net income of JPY 500 billion
and more than 12% in adjusted ROE. By increasing our stability and profitability over the

Page 2 of 3



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2020-08-07

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

medium and long term, we intend to respond to the expectations of our shareholders.
Your continued support and understanding is greatly appreciated. That is all from me.

Page 3 of 3

