Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

Y 2019 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Christian Mumenthaler, Chief Executive Officer
Edi Schmid, Group Chief Underwriting Officer
John R. Dacey, Chief Financial Officer
Philippe Brahin, Head Investor Relations and Head Governmental Affairs & Sustainability

Other Participants
Andrew Ritchie , Analyst
Edward Morris , Analyst
Emanuele Musio, Analyst
Iain Pearce , Analyst
Ivan Bokhmat, Analyst
Jonny Urwin, Analyst
Kamran Hossain, Analyst
Michael Haid, Analyst
Paris Hadjilantonis, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Sami Taipalus , Analyst
Vikram Gandhi, Analyst
Vinit Malhotra, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Good morning, or good afternoon. Welcome to Swiss Re Annual Results 2019 Conference
Call. Please note that today's conference call is being recorded. At this time, I would like
to turn the conference over to Christian Mumenthaler, Group CEO. Please go ahead, sir.

Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

(technical difficulty) Q&A call I'm here with John Dacey our Group CFO, Edi Schmid, our
Group Chief Underwriting Officer, and Philippe Brahin, our Head of Investor Relations.
Allow me to make some comments on the results we published today before we take
your questions.
There are several drivers of the Swiss Re Group 2019 Annual Results. First, we saw
elevated Nat Cat claims of multiple large and medium sized events for instance, typhoons
Hagibis and Faxai in Japan, Hurricane Dorian in the Bahamas, and several events in
Page 1 of 23



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

Australia. Swiss Re has a strong presence in all of these regions explaining why the impact
was large. However, we continue to see these as attractive markets, and they remained
profitable for Swiss Re over the cycle.
Second, we took decisive actions throughout the year to address the performance of
Corporate Solutions. We increased claims reserves in the first half and implemented
further strengthening in the second half as we experienced a pronounced increase in US
casualty claims. We adjusted the initial loss picks for 2019, conducted significant portfolio
pruning, reduced expenses and added reinsurance protection. 2019 was a pivotal year for
that business unit. Under a new management team.
These actions restore a stable foundation for this business. We are optimistic about
Corporate Solution's return to underwriting profitability by 2021. Third, the US casualty
trends on which we commented in our investors day have deteriorated. We proactively
responded by adding to prior year reserves and increasing initial loss picks in P&C. As
such we maintain our overall reserve adequacy and have reduced the risk of further
reserve strengthening in the face of future uncertainty.

Bloomberg Transcript

Fourth, moving on to the Life business, Life & Health Re continues to deliver strong and
stable results with an ROE on the top end of our target range. Fifth, in Life Capital we
executed on one of our key strategic objectives by agreeing to sell ReAssure to Phoenix
at an attractive valuation. This transaction is expected to improve the Group's return and
capital profile going forward. Sixth and finally, we are very happy to report an excellent
result for Asset Management, including the realization of value with the divestment of our
stake in SulAmerica.
Looking forward to 2020 we're very pleased with the outcome of the 1/1 renewals. We
have reduced our exposure to US Casualty new business at the last round of renewals.
The premiums written in this line were down 2%, while we pursue our growth strategy Nat
Cat supported by price improvements. Our overall nominal price increases of 5%
compensate for the impact of lower interest rates and higher loss assumptions.
We expect to see an improved combined ratio for 2020 of 97% supported by further
price improvements in upcoming renewals. For Corporate Solutions price increase of 14%
were achieved in January 2020 together with the ongoing portfolio pruning and cost
savings this supports expected improvements in the combined ratio of around 105% for
2020 while the combined ratio target for 2021 remains at 98%.
To conclude my remarks let me highlight the set of attractive capital management actions
which we will propose to the upcoming AGM; a 5% increase in the regular dividend to
$5.90 per share and an up to $1 billion share buyback program.
With that I'll hand over to Philippe to guide us through the Q&A.

Questions And Answers
Page 2 of 23



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Christian, and good day to all of you also from my side. As usual, before we
start the Q&A, I would like to remind you please restrict yourselves to two questions each
and register again if you have follow-up questions. With that, operator, could we please
take the first question.

Operator
The first question comes from Kamran Hossain from RBC. Please go ahead.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Hi, thanks for taking my questions. The first one is just on the ReAssure deal, could you
maybe talk about your thinking around proceeds from the deal. I guess you know closing
the middle of this year, you will get some cash. You will have the stake. Could you maybe
talk about kind of plans for that, or it is the, I guess the strengthening and casualty plus
kind of high cat kind of consume some of that? And would you like to repatriate with
similarly sustainable solid cash flows?
And the second question is just on the reserving charge at what point did you kind of think
we need to address this some more because the impression that I took away from the
Investor Day in, towards the end of November with firstly that maybe things were fairly
under control. So just a little bit more color around that. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Thanks, Kamran,so maybe John, for the first one, Edi for the second.

A - John R. Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Sure. Excuse me, this is John Dacey, on the ReAssure you're right, we get a mix of cash.
We expect GBP1.2 billion plus shares in Phoenix coming through when the transaction
closes. That transaction is obviously subject to regulatory approvals. But the good news is
that Phoenix has been able to raise some funding for the deal as well as get the
shareholder vote last week. When this comes in the middle of the summer we'll evaluate
where we go with the funds.
But I think it'd be premature to suggest what they will be used for. We continue to look for
opportunities to continue to write profitable business in our reinsurance book in particular.
And in addition to that, I think it's important to note that the impact on the SST ratio of this
deal will not be included in the January one calculation that we publish next month with
the annual report, but will only flow through when we close it.
So the capital benefits will show up on closing not before.

A - Edi Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

Thanks for the second question regarding the reserve strengthening. And as we point
out, this is mainly around US casualty and in particularly US liability. And we spent a lot of
Page 3 of 23



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

time already back at the Investor's day. What really happens towards the end of last year
that we saw a significantly more pronounced severity and frequency of large claims out of
US liability, and also what you have to picture that in Q4 is the time when the reserving
extras [ph] is actually go through the what we call our priority loss ratios, so the initial loss
picks that are an important input into setting the IBNR.
So they went through that again with the underwriters and concluded with all the loss
trends we see and all the heightened environment around toward social inflation, it was
prudent to also go back and increased initial loss picks for the very green underwriting
years like '18 and '19. I'd also add that will be concluded out of this feedback loop that it's
also prudent to strengthen the loss ratios we use for that business going forward.
That's also why you actually see that the price improvement of 5% nominal was than
compensated by 1.5% increase in loss pick and the rest through rate increases. So it really
was a combination of much more pronounced loss frequency and severity out of US
liability and the still elevated social, environment plus then the time of going through this
initial loss pick reviews where we felt prudent to bring the initial loss ratios to an adequate
level.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

All right thanks Kamran for your question. Can we have the next question please.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
The next question comes from Andrew Ritchie from Autonomous. Please go ahead.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Hi, there. First thing first, the 97% combined ratio, you talked about for P&C Re normalized
ratio, can you just clarify the assumptions within that, first of all, what is the assumed cat
budget for 2020 given the growth in cat exposure. And secondly, I'm assuming there is no
expected change you've uplifted the current year picks for Casualty exposures in the
2019 assuming -- you're just assuming they hold their within the 97% as in pricing won't
overcome them. You can have the whole, the current year loss picks up at the elevated
level for Casualty.
Second question, (inaudible) kind of the question, I just wanted to clarify has the issue,
now widened out beyond LCR, large corporate risks. I mean large corporate risks are kind
of where you encouraged us to focus as being the kind of main issue in November. Is that
not the case is a much broader issue. Thanks.

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks. Andrew for these two questions, and first is around the 97% combined ratio
estimate for this year, which is down from 98% we estimated last year. Actually, as you
know, last year we were close to this 98% on a normalized basis. So the further
improvements comes from three factors, one is price improvement, but obviously the
nominal price improvements again need to be compensated by the increases in loss pick.
Page 4 of 23



FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

So last year we had price increases of something like 1% but with the loss pick we now use
for '19 going back some of that is lost. So it's not that much earnings through into this year.
In the 1/1 renewals we have seen this 5% nominal increase. Again some of that is
compensated by the higher loss picks but then we also have 3.5% which is nominal, but
which we need to compensate for the lower interest rates. And this will also go down
ultimately to the combined ratio. But again, this will only 30% [ph] in this year and also we
have not assumed at the 3.5% effect all the business we write this year. So we factor it in
we get to about 0.6% improvement just through price improvement. And then the other
factor, which we also pointed out last year, that's scale impact.
So we wrote significantly more business in '19 at flat expenses and quite a bit of that turns
into 2020 and again with more growth, so that explains another improvement in the
combined ratio estimate. And then there's also a bit of uplift in the combined ratio
outlook from the mix in the business, last year, and again this year. We start to shape the
portfolio quite a bit more into the short tail parts which also add. So these three factors
together explain the 97.1% improvement versus last year.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the second question is where do we see this elevated social inflation impact in US
casualty. I would still say this is much more pronounced in the larger corporate space. You
can also narrow it down to certain products in the liability space. It's mainly Affecting lead
umbrella excess and surplus. So it's really the products that pickup, the stability of the
losses, and this is large verdict in the tort [ph] environment, that go into these products
line. So that's still is the space where we see this impact most pronounced.
And really the SME segments also, if you look at our different Reinsurance clients it's
mainly affecting those catalysts that drive these large risks, that drive the umbrella, that
drive the excess liability, the more regional clients writing the smaller risks, the SME clients.
There we actually see the performance quite in line with expectations.
So it's not purely only the largest companies, but it's really, those that are regarded as
deep pockets. And it's also these products like the pickup, the securities or the excess NT
[ph] umbrella. And just to give another example we call it liability but these umbrella and
excess they also picked up the commercial motor claim. So you can also have very large
verdicts if there's a trucking accident. And then the excess claim goes again into the
umbrella, there's pick up under the liability line of business, even though the underlying
business is commercial motor. So still we think this is a big issue in the market.
I think we are a bit at an important juncture. You see a lot of improvement in the original
markets carriers we use the line say deploy a umbrella in excess. There is significant
increase prices but on the other hand, you still have the elevated social environment
towards environment. So these we will monitor very carefully in 2020.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Maybe one word on the budget 2020, on cat, nat cat.

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}
Page 5 of 23



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

The cat budget, so the updated number as usual we only provide of the Q1. So last year,
the budget, as you call it is was $1.6 billion. We more pronounced the impacts, which is
then adjusted for reinstatements and profit commissions, so on so forth. So we clearly
think it's going to be again a bit higher because we wrote more nat cat business. There
was again some model adjustments, which reflect the trends we see in the business and
like in Japan where we expect significant rate improvements we adjusted the model.
So the budget will be a bit higher, but it's too early to give a final, number.

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay, thanks Philippe.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Thanks Andrew, can we have the next question please.

Operator
The next question comes from Vikram Gandhi from Societe Generale. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Vikram Gandhi

{BIO 18019785 <GO>}

Hi, good afternoon, everybody. It's Vikram, SocGen. I got two questions. Firstly, I just
wanted to go back on the massive reserves review exercise for CorSo where the
conclusion was that the reinsurance reserves were adequate. And then the comments at
the Investors Day in November, where I thought the message was, okay we are aware of
these issues. And since we have a reasonably large exposure to US Casualty we are
flagging it, but we are on top of it.
Now I hear your comments regarding the previous questions, but based on what we see
today, wouldn't it be an over simplification to say that the loss cost trends, have
significantly accelerated just towards the end of November, December and the actions
that the Group has taken are simply a reflection of that. And that's question one.
And secondly perhaps somewhat related to the first is the level of reserving and the
whole debate about US GAAP versus IFRS, and consequently, the best estimate versus
the best estimate, plus a margin. My question really is since the best estimate is a range
and not a point, what really stops the Group from being conservative by reserving at the
top end of that range, because by design the long lines [ph] can really spring nasty
surprise. So that's all from my side.

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Thanks, to you, Edi? So on the first one which along the same lines as the previous
question, so at in Investors Day, we clearly pointed out that reserves are adequate at an
overall basis, but we also highlighted that if you look more specifically into this US liability
space with underlying products as I explained in the earlier questions around umbrella
excess liability that was a significant, let's say focus area of course over the last few years
Page 6 of 23



FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

where and also a lot of the reserve strengthening happens. But also these were the lines,
then obviously where CorSo decided that they would put highest on the pruning list and
get out of these lines. Some of these exposures also are in the reinsurance business.
There obviously it's part of a much broader portfolio with all the lines in the US and in the
global casualty portfolio but already at Investors Day we pointed out in the US liability
space, there is uncertainty. And as I explained in the last question there was clearly a much
more pronounced reporting of large losses out of the segments. I just pointed out, plus
and going back to the initial loss picks for the green arm writing [ph] in '18 and '19 and we
really felt it is prudent to then increase those to reflect these later strengths and also
project that some of these elevated inflation will prevail for a bit longer in the reserving,
but also in the writing of the new business to really be on top of these issues. We are now
back at the level in the reserve range is similar to before, which gives us confidence that
we are at the right place. But clearly this US environment, as I described before, remains
quite uncertain. So we need to keep watching this space very, very carefully. And maybe
on the second one, John, you want to comment on IFRS versus US GAAP estimate.

A - John R. Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Vikram, my view reinforced by our external auditors is that they expect our reserving to
reflect where we think ultimate losses are going to be. Undoubtedly, there is probably a
little bit of flexibility around that -- this with a book as big as ours, we can't pretend that
there is absolute precision in this. I think your question came -- was aimed more at why
don't we hold more reserves than less.
And the conversations I've had with our auditors, as well as the policies of the group over
quite some time have been an attempt to get to where we think is the right number, not
a right number plus a buffer. And so hanging those buffers is not something, which we do
today, we're likely to do tomorrow. We do our calculation and that takes us into the
percentage ranges that you've seen us talk about in the past and as Edi said, we remain
comfortable that we're in pretty good shape here especially after the actions taken in the
fourth quarter.
And I understand your frustration given where we were on Investors Day. We've got some
of it too, but I can reiterate Edi's point that there was new information that came into us
on actual claims and course so on notifications and related claims through our reinsurance
book that showed up at the end of the year before we finalized our numbers at the end
of January, and we were compelled to use the latest information we had to make those
adjustments. It's frustrating, but that's what we saw. I don't think there is any particular
reason for it other than the process Edi mentioned on the calculations for the APLRs. You
should expect that every year end we'll continue to do that, but in terms of what the
notifications were I don't think people have been holding back or we've been ignoring
anything along the way.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

All right thanks Vikram for your question. Can we take the next question please?

Operator
Page 7 of 23



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

The next question comes from Edward Morris from JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

Hi, thank you. Two questions please. So first is coming again back to this topic of US
casualty, I mean you're talking about doing this on a proactive basis and you mentioned
that there is a reduced risk of further additions being necessary in the future. On the
other hand, it seems that it's a reactive approach to something that you've seen in
November and December. So I'm just trying to understand, are you now feeling more
confident about the level of reserves for the US liability book than you were in November,
I think you talked about being at the 50% confidence level for the US liability book, then.
Are we are in a better position now than we were then.
The second question is really just around corporate solutions. I mean this is the third year
now where we've had very significant negative ROE, the ROE for this year is actually
flattered dramatically by the fact that a lot of the losses were passed up to the P&C Re
business. I mean, it seems that this business is now effectively depleted all of the equity
that was in it in 2017, and we are aiming to get back to an ROE of 10% to 15% in two years'
time. The risk reward around that just feels very very bad. So just can you -- does this
cause you to again, think about the long-term plan for corporate solutions. Thank you.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

So maybe Edi and then Christian.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Edi Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

Yeah, so on the first one, again around US casualty and the reserve strengthening in Q4,
active I really say it is in line with what which we described as the best estimate approach.
So at any point in time, we just want to make sure we reflect all the new evidence we
have and also factoring the trends we see in the business and in Q4, we saw this elevated
claims and we went back also to adjust the very green underwriting years where still a lot
is not based on reported for pure IBNR and proactive means already at that early point in
time increase our priority loss ratio and initial loss pick to make sure that the new evidence
and the trends we see are fully reflected. As I pointed out and John reiterated we are
now back in the same range, around the best estimates. So we feel comfortable. But it's
fair to say these US liability tort environment is still uncertain, how this is going to continue.
This is really hard to predict it in our assumption for reserve setting and also for the
costing into 2020 we assumed this increased severity is going to prevail for a bit longer.
We see the first signs of let's say some of the charges will override some of these really
high verdict batch orders that is coming, some transparency requirements around
litigation funding.
So hopefully, it's going to peak soon, but we think it's going to get a bit worse which we
factor in, but on the other hand as I explained earlier. We also need to understand what's
happening in the underline insurance market. So the significant cuts off limits provided for
liability risk cost to significant rate improvements so factoring all of this together which we
tried to estimate as best as possible, but still there remains some uncertainty, but we are
now back at the reserve level where we feel confident that it is under control.

Page 8 of 23



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Yeah, I'll take the second question, obviously you guys obviously we see the same figure
that you see and they're very frustrating. So no, very fair challenge and we all ask
ourselves the same question. Now we are where we are and for any option in the future
we anyway, need to clean up, do all the clean-up work, bring it back to profitability. The
fact that we'll be able to do that I think is very plausible. If you look historically, this
business has been very profitable is very, very cyclical business as we know, has been very
profitable in the past.
It also had some horrible phases. Just think about the reserves alone that were part of
reinsurance. When CorSo separated in 2012 they produced more than 1 billion of profits
during that piece of time. So they did have indefinitely some very good years. But clearly
now it has hit a very hard place. So our view is anyway. We need to fix it. And then the
question is can we transform it into something that is interesting, will be different, as
Andreas has shown in the Investor half year.

Bloomberg Transcript

The idea is not to become a huge player and I mean the old trajectory definitely will not
come back. The question is can it become something smaller, more specialized, as I said,
we de-commoditized the business is one of the key elements. So in which sub lines do we
have any competitive advantage. There are some where we have some where we have
demonstrated good tools and a good sense of where the price are and some others not.
So don't think we just fix it and then go back to the old one. I think that we focus on fixing
it and then see what else can we do with it, and can it be transformed, is something that
makes long-term sense in the Swiss Re Group.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

All right, thanks, Ed for your question. Can we take the next question please.

Operator
The next question comes from Jonny Urwin from UBS. Please go ahead.

Q - Jonny Urwin

{BIO 17445508 <GO>}

Hi, there. Thanks for taking my question. It's just one really and it is a follow-up on the
casualty, but I think we need you guys to be a bit more explicit around the US liability piece
and where you are you versus best estimate. So would you say at the Investor Day you
were at the 50% on the US liability piece, but the broader book within 60 to 80. So please
can you update us on that US liability piece in particular. I mean I would think given, this is a
large reserve charge that would have improved, but please could you confirm that.
And then secondly, I appreciate what you're saying about reserving and it's consistent
with your philosophies reserve a best estimate no buffers, but I mean has this experience
in P&C Re and CorSo led you to think about questioning that. I mean should you hold
buffers, your peers do and I'd just be interested to get your color there? Thank you.

Page 9 of 23



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

I guess, again I take the first one around the US casualty and more specifically around US
liability. So it was the reserve strengthening. What we said before, we are back in at the
same level in the reserve range as we were before. So casualty overall, we are very
comfortable. US liability we strengthened but still, I would say, as mentioned before, there
is uncertainty around US liability. We're comfortable that this is our best estimate reflecting
all the trends, all the losses we have seen, loss factoring in is also to expect to become
aggressive tort environment. So around US liability that is still more uncertainty than in the
overall reserve base. So that's how I would put it, and on the buffers I think John maybe
take that one.

A - John R. Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Jonny, look, I mean. Yes, would I'd like to have cookie jars that I can access at will, the
answer is yes. Would that make calls like this one a little easier. I would assume so. But the
fact of the matter is that that's not going to happen at Swiss Re in the foreseeable future.
And so I think, where our focus is and where our focus should be is actually on the upfront
underwriting and what you've heard, Edi talk about is aggressively adapting the pricing
and the costing frameworks to this new reality and being sure that we're faster not slower
in getting those prices in place as we think we have, as we go into 2020 so that any new
business we bring on to the books is in fact going to be profitable and we don't have to
worry about reserve deficiencies on a going forward basis. So that's where the focus of
the group is and I'm confident that there is enough urgency and focus on this, in addition
to frankly some new people in some important roles in CorSo in particular to be able to
deliver.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Thanks Jonny for your questions. Can we have next question please?

Operator
The next question comes from Sami Taipalus from Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.

Q - Sami Taipalus

{BIO 17452234 <GO>}

Yeah, hi, good afternoon, everyone. So my first question is just on the rating agency
perspective of financial strength. Could you just maybe provide an update on your level of
comfort on rating agency capital and rating agency debt leverage? Then, my second
question is just on claims but not given a cash out [ph] at this time. Could you just provide
a view of how you see the Australia wildfires. I guess we had some in last year, but also
how it's going on now and also potential impact from the Coronavirus. Thank you.

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Hey, John, the rating agency.

A - John R. Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Page 10 of 23



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

Yeah, sure. So on rating agencies, we're very comfortable where we stand with S&P,
Moody's, and you're probably aware AM Best. We use Fitch or have used Fitch with
respect to the ReAssure business. There is no reason to think that there is any
adjustments or changes here. We've not disclosed in recent years, the S&P Capital. But it
remains above the current rating, and I can say it's still remains above the current rating.
I think they like others will be happier when we're -- our actual results meet our financial
targets I expect them to be interested in seeing how our plans are for delivering that, but
again with a 97% combined ratio in P&C Re with our Life & Health franchise continuing to
deliver and with our investment risk contained but delivering strong results in '19, sitting on
$5 billion of unrealized gains at the year-end I think we're in just fine shape.

Bloomberg Transcript

With respect to Australian wildfires maybe let me take a first shot. The fires that we saw
started in December continued into January. A number of the reinsurance covers in place
actually had us springing back most of the damage that was done into the 2019 calendar
year. And so I think we've indicated, we've taken a charge in 2019 on the wildfires in
December or January of about $100 million, and we think that's for the fires, the majority
of -- the vast majority of the ultimate cost. Subsequent to those wildfires there have been
both hail storms and floods in Australia, which will be Q1 events in 2020 that we're
evaluating as we speak.
I think on Coronavirus at the moment, I suggest that this does not appear to be at a
significant insurance industry loss nor a significant loss for Swiss Re with the infections that
we've seen and the deaths that are related to this. There are clearly some very important
economic disruption as result of this. There will be industries and companies which are
going to be severely affected. Most of the covers, that might be relevant, that would
include some sort of business interruption typically are on property policies that require
physical damage. And so I don't exclude the possibility that some people might have
reached out for specific covers related to non-physical damage, at least in our portfolio. I
think we can say we don't see much. Edi, you might want to add?

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Yeah, that's a high level description. So again, a significant impact on global supply chain.
So some biz interruption, travel implications, but the vast majority of policies out there,
they require physical damage. There are some that include non-physical damage DI [ph],
but usually there then these communicable diseases are excluded. And there is a niche
market. I would describe it, where you get some coverage for communicable diseases,
long term damage is covered. It's really a niche.
Maybe on the life and health side, I would say at this point the bulk of the impact is within
China, and there the different products will respond differently, most of the impact we
see on the medical side. We only have a small book on the medical side. Most of our
business will be call critical illness. So it's cover for defined diseases and usually the
Coronavirus would not be a covered disease. But there may be some very severe
symptoms pneumonia where there is some coverage available, but it's also important to
put the event into context, still a lot of uncertainty of who is going to get on the control
soon.
Page 11 of 23



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

But the number of tests so far, while it's very sad event if you compare it to an annual
seasonal flu, causes about 300,000 to between 600,000 deaths on a global basis. So
they are close to 2,000 we have seen so far is not a huge event from a relative
perspective, but really hope seeing that's under control and yeah, let's see you at this
point, we don't see it as a huge impact to the insurance industry. Thanks, Sami for your
question. Can we take the next question please?

Operator
The next question comes from Ivan Bokhmat from Barclays. Please go ahead.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Ivan Good morning.

Q - Ivan Bokhmat

{BIO 15378004 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hello, good morning. I've got two questions please. The first one is on pricing across
CorSo and perhaps across the primary space in Casualty. I'm just wondering whether you
can make a statement on whether you see the price improvements that you've received
as covering the loss cost inflation or not and the social inflation? And then the second one
would be on the SST. I'm just wondering if you could, talk about the -- give a little more
color about the movement in SST since the previous reading of 241 you gave, and maybe
a little bit of an update on the benefit from the ReAssure transaction. We obviously we've
seen a strong performance of Phoenix share price but also rates have moved, perhaps
you could update us on that number. Thank you.

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Yeah. So maybe I'll go first regarding the pricing question in let's say the larger
commercial business, which is the CorSo space. So if you go back a little bit after the
hurricane losses in '17 and '18, we were all hoping for more significant price increases in
the commercial space, which had been very soft for a long time and it's only really
through '19 where we saw prices to start picking up much more significantly in the
property space there have been cat losses is probably most pronounced, but then
throughout 2019, there were much more dynamics going into particularly the US liability
space relating to what we discussed earlier, around the reserve strength and what we're
doing there.
So there is, I would say a lot of pain in the system around US liability. It's mainly in these
umbrella, excess commercial motor space I pointed out before, and there you see
significant actions by most of the larger carriers, so they have typically much lower limits
than before and they are charging significantly more premium.
Now you asked the important question whether these changes, lowering limits and
increase in prices are good enough to cover the increased level of losses, at this point,
we think in 2020 for these most exposed segments like umbrella and excess we are not
yet convinced that this is enough. When you look further down in other segments, in
property, other lines, excess auto, CorSo also has been growing at a much stronger rate
Page 12 of 23



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

adequacy. They are, I think we're getting in a better space, but clearly this momentum in
the commercial space around different lines has to continue for quite some time, but in
this really most exposed areas in US liability there we are not comfortable yet that what is
happening in the underlying market is good enough. It will take more and it will take also
some improvements in the tort environment. That's why we remain cautious, in 1/1 also in
our reinsurance book, premium on cat is 2% down.
If we look more closely into the US liability space where we now track the underlying limits
that we reinsure in all the treaties, we have reduced exposure to that most exposed
space by some 12%. So clearly we want to position us more cautious in that most exposed
space at this point in time.

A - John R. Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

And so you need to add that I mean it's may be obvious, but in CorSo we basically don't
write the business anymore. Right, the most exposed to social inflation. So when you say
we're not happy with the rates it's meaningless for our portfolio. It's just an observation
on what we see in the market.

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So the CorSo pruning actions are to a large extent around exactly those most exposed
segments, umbrella, excess liability and excess and surplus. But obviously we have some
of that in our reinsurance treaties and that's where we are also not exit but reduced
exposure significantly.

A - John R. Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

But for the absence out, of course we've shut down the teams, we're not writing new
business. We're managing the portfolio as it expires. The second question was respect to
the SST, again we'll provide you in March with the January estimate for SST -- or not
estimate, but the actual number that we've calculated. I can give you some directional
help. I think as you said, as on July 1 the number was 241. There's probably three factors
which would have a negative impact on that.
One was the capital deployment of the business, that we continue to go through in the
P&C Re business in particular. The second was the reduction of interest rates in the
second half of 2019. And the third we will include as of January 1 the capital actions that
we described yesterday or actually this morning, sorry, the Board approved yesterday for
the increased dividend and the authorization for the share buyback.
Instead going positively the tightening of credit spreads in investment markets and a debt
issuance that we did in the second half of the year, that's SST relevant will help that
number. So the combination I think would leave us, should leave you to believe that the
answer somewhere between the 241 which we identified and what we said this morning,
which is we remain above our target for 2020. Importantly, that number of January one
does not include the estimate that we will have for the ReAssure transaction. We've not
attempted to update that from the number we've previously provided, which is a 12
percentage points to the SST ratio.
Page 13 of 23



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

Eventually, we'll see where the Phoenix share price ultimately is impact that might have to
earnings during the course of the first six months of the year.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

FINAL

All right, thanks, Ivan, for your questions. Can we take the next question please?

Operator
The next question comes from Iain Pearce from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

Q - Iain Pearce

{BIO 19522835 <GO>}

Hi, a couple of questions from me. Firstly on CorSo combined ratio. So you sort of
outlined the steps that you see to get you to 105% next year, but you've maintained the
19% guidance for 2021. So I'm just wondering what you see is driving the improvement in
2021 with that 7 percentage point improvement in the combined ratio. And then also on
the CorSo PY date, not on Casualty this time, you've also flagged some negative
development in the property line in CorSo and specialty. So I'm just wondering if you could
give a bit more detail on what's caused that negative development. Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

On the CorSo combined ratio, so we are still very confident that we achieved the target
we set for 2021, which is the 98%. For this year we also gave an estimate of 105% which
reflects all these changes, we have been talking about. So there is various components
again, building on the decisive management actions started last year, so that the pruning
of the portfolio will help the significant rate increases we are achieving. I think we -- that
we showed across 2019 we achieved 12% rate increase. Of course the CorSo book just in
January rates were up some 14%.
So we clearly will maintain this significant rate improvement momentum. As we discussed
earlier on we have reviewed also these initial loss picks, so we increased that also in
CorSo to really make sure we are at a very solid footing for the business we write going
forward. So that explains why for example, the normalization ended up with a slightly
higher combined that we showed before. But with all the actions now in place and the
rates improvements we are confident we can achieve throughout 2020 and in 2021. We
will definitely get to the 98% and we have this 105% estimate out there for 2020.
And on the second one PYD [ph] for CorSo. So in the second half, it was also around
increase in initial loss picks. But you point not only to casualty, there were some also in
property, but that was really part of the detailed reserve we did in the first half year where
also some of the cases on the property side, some net cat claims, some large man-made
claims, we increased reserves on these specific cases. So it's not like a trend in the IBNR,
it was really that some of the individual cases had to be strengthened in terms of
individual reserves that explains the property and the specialty part. There was also one
larger credit loss, where we increased the case reserve.

Page 14 of 23



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks Iain for your question. Can we take the next question please?

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Operator
The next question comes from Paris Hadjilantonis from Exane BNP Paribas. Please go
ahead.

Q - Paris Hadjilantonis
Yes, hi from my side as well. Two questions, firstly on Japan, going into the renewals,
obviously you are a very large player. You have had to pay quite a lot of claims in Japan
over the past couple of years. And I was wondering if you can give us a bit of an update of
how your conversations with clients are going into the April renewals. And what kind of
changes have you made to your risk view. So to your view of risk for not cutting Japan.
Also, we also have quite a lot of detail out there from the press saying about middoubled teen [ph] increases in price. So if you can give us some detail on Japan that
would be interesting.
Secondly, I'm sorry to be going back to US casualty and liability, in your Investor Day you
were flagging about $8 billion of related reserves being impacted. Obviously that didn't
include CorSo reserves. Given the actions you've taken today can you give us some more
detail of where that takes your ultimate loss ratios, particularly for the year regarding book
debt. And if you can give us a bit more detail about which years exactly are impacted.
Previously, you were saying 2014, onwards, I think right now we are talking about some of
the more recent years. Thank you.

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

So let me take the first one around 1 of April, Japan renewals. Clearly, we have very high
expectations for price increases, given the experience over the last two years, Jebi the
year before and last year Hagibis and Faxai, significant losses and as you also correctly
pointed out, we have a significant market share in Japan. Over the cycle with Japanese
clients we have made good profits. So clearly we want to stay in that market, but we will
push a lot to get to now to price levels that are really commensurate with the risk. And so
we're talking about substantial amounts. I don't want to go too much into percentages,
but it is going to be very, very substantial to also compensate for clearly a more elevated
risk review, we now have in our models.
As we always do, based on the learnings from large Nat Cat events we review older loss
evidence and also take the latest scientific evidence and put then the view of risk, the risk
model on the latest scientific bases and there was a significant uplift in our view of risk.
We actually went out with these messages very early in conferences in the market to
really make it clear that the market overall is underestimating the Japanese typhoon and
flouting risk.
So that's what we now use as a costing basis, and on top of that, we really will go for a
substantial price increases in the Japanese market also then further into the mid-year. We
Page 15 of 23



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

still would expect loss affected programs and programs with significant US hurricane
exposure to achieve also significant rate increases. So further price momentum, which
then backs of our ambition to actually write more in the Nat Cat space, but of course we
need to achieve the appropriate rate increases first.
And on the second one US casualty, I was not quite clear where you're pointing towards. I
mean, yes, we have about $8 billion of reserves in Reinsurance that our US related, but
again as US liability in the broader basis, this is not, let's say, only this is broader than the
more exposed segments I pointed out before, so is the excess liability, the umbrella, and
that is written by the larger cedents and the larger carriers. That's a much more narrow
reserve base.
I think we quantified it back in our Investors Day as a much smaller number. That's really
more exposed for us, the $8 billion that also includes liability reserves with regional clients
where there is a lot of SME business. I would not call that exposed. And then obviously
there is the CorSo parts, where now we have the ADC in place, so that the reserves on
the CorSo side are now actually part of the reinsurance pool. But I cannot give you a
reserve number off top of my mind how big that we'll see.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah Paris on the 19th March, in few weeks we will publish our annual result with the annual
report out the loss triangles and we will have the breakdown, the detail, we'll have a call
and actually the actuarial reserve [ph] will be with us to go through these numbers, and
your question regarding US loss ratio, where are we and so forth. So it will come out in
next few weeks.
Thanks for your questions Paris. Can we have the next question please?

Operator
The next question comes from Vinit Malhotra from Mediobanca. Please go ahead.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Yes, thank you very much. Sir just one question from me, on the US casualty topic,
apologies, but just to clarify, you mentioned that the tort environment remains uncertain.
And you mentioned that the medium sized SME clients are coming in line with
expectations. I was just wondering if there any provisions you have taken for this
assumption to be tested later in the year. For example, what if the tort environment
trickles down to the medium size, is there a risk that you see as likely, or you see that we
will tackle it when we get to it. So that's my first question.
And second question is just back linked to CorSo, so the 105%, would you say that when
this presentation was made in summer last year, would you say that this trajectory is in line
with what you expected or the 105% or would you say that the US casualty trends et
cetera have led to some kind of change here, and you were expecting a bit better for
2020. Thank you.
Page 16 of 23



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

So the first one, once more around US casualty, or more specifically US liability, and maybe
I also make the comment that clearly this is an industry issue. Also if you look at the
findings of all the carriers in the US there was clearly significant reserve strengthening
around US liability for the last few years. Why it was not so much in the headline is that it
was to most extent compensated by favorable reserve development, mainly in workers'
comp.
So those carriers who also have significant workers' comp book they could compensate
these two. So it kind of netted out. Your question again around the protection how these
quite aggressive tort environment, social inflation is going to play out. Of course there is
uncertainty. As I pointed out before, there are some silver linings and you see some of
these very large verdicts by torts [ph] being overruled by charges. So it could peak. And
as I said before, it's more pronounced at the larger corporates. These are regarded by
the (inaudible) plaintiff bars as the deep pockets to go after. But also we have seen cases
where trucking accident -- still the plaintiff bars go after the trucking companies, may not
be Fortune 500 company. It also affects other corporates, but it as I said goes mainly into
these umbrella and excess coverage that really picked up severity of the losses.
Where we have not seen it is really in the SME portfolios of the regional clients. But that's
clearly a space, we need to watch very carefully and that's why I've explained before
there's a significant momentum in terms of rate increases and limit cuts. But this tort
environment is still an area of concern. And how these factors play against each other
means we need to track this very carefully. And at this point you're not comfortable in that
space. So that's why we keep reducing exposure. But the picture can change six months
from now, 12 months from now, we need to reassess.

A - Edi Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

But Vinit just maybe if I can add, I think the reserving actions we've taken are not limited
only to large corporate related risk. It's line of businesses where we are on either a
proportional or an excess of loss treaty and the reinsurance we've taken a look at the
underlying risks and made these pretty significant actions. Not only are unreserved and
but also pricing going forward. And so I think that's where we are.

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

John, maybe just to add -- maybe that's basic. But I think obviously US GAAP is a best
estimate philosophy through and through which means that the reserving, selling process
is a completely independent process overseen by the Chief Actuary and Edi and John and
I have nothing to say in that process. So we're receiver of the information and so the
actuaries try based on our information to have to get to the right answer, the plus or
minus of that, but it means that they can be on both sides. We cannot just start to book
things because we are afraid of something. There needs to be evidence, otherwise you
can't book anything.
But vice versa there is no way no temptation, nothing that top management can say let's
wait it out or let's see if things improve et cetera, et cetera. So what you get is basically

Page 17 of 23



FINAL

Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

when people look at evidence that's what they're seeing and they try to the change the
assumption accordingly and come to the right results. And that's -- it creates more
volatility, obviously. I understand the frustration, I'm part -- I'm frustrated myself
sometimes. But to a certain extent, it is a very honest way of looking at things and it
means you're typically at the forefront of things. But it means -- there is always risk but
you don't have buffers to avoid risk. I'll give Edi a break and try to do the second question,
myself and Edi will correct me if I get it wrong, but your question is, at the mid-year are we
seeing the trends we expected. I'd say we probably see a slight deviation but on two
dimension. So the first deviation is yes, we probably have a more negative view of
expected losses in the casualty book, especially but not only other places but that
fortunately has been balanced by a better than anticipated increase in the pricing, that
CorSo has been able to achieve. So both these have to work their way through the
portfolio, but net-net one of the reasons we're confident about the 98% is not because
we need 14% price increases for the rest of this year but rather because we've seen in
2019 an important price increase that will earn through in 2020 and we see in the
beginning of 2020 a continued momentum here. And everyone we talk to sees that or
expects that this is going to continue, that will be a wind at the back in getting us down to
the 98%.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

All right, thanks Vinit for your questions. Can we take the next question please?

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Your next question comes from Michael Haid from Commerzbank. Please go ahead.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Two questions, first, also I have to come back to
Paris question, Japan exposure to Nat Cat. When I add up the Jebi, Tirami [ph], Faxai and
Jebi's losses, I come to $2.4 billion. Your premiums over the past two years from Japan
are I don't know, $1.5 billion gross and maybe $1.3 billion, $1.4 billion net earned premium.
So it seems rather low now, you can say 2018 and 2019 were extraordinary, or you can say
2018 and 2019 were the new normal. So even if you achieve, say 10% or 20% price
increases it appears not sufficient, this would give you a net earned premiums of $800
million [ph] from Japan. So what are your thoughts on this.
And the 97% normalized combined ratio for 2010, are price expectations for April and July
renewals already included there. And second question on again on cost of the 105%
combined ratio is you achieved significant price increases, you mentioned just before is
98% for 2021, then the end of the story or should you aim for even lower combined ratio
for CorSo, after 2021.

A - Edi Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

So on your first one regarding Japan. So 10% or 20% is clearly not enough, the numbers
you mentioned here. So I don't want to give precise numbers, but we're clearly going
forward more significant price increases. The loss levels have been significant, as you did

Page 18 of 23



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

your calculation, correct, Jebi, Faxai and Hagibis. And as I explained before, we use these
evidence to update the nat cat model for Japan.
We will still reiterate, you cannot look at the nat cat business in one market over a few
years only. This needs to be looked over 10 - 20 years and there we clearly have made
very decent margins in the Japanese market. As also obviously always these questions
around is this a new normal. If you factor in climate change, and also this we started very
carefully. What we actually can see in Japan that at this point, we are all in the phase of
elevated natural frequency of Typhoon.
If you look at it over many decades there are also phases where we see a bit elevated
frequency or lower frequency. And the last few years and those in the future, we think we
are in that phase of an elevated frequency. You cannot link it directly to climate change,
but we clearly see a higher frequency. And then all the learnings from the losses we
factored into the model so clearly, we need to go for substantial price increases for this
business to become a sustainable. But it's important to look at it over, not just a few years.
It really needs to be seen in a much longer time period.

Bloomberg Transcript

And your second question was around the 97%, to what extent further price increases are
already factored in. So some are reflective. So what we achieved in 1/1, the 5% nominal
with older corrections, as we explained. Of course as protection stand for the forthcoming
renewals, we have not yet factored in the compensation for the year, lower interest rates.
Some of that we affected in but not all of it. But clearly, we'll push in Japan, but also in the
mid-years and as we explained earlier, on the casualty accounts to get further
compensated for the lower interest rates. So there's further upside. And some of that, we
already baked in. Let's see where we get to.

A - John R. Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Maybe I'll jump in again, back to the corporate solutions. I think it's a similar answer, which
is, we've been pleasantly surprised by the pricing increase that CorSo has been able to
achieve, also through January, we've been disappointed by the loss cost adjustments
we've had to make. Let's see where 2020 takes us. We expect to be able to achieve the
normalized 105%. If we have reason at that point in time, based on actual price increases
and actual loss experiences to make an adjustment to what the 2021 target looks like we'll
will do so. But for now I can just reiterate our strong confidence that we -- on the current
trajectory we will get down to 98%.

A - Edi Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

Maybe if I can jump in, right. I mean clearly the one increase from last year, we had, of
which only part has been in last year has been eaten up by these change in assumption in
APLRs we have put through. But if you think about January 14% increase. That's on the
lines we have kept. This is not the main lines touched by social inflation. So I think it's
extremely unlikely that this would be eaten up by claims inflation in one way or the other
because that's the remaining book of course.

Page 19 of 23



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

So I think that makes us quite sure that the momentum in the market, the talk, there's
obviously nobody talking about this is enough yet now. So there's continued momentum,
people think this is a multi-year movement. So I think all of that makes us quite confident
about the 98%. And to your question, I think we'll look where we go from there after that,
but historically, clearly they have been phases where it was much lower than 97%, right.

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Michael, thanks for your question. Can we take the next question please?

Operator
The next question comes from Emanuele Musio from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

Q - Emanuele Musio

{BIO 19781440 <GO>}

Hello. Hi, thanks for taking my question. I have one question on Corporate Solutions.
Could you please remind me the criteria underpinning the pruning in Corporate Solutions
and also your adjusted, your appetite to a different type of risk. For example, smaller or
more diversified risks, or is it purely based on the rate online appetite. And then lastly if
you can remind me where you are with the pruning process? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Edi Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

So on the CorSo pruning actions, I mean on the top, we have talked about it a lot already
is the US liability space. And so in umbrella in excess and in the E&S these are lines CorSo
is really exiting. And there is also other segments where they are significant improving. It's
in the marine cargo space and it's also in the general aviation, space and in agricultural. So
these are lines where we are either exiting or significantly proving. And then as the lines
as we explained earlier that CorSo has demonstrated to have the necessary inside data
to really differentiate and counteract in a good manner. So around property, engineering,
these are the lines there we really push for the price increase. Pruning we have achieved
about 25% of the plans in 2019 and until the end of 2021, we should have achieved about
90% of the pruning. Obviously it goes with the respective policy renewals. So that's the
speed we can go. And then the rest will happen in 2021. But we are well on track to
achieve this pruning which then also will go in line with some expense reductions on the
other side.
So we are very well on plan with this pruning actions but it is really in these lines of
business where we concluded CorSo has no action. It's just additional capacity to the
market. So there we execute these actions.

A - John R. Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Thanks, Emanuele for your question. Can we take the next question please.

Operator

Page 20 of 23



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

We have a follow-up question from Vikram Gandhi from Societe Generale. Please go
ahead.

FINAL

Q - Vikram Gandhi

{BIO 18019785 <GO>}

Hi, thank you for the opportunity. The first one is on the dividend increase, the 5%
dividend per share. I appreciate that's on a lower share count. So the impact on total
dividend out is not that material. But given the pending sale of ReAssure, which has been
a very healthy cash generator and bit of an underperformance from let's say P&C, Re and
CorSo not producing the desired results, how should we think about the dividend
trajectory going forward.
And the second is on the risk adjusted price quality, one element of the interest rate,
which is 3.5 percentage points, to me that seems to be too high given the way the
interest rates have moved. I mean of course it's come down, but 3.5 percentage point
impact that kind of offsets the price increase that just seems too high, maybe there is
something simple if I'm missing. But if you can just help clarify it would be helpful.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - John R. Dacey

{BIO 4437051 <GO>}

Yeah, so on the dividend, you're right. Vikram it's a 5% increase. We've bought back
approximately 3% of the shares with the 1 billion buyback. And so it will be appreciated by
those. The overall cost is not going up quite by 5%. The one observation is the
strengthening of the Swiss franc means that our payment of the dividends in Swiss franc is
a little more in those terms, then it would be -- had the US dollar Swiss franc a exchange
rate remained absolutely stable. The Board discussed the dividend increase yesterday
literally and is very comfortable with the underlying earnings and our ability to continue to
fund not only this year but future years in a stable way. You're right, the ReAssure book
was throwing off cash. We will be getting cash in at mid-year when the ReAssure
transaction closes, but as importantly the continuing ownership of the Phoenix shares will
provide us access to the Phoenix dividend which in recent history has been around 6%
paid out of management.
So we'll continue to book that as long as we own those shares. In the meantime, we
expect our Reinsurance business Life & Health, as well as P&C to do well and we expect
to Corporate Solutions to return to healthy profitability in 2021. So I think in any mid-term
plan, we're very comfortable with the dividend position.
On your second question regarding the impact of the interest rates. So the first is
important things when we -- on the right cost of business, we always look at it on an
economic basis which means the discounts, the future expected claims. With the increase
we see at this point in time and 3.5% across the portfolio is high, but I would point out that
the average duration of claims settlement in our typical P&C portfolio composition is
about six to seven years. So the average claim is discounted over six to seven years.
And then also a small let's say reduction in the interest rate curve over six seven years,
then you quickly to this 3.5% impact versus the upfront premium you charge then for
these risks. So it's mainly obviously in the longer-tail lines, in the casualty lines. But even on

Page 21 of 23



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

property has a small impact. We have two years of claims duration. So if you do that
calculation correctly the duration, it turns out to be 3.5% impact of the interest rate drops
we've seen towards the end of last year.

FINAL

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Thanks Vikram for your questions. Operator, do we have a final question. Another
question.

Operator
Your last question comes from Ivan Bokhmat from Barclays. Please go ahead.

Q - Ivan Bokhmat

{BIO 15378004 <GO>}

Hi, thank you very much. I've got a small follow-up please, one on CorSo, could you please
update us on what's the capital position of the business, whether you anticipate a need to
strengthen capital anymore. And secondly, it's on Life & Health, I mean in slide 46 in the
presentation it shows some reduction in EBIT for Life & Health Division's although if you
take away all the one-offs, there's is actually a 5% to 10% improvement.

Bloomberg Transcript

I was just wondering if you could give some thoughts around the sustainability of the Life
& Health business. And maybe some early indications for 2020. Like for example, in the
US, this flu season looks a bit worse and we're hearing about problems in Australia from
your peers. Thank you.

A - Edi Schmid

{BIO 18942809 <GO>}

Yeah. So maybe I'll do the second one first. There is no indications that we could provide
at this point in time with respect to the Life and Health on 2021. I think we got a broad
portfolio across two different regions and there shouldn't be -- at least I've not heard of
anything dramatic in any jurisdiction to date that would lead me to alert people.
I think the one big one-off in the 2019 accounts, which are on page 46 actually is referred
to in the last bullet point, we found ourselves in a curious situation where Life & Health Re
had written a series of treaties with Old Mutual, a number of years back. Old Mutual
renamed itself Quilter and ReAssure we announced I think in August of 2019 sold its back
book including the policies related to these reinsurance treaties to ReAssure.
That transaction actually closed with ReAssure in December 31 of this year and what it
made was these reinsurance treaties automatically became an intragroup transaction. So
it forced us in unusual moment to have to unlock a set of assumptions on liability side
marking to market those liabilities with existing interest rates at the year-end. The
adjustment was approximately a $300 million technical cost to reinsurance. We took the
view that as a business is being mark-to-market on both sides we should go ahead and
adjust the asset side as well. And so a similar amount of gains came through at the end of
the year to affect that match. That's one of the reasons why the health -- life and health
investment result looks as robust as it does.

Page 22 of 23



Company N ame: Swiss Re AG
Company Ticker: SREN SW Equity
Date: 2020-02-20

FINAL

But that's let's say, a technical correction to a problem that was -- came through as a
result of the Quilter transaction for ReAssure. Obviously if things go as planned, we will
not own ReAssure anymore in -- after the summer, but for these six months it's a in-house
transaction now.
Your first question was in respect of CorSo capital, we did recapitalized Corporate
Solutions at midyear, and that's also when we put the adverse development cover in
place with the Reinsurance team. The combination of those I think leads us to believe the
CorSo remains adequately capitalized to do the business, it needs to do the pruning of
the portfolio as the 65% which we expect to come through in 2020, means that the
demand for additional capital, at least on full-year basis is limited. And so I don't think
we've got any expectation that there is any immediate needs for recapitalization.

A - Christian Mumenthaler

{BIO 6479864 <GO>}

Australia Ivan, I think there was a question right, I mean just that you know we are
traditionally more long in the group life and not in the individual life, group life was it, I
think in 2013. We had a loss there, but we could recuperate that over the last few years,
because the market hardened a lot, now it's softening again and we have significantly
reduced our position. The current issues are now in the retail market, right. Individual life
disability and we're not a big player there. So it's not a huge thing for us.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Philippe Brahin

{BIO 19081619 <GO>}

Okay. Ivan. Thanks for your follow-up question. We've come to the end of our Q&A
session. So if you have any follow-up questions, please don't hesitate to reach out to the
members of the IR team. Thank you again for joining today. Operator. Back to you.

Operator
Thank you for your participation, ladies and gentlemen. You may now disconnect.
Goodbye.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 23 of 23

