Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2021-01-27

Q4 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Bob Qutub, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Keith McCue , SVP, Finance & Investor Relations
Kevin O'Donnell, President and Chief Executive Officer

Other Participants
Brian Meredith, Analyst
Elyse Greenspan, Analyst
Joshua Shanker, Analyst
Meyer Shields , Analyst
Michael Phillips , Analyst
Phil Stefano, Analyst
Ryan Tunis , Analyst
Yaron Kinar, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Operator
Thank you for standing by. And welcome to RenaissanceRe's Q4 and Year-End Earnings
Call.
I'd now like to hand the conference over to Keith McCue, Senior Vice President, Investor
Relations. Mr. McCue, please go ahead.

Keith McCue

{BIO 20595590 <GO>}

Good morning. Thank you for joining our fourth quarter and year-end financial results
conference call. Yesterday after the market close, we issued our quarterly release. If you
didn't receive a copy, please call me at 441-239-4830 and we'll make sure to provide you
with one. There will be an audio replay of the call available from about 2:00 PM Eastern
Time today through midnight on February 27. The replay can be accessed by dialing 855859-2056 US toll-free or 1-404-537-3406 internationally. The passcode you will need for
both numbers is 4277895. Today's call is also available through the Investor Information
section of www.renre.com. And will be archived on RenaissanceRe's website through
midnight on February 27, 2021.
Before we begin, I'm obliged to caution that today's discussion may contain forwardlooking statements and actual results may differ materially from those discussed.
Page 1 of 21



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2021-01-27

Additional information regarding the factors shaping these outcomes can be found in
RenaissanceRe's SEC filings, to which we direct you. With us to discuss today's results are
Kevin O'Donnell, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Qutub, Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer.

FINAL

I'd now like to turn the call over to Kevin. Kevin?

Kevin O'Donnell
Thanks, Keith. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining today's call. I wanted to
begin today by giving you a quick summary of what we accomplished at January 1 and
how 2021 is shaping up. First, I would like to thank everyone who supported last year's
capital raise. I made several promises then, which I can now definitively say were capped.
This January 1, was one of the most important renewals in our history and I'm very
pleased with the performance and the outcome we achieved.

Bloomberg Transcript

At January 1, we saw opportunities for profitable growth in both of our segments and
across our platforms, resulting in the full deployment into our underwriting portfolio of the
$1.1 billion raised last June. We also raised and deployed additional capital in our joint
venture business. As a result, in 2021, we expect to grow our net premiums written by
approximately $1 billion and believe that we have materially increased the profitability of
our underwriting book. Importantly, we expect to achieve these outcomes while keeping
our tail risk consistent with last year's on a percentage of equity basis and due to the
efficiency and diversity of our portfolio continuing to have ample dry powder to deploy
into new opportunities.
Looking back at 2020, at the beginning of the year, I told you that with the TMR
integration behind us, we were a more resilient company and a broader deeper partner
to our customers. In our business you learn to expect the unexpected, but I don't think any
of us envisioned the year would unfold in quite the way it did or just how critical our
resilience would proved to be. As the year progressed, we encountered a variety of
challenges. I am proud of how our employees responded rapidly and effectively to each
of these, enabling us to grow our business substantially and profitably.
At the end of each year, I'd like to review our performance by responding to two
questions. The first is how did we do financially and the second is have we executed our
strategy effectively. Starting with the first question, how did we do financially. In the year
impacted by the global COVID-19 pandemic and multiple weather-related catastrophic
losses, we grew book value per share by 15% and tangible book value per share plus
change in accumulated dividends by 18%. For the year, our return on equity was 11.7% and
our operating return on equity was 0.2%. Bob, will walk you through our financial results in
greater detail, but I believe we have done the hard work to recognize our losses early,
build a fortress balance sheet and enter 2021 financially and operationally stronger as a
company than we have ever been.
Moving to the second question, have we executed our strategy effectively. While our
strategy continues to evolve, it remains focused on serving our customers. At its core, this

Page 2 of 21



FINAL

Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2021-01-27

strategy is to employ our integrated system to match desirable risk with efficient capital.
While this may appear simple or even common sense, the difficulty lies in its long-term
consistent application in all market cycles. You have witnessed this consistency in our
execution over the years. As we have grown, we have broadened our access to risk
writing more lines of business on more platforms. We have also diversified our sources of
capital through various owned and joint venture balance sheets as well as equity, debt
and ILS markets. This has afforded us significant flexibility to react when the world
changes, which it did quite drastically in March.
As COVID- 19 started developing, our confidence in understanding our potential exposure
across all aspects of our business enables us to pivot our focus on the needs of our
customers and brokers. We were one of the first to raise capital with a highly successful
common equity offering. To be clear, this capital raise was exclusively offensive and as I
mentioned, has now been fully deployed into our underwriting portfolio. Consistent with
our message during the capital raise, we have deployed the capital through a
combination of two main activities; growing into an improving market and retaining more
risk.

Bloomberg Transcript

Starting with organic growth, we began planning for the January renewal early in the year
with focused and coordinated approach across the company. This allowed us to expand
our value proposition to our customers and brokers and in an evolving market providing a
clear message around appetite and tolerance. Our fortress balance sheet permitted us to
engage our customers early in the renewal cycle, understand their needs and have
productive conversations about how we could help solve their biggest problems.
Heading into the renewal, we expected retro and US property cat markets to provide us
with the greatest opportunities. While this was the case up until mid-December, ultimately
the market dynamics in retro and property cat reinsurance were not as strong as the
market initially expected. In part, I think this was because investment portfolios were
disconnected from the financial reality of COVID- 19 and the economic recession. The
resulting boost to book value is decreased relative reinsurance demand by giving many
companies the confidence to retain more risk. Supply was also elevated as new capital
entered the retro and property cat markets and increasing amounts of collateral were
released and available for underwriting.
Throughout the renewal however, both, casualty and specialty lines as well as property
E&S continue to experience extremely favorable pricing dynamics. In general, both
outperformed our expectations with increased rates as well as improved terms and
conditions. Because of our broad access to risk we will able to emphasis -- emphasize
growth into these areas. Several years ago we began initiating small positions on
desirable programs, which we used to build strong customer relationships over time. This
year as rates improved, we were positioned to grow on these programs, add more
profitable expected returns.
So, while the January 1 renewal may have been disappointing to those who approached it
in a transactional manner, our focus on superior customer relationships and building
efficient portfolios through risk allocation and sharing meant that we were once again able
to select the best business at the strongest returns. The second opportunity for
Page 3 of 21



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2021-01-27

FINAL

deploying capital was by retaining more risk. At January 1, we reduced the ceded
protection that we purchased as a percentage of our gross premium by several
percentage points. In line with retaining more risk, we increased our ownership in DaVinci
and Medici and now have $1 billion co-invested in various joint ventures, consistent with
our strategy of strong alignment with our partners.
As I mentioned already, the result of this diligent planning and strong execution is that we
now believe that we will grow net written premiums in 2021 by about $1 billion with an
increase in expected profit. I should caution you however, that these estimates were
derived from model predictions of future outcomes based on reasonable assumptions
and actual premiums may differ materially from those discussed. So, when I look back on
2020, I think we had a number of accomplishments, each of these would have been
impressive under normal conditions. They are even more so in the context of working
from home. In conclusion, I'm very pleased with the steps that we took to advance our
strategy during the year.
Finally, before I turn the call over to Bob, I would like to welcome Shannon Bender, as our
new General Counsel. Shannon joined us in Bermuda at the beginning of January and is a
strong addition to our leadership team. I'll provide more detailed update on the renewals
and our segments at the end of the call, but first, Bob, will discuss our financial
performance for the quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

Bob Qutub

{BIO 15269353 <GO>}

Thanks, Kevin and good morning, everyone. As Kevin discussed, both our fourth quarter
and year-end results were impacted by large weather events and COVID- 19. Despite this
above normal activity, we reported positive net income for the quarter and positive net
and operating income for the year. Today, I will divide my remarks between our fourth
quarter and year-end 2020 results. I'll first cover our consolidated performance and then
provide more detail on our three drivers of profit; underwriting income, fee income,
investment income.
Starting with our consolidated results and beginning with the fourth quarter where we
reported an annualized return on average common equity of 10.9%, benefiting from markto-market gains in our strategic investment and fixed income portfolios. Annualized
operating return on average common equity was negative 4.4%, primarily driven by
weather-related losses and the COVID-19 pandemic. We grew our book value per
common share by $3.33 or 2.5% and tangible book value per common share plus change
in accumulated dividends by $3.84 or 3%. Net income from the quarter was $190 million or
$3.74 per diluted common share.
We reported an operating loss of $77 million or $1.59 per diluted common share. This
excludes $268 million of net realized and unrealized gains on investments and $23 million
of net foreign exchange gains. This includes an operating result with a net negative
impact of $166 million from weather-related losses and $173 million from the COVID-19
pandemic. As a reminder, net negative impact is the impact on net income available to
common shareholders after taking into account our best estimate of net incurred losses

Page 4 of 21



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2021-01-27

FINAL

along with related adjustments for assumed and ceded reinstatement premiums, profit
commissions and redeemable non-controlling interests.
Now moving on to the full-year 2020 where we grew our book value per share by 14.9%
and tangible book value per share plus change in accumulated dividends by 17.9%. We
reported a return on average common equity of 11.7% and an operating return on average
common equity of 0.2%. Net income for the year was $732 million or $15.31 per diluted
common share and operating income was $15 million or $0.12 per diluted common share.
Included in this operating income was a net negative impact of $494 million from weatherrelated losses and $287 million from the COVID-19 pandemic.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'm now going to shift to our three drivers of profit, starting with underwriting income and
will focus my comments on key points impacting our results. While we reported
underwriting losses of $152 million in the quarter, driven predominantly by weather-related
losses and COVID-19. I would like to spend some time walking you through both of these
estimates. As I mentioned, weather-related losses had $166 million of negative impact on
our results for the quarter. Of this, $100 million relates to events in the quarter as well as
aggregate contracts. The remaining $66 million was from continuing development on the
Q3 2020 were the related catastrophe events.
The costliest storms for us in the fourth quarter were Hurricane Zeta and Delta, both of
which made landfall in Louisiana as Category Two -- as Category Two hurricanes and
Hurricane Eta, which made landfall in Florida as a tropical storm. The increase in our third
quarter estimates was primarily from Hurricane Laura. Not surprisingly, COVID-19
restrictions coupled with damaged infrastructure made it more difficult for insurers to
access impacted areas to adjust losses. Additionally, hurricanes Delta and Zeta, chartered
a similar path to Hurricane Laura with Delta making landfall within about 10 miles. This
combination of temporal and geographic proximity complicated the loss adjustment
process.
Now moving on to the $173 million net negative impact from COVID- 19. As you know,
because of the uncertainty related to the pandemic, we have approached our COVID
exposures in three categories. While we have not received a significant number of formal
claim advisories to date, the information that we obtained during the renewal process
provided us with a reasonable basis to update our estimate of potential losses in
Category Three, which we refer to as the known unknowns and includes business
interruptions.
The majority of the COVID losses in the quarter related to Category Three. We took a
rigorous process involving either a top-down or a bottom-up review depending on client
and geography. The recent UK Supreme Court decision on the FCA case did not have a
material impact on our estimate. The net negative impact of COVID-19 for the year stands
at $287 million and represents our best estimate based on information available of the
aggregate impact of the pandemic on our business as a whole.
Moving now to our Property segment where we grew gross written premiums by 26% in
the fourth quarter and 23% in the year. As a reminder, we do not typically write much

Page 5 of 21



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2021-01-27

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

property cat premium in the fourth quarter. About half of the property cat growth in the
quarter stemmed from an increase in reinstatement premiums from our weather-related
losses. The continued growth in our other property book, both in the quarter and the year
comes predominantly from our successful efforts to expand our access to primary
Property E&S business.
We reported a property combined ratio of 126% for the quarter and 99% for the year with
COVID-19 and weather-related losses being significant drivers of our results. Specifically,
weather-related losses add 47 points to the property combined ratio for the quarter and
35 points for the year. COVID-19 added 46 points to the combined ratio for the quarter
and 12 points for the year. These losses occurred across both property catastrophe and
other property. Our losses in the Property segment during the quarter were partially
offset by 25 points of favorable development.
Now moving on to our Casualty results where the fourth quarter gross premiums written
decreased by 5% in the quarter and grew by 18% in the year. This decrease in the quarter
is primarily related to selected non-renewals of business acquired from TMR, premium
adjustments and the relatively minor premium impact from COVID- 19 on a few lines of
business. We continue to meaningfully grow our casualty business and our full-year growth
rate of 18% is more indicative of our plans for this business going forward. The combined
ratio for casualty was 104% for both the quarter and the year. These results were driven in
part by the impact of COVID-19, which increased the combined ratio by 1.7 points in the
quarter, primarily in accident and health and 6 points for the year. During the quarter, we
also experienced 1.4 points of weather-related losses related primarily in the specialty
lines. For the year, weather-related losses had 8.8 points impact on the casualty combined
ratio.
Now moving on to our second driver of profit, fee income. Total fee income was $36
million for the quarter and $145 million for the year. This reflects an increase of both
management and performance fees that represents growth in our third-party capital and
improved performance. As we grow our joint ventures, management fees should be
steadily increasing over time. Performance fees will fluctuate year-over-year based on the
results of our joint ventures. We are pleased with our results in 2020, especially given the
elevated level of catastrophe activity. For the year, the net redeemable non-controlling
interest attributable to DaVinci, Medici and Vermeer was $231 million. This represents a
portion of our underwriting and investment income that we share with our joint venture
partners, which is up 14% from 2019.
Now turning to our third driver of profit, investment income. We reported strong
investment results in the quarter and finished the year with total investment results of $1.2
billion. This is comprised of $354 million in net investment income and mark-to-market
gains of $821 million. Mark-to-market gains were predominantly in our fixed maturity and
equity investment portfolios with equity gains driven by our strategic investment portfolio.
After adding materially to investment grade credit in the second quarter, we reduced this
exposure by about 13% in the fourth quarter with an emphasis on shorter dated maturities
as credit spreads approach relatively tight levels. The average duration of our managed
portfolio was unchanged at 2.9 years, while the duration of the retained portfolio moved
modestly lower in the fourth quarter to 3.6 years.
Page 6 of 21



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2021-01-27

FINAL

At this point, I will provide additional information on our expenses and foreign exchange
gains. And starting with the acquisition expense ratio was 23% for both the quarter and
the year. This is within our current expectations. However, you will notice that there were
some noise across the segments in the quarter where the acquisition expense ratio
declined 5 points in the Property segment against the comparable quarter. This is from an
increase in the profit commissions we earn in our third-party capital business and came
primarily related to favorable development.
For Casualty, the acquisition expense ratio increased by 8 points against the comparable
quarter. This was driven primarily by two items; about a third was associated with a
purchase accounting adjustment in last year's result and another third comes from
changes in estimated profit commissions in our mortgage book. And to be clear, this is
unrelated to the impact of forbearance we discussed last quarter. The current expected
run rate of our casualty acquisition expense ratio is in the upper-20s.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our direct expense ratio, which is the sum of our operational and corporate expenses
divided by net premiums earned, has continued to decline and was 6% for the quarter
and 8% for the year. The decline in the direct expense ratio primarily relates to reduced
operational expenses and continued leverage of our platform. In the fourth quarter,
reduced performance-based compensation expense specifically contributed to the
decline in operational expenses. While we anticipate continuing to leverage our platform
in 2021, on an absolute basis, operational expenses will likely tick up during the year as we
continue to invest in our business and hopefully, return to a more normal working
environment.
At 2%, the corporate expense ratio was largely flat relative to the comparable quarter and
year. Corporate expenses did increase $3 million in the quarter. However, this increase
was driven by $7 million charge from the impairment of certain US insurance licenses
related to the restructuring of the TMR operating subsidiaries, as well as non-recurring
severance-related expense. These expenses were partially offset by a reduction in
transition expenses related to the acquisition and integration of TMR that occurred in
2019. We also reported a $23 million foreign exchange gain in the quarter. Approximately
one-third of this gain relates to Medici and has no impact on our bottom line, as it is
backed out through noncontrolling interests. The remainder relates to our underwriting
activities and operations denominated non-US dollar currencies.
Finally, let me conclude with some comments on our capital management activities. As
Kevin mentioned, we have had a very successful joint venture capital raise in preparation
for the January renewal, raising over $700 million across DaVinci, Upsilon and Medici for
2021, and this includes $131 million of our own capital. This is an addition to the $1 billion in
capital that we raised across our various joint ventures in 2020, which also included $138
million of our own capital. On top of these investments, we also purchased $117 million of
DaVinci shares from third-party investors. In aggregate, we have increased our stake in
both DaVinci and Medici to 28.7% and 15.4%, respectively.
Having the ventures capital in place early along with our capital -- equity capital, put our
underwriting team in a strong position to negotiate with clients at the renewal and as
Kevin noted, we deploy significant capital at January 1. Even after adjusting for the
Page 7 of 21



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2021-01-27

substantial capital we deployed at January 1 and allowances for additional deployment
opportunities during the course of 2021, we remain in a strong capital position. Our
fortress balance sheet has served us well and we typically hold excess capital. That said,
our preference is always to deploy capital into the business and we envision many
opportunities in 2021 to do so profitably.

FINAL

And with that, I'll now turn it back over to you, Kevin.

Kevin O'Donnell

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Bob. As usual, I will divide my comments between our Property and Casualty
segments. Before I get into our segment specific information, I would like to provide my
perspective on the ongoing impact of COVID-19 on our industry. As Bob explained, we
undertook a very rigorous process in estimating our potential COVID-19 losses this
quarter. In the first quarter of 2020, I first defined our three category approach to
evaluating our COVID-19 exposure. As you recall, we initially recorded $104 million
reserve, primarily for Category One. We also adjusted loss picks for Category Two
exposures to reflect the likelihood of increased claim activity due to the pandemic and the
resulting economic slowdowns.
We have now received enough information to update our COVID-19 estimate and this
resulted in $173 million net negative impact for the quarter, primarily related to property
exposure in Category Three. Even as COVID-19 continues to spread, there has been
some speculation that it will not prove as impactful to the insurance industry as originally
foreseen. I do not believe this to be the case. In many instances, our industry is yet to
recognize the losses that will inevitably arise from the pandemic, particularly with respect
to business interruption. Likely this lack of recognition occurred because it made renewal
smoother at January 1.
I believe that we still have a long way to go before the true scale of COVID-19 industry
losses are fully apparent. In the US, the risk of a widespread court leakage where courts
imply coverage when it is not expressly provided currently appears low, but is something
we continue to monitor. While individual court rulings have been relatively favorable to the
insurance industry, cases will take years to work through the system and some recent
decisions have been adverse. In the UK, Europe and Australia, we have seen a trend of
more affirmative contractual cover and in situations of uncertainty, court's ruling in favor of
the policyholder.
Now moving to our Property segments and starting with property. Following an active third
quarter, natural catastrophe persisted into the fourth. As Bob mentioned, the most
impactful event for us in the quarter were hurricanes Zeta, Delta and Eta. 2020 was an
extraordinary year in many ways. We experienced a record 30 named storms, 12 of these
made landfall in the US, six as hurricanes, including one major. The previous record was in
1916 with nine landfalling storms. We also saw record wildfires. In terms of acreage
burned, five of the six largest fires in California's history occurred in 2020. It is safe to say
that 2020 was anything but a normal year. As I discussed on the call last quarter, we
expect that the warming climate will make extreme events more frequent and more
severe.
Page 8 of 21



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2021-01-27

However, this does not mean that we expect every year going forward to be like 2020.
Of course, the world will continue to experience variability in weather events. What has
increased however is the likelihood of extreme events relative to the long-term record.
The insurance industry has always used the past to predict the future but now the future
no longer resembles the past. Our ability to understand this shift in future risk provides us
a competitive advantage, allowing us to position ourselves favorably for a change in
climate. About 50% of our property business renews at January 1 and as I discussed, we
had a very successful renewal.
By almost any measure, our property portfolio has gotten better and is indicative of
materially improving market. A significant amount of this growth was in our other property
business. As I discussed on the call this time last year, we have been growing our other
property portfolio and targeting risks that are more cat exposed, particularly in the US E&S
market. We have been building our reputation in this market for many years and have
attained first call status on several accounts. In part, this is because we have the
platforms, capabilities and relationships to move quickly and at scale into much -- a much
improved market for E&S. With rates up 20% to 25%, we found many attractive
opportunities to grow both, existing and new customers at January 1 renewal and believe
that the market will continue to harden through 2021.
Our growth in traditional property cat was relatively muted. Demand was flat with rate
increases across the book averaging about 10%, with loss impacted US business enjoying
larger increases and non-loss impacted European business up single-digits. We saw
better opportunities in other areas and are pleased with the increase we achieved in our
property portfolio overall, as we believe constructed very attractive portfolios for us and
our partners. Shifting now to the retro market. Heading into the renewal, our goals were
to push for further rate increases, improved contractual terms and grow if possible. While
rates in the retro market were up 5% to 15%, as I discussed earlier, additional supply
began suppressing rate increases as the renewal progressed. We demonstrated
discipline by choosing to write a slightly smaller retro book. That said, the retro market has
experienced four consecutive years of rate enhancement, resulting in cumulative average
rate increases approaching 15% [ph]. So, while a little smaller, our retro book is attractive.
Moving now to our Casualty Specialty business. The casualty and specialty renewal
proceeded particularly well, exceeding our already high expectations. A significant portion
of our casualty and specialty business renews at January 1. We saw opportunities in
various classes across this segment with several experiencing dislocation that should
provide further opportunities in 2021. As a result, we will grow our gross written premiums
in casualty and specialty for the year by approximately $500 million with lines like general
liability and D&O being particularly attractive. At this renewal, we continue to leverage
years of relationship building with key customers into preferred access to desirable
business.
Our conviction and consistent an independent view of risk was an advantage in this
changing market and we were able to provide customers and brokers with early and
material solutions, which resulted in our successful growth. We were also a market leader
and largely successful in implementing communicable disease exclusions when necessary
and demonstrated our resolve by non-renewing several deals that did not incorporate a
Page 9 of 21



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2021-01-27

FINAL

necessary exclusion. In our casualty book, about half of the growth came from existing
programs with the other half coming from new programs with existing customers. We
continue to be the first call on several private deals, which typically garner better than
market terms.
In addition to premium growth, we realized significant improvement in expected
underwriting margins, which are principally driven by strong underlying insurance rate
increases. The specialty and credit book renewals were also successful and we found that
our stability underwriting expertise and strong relationships were an advantage in
securing additional business this year. Reinsurance terms and conditions adjusted where
appropriate to account for increasing view of risk in areas such as mortgage and surety
and strong underlying insurance rates added to growth and increased underwriting
margin in classes such as marine and energy.

Bloomberg Transcript

This quarter we once again demonstrated the strength of our ventures group. As Bob
mentioned, including our own participation, we raised over $700 million across our joint
venture vehicles. While each of our vehicles enjoyed strong renewals, we particularly
demonstrated both, discipline and superior capital management in our Upsilon joint
venture. We were able to materially improve its portfolio, but consistent with our track
record chose to return unused capital to investors rather than deploy it at on attractive
rates of return. As we predicted when we raised equity capital last June, Upsilon wrote a
slightly smaller portfolio but with higher expected profit. We are leaders in ILS
management and believe we acted accordingly upholding the highest underwriting
standards while putting the interests of our partners first.
Finally, another milestone for the year was our public announcement of an environmental,
social and governance strategy. Our strategy focuses on promoting climate resilience,
closing the protection gap and inducing positive societal change. We chose these three
priorities because we believe they lie at the intersection of our risk acumen and ability to
make a meaningful impact on society. As part of this strategy, we will be tracking and
offsetting our operational carbon footprint. More information about our broader ESG
strategy is available on our newly launched webpage found on renre.com under ESG/
sustainability.
So, in conclusion, for most perspectives, 2020 was a difficult year. Across our industry
COVID-19 strained normal business practices and stressed employees. Climate change
fueled record breaking hurricanes and wildfires. Decreasing interest rates impacted future
returns on investment portfolios. There were others receive only problems, the best
underwriter recognized outsized opportunities. We raised material amounts of expensive
capital in anticipation of these opportunities and executed strongly in one of the best
January 1 renewals in many years, growing expected profit across our business lines and
geographies. As we head into 2021, I believe we will continue to find outsized
opportunities to create shareholder value. Thanks.
And with that, I'll open it up for questions.

Questions And Answers
Page 10 of 21



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2021-01-27

Operator
(Operator Instructions) Elyse Greenspan with Wells Fargo, your line is open.

FINAL

Q - Elyse Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

Thanks, good morning. I was hoping to spend a little bit more time on the book you guys
put together at 1/1. Kevin, I think you alluded to $500 million of gross premium growth
within casualty and specialty that you expect this year. I don't believe you gave top line
growth targets for cat or property although, you did give the premiums written target. I'm
just trying to get a sense of the $1 billion of capital, we could obviously make assumptions
on, capital to do to support that $500 million of growth, but in casualty specialty, can you
give us a sense of how much of that went to the different businesses? It sounds like from
that $500 million a good portion given the opportunity you saw within allocated to
casualty specialty.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Kevin O'Donnell
Yeah. So, yeah, this was a I think a very successful renewal for us on both -- in both
segments. When we look at the growth that we've achieved, within casualty we grew on
an expected basis because much of this will come in over the course of the year because
it's on a proportional basis of just under $700 million. And then within the Property
segment, the vast majority of our growth, so we estimate that will grow that book at
about $500 million and about $450-ish million and again, a lot of that is proportional, so
will come in over the course of the year, is coming from our other property portfolio. And
just to remember, the other property portfolio is consuming more capital by design and in
particular with regard to the $1.1 billion raised because we were targeting US more
significantly exposed cat business where rate enhancement has been best.

Q - Elyse Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

Okay, that's helpful. And then a couple times throughout your remarks you mentioned
higher expected profits. Obviously, if you look at more recent years new pockets rates
have been offset by pretty high level of cat losses, right and obviously also COVID losses.
So, when you say higher expected profit, can you give us like a barometer to compare
that to, so we can get a sense of the profitability you are expecting in 2021?

A - Kevin O'Donnell
Yeah. As you know, we don't give guidance, but what -- and as Bob's comments I think
were designed to highlight. Themes we talked about when we raised the capital was that
we expected to see more margin in our underwriting portfolio. We expected the increase
in pricing to be broadly across lines and we anticipated that it would last more than a
single renewal cycle. We saw the increased margin, we did observe that it was broadly
across both Property and Casualty segments and our conviction that the market will
continue to change through 2021 persists. So, when I reflect on 2020, my comments
suggest that that was a higher than average cat year. So, looking at the drivers of our
profitability and hoping for a more average cat year than what we experienced in 2020,
one should anticipate significantly enhanced margins, but again, it's not something that
we provide guidance on.

Page 11 of 21



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2021-01-27

Q - Elyse Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

Okay, that's helpful. Thanks, Kevin.

FINAL

A - Kevin O'Donnell
Sure. One final comment I'll make too is that just to highlight that we also held our risk
relatively flat from a percent of equity perspective. So, one way to enhance returns is to
go risk on. We were relatively risk-neutral, but on a much larger portfolio in 2021
compared to 2020. Thanks.

Operator
Michael Phillips with Morgan Stanley, your line is open.

Q - Michael Phillips

{BIO 21023048 <GO>}

Thank you. Good morning. Kevin, appreciate your comments that you made on COVID in
industry potential there. I guess I was hoping to dive a little bit deeper there. You said
there were many companies that have yet to recognize losses mainly for business
interruption, yet US courts I think you said leakage there appears pretty low, which I hope
you're right there and I agree. I guess, does that mean your concern is mainly for outside
US for business interruption or just can you comment more on where the major concerns
you see if it is just BR, what else -- what else you're concerned about?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Kevin O'Donnell
So, as I mentioned COVID, we all know COVID is ongoing. It's a very, very complex
problem. And I think there is going to be significant uncertainty. So, what we're trying to
provide is the best transparency on that uncertainty that we can. We think the way to
frame it is through the Category One, Two and Three. Much of the reserve that we added
this in the fourth quarter related to Category Three and within Category Three, we talked
about originally when we defined the book that we have, we believe we're less exposed
relative to others in Category Three for business interruption, specifically pointing to
about half of our property cat book protects personal lines where we believe exposure is
lower.
Internationally, we have seen more affirmative cover sold for business interruption related
to communicable disease and much of the reserve that we put up in the quarter,
although, it's in IBNR would be in contemplation of things that we learned related to some
of the international book that was renewing. The US still remains uncertain. I think we'll
have a lot of ups and downs with court decisions as we go through this, but we still remain
relatively optimistic about the courts being rationale about their interpretation there.

Q - Michael Phillips

{BIO 21023048 <GO>}

Okay, thanks. I guess sticking with that for a second, what extent do you think if this does
become pretty significant as time develops here? To what extent would COVID then
continue the duration of the hard commercial lines market and the hardening, trimming
[ph] reinsurance market. How does COVID affect the duration of that?
Page 12 of 21



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2021-01-27

FINAL

A - Kevin O'Donnell
We believe it's playing a significant role. The -- as I mentioned, I think demand might have
been suppressed at 1/1 just because of the strong financial performance of companies
and their willingness to retain more risk. As the economic hardships related to the
shutdowns persist, we're hopeful that companies will choose to retain less volatility and
reinsurance demand will grow. So, we remain optimistic. We've kept dry powder to
continue to provide solutions to our customers, hoping that 2021 continues to see
increased concern with some of our customers and hopefully, we can provide solutions
(Technical Difficulty).

Q - Michael Phillips

{BIO 21023048 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Kevin. Appreciate it.

A - Kevin O'Donnell
Sure. Thanks.

Operator
Meyer Shields with KBW, your line is open.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

Thanks. I wanted to take a step back and get your updated thoughts if I can on how the
Florida marketplace ultimately plays itself out. And I'm thinking here the combination of
maybe more capital being available than originally expected, but it really seems like that
marketplace is struggling on a primary reinsurance volume basis.

A - Kevin O'Donnell
So first, I agree that the market is struggling and I think it's struggling on an insurance
basis. Reinsurance is playing a role due to the rate change, but there is probably pretty
fundamental issues that need to be addressed in that market. I think we will engage with
our Florida customers as we always do through the first half of the year. We have very
strong relationships in Florida. So, I anticipate that we will have very strong opportunities in
the Florida market. I'm not too concerned about the new capital coming in at this point,
just due to -- for us, due to the strength of the relationships that we have there and the
increased need that they have for more reinsurance.
So, early to tell, and a lot can change between now and a June renewal in Florida. We've
seen -- we're always cautious on this call to think about what could happen then. But right
now, we're having -- we're having discussions with some Florida accounts and I agree with
you that the market is struggling that usually creates opportunities for reinsurers.

Q - Meyer Shields

{BIO 4281064 <GO>}

Okay, fantastic. That's all I had. Thank you so much.

Page 13 of 21



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2021-01-27

A - Kevin O'Donnell
Thank you.

Operator

FINAL

Yaron Kinar with Goldman Sachs, your line is open.

Q - Yaron Kinar

{BIO 17146197 <GO>}

Good morning. My first question goes to the market opportunity. I think when you raised
the capital last year, you were talking about the potential of a multi-year opportunity. Do
you think that's still the case and if so, I guess, why would we see the $4 billion of capital
raise deployed so early in this opportunities?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Kevin O'Donnell
One, we, as I mentioned, we still have dry powder to deploy further through the course of
2021. So, by no means having been successful in deploying the capital that we raised, are
we in a position where we don't have capital to put to further opportunities. Secondly, the
way we've written the portfolio in casualty and specialty, I'll start with is mostly
proportional. So, we will have the run rate of the rate increase coming through the
portfolio over the 18 -- next 18 months or so and then much of the other property
portfolio is proportional in nature. So, we should be participating on the increased primary
rates that are being seen broadly in the market, which we believe have legs and should
persist. So, I look forward into the market. We've got plenty of dry powder to take on the
next opportunity and we are pretty tightly coupled with the primary companies enjoying a
lot of the rate enhancement that they're getting on their books of business.

Q - Yaron Kinar

{BIO 17146197 <GO>}

Got it. And then my second question just goes back to the kind of, that Category Three of
known unknowns in COVID. So, if I understood correctly, really what's happening is kind of,
you are looking closer under the hood and seeing if there is more affirmative coverage in
some of the underlying risk. Is that -- is that the correct interpretation, and if so, I guess,
why is this coming out now? Is this just a function of consider the renewal process into 1/1?
Why would you have not known about it a quarter ago or three quarters ago when kind of,
COVID first emerged as a pandemic issue?

A - Kevin O'Donnell
So, one, we're not surprised that this exposure existed. What became more apparent
through the discussions we had at 1/1 is became -- is that we believe it became more
estimatable. So, when we looked at the portfolio and have the discussions at the renewal,
we were able to better understand how much exposure these companies thought they
had. With that, we have very few specific claim notifications, most of this is based on our
own work, as Bob mentioned, for clients from the bottom up and other clients from the
top down but it is in IBNR. And we'll have to allocate it as the specific reserves from
companies becomes more clear. But we think it's a fulsome and comprehensive approach
to think about what the exposure could be.

Page 14 of 21



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2021-01-27

Q - Yaron Kinar

{BIO 17146197 <GO>}

Understood. Thank you.

A - Kevin O'Donnell

FINAL

Thanks.

Operator
Brian Meredith with UBS, your line is open.

Q - Brian Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Yes, thanks. A couple ones here for Kevin. First one, I am just curious on the profitability
and improved profitability, I was thinking maybe another way question that is, is what is
the return on kind of allocated capital or equity look like on this year's portfolio versus last
year's portfolio? Is it 100 basis points better roughly, 200 basis points?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Bob Qutub

{BIO 15269353 <GO>}

Let me take that one. I'll start. I mean I can't really provide any good guidance on the ROE
or the returns, but let me tell you, kind of how I think about it and the way we look at this.
Obviously, the principal driver is going to be the returns from our underwriting book
business and as we pointed out, we're very pleased with the capital we deployed in
January and expectations that we look forward to is that develops on the profitability that
we've been talking about. And you will see the economics over time as it realized and we
also benefit from the risk sharing that we have with our partner capital as well that we've
been fairly successful at.
The other driver of our returns will come from our investment portfolio. The investment
leverage is about nearly 2 times and we're pretty well positioned in this environment. And
the other thing we talk about and I put in my comments is the underlying all of this is our
platform. We've consistently demonstrated strong operating leverage out there over
time. So, kind of, in short, we've got a strong track record of deploying the capital, great
client relationships and that's going to help us leverage the integrated systems for what's
ahead.

Q - Brian Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Great, thanks. And then my second question relates to third party capital. Kevin, just
curious, what is the kind of demand right now from investors for third-party capital? I was a
little surprised to see that you actually took more DaVinci exposure on to your balance
sheet through a secondary transaction given that I thought pricing was actually pretty
good.

A - Kevin O'Donnell
Yeah, actually, we, the number we put out is actually the net number we deployed. We
actually raised more than that. As I said, we returned a little bit of capital, which is -- which

Page 15 of 21



FINAL

Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2021-01-27

is a common practice for us for Upsilon. We had more than enough interest from thirdparty capital to support the DaVinci raise. We actually targeted an increase. Over the last
several years, we reduced our participation in DaVinci, partially because we had such highquality investors looking for some participated in the vehicle that we allow them to
purchase some of our share. We had the opportunity to increase a little bit at 1/1. It was a
strategic target for us to increase our participation there. So, nothing to do with subdued
demand for our vehicles. It was really more about us wanting to have a little bit more
flexibility with our share going forward.

Q - Brian Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Got you. And then just lastly, just curious, the net premium written increase that you're
kind of expecting for the year, the $1 billion, how much of that is related to your third-party
capital vehicles? Because it still looked a little different.

A - Bob Qutub

{BIO 15269353 <GO>}

It will follow -- it will show up too. You'll see it through the non-redeemable, but we don't
really carve out. I'd say on the property cat side probably, not a lot. When you think about
it from DaVinci, probably some from Vermeer, it will come through the property side of
the business and where Kevin said property was up by about just under $0.5 billion, with
most of it through the other property of E&S, so you won't see a lot of that coming
through the third-party.

Q - Brian Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Makes sense. Thank you so much.

A - Kevin O'Donnell
Okay. Thank you.

Operator
Josh Shanker with Bank of America, your line is open.

Q - Joshua Shanker

{BIO 5292022 <GO>}

Yeah, thank you for taking my question. Can you talk about all the process during the
renewals of talking to your customers about COVID? In assessing what the right rate to
charge your customers, you kind have to know what their expectation with their COVID
losses are. But if everything is still in the unknowns, how can you extend coverage to be
comfortable with your clients if they don't have a good sense of their own exposures?

A - Kevin O'Donnell
Yeah, it's a delicate balance to think about how to have those conversations and it
depends on kind of what they know as well. The real issue is the renewals that we had,
we excluded COVID and addressed communicable disease specifically. So, in some ways
the exposure is the exposure and it will be sorted out over time. But going forward, the

Page 16 of 21



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2021-01-27

grant of coverage if any was ever provided is specifically and more precisely excluded in
the contracts that we renewed. Does that answer your question, I'm not sure --.

FINAL

Q - Joshua Shanker

{BIO 5292022 <GO>}

I guess I think on the charge -- the charge you took, you somewhat knew about the
exposures that they were going to report and that helped give you information I would
think, or maybe they did -- maybe they don't know and everything is still in guesswork, I
don't know. Could you have a --.

A - Kevin O'Donnell
It is a little of both. Again, as I said, there is not a lot of formal claim notifications that we
had, but what we were trying to do is parameterize what is the extent of the exposure
that they believe that they have to the policies that they sold. And with that we went
through a couple of different analysis, independent of each other to try to assess a way
for us to estimate the exposure that we -- that potentially could come to us through what
we learned over the renewal. So, we had more of an actuarial approach, we had an
underwriting approach and then we worked with our external advisors to reality check it.
So, I think we had a strong and robust process to come up with the estimate, but the
estimate is not as clean as what you would traditionally have from an observable physical
damage loss related to a hurricane or even in earthquake, I would say.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Joshua Shanker

{BIO 5292022 <GO>}

Thank you. And one quickie, or maybe it is not quickie. How do you balance the
responsibility to get best performance for your shareholders versus best performance for
your venture partners? As you raise more capital into the New Year, does that come -does everyone make money together or do some of the capital raise come at the
expense of different constituents?

A - Kevin O'Donnell
That's a great question and I think it's one of the hardest things to manage for a company
like us where we have owned balance sheet and partner capital. So, each vehicle is slightly
different where something like premier and top layer. There isn't a significant appetite
overlap with our owned balance sheets. We think of DaVinci more as a quota share and
we do think of DaVinci having a degree of incumbency on the deals that they had. So, as
we were talking to DaVinci shareholders through the capital raise that we did publicly, we
were saying that is our expectation we will have opportunities to grow DaVinci in parallel
with RenRe.
I see long-term our shareholders benefiting from the ability for us to manage both sets of
capital effectively and fairly. So, I don't think of it as a trade-off as giving risk to one or the
other. I see it as the pursuit of providing the best solutions to our clients with the most
efficient capital and that should recognize the best return for each of our stakeholders,
most importantly, our shareholders.

Q - Joshua Shanker

{BIO 5292022 <GO>}

Page 17 of 21



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2021-01-27

Thank you very much for the clarity.

A - Kevin O'Donnell

FINAL

Sure.

Operator
Ryan Tunis with Autonomous Research, your line is open.

Q - Ryan Tunis

{BIO 16502263 <GO>}

Hey, thanks. A couple, the first is, understand the growth in casualty specialty. The one
thing I guess I'd point out is that historically has been a line you booked really
conservatively like around 100% underlying combined and I know you don't want to give
guidance but I mean like directionally, should we think that we're at least in a point now
where you think that that is earning an accident year underwriting margin as we approach
2021 what you're deploying?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Kevin O'Donnell
Yeah. Let me make a couple comments there. What we've talked about before is thinking
about casualty and specialty over a longer term period, so say 10 years and making sure
that over that period of time we get -- we achieve the return that we need for that
business. Clearly, with what's going on in that market, we're moving that block of rolling
10-year average to a much better return. Historic -- well, traditional actuarial
methodologies the recognition of that will lag. And what I can say is we -- which would be
a normal actuarial view is to recognize bad news faster than good news. There is usually a
gap between what your pricing actuaries are seeing in an improving market to what your
reserving actuaries will recognize. That gap is extended a bit right now and we're hopeful
that over time, our pricing actuaries will be more accurate than our reserving actuaries. But
it will take a little bit of time for those to reconcile.

Q - Ryan Tunis

{BIO 16502263 <GO>}

Got it. And I just, Kevin, just taking a step back, I mean, it feels like a little bit of a, I don't
know if it's a strategic pivot or not, but what's six, seven years ago, it's just property cat,
now, these other businesses seem to be the most important. I'm just curious, how you are
thinking about your organic capabilities? Is there anywhere -- are you still thinking you
purely want to be a reinsurer? Are there acquisitions or anything like that do you think
could bolster the platform now based on sort of the direction you are headed?

A - Kevin O'Donnell
So, your comment, strategically, we have made an effort to change the profile of the
company. As Bob talked about, we've increased operating leverage, we've increased
capital leverage and we've diversified the sources of income that we have. I have in my
mind not de-emphasized anything that we do, but simply added emphasis to doing more
things well and doing more things at the same level that our cat reputation holds. So,
when I look at the portfolio that we have and I look at the quality of the underwriters and
Page 18 of 21



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2021-01-27

FINAL

the books that we built, I couldn't be happier with the portfolio. And for sure, it's been a
strategic change to who we are and what we're doing. It's been driven by what our
customers want.
Going back five, six, seven years ago, our customers were saying they really enjoyed
trading with us from a property cat perspective, but they want to do more with quality
companies. So, we worked hard to build the capabilities and the platforms to be able to
best meet their risk needs. I hope more of its to come in the future. You mentioned
acquisitions, from that perspective, again, we feel great about who we are and what
we're doing and nothing has changed. We've historically said and still believe that we see
something that furthers our strategy and is economically viable, we'll take a look at it, but
again, we feel great about who we are and what we're doing.

Q - Ryan Tunis

{BIO 16502263 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Kevin O'Donnell
Yeah. Thank you.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Phil Stefano with Deutsche Bank, your line is open.

Q - Phil Stef ano

{BIO 18965951 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks. And congrats on the quarter. Most have been asked and answered, just I
think you had mentioned that there was an improvement in terms of conditions, which I
feel like is a little different than I've heard others start to talk about. Just given the
proportional nature of the businesses being added this year, can you talk about the terms
and conditions that approved? In my mind the terms and conditions are generally stickier
than price increases. Maybe you can help us just kind of formulate the additional returns
that are coming through from this improvement.

A - Kevin O'Donnell
Yeah, I'd say the two -- the two most common discussions that we had with renewal,
particularly in the property cat is adding a cyber exclusion and communicable disease
exclusions. In some instances, it was understanding the portfolio that they have is a
personal lines portfolio in others, but I would say that that's where the improvement, most
specifically came from.

Q - Phil Stef ano

{BIO 18965951 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

A - Kevin O'Donnell
Yeah.
Page 19 of 21



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2021-01-27

Operator
Elyse Greenspan with Wells Fargo, your line is open.

FINAL

Q - Elyse Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

Thanks. Sorry, I have a few quick follow-ups. The first, Kevin, when you responded to my
question earlier and you said $700 million of growth in casualty and $450 million in other
property premium. Is that a gross or net figure?

A - Kevin O'Donnell
That's net.

Q - Elyse Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

That's net, okay. And then my second question is, so, when you said (inaudible) retained, I
think a few percentage points more right at 1/1. I'm assuming that that's a comment
pertaining to all three businesses, casualty, property -- property cat and other property?

A - Kevin O'Donnell
I'm sorry, Elyse, I didn't hear. Bob, did you hear the question?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Bob Qutub

{BIO 15269353 <GO>}

I think Elyse, you're asking referring to Kevin's comment about ceding a little bit less, so
opening up the exposure. Generally speaking, that's more on the property side that we
have.

Q - Elyse Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

But including cat and other property.

A - Bob Qutub

{BIO 15269353 <GO>}

Yeah. Property cat.

Q - Elyse Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}

Okay. And then my last question. So, the Q4 decline in casualty write specialty because
some TMR non-renewals. Are we mostly done with the non-renewals of that book? I'm
assuming that's all embedded within the 2021 outlook for casualty?

A - Bob Qutub

{BIO 15269353 <GO>}

That's pretty much it, Elyse. I mean there was a few multi-years but they are insignificant.
So, that's the bulk of it, and again that goes back to relative Q4 '19 versus Q4 '20, so
that's pretty much behind us.

Q - Elyse Greenspan

{BIO 17263315 <GO>}
Page 20 of 21



Company N ame: RenaissanceRe H oldings L td
Company Ticker: RN R US Equity
Date: 2021-01-27

Okay. Thanks for taking the follow-up.

A - Kevin O'Donnell

FINAL

Yeah. Our pleasure. Thanks.

Operator
There are no further questions at this time. I will now turn the call back over to Kevin, for
closing comments.

A - Kevin O'Donnell
Thanks everybody for your participation on the call. As I stated, I think this was one of the
most important renewals for Renaissance. I am delighted with the outcome that we
achieved and I look forward to opportunities in 2021. Thank you for joining today's call and
we'll speak to you soon.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

This concludes today's call. We thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 21 of 21

