Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

S1 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Adrian Cox, Chief Executive Officer
Paul Bantick, Head of Global Cyber & Technology
Sally Lake , Group Finance Director

Other Participants
Andreas van Embden, Analyst
Andrew Ritchi, Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Faizan Lakhani, Analyst
Freya Kong, Analyst
Ian Pearce , Analyst
Ivan Bokhmat, Analyst
Kamran Hossain, Analyst
Nick Johnson, Analyst
Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

Will Hardcastle , Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Hello, everyone, and welcome to the Beazley's Interim 2021 Results Conference Call. My
name is Emily, and I will be coordinating this call today. (Operator Instructions)
And now, I have the pleasure of handing over to your host, Adrian Cox, CEO to begin.
Adrian, please go ahead.

Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the Beazley interim results. I thought, I'll give a
quick overview of what to expect this morning. I will start with the highlights of our halfyear numbers. I am quite pleased with them and following that, Sally will go through the
numbers in a bit more detail Including the exhibits on capital and reserve strength that we
know and love.
We've been talking to a number of stakeholders this year and the two most frequent
thematic questions that we get, concern our cyber business and our strategy, given the
Page 1 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

FINAL

new CEO. So after Sally, we will move on to the main event and forward answer the big
cyber questions.
Cyber insurance is our biggest business. It's about 15% of our premium overall and we
launched our flagship cyber product Beazley Breach Response back in 2009. And at that
point, I was running specialty lines which housed it and Paul was running the London
international cyber business. So we've both been working on this together for a long time
now and we are both quite excited about the prospects for it.
This year, we've also been thinking through our strategy, though lastly, I will give a little
detail on that. Spoiler alert, it is exciting but not revolutionary as well as some of the
attributes of Beazley to which I'd like us to commit. And after that, we will have some time
for Q&A.
Before that though I'd like to begin by making a few introductory comments. At the start
of the year, I wasn't expecting to be here doing this, but 113 days into my new role, I
thought I'd share some reflections. The CEO role had always appealed to me, but I was
genuinely enjoying being CUO and had certainly not expected this to happen this soon,
but it's been fascinating getting exposure to different parts of the business and getting to
know colleagues that I hadn't been spending too much time with before and I've
genuinely loved every minute of the job so far.

Bloomberg Transcript

The executive team continues to evolve and I'm very pleased to welcome Troy Dehmann,
our new COO, a couple of weeks ago, and I expect us to be able to announce the new
CUO by the end of the summer.
And I have to say I'm pleased with our performance so far in 2021. We've done a lot of
hard work these last few years to improve our business mix, to concentrate on what we're
good at, remediate or stop where we weren't performing as we should have done, and
to invest into opportunity. And I think that work is beginning to reflect in the numbers that
we show today.
And it feels like we're beginning to get the old Beazley back. My role I think is to get
people here enthusiastic about the opportunities that lie ahead and ensuring that the
business has the capabilities and capacity to deliver. But I also have to say that we did
misstep last year during 2020. We had underestimated our exposure to the pandemic
assuming such a thing that would not cancel the events industry as completely and for as
long as COVID-19 did. And it was also disappointing that we had to increase our COVID
provisions last September.
Unsurprisingly, I think that has impacted shareholders' confidence in us and our ability to
do the hard things well. And one of my ambitions is to demonstrate to you over time that
we merit your trust and that the Beazley you knew is the Beazley that you still have and
that the future prospects for us are generally exciting.
So with that then, let's move on to the results. Headline profit of $167.4 million, which
generates return on capital of 15%, which is our target across cycle returns, so that's
Page 2 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

FINAL

good, and a decent level of growth. We added about 4% of exposure growth in the
second quarter. So although we continue to take exposures down in some areas including
cyber, it's being more than offset by the businesses that we are looking to grow.
Combined ratio is in the mid-90%s, which is what we had guided to and we have an
accelerating rate increase although with different drivers to last year which Sally will go
through a little bit later. Our COVID provisions remain unchanged at $340 million. The
world continues to open up, albeit in somewhat of a staccato fashion, but that was the
central assumption we had when we put together the $340 million.
We intend to pay a dividend at year-end all other things being equal, which will take into
account the 2021 results as a whole, rather than just the second half. And at that point at
year-end, we will also share the future dividends strategy.
And with that over to you Sally.

Sally Lake

{BIO 20925273 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Adrian, and good morning, everyone. My name is Sally Lake and I am the
Beazley Finance Director. I am going to get to the right slide. I'm going to take you
through some of the more details on the financials that we are reporting today focusing
on investments, reserves and capital, before I pass over to Paul to speak in more detail
about cyber.
This half we have seen an increase in reserve releases with the underwriting work
performed in recent years beginning to show through. The investment return is very
similar in dollar terms to this time last year. However, the drivers are rather different. And
finally, I will give an update on our capital position which remains in the top half of our
preferred range.
Before that, here is some more detail on the numbers. Adrian has already spoken about
our top-line growth of 22%, this is less after we allow for reinsurance, as just over a year
ago we purchased some new proportional reinsurance on our specialty lines and CyEx
book. We have also completed a loss portfolio transfer on our construction and
engineering book which we stopped writing recently. And that's a one-off effect that
happened in the first half of this year.
Our net earned premium on which our combined ratio is based has grown by 14%. Our
claims ratio improved significantly as this time last year we had incurred significant losses
around COVID-19 first-party types. And the expense ratio has increased slightly in part
due to the reinsurance effects I just mentioned but also given that sterling has
strengthened compared to the dollar and a large part of our costs are in pounds this has
also put some pressure on our expense ratio.
And now, onto investments, so looking at our investment dispositions and how they have
changed during the first half of 2021. Most noticeably, we've seen an increase in our
sovereign bond holding with an equivalent reduction in the investment-grade corporate
Page 3 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

FINAL

debt portfolio. At the moment, we see the investment-grade spreads as relatively less
attractive than in recent times and so the maturing bonds being reinvested into the highly
liquid sovereign debt, improving our portfolio flexibility.
Other changes at this summary level are modest. However, during the period we have
performed a number of management actions to maximize the return within our relatively
prudent risk appetite for investment. So what has this led to in terms of performance? So
$83 million, or 1.2%, 2.5% annualized, the half one return is similar to last year.
Low but rising yields created difficult conditions for bond markets and our fixed incomes
produced a low albeit positive return in the first half, and that makes up around 85% of
our assets. Our capital growth investments did much better returning nearly 8% year-todate as risk assets rallied, oiled by the improving economic outlook.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our tactical investment actions have also added value. We reduced duration as yields
rose, held more equity exposure for some of the period and have added significant
inflation-protected holdings to our fixed income portfolio as inflation expectations grow.
Overall, we think it's a really good outcome in view of the market conditions and our risk
appetite. In recent years only 2019 saw a materially better first-half return.
Now, moving on to reserve releases and how they have evolved over time. This graph
shows split by division and you can see that we are very pleased to see reserve release
across all divisions for the first time since 2017. Since taking over in my role in 2019, I have
really focused on ensuring that this graph gets to a better position though this outcome
makes me very happy. This is a result of the underwriting action that the business has
been taking for a number of years, and as a percentage of net earned premium, the
releases are around 7%. And as you can see on the dotted line, this number continues to
go in a pleasing direction.
So that's looking back onto everyone's favorite graph, what we've got left in the tank.
Though to remind everyone this graph compares reserves on our balance sheet to our
internal actuarial estimate which in itself is not a best estimate and includes a level of
margin. And we aim to hold 5% above this actuarial measure. The reason we show you
this graph is to show how consistent we have been in our reserving strategy over time
and 6.6% which is the number at half-year 2021 is very much in line with recent times.
Though it's great to see this continuing despite improved reserve releases and just show
you that we are continuing in exactly the same way as we reserve.
Just before I head on to talk about capital, we just want to take a moment to review the
rate change graph. Here you can see that the rate improvements have been impressive
this year so far, with a real acceleration caused primarily by the dislocation in the cyber
market. The rate change is 20% across all divisions over the past six months.
Most divisions are seeing double-digit rate increases with CyEx seeing 44% rate
improvement. So whilst we are continuing to grow the premium, the benefit of rates are
being seen when we look at our capital requirements.

Page 4 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

FINAL

Since we last reported on capital, we have started allowing for the growth expected
within our 2022 business plan within the numbers we show here. And whilst we continue
to work on the business plan over this summer as usual, we are currently expecting similar
growth in premiums next year as we planned for this year. And after allowing for this and
allowing for other updates to the Solvency II positions, we are estimating a surplus of 23%
above our Lloyd's economic capital requirement which is towards the top of our preferred
range.
Our capital resources remain unchanged with $550 million of Tier II debt, the banking
facility of $450 million of which $225 million remains unutilized. And as Adrian mentioned
earlier, the Board remains committed to a dividend payment at the end of the year after
taking the whole year into account.
With that, I will pass over for the main event, as we call it, and Paul on cyber.

Paul Bantick

{BIO 15979097 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Sally. Good morning, everyone. For those who don't know me, my name is Paul
Bantick. I am the Global Head of the Cyber and Tech business here at Beazley and I have
the privilege of leading both the underwriters and the service team that help us provide
with the services to our cyber clients globally. I've been here, as Adrian said, about 16, 17
years, and have been part of the cyber team whilst it's been CyEx and also when it was
previously SO when Adrian was leading SO.
It's great that Sally and Adrian have asked me to give you an update this morning. I plan to
cover a brief history of cyber insurance but also more importantly, its evolution and how
it's evolved at Beazley, talk a little bit about how we've seen the threats evolved and what
we've seen in the past year, give a highlight of some of the underwriting action that we've
been taking, talk about some of the investments that we're making and then talk about
what we see the cyber opportunity as moving forward.
So I wanted to start by giving a bit of an overview of this slide, the evolution. You will see
that this timeline really shows two things. It shows what's been going on in the outside
world and what's been going on at Beazley as cyber evolved. Cyber really started in the
US back in 2009, which is when we saw the first real drive and boom of demand for cyber
insurance. And it was really focused on data breaches.
At the time, there were lots of large companies that held a lot of data that were been
attacked and their data was being stolen. And this was really coupled with regulation and
law changes at the time, gave clients a greater need for insurance. They wanted help with
protecting the bottom line and these things became very complex and very expensive.
That complexity really gave us another opportunity. Clients weren't just worried about
what these were costing. When they had a data breach they were saying how do we
manage one of these, how do we respond to one of these, and that's where at Beazley
we really saw this change in regulation and the change in what clients were looking for.
And we developed a product and service around it. And that's when we launched the BBR
Page 5 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

FINAL

product, Beazley Breach Response. And we also created our Beazley Breach Response inhouse team. That's an in-house team that we have that is focused on helping clients
manage events when they happen.
So BBR was born and it was a product with (inaudible) service around it. As the market
continued to grow and we wrote more business, we decided that we needed to invest
early into several things. Examples of this were, we invested in our international business.
We now have locations all around the world writing cyber business, we have underwriters,
claims managers, and breach response people base around the globe.
We also made big investments into risk management. One example is we created
Lodestone. It's a cyber-service security company based in the US that's 100% owned by
Beazley. Lodestone is now working with lots of our clients in the US, is up to 40 to 50
employees and going very well.

Bloomberg Transcript

The BBR service team had a huge impact on our clients, but it also had a huge impact for
Beazley. We were saving on our losses, we were saving 10% to 20% compared to the
market on the costs we were incurring. This is because of the in-house model that we
have. This in-house model really enabled us to bring in-house what people were
outsourcing to law firms, forensics firms. We had a lot of capability in-house to do it
ourselves and it's a model that we've invested in and continue to invest in.
As '17 and '18 years rolled around, we saw data breaches became a little bit quieter. There
were some very large ones that went on, that were the high-level names that we will see
and know, but it was a little bit quieter. However, during this time, we continued to invest
in that team because we knew cyber threats do change and they do change and come
and go and we knew that team would bring even greater value moving forward.
In recent times, as I'm sure many people know, the cyber threat has evolved and
ransomware in '19 and '20 really is the big shift that we've seen. And ransomware has
done several things. Number one, it brings new exposures. If you have a ransomware
event, your systems are locked up, someone wants money to unlock your systems, you
have to decide as a business what you want to do about that.
That presents new issues and new challenges for clients. Do you pay a ransom, do not
pay a ransom, but whilst this is going on, there is the business interruption risk that clients
are going through. Clients are experiencing a reputation risk and business interruption.
What this does is it brings a lot of new clients to the market looking for support with their
cyber insurance. Previously, it was just companies that held data that were worried about
cyber insurance and now any organization around the world has an exposure to
ransomware or some of the newer cyber threats that we've seen.
Breach response is still very, very critical for these ransomware events and I want to
underline that. What we've seen is that clients are now seeing the value of that breach
response team again. So the investments we made and we continue to make are bringing
back those benefits that we saw as we did with data breach.

Page 6 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

FINAL

But as the threats evolve and as we see ransomware, we've also been looking at how do
we help clients with resilience. Cyber threats change and evolve over time and what we
need to do is help clients become more resilient, so that they are more protected and
better protected from whatever cyber threats exist.
During 2020, as we saw ransomware impacting our clients, we looked at what
underwriting action we were going to take. And now, I want to give you a quick overview
of some of that. We really divided it down into five key pillars, and we worked on this in
second quarter of 2020, and it was fully deployed in Q3 2020. This is a huge investment
that we made, both in terms of money, people, and a huge project to get off the ground.
Firstly, we made a big investment into data analytics. We're working both with our own
data, with third-party data, lots of other organizations. We've brought in specialist data
scientists that are now part of the cyber team to look at based on our data are clients less
or more likely to have a cyber event, what can we tell about them from the data we have,
how can that help us drive both client's increase their resilience and also help with our
underwriting.

Bloomberg Transcript

Secondly, we developed a ransomware application. This has been a critical piece of
information that we've been using as part of the process. When we underwrite an
account, every client tells us about the ransomware exposures and controls and mitigation
that they have in place. We've been scanning organizations. This is done with third parties
and it's an outside-in view and it's becoming quite common in the marketplace.
We scan clients not only when we insure them, but we also scan them through their life
cycle of the policy. If we see new vulnerabilities appear, these are the same kinds of
vulnerabilities that bad actors are looking for. And so if we can see them, they can see
them. So what we're doing there is notifying our clients about these vulnerabilities and
helping them to remediate them, helping them to shut them down. Nine times out of 10,
these are reasonably simplistic things to fix, things that should be addressed quite quickly
and quite easily. We don't know how many ransomwares we may or may not have helped
clients avoid, but we know that we've shut a lot of vulnerabilities down.
These three things are really focused on frequency. We've been targeting frequency very
hard. If we can help our clients be more resilient, we will therefore see less claims, and
that has been our approach to addressing the ransomware issue.
However, we have also done some limits management. We've looked at our book and
we've targeted specific areas where we think we need to look at the limit we have
deployed and we've been reducing some limits in certain sections. This will also help with
severity.
And then the last thing is, we were talking about the rating environment. Absolutely, the
answer to cyber insurance is to address the frequency and focus on frequency. And as I've
just explained, we've been making massive efforts with that, but we knew that rates
needed to increase. So during 2020, we started to build the rate runway and increase

Page 7 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

FINAL

rates. And as Sally said, we're seeing some great rate changes currently, and I'll talk more
about those shortly.
The other bullet point I want to make is, we provide great support to underwriters
globally. One of the things we did is we created a global dedicated cyber underwriting
management team that reports to me. This has been invaluable because as we are taking
action, as we're navigating a very fast-changing and volatile market, having a team
focused on this and profitability and supporting the team through that process has been
absolutely fantastic.
And then, lastly, and more very excitingly, we are making a huge investment into risk
management. Every client has their own view of risk. We scan them, they talk about their
ransomware application, we look at our data, every client is different, everyone's got their
own view of risk, everyone gets their own terms. We treat every client individually. And I
think that's really important. And we want to continue to do that, but we want to continue
to help with resilience.

Bloomberg Transcript

And so with that, we are making big investments into our cyber ecosystem. We've been
to the exec [ph] during the course of the year and we've had approved significant
investments to look at the Beazley cyber ecosystem and think about how can we help
make risk management and resilience and support our clients and brokers much better
with the cyber threats, the ones that we have now and ones that may exist in the future.
So this is a diagram that shows you our cyber ecosystem and the investments we are
making. And what I'd like to do is briefly touch on each of these areas. The first is the data
and threat intelligence. I spoke about that. We've been doing some of that already, but
we're now working with more providers, more data, more threat intelligence. We're
overlaying that. As you will see there, Lodestone, the IT security company, they are now
providing us with threat intelligence.
We've established a threat intelligence network that involves people not just from
companies that work in cybersecurity, but also we are working closely with people that the
ex-government, ex-law enforcement. And we really are trying to make sure we stay on
the front foot of the emerging threats for our clients.
Secondly, risk management services. This is absolutely critical. It's one thing to have the
threat information, it's another thing to figure out how you can help prevent these things
happening. And so what we're doing is we're creating a lot of new risk management
services for our clients. We're currently hiring a head of cyber services that will be focused
on building out these risk management services that we do even further.
Incident response, we've obviously been doing that since the very early years in 2009. We
have a fantastic team that work on that around the globe. We are now launching that
further. One example would be, internationally, we established Lodestone in the UK to
help us do some incident response. We're looking at how we build out the model further
afield. We have it in many countries, but we're making sure we have that response and
that unit and that team everywhere where we need them.
Page 8 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

FINAL

And then we are looking at the US team and constantly thinking about how do we evolve,
how do we make sure we're on the very front edge. We are looking at different services,
different technology, and incident rooms that we can work with our clients on.
And then, most importantly, underwriting and claims. How do we build what we are
learning, what we are seeing, the risk management into our underwriting and claims
processes going forward so that we continue to manage the frequency, continue to
manage the book, and continue to help our clients maintain profitability.
I think it's really important to say there's a lot of things on this page that I could talk about
a lot of time. It's a huge project. it's an undertaking that's involving 80 to 100 people
across the Company that are coming together to collaborate on this, which is fantastic.
And I really appreciate everyone's support with that. But it's not about doing any one of
these things well. It's about doing a lot of them well and put in them all together, that's
where the magic is in this and that's what we are committed to and that's what we are
committed to continue investing in.

Bloomberg Transcript

So what's the impact of the underwriting and all the action and the risk management that
we've been doing, what's it having so far? We wanted to give you an early view. And I
would say, it's still very early. We've been looking at accounts to have been found since
October, that have been throughout the whole process. And although it's early days, we
are seeing some positive signs.
We've seen a 20% ransomware frequency reduction on a policy basis and we've seen a
50% reduction on a per premium basis. And as Sally said, we've seen increase in rates. In
the last three months, we've seen the cyber rates doubling in all parts of our cyber books.
We show this graph quite a bit during our results presentations and it's been slightly
updated this year with a new line. The bottom charts show the premium growth of the
cyber business. And as you can see the premiums are up in 2021. We've actually reforecast and written slightly more than planned. This is driven predominantly by rates.
This is shown by the pink line at the top. The pink line at the top shows the policy count.
And as you can see due to the underwriting actions that we're taking, we've shed more
policies than planned due to our continued focus on risk selection. So the overarching
message of this is that we have less exposure than planned this year, with significantly
more rate.
The other benefit of that is that we are now seeing that our systemic event exposure is
reducing. And I want to just to take a minute just to talk about systemic risk in cyber just
for a second because again, it's another common question that comes up quite a bit.
Certain covering cyber policies are more systemic in nature, business interruption,
dependent business interruption. When we talk about systemic risk in cyber, we are
thinking about things that can impact more than one client. When we are thinking about
attritional cyber risk, it's something -- attacks that are focused and just really impact one

Page 9 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

FINAL

client. And I've given some examples on the slide. A client being targeted for a data
breach that's typically one client, one data breach, it's an attritional loss.
Things that are more systemic in nature, for example, cloud outages that can impact lots
of clients at once, are really what we are thinking about when we think through systemic
risk in Beazley. Managing the systemic risk, it's really no different than any other line of
business at Beazley. We manage systemic risk in the same way. We have a group of
people that work on the systemic cyber risk that are focused on it and are constantly
meeting.
Firstly, we will have a set of scenarios. We spent a lot of time putting together our realistic
disaster scenarios that we work. This involves not just the internal expertise we have, but
we work with a lot of third parties around the world, a lot of external experts and we are
constantly updating them every six months, 12 months and they are constantly under
review.

Bloomberg Transcript

As part of that, we're not just looking at what happened. We spent a lot of time thinking
about what could happen, what are the black swans, what could they look like, how would
we manage those, what would be the reality of those happening, what's the likelihood
and we model a lot of scenarios based on that basis. We have a suite of RDS scenarios
that we run. We can run them any time at the push of a button and we're constantly
reviewing them on a weekly, monthly basis.
The other thing is diversification is key. The one thing I've learned through the years of
coming through the cyber business here at Beazley is that the more diversified book you
have, the better you can manage systemic risk. And the thing I'm very proud of and I know
the team is very proud of at Beazley is we have a diversified book not just by revenue, but
now by geography, by client size, by industry. Managing diversification is absolutely critical.
We set our risk appetite for cyber, the same as we do for any other line of business at
Beazley and we manage that risk appetite. And if we think we could go outside of that risk
appetite, we purchase additional reinsurance to keep us within that appetite. Exposure to
systemic events has been coming down. This is due to two things: number one, as you
saw the policy count is down because we've shed more business than planned, but we
are already working since 2019 on reducing our exposure to these events by looking at
the limits we have exposed, and the types of coverages that cause the main aggregation
with our clients, things like business interruption and dependent business interruption.
So for my final slide and in closing, I have given a good overview I think of how we
manage our exposure, the work we've been doing, how we are evolving our cyber
ecosystem, what we seeing from an underwriting action standpoint, what we seeing from
the market and the rates, but what does this mean for us looking forward.
As we continue to get evidence we are profitable and frequency is reducing and that the
risk management is really helping our clients with resilience, there could be a rare
opportunity for profitable growth. This is actually further supported by the market
conditions that we are seeing. However, it's still very early, and this is going to be a
Page 10 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

FINAL

continually evolving process. We're going to keep learning as we do this. We are going to
keep looking at the threats, looking at the data, looking at the underwriting action,
thinking through how we are going to navigate these things.
At Beazley, we remain agile and we want to evolve. We saw market opportunity in 2019,
and that was to establish a leading position through the creation of BBR services. We think
there is an opportunity now through risk management and resilience to create a seamless
kind of opportunity.
And with that, I will pass it back to Adrian.

Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Paul. Okay. So I hope you found that insightful. On then to the outlook. So I
expect growth to continue at the current levels for the rest of the year, but also for that
level of opportunity to persist into 2022. We have a particular set of opportunities and a
particular set of products at Beazley that are more than just transitory, and that's why we
think there is opportunity for continued good growth at the similar levels to this year into
next year.
Yields currently on our fixed income is 0.5% and when we think about that all altogether,
our combined ratio guidance for the year remains unchanged. The year-to-date natural
catastrophe appetite, including the floods and the wildfires that are currently occurring,
remain so far within the margin that we hold as there is no need to update our guidance
at this stage. And once again, we intend to pay a dividend at the year-end all things being
equal and share the strategy at that point.
Talking of strategy, I thought this is an opportune moment to spend a little bit of time
outlining our strategy which we have refreshed this year, and also reaffirming some of our
attributes. So to start with strategy then, we're a specialty insurer. What does that mean?
Well, most of the products that we underwrite are not written by the majority of the
general insurance market as they are by definition specialists, and so require certain
specific tools or skills to do well. These products are less commoditized, which allows for
the insurer to apply IP and differentiate their offering.
Given that, there can be more margin and better cross-cycle returns than in general
insurance. And lastly, demand is growing faster in specialty than in general insurance
markets. Why? Because products are generally at an earlier stage in their life cycle and
new products are created here to address new and emerging risks which occurs now at
an increasing pace as the world continues to evolve faster and faster.
So a successful specialty insurer is in a market that has better cross cycle returns and
persistently high levels of growth. And where do we fit into that? Well, our strategy is to
employ people who have genuine subject matter expertise and who take pride in
continually refining that knowledge and then to deploy them at the point of sale and
empower them to use their expertise.
Page 11 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

FINAL

We then find niches were deploying that expertise drive some competitive advantage
and I think there are two ways we do this. Firstly, as we out underwrite, out risk select, out
claims manage our peers on a risk forward [ph] basis and secondly, our customers,
brokers, and insureds value having access to that expertise, people who know what they
are talking about, understand our industry and have the authority to make decisions.
In most of the insurance and reinsurance well even in some of the specialty areas those
capabilities don't really drive competitive advantage, but in some, they do, and that tends
to be in areas where risk is more complex or volatile or changing or new. And our job then
is to find those areas where that applies and where there is margin if you do it well to
properly reward us for our efforts.
So our product strategy is relatively simple, refine our product set to maximize our
competitive advantage by ensuring that the businesses we are currently in are fit for
purpose and constantly looking for new ones.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our footprint strategy is also relatively simple. As a specialist and relatively small,
personally, I don't think scale is of itself important. I think our relevance comes from having
to say something -- having something to say rather than by size, but given that, it makes
no sense for us to have an ambition to have a presence in every geography across the
world. Rather, we have a preference to locate whether large pools of demand for the
specialist products that we sell. And they are in the large non-life markets in North
America and Europe, and in the big wholesale markets for us, London, Singapore, and
Miami.
The business that we build in those large mostly retail markets in North America and
Europe is sticky, more mid-market and SME, and painstakingly built over decades rather
than years. The business that we build in the wholesale markets is more larger risk, more
volatile and more actively managed through the market cycle reflecting the fact that
opportunities in the wholesale world to wax and wane considerably.
When you combine that then you have a business that can create and maintain
differentiated products, where demand growth is higher, that gives us long-term
opportunity for compound growth with levels of cross-cycle margin significantly higher
than the cost of capital. It's an appealing model I think, but it's hard by very definition if
there is a risk you concentrate on are new changing, volatile, complex.
And we have to be good at it to get it right. And not only good, but relentlessly looking
for ways to do it better, and that's the challenge that we set ourselves every day. And
that's why we invest heavily in improving our underwriting technology, seeking new data,
which can generate insight, working with third parties to harness different technologies,
building out our risk management services, all to drive doing specialty business well,
designing those differentiated products and building barriers to entry. And that's our
strategy in a nutshell. It's not new, but I think it's good to articulate it every now and then.
The second topic I thought I would address is what are all the attributes of Beazley as a
Company. We've long been associated with a number of them, and I think it seems
Page 12 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

FINAL

appropriate now to affirm to the ones that we wish to commit to afresh.
And the first is underwriting discipline. This is particularly important to me. We are an
underwriting company, is what we hang our hat on, and as I hope you heard, it's central to
our strategy and our competitive advantage. And that means both capitalizing on
opportunities, but also knowing when to pull back or to stop when needed. And you will
have seen over the last few years that we do reassess our product set and we do stop
when what we have doesn't really drive competitive advantage. Engineering, trucking,
SME marine, are examples of that over the last couple of years.
Secondly, capital discipline. We've always put great steadiness, returning capital to
shareholders when we don't have attractive opportunities to deploy them ourselves and
that commitment remains. Thirdly, financial discipline. I do believe in the discipline of
regular dividends and the prudential financial management that that drives.
Next, reserve discipline. We commit, as Sally said, to maintaining a consistent and prudent
philosophy of setting reserves which should, other things being equal, provide for a
consistent flow of reserve releases over time.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next, diversification. We've long valued the benefits that diversification bring. One of our
favorite charts has been that which show rate change across all teams, which is
significantly less volatile than each team of itself. That portfolio management philosophy
remains.
And lastly, responsible business, which we will discuss I think more at the year-end, but we
are building out strategies to address the E, the S, and the G of being a responsible
business. I want us to be a Company that embeds these values and those goals at its
heart. Our vision is to be and be recognized as the highest performing specialty insurer,
and I believe that highest performing includes a commitment to becoming a better
business that contributes to those goals.
So with that, I hope you found that useful and I open up to Q&A.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you very much. (Operator Instructions) Our first question today comes from Kamran
Hossain from RBC. Kamran, your line is now open.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning, everyone So the first two questions are on cyber because I guess it
would be rude not to ask Paul some questions given his presentation. The first one is just
about market behavior in cyber. Obviously, you've been in this market for the long haul.
There have been some people that have been called into the market more recently and
probably have been burnt a little bit in the last year. I am not sure then whether people
Page 13 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

have exited or the behavior is changing, and maybe all kind of barriers to entry now are a
little bit higher than they were a year ago?

FINAL

The second question on cyber is, I guess, as the risk changes all the time, do you think we
will get to a world where I guess given risk management capabilities, we can get some
more real-time pricing, or do you think an annual contract is just the thing that we will see
in the market for the next few years? So kind of a very big picture question.
And then, the third question, I guess, the growth outlook for next year it sounds really
exciting. In terms of the areas of growth for next year, should we expect them to be
similar to those that you've seen kind of year-to-date, or are there any other areas that
you think we should highlight? Thank you.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

All right. Paul, do you want to tackle the first two cyber questions. I will think about how we
are going to grow.

A - Paul Bantick

{BIO 15979097 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hey. Thanks, Kamran. Yes, you are absolutely right about market behavior. I mean we are
definitely seeing a situation where capacity is restricted in the market and that's driven
predominantly because of the losses, and some of the ransomware activity, and
definitely, as you've seen from the market conditions, and the rate changes we're seeing,
the demand is outweighing supply. There have been some entrants in the market. I
haven't seen as many in recent times.
In terms of barriers to entry and investment, I think, the word investment is critical. I do
think that barriers to entry to be able to this well for clients and to be able to manage
clients and help them with their resilience and manage your own frequency and severity I
think the investment is colossal. And it's not just a monetary investment, it's the people
and IT investment, it's just a huge investment. So I think the barriers to entry are definitely,
definitely growing.
In terms of real-time pricing, I think, it could get there one day. I think we're a long way
away from it. I think it's early doors. I think we've always thought about that and it's been
something that's been in the back of our minds. I think it will become more realistic in the
coming years as clients start to increase their resilience and as we can get a better
understanding from clients constantly around what do they -- how are they constantly
evolving, how are they constantly seeing their controls evolve. But I do see that one day
that could be something that potentially the cyber market starts to look at.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Thank you, Paul. So on to growth, I think, what we've been talking for the last 18 months is
about the 85-15 split of how we are feeling about our portfolio, with the 15 really being
the areas that we think are exposed to this COVID aftershock claims environment, as well
as social inflation. I think the underlying assumption still remains, Kamran. So we are
looking to grow across most of our book. We still remain quite defensive on things like
Page 14 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

FINAL

employment practices, liability, certain parts of our health care book, and certain parts of
our E&O/PI book.
But I think overlaying that there is some stuff which is a bit more life in that. We are
beginning to open up as an economy. So there will be more evidence generated I think in
the second half of this year about what's happening to those COVID aftershocks, is social
inflation going to reemerge as the courts reopen. So we will be able to update our
assumptions I think as the years go on, which as the year goes on, which will influence
what we want to do next year.
Likewise, I think we are continuing to build evidence about how successful our cyber
strategy is, and that will influence how much exposure we want to put on the books or
not. And of course, we are in a very live natural catastrophe environment, not only in the
middle of the windstorm season, but there is other stuff going on as well. And I think that
will impact what we think is going to happen to the market, as well as what we think we
need to do to our own underwriting strategy.
So the sort of short answer is, our 85-15 remains, but we are in a very live claims
environment at the moment, and I think that will influence both what the market does and
what our view of risk is. And so that will influence what we do.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thanks, Adrian.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Thank you, Kamran.

Operator
Our next question comes from Will Hardcastle from UBS. Will, your line is now open.

Q - Will Hardcastle

{BIO 16346311 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning, everyone. First question on cyber, second on capital and dividend, if it's
okay. So first on cyber, you are seeing these enormous price increases that sounds to be
potential opportunities, of course, you are going to weigh the risk off. And you are sort of
suggesting that there could be a great opportunity. I guess when will we know if that
opportunity truly exists, knowing it's sort of seven, eight months through starting the
remedy or the action there?
And then in that context, that level of growth, what should we really see as the maximum
level on a Group level that you'd consider to be comfortable to be cyber exposed,
perhaps whether it'd be premium exposure or however you look at that would be helpful?
And then on capital and dividend, I guess we've seen a really big earnings beat today to
expectations, but still no dividend, the capital even after achieving what feels now higher
Page 15 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

premium growth expectation for next year is robust. Can you just help us to understand
the logic in your thinking perhaps of the no interim at this stage? And what's the greatest
risk in your mind that perhaps prevented you from distributing that despite these financial
metrics suggesting that you'd have been comfortable to do so?

FINAL

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Will. I'll have a crack at those and please feel free to wade in if I miss
anything. So on to cyber and as we've been very careful to say that the data that we have
is very early because as you say we're any seven, eight months into something and in
insurance terms that's just a blink of an eye right. So having said that, first-party side, the
ransomware side, predominantly of our cyber business is very short-tail. So I think we
gather more evidence month by month. We'll have a reasonable idea in time for the
business plan for next year as to whether we think it's successful or what else we need to
do. And so, we should be able to give more guidance towards the end of the year about
what we want to do as the evidence builds. And I think because it's so short tail, that's
faster than normal I think.

Bloomberg Transcript

Going back to the little speech I gave about the attributes of Beazley, we do still believe in
the benefits of diversification. You definitely can't have too much of a good thing. At the
same time, as you say, there may be an opportunity here and we will look to capitalize on
that if we think there is one. Nonetheless, we want to make sure that we remain a
balanced business. Our rule of thumb is around 15. We may flex that up or down a little bit
depending upon how big of an opportunity it is and we may well use our reinsurance
partners to build the business with us. But think as a share of the overall, we will flex
around a little bit, but we remain committed to a diversified business.
But we might grow it a little bit more gross, use our reinsurance, and likewise, as you sort
of intimate Will, there are sort of two ways of measuring this, by premium and by
exposure. And because rates are going up so fast, premium may not be an adequate way
to do this. And so we'll look at both, but we remain committed to diversification because I
think it's important to the consistency of results.
In terms of sort of capital and dividend, we are pleased with where our capital is in the
sort of top half of the range. And we did consider whether or not we should pay an
interim dividend. I think the underlying driver of why we've decided to postpone is, is
because paying a dividend is not just that. It's paying a dividend and explaining what your
dividend strategy is going forward. And to us really, that sort of feels like a year-end
decision when we can take a look at the whole thing and then set out something new for
next year, and that didn't seem to be the sort of thing you want to do halfway through the
year. It's a sort of thing that you do when you finish and you have a look back and set out
something that's going to last for the foreseeable future. So it's just a timing thing for us
really, not much to read into it apart from that.

Q - Will Hardcastle

{BIO 16346311 <GO>}

Okay. That's really clear on the dividend. I guess one thing I just wanted to clarify, it's not a
new point. You mentioned something about the full-year. Obviously, you stand committed
on doing some changes, but just thinking about that a little bit, if that comes, I'm not sure
Page 16 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

if you've delivered this yet, but will that be the sort of final sort of equivalent, or roughly
two-thirds of the year, or will it be covering the whole year, how would you look at that?

FINAL

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Yeah. That's a yes. And so you're right to ask that question because we worded it quite
carefully. So the intention, all things being equal, is that the dividend will reflect the full
year's earnings rather than just second half. So thank you for asking us.

Operator
Our next question comes from Andrew Ritchie from Autonomous. Andrew, your line is
now open.

Q - Andrew Ritchi

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, there. Thanks. And thanks for the detailed presentation on cyber space, that was very
useful and timely. Questions, first of all, I noticed in the triangles, there continues to be
recoveries on various accident years on your speciality/CyEx aggregate excess of loss. I
mean if you just recap what comfort there is on remaining room on those recoveries
because at the minute there is a helpful spread between gross deterioration and net
improvement? Should we expect that to continue to basically?
Second question, we are in wind season, what should I think of as your property exposure
or property plus reinsurance exposure? Obviously, you give us that through your real
estate results annually, but should I think that it has gone up from last year or same
because I can't tell to what degree your exposure has grown in those classes? And linked
to that, is there any sense can you give us, not you will, of what your sort of remaining cap
budget would be for the year?
Sorry. I had two other quick questions. One on cyber, on Lodestone, that's an intriguing
business, though I didn't realize you had set up. Is that a business that can generate
meaningful fee income I suppose from non-insurance clients? I think I need to check out
the website, and it appears to be open to non-insurance clients. So I'm just curious what
the sort of strategic thinking behind that business longer term is?
My only other question, Sally, I'm a bit confused by your EPS calculations. I don't get why
the average check count is the same year-on-year for the half-year. And also the
translation from cents to pence appears to be (inaudible) last year's average exchange
rate. Maybe just clarify what's going on there. Thanks.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Sally Lake

{BIO 20925273 <GO>}

I start with. I'll take that one away to look in detail at that. So I probably can't do that live.

Page 17 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

The earnings per share one.

A - Sally Lake

{BIO 20925273 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Okay. I will get back to you on that one, Andrew. If we go through the first three questions
then, in terms of reinsurance recoveries available. We may have an echo if that's the case,
I do apologize. And yes, we have plenty of reinsurance left available across our specialty
lines and CyEx. So you're right to notice the difference in the gross to the net, but nothing
is exhaustive and the scenarios that we run don't have us exhausting it either.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of exposure growth, I think there's sort of two things to look at. Yes, our property
business and our reinsurance business in aggregate has grown a little bit and I think that
has driven up a little bit, 1 in 250, sort of on a pro-rata sort of basis, but there's more to it
than that I think. And one of the things we've been talking about the last few years is
looking at the near end of the curve as well as the end of the curve. And we've been
quite careful to make sure that we are very strict about growing exposures on the near
end of the curve. And so it's not all pro-rata.
I would love to be able to share the net cat budget with you, but I'm not allowed.
(inaudible) myself to say that's fine, I thought I can say that. And Paul why don't I pass over
the Lodestone question to you.

A - Paul Bantick

{BIO 15979097 <GO>}

Yeah. Thanks, Andrew. Lodestone, as you rightly point out, is doing fantastically well. Yes,
it can and it does do work with non-Beazley clients. It's something that we're seeing a lot
of people, particularly in the middle-market clients having a huge amount of value from.
So if you take a step back for a second, they kind of do two things, really, when you want
to think about Lodestone. They do incident response work. So they're forensics provider
and can do incident response work when someone's having some quite of incident, like a
data breach or ransomware.
And secondly, they do a lot of proactive risk management services, so helping clients
become more resilient, understand their risk before they have some kind of cyber event.
We work with them closely on both across our client base and is extremely exciting. We
now have cybersecurity firm that can benefit our insureds greatly and as would evolving
our cyber strategy and our ecosystem, we're actually -- we've been sitting down with
Lodestone every step of the way to think about what does this mean for Lodestone and
Beazley and how do we partner on this and what is the opportunity for both organizations.
And it's very much done in partnership and very exciting. They have just launched in the
UK, and there is hopefully a lot more to come.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}
Page 18 of 36



FINAL

Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

Yes, Andrew. I think when we first conceived of Loadstone a few years ago, it was -- we
started it because of that concept that you suggested, right. If the world is getting more
digitized and that equals more risk and there is an opportunity in insurance, but there's
also opportunity in risk management, that could be a business for us to build there. And
so we started it quietly, used it to help our clients only, but with optionality to pivot
according to where we see the opportunities. And that's exactly what we're doing now, is
we're assessing what can we do with Lodestone folks to help our own proposition, but
also in and of itself because cyber risk management -- cybersecurity risk management is a
very fast-growing opportunity and maybe it's something we can capitalize on that.

Q - Andrew Ritchi

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

And owned by Beazley today?

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Sorry.

Q - Andrew Ritchi

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

It's 100% owned by you today to clarify that?

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. It is. Well, that and the employees, but yes.

Q - Andrew Ritchi

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Pleasure.

Operator
Our next question comes from Ian Pearce from Credit Suisse. Ian, please go ahead.

Q - Ian Pearce

{BIO 17168137 <GO>}

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions, all cyber-related, please. So just I was hoping you
could touch on sort of what's going on more widely in terms of claims trends in the cyber
market. Obviously, you are all flagging some improvement in claims experience. Can you
just touch on what the market thinks? I don't think that's been replicated across the
market.
Secondly, just in terms of cyber rates, I mean you are sounding a bit more bullish on how
long this hardening can continue. So just if you could flag what your expectations might be
for sort of cyber rates in 2022 and if you think how long they can continue beyond that
potentially as well?
Page 19 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

FINAL

And then, on the loss ratio that you book in cyber, could you just talk a little bit around how
you thought about booking the loss ratio at the start of this year for cyber and whether
you are reflecting some of that positive claims experience in the cyber loss ratio, because
the CyEx loss ratio at the start of this year was still quite high?
And then, finally, just in terms of the investments that we've made, could you just put
some numbers around that and how you're treating that from an accounting perspective,
whether that's all been expensed?

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Okay. I think there four questions there. I'll do the third one.

Q - Ian Pearce

{BIO 17168137 <GO>}

Sorry.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

No, it's perfect, just making sure that we address them. I'll pass the fourth one about the
investments to Sally. I will have a go at the loss ratio and if you want talk about the trends
and the rate into next year.

A - Paul Bantick

{BIO 15979097 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Sure.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Paul Bantick

{BIO 15979097 <GO>}

Should I go, one and two first. Okay. So, yes, I mean you right Ian. We are seeing right
now, as I said, rates doubling. When you look at the wider cyber market and you think
about trends, I think, there are several things. Definitely, all the cyber carriers that certainly
we see are certainly taken action, everyone's got their own approach and got their own
action and their own course that they are taking. But we are definitely seeing a varied set
of actions across the market and everyone is starting to really address it, some focused
on rate, some focused through other things. And so you're seeing a mixture. It's definitely
picking up as we move through the second half of the year.
The rates that were seen for the last month or two, were not the rates that we saw in the
first three months of the year. So I think there is certainly a lot more to come in terms of
run way. I think you're going to see the rate environment with us for a little while certainly
through the rest of the year and into next year. We are in a very fast-changing market. We
are in a very, very fast-changing market, and as capacity restricts, it could well be that the
rates continue to extend into and through next year. That's one of the reasons why we
are keeping our plan very agile and why we plan to reassess later in the year because had
we looked at rates three months ago and made assumptions, that have been very
Page 20 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

different three months ago than they are today, they are on definitely a very steep curve
and upward trajectory.

FINAL

And so I think once we get to the end of the year, we'll think about what is the most likely
scenario for 2022 rates, but right now, I certainly see and from talking to brokers and our
partners and others, we certainly see the rate environment and rates continuing to
increase through next year.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Claims trends.

A - Paul Bantick

{BIO 15979097 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Claims trends, when we look at the claims trends, obviously, we've got some positive
claims trends on frequency. It will be interesting to see. There is also a number of other
factors that are starting to happen around the world that are going to impact claims
trends. We are seeing certainly different governments start to take action and law
enforcements start to take action around some of the cyber threats and will be
interesting to see what they do to claim trends. Obviously, we've seen the reduction in
frequency.
It's very early to tell on severity, but obviously, the action that we're taking through limit
management and the targeted limit management approach, now that we've been doing
that for seven, eight months, we will start to see that in the coming months start to really
pull through as well because that limit management -- having less aggregate expose to
these things will have an impact on the severity. The claims trends, again, it's something
that we watch on a monthly basis. It's something that is, as Adrian said, it's a short tail
class of business. And so once we get to the end of the year, we'll have another three,
four, five months worth of claims trends data, we'll have a much better handle on where
the market is at that point in time from a rating standpoint and then we be able to finalize
the rate.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

I think cyber frequency is down generally or just --

A - Paul Bantick

{BIO 15979097 <GO>}

I think cyber frequency was not just -- may have been down slightly recently, but I don't
think generally. I think cyber frequency is down slightly. And it can be a bit seasonal, cyber
frequency. You see certain hotspots. So July 4 in the US, that holiday weekend, Christmas
time, Black Monday, the shopping -- the busy shopping periods, you do see some
seasonality for cyber events over the years. But from what we hearing and what we are
seeing and from talking to a lot of the experts that we work with, they are not seeing any
dramatic drop in frequency, although there are things on the way that might help along
with the underwriting actions.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}
Page 21 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

FINAL

Thank you, Paul. Loss ratios, so we have not taken credit in our loss ratios for the reunderwriting that we've done and from a GAAP perspective, any impacts that that has is
likely to be felt at the tail end of next year. And it's not something that we will be booking
this year. As you say, it's early from a business line perspective, it's even earlier from a
booking and profit perspective. So we will wait a little bit longer before that flows through
to our P&L or not. Sally do you want to talk about the investment dollars?

A - Sally Lake

{BIO 20925273 <GO>}

So it's not a dissimilar answer actually. So the cost of the ecosystem, as Paul described, is
minimal within the first half. I expect it to increase in the second half and then probably
increase further in the fullness of next year as well. It will come through our admin costs. I
would expect, we may look depending on what we do to look at it if we want to capitalize
some of that, but that decision hasn't been made yet. So I can update in the future on
that, but in terms of the financials we are seeing today, it's not a significant amount within
those.

Q - Ian Pearce

{BIO 17168137 <GO>}

Okay. Perfect. Thank you.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Thanks, Ian.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Paul Bantick

{BIO 15979097 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Freya Kong from Bank of America. Freya,
please proceed with your question. Your line is open.

Q - Freya Kong

{BIO 20097488 <GO>}

Good morning, guys, and thanks for taking the questions. I've got three questions if that's
all right. Firstly, on your dividend strategy, and what you will be giving us at the end of the
year, has anything changed in the business for you to step away from your previous
progressive dividend policy and what sort of re-basing should we expect?
My second question is on COVID. How are you tracking versus the $50 million of extra
exposure that you flagged for 2021? I would think by now at this stage we would have
decent visibility for the rest of the year. And if this $340 million that you have booked for
reserves, could you give us a sense of the IBNR?
And last question is on net premium growth. So you previously guided to slightly below
gross premium growth, but now there is a 10 point difference in the guidance that you
arse giving us. Has there been any change in the reinsurance that you expect take on this
year? Thanks.
Page 22 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

FINAL

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Great stuff. Okay. So has anything changed on our dividend strategy? Yes and no. So we
haven't decided what it is next year or going forward yet. So it may be a resumption of
what we've been doing before and maybe something different and we haven't thought
through that. So I can't really give any guidance as to what that's going to be because we
haven't had those discussions yet. I do think it's a good opportunity for us to set a path for
the next five to 10 years, want to make sure we take the proper amount of time to think
that through and once we have, we will share it. So I'm not being evasive. We just haven't
done the work yet.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving onto COVID, we haven't used the $50 million yet. So as I said, the sort of behavior
in terms of what events are happening and how they are happening, it's relatively in line
with what we had expected to happen, and so if that continues as it is, we don't expect to
have to use the $50 million of extra that we had flagged. And by the time we reach the
end of the year, most of the events that we are concerned about will have either
happened or not happened. So we will get clarity one way or another by the end of the
year. But as we stand here, we're not planning to use the $50 million.
I'm not able to share with you, unfortunately, how much of that $340 million is in IBNR.
There is some, but we currently are not going to give any detail beyond that. And in terms
of the difference between net and gross premium, you are right. We had flagged last
year some of the growing areas. We were growing in partnership with some reinsurers.
And so we were sharing some of that risk on a proportional basis. That is coming through
now. I think the net premium growth of 14% is sort of in line with the mid-teens that we
were guiding to and which we are still guiding to, and which we are thinking it will persist
into next year. Sally, have I missed anything?

A - Sally Lake

{BIO 20925273 <GO>}

No. It's fine.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Does that help, Freya?

Q - Freya Kong

{BIO 20097488 <GO>}

Yes thanks. Yes. I mean the maximum gross guidance hasn't really changed, but your
gross premium guidance has increased. Where -- in which lines are you sharing more with
the reinsurers?

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

So the biggest type of reinsurance we've been buying is proportional reinsurance on our
specialty lines and our CyEx books, which are the most capital-intensive that we have and
that's why we chose to share that, and also the ones that are growing the fastest.

A - Sally Lake

{BIO 20925273 <GO>}

Page 23 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

And then you've got the one-off purchases.

A - Paul Bantick

{BIO 15979097 <GO>}

FINAL

And then you've got the loss portfolio transfer that's right in property, which does have a
one-off impact. So the difference between gross and net shouldn't be as much at the end
of the year. Yeah, you're right. Thank you.

Q - Freya Kong

{BIO 20097488 <GO>}

Okay. Perfect. Thanks, guys.

Operator
Our next question comes from Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan. Ashik, the line is now yours.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. Thank you and good morning, everyone. Just a couple of questions again on cyber
and one on the overall as well. On cyber, I mean prices are going up quite a lot, I mean
50%, 100% as you have mentioned. Would you say that most of those price increases that
you are seeing is expected to be absorbed by like just increase in the frequency or
severity, or would you say that it's just too early to say, and you are being trying to be a bit
more conservative with the loss picks that you are putting? I mean this question will last
earlier as well, but I'm just trying to get a bit more clarity on how do we think about the
price increases and the reserves that you're booking in at the moment. So that's one.
Secondly is I mean clearly you are doing a bit of a portfolio pruning as well, but is it
possible to get some views on how do we think about new customers coming in and old
customers going out? How do we think about things like whether the new customers
coming in are at that 100 -- like double premiums versus same exposure or they are
coming with a lower premium, i.e., most of the price increases are with old customers? So
that could be second.
And just related to that, I mean, would you say that going forward, you still expect more
new customers or would you say that this portfolio pruning will just continue for a year or
two, just because you're trying to watch out what's going on?
And the third one is pricing ex-cyber, I mean clearly pricing in second quarter ex-cyber has
been more or less stable versus the first quarter, whereas there has been a general noise
in the market that going into second half, pricing would most likely start tapering off in
specialty lines, reinsurance, et cetera. So I mean it's early days, I agree, but any thoughts
on where the pricing is heading towards ex-cyber?

A - Paul Bantick

{BIO 15979097 <GO>}

Okay. Right. So let's try and tackle that bit by bit. So yes, we are also seeing significant
price increase and we are pushing price increase, and at the same time, we are improving
our risk selection and we're seeing some early impact of that. The expectation is if all that
Page 24 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

plays out as we're hoping it would, that that will bring the margin back, but we have not
reflected that in our loss picks or our reserves so far. We're going to wait for further
evidence of that.
The portfolio pruning is an interesting way of putting it. So what we've been doing is with
all the analytics that Paul was referring to, when we scan our clients and we do our due
diligence, the clients are either green-green, or amber, or red, and what we've been
doing is, I think, pursuing a different strategy with clients according to which of those
buckets they fall into. And we are treating new and existing customers exactly the same
because that's the right thing to do, but essentially, we are doing our due diligence to see
how well protected they are and how resilient they are.
One of the interesting things is that that itself is also changing because not only are we
being more active in what we're looking for, gradually the corporate world is realizing that
risk management for network security is an increasingly important thing to do. The clients
and companies are behaving now differently to where they were a year ago because they
are realizing they need to improve their own risk management. And so our own renewal
clients will be different now than they were a year ago because they would have done a
lot of that work themselves. And so, part of what we're in now is a transition from a low
risk-managed environment to a very higher risk-managed environment, and that's
essentially what we're trying to do is to help them through that. And so we're not really
pruning necessarily, we're just making sure that the clients we have, new and existing, are
appropriately risk managed and that is essentially up to the clients. I would agree of that.
And I would add that we are writing new business where we see we're putting new
business through the same process where we see new business, as Adrian said, it is
green that we think when we do our underwriting due diligence and we run them through
the technology and the processes we have, we are writing that new business. But the
rates we're seeing on that new business are significantly higher than the rates we saw on
new business last year. So we're seeing for the amount of new business we write, it's
actually a lot less policies that we need to add to do that because of the rating
environment. So we are seeing a lot of new business both in the US and internationally.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

And when we look at our rate change ex-cyber, your -- it was a good observation. It's sort
of consistent with where it was and it is slightly different from what we hear in the market
and that's due to some of the impacts that we were talking about in Q1, right. So, we, like
everyone else, have noticed that there is a little bit of tapering on some of the shorter tail
lines of business, which continues, but some of the other longer-tail lines of business
we've got in specialty lines and CyEx continue to exhibit strong rate changes. And so,
overall, that amounts the same sort of number, but the drivers are slightly different. And
because I think we do have higher weighting of that business compared to some of our
peers, that generates a higher average rate change that we are demonstrating today.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay. And just any visibility on like going forward you would expect it to continue or would
you say that for your book as well probably we are getting towards a bit of tapering now?

Page 25 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

FINAL

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

No, I don't think we have anything new to say on the short tail lines of business. What
you're hearing from others is consistent with what we are seeing. I think the longer tail
lines of business took longer to turn, so whereas the property market, for example, really
started to turn at the end of 2017. It was two years later on some of the long tail classes.
So it's slightly behind the market cycle. And our expectation is that it will persist slightly
longer because of that. So that's why we're guiding to a similar level of rate change for
the second half of the year.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Thank you. Thanks a lot.

Operator
Thank you for your question, Ashik. Our next question comes from Faizan Lakhani from
HSBC. Faisal Please go ahead.

Q - Faizan Lakhani

{BIO 22154809 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi. Good morning. Congratulations on very good set of results. I have three questions.
First is on reserve releases -- on the reserve margins, sorry. If your margin is at 6.6%, I
remember at the full year you mentioned that the 6.3% was depressed due to the
(inaudible) and COIVD. So can we assume that the buffer is flat to possibly down relative
to full year? Or is it actually a genuine improvement?
And question two is on cyber. Can you just give us some indication on how severity has
developed since October and also how cyber is booming relative to 2019? And final
question is on capital. Could you just give us a breakdown in terms of how the capital
developed from the implications of the change in investment portfolio, rates and
volumes/

A - Paul Bantick

{BIO 15979097 <GO>}

Okay. I think you want to take questions one and three, Sally.

A - Sally Lake

{BIO 20925273 <GO>}

Yeah, sure. So, yes, so just to remind everyone at the year-end we spoke about actually
that there was a depression caused by a set of claims within the reserved surplus being
COVID in particular, but also the fact that we've had some cats, which we have had again
in Q1 to a slightly lesser extent in Texas. And then the other thing that was causing the
depression was the fact that the excessive loss we've been speaking about on specialty
lines and CyEx was leading to the net position on both the actuarial number and on our
balance sheet being very similar, though all of those things still remain and they're not
necessarily exactly the same. So that effect still remains in the reserve margin calculation
and it will do to some extent whilst we are still recovering on the excessive loss insurance.
So hopefully that helped you there.

Page 26 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

Q - Faizan Lakhani

{BIO 22154809 <GO>}

So will it remain to the same extent this half year?

FINAL

A - Sally Lake

{BIO 20925273 <GO>}

It probably hasn't changed significantly is what I would probably say because if I look at
how the gross versus net has moved, as we spoke about earlier, we are still in a similar
position. So I would say, it may have moved, but not to anything significant.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

And then capital.

A - Sally Lake

{BIO 20925273 <GO>}

And then on capital, short answer, kind of no. So we don't give that breakdown. I guess
what you're seeing is an overall increase in the ECR of around 5%. So you could kind of
work out what if we are growing net premium by 14%, and we're getting 10% offsets from
other things both -- and that would include both rate change and claims, but we don't give
that breakdown. That's just high level --

Q - Faizan Lakhani

{BIO 22154809 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Did the investments portfolio have any impact at all in terms of how the capital developed
or has that been modest in the grand scheme of things?

A - Sally Lake

{BIO 20925273 <GO>}

No, not particularly. The two things that would impact it is if we changed our risk appetite,
which we haven't, and secondly, if there is some volatility change in the market which
there has been up and down over the last couple of years, but it's not a significant driver
of our capital, though it will do in the rounding but our peak capital isn't driven by our
investment portfolio because relatively the risk is lower compared to other risks that we
take.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

So Paul, cyber severity.

A - Paul Bantick

{BIO 15979097 <GO>}

Yeah. So cyber severity. It's still fairly early when we're looking at the business, it is down
since October, talk about severity. I mean it will take a little bit more time for us to be able
to look at that and take a view on that. But with the action we've been taking, both in the
limit management, both with program changes where clients -- some larger clients take
much larger retentions now than perhaps they did a year ago, we will see I think severity
start to pull through in the coming quarters. And we will be able to take a look and take a
view on that.

Page 27 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

FINAL

Performance relative to 2019, well, when we show you the 20% reduction that we've seen
so far and the 50 basis [ph] on premium, that is very much comparing it to 2019 and 2020
-- early 2020, which is when we saw the most of the ransomware activity. So those
numbers are looking at not just how is it down, but how is it down compared to what we
saw in 2019, 2020 because that's predominantly where the ransomware threat existed.

Q - Faizan Lakhani

{BIO 22154809 <GO>}

And may I ask a couple of follow-up questions if that's okay?

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Sure.

Q - Faizan Lakhani

{BIO 22154809 <GO>}

In terms of cyber, your frequency is down by 20%. You're keeping your loss pick -- your
loss pick isn't allowing it to the improvement in cyber. Can we -- though we eventually
assume that the loss pick in CyEx you've sort of broken it down to set (Technical Difficulty)
current year down being additional buffer to your results. That would be fair?

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

You want to answer it?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Sally Lake

{BIO 20925273 <GO>}

Yes. So I think the question was given that we have amended our loss pick given the
positivity that we're seeing in the data, can we imply that there is more reserved margin
coming out of that. I would say, if the trend continues, then that would be the outcome,
but I would not rush to that conclusion at this stage because I'll say again, as Paul and
Adrian have, it's a very early indicator of the data. So I think we need to wait for a year's
data at least probably till the year-end to start drawing those conclusions because you are
completely correct that if we continue with this trend then that would be an outcome.
Hopefully that (Multiple Speakers)

Q - Faizan Lakhani

{BIO 22154809 <GO>}

And just in terms of the second half of the year, if rates go up, do you think that will simply
just pause the worsening trends, or can we assume improving cyber rates from here
would feed into better experience in the second of the year?

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

So rate action is a backwards looking thing, right. So rates are going up because the
claims of the insurance market has paid and so I don't think rates will continue to go up
because of what happens in the second half of 2021, rates will continue to go up or not
because of what's happened in the first half of 2021 because the insurance market reacts
what it has seen and I think the rating environment will persist until the insurance industry
in general has reinsured itself that is on top of this problem. And it is a long way from that
yet.
Page 28 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

Q - Faizan Lakhani

{BIO 22154809 <GO>}

Perfect. Thank you very much for answering my questions. Thanks, Faizan.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Operator
Thank you for your questions Faizan. Our next question comes from Ivan Bokhmat from
Barclays. Ivan, the floor is yours.

Q - Ivan Bokhmat

{BIO 15378004 <GO>}

Good morning. I've got a couple of questions both in cyber. The first one would be
related to capital intensity of the business. I'm just wondering if given the panel that
you've got, the quote right now, if you can help us understand for cyber, what is the -what cost of business would you compare the capital intensity to? If it would be akin to
specialty or akin to property because clearly some of the aspects like the accumulation
risk would make cyber quite close or similar let's say to property cat, but I presume that
the risk charge under your model and under most rating agency models is far lower?
Maybe if you can give some general thoughts on that. Maybe you are aware of any
discussions happening broadly of perhaps increasing risk weights in the Lloyd's or
Solvency II framework that would be very interesting?
And the second one, I suppose you spoke about the attritional versus systemic risk. And
I'm just wondering, could you explain a bit how you can distinguish between your
customers? Are you able to offer more narrow policies, limiting that systemic risk to some
others outside than just the risk limits? Or typically the policies you offer are quite broad,
and therefore, you would still be exposed to, let's say, cloud outages even for the breach
response customers? Thank you.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Sally, on the capacity, why don't you have me take a crack?

A - Sally Lake

{BIO 20925273 <GO>}

You have a crack. You quite like it.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Okay. Yeah. It's a good observation, right. So it does have attributes or elements of both
property and liability in it and if cyber would have been born a different way, it would have
been in our property team, as Paul said because it emerged as a regulatory and legal
obligation mostly in our specialty lines team. I think, so it has its own place in the internal
model, it is modeled separately. I would say if it was like anything, it's probably like D&O in
terms of how capital intensive it is. And I think a significant part of that is still the fact that
although we've been doing this since 2009, it's still a new business with a lot of
uncertainty to it and that generates an extra load, though part of that is because of the
volatility that it exhibits, but actually a large chunk of it is because we still load the capital
ratios, because it's new and there is uncertainty around that newness.

Page 29 of 36



FINAL

Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

Attritional versus systemic is an interesting one. We have and what we discovered as
we've done more modeling which bits of cover create more systemic issues than others
and the cyber coverage has broadened over the years. And as we thought about that
more and more, we have realized which bits do. And as Paul I think alluded to earlier, the
real thing that joins all businesses together is business interruption and its cousins,
dependent business interruption and service interruption. And part of the management
that we've been doing these last couple of years is to be much more stringent and
careful as to how we give that coverage out because of the fact that we do know it
accumulates. Paul, is there anything else you would like to add on top of that/

A - Paul Bantick

{BIO 15979097 <GO>}

I think we've been doing that, but we also do a lot of work to understand what these
scenarios would look like because they don't I mean the same for large accounts, for
example, as they do middle market. It doesn't mean the same for international as it does
the US. It doesn't mean the same for different industries. So when we're thinking about
the cover we give to clients, we're thinking through those issues and we have a good
understanding of when these scenarios happen, who is that going to impact, and
therefore, what coverage are we giving them and how much are we give them. It's a
combination of all those things put together.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Does that help, Ivan?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ivan Bokhmat

{BIO 15378004 <GO>}

Yeah. Maybe I can follow up. I mean, considering that a lot of your portfolio would be
market risks, I'm just wondering, what do you perceive the wording of the contracts in
your books different than from broader markets exposures? There is some differentiation
which you can help illustrate.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

The differential between our cyber wordings and the market cyber wordings, is that what
you are after?

Q - Ivan Bokhmat

{BIO 15378004 <GO>}

Yeah. As in, if you look at the largest cyber writers, like (Multiple Speakers) who would
presumably take more larger clients, and it doesn't have to be minutes of course. But
whether you think there is a difference in the wording between you and the largest
players, let's say, in the US?

A - Paul Bantick

{BIO 15979097 <GO>}

Yeah. I think the biggest difference is around the fact is in our Beazley Breach Response
product, which gives us control over the claim. So when you look at the cyber market and
the wordings, firstly, agents -- spot on, the main point of differentiation in the wordings is
services (Technical Difficulty). Look at our wording, our BBR product is designed -- it's
typically used in the middle market because middle market clients are the ones that
Page 30 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

FINAL

gravitate to the Beazley Breach Response product because they really crave a lot of
those services and all that we give with the policy.
When you line up wordings more generally, the coverages there are all very similar in
terms of the actual coverage within the policy. But that said, we also write a lot of cyber
that isn't on BBR. We said we are striving for diversified books, we write large accounts
where perhaps BBR may not be the best fit. We have a middle-market book and we also
have an SME portfolio as well.
So we really work hard to keep the balance of diversification between those. But right
now, if you were to compare the policy wordings, I think the services and the risk
management services and the way we structure those in the policy is the main difference
that you would see.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

And that manifests itself in how the claim presents and that's the important thing for us,
right. So the value that the client of Beazley Breach Response has if they have an issue,
they can call us up and we will handle it for them and take a lot of the stress out of that
because it's a very stressful thing to do. And we've very experienced team that can do all
that. The advantage it gives to us is that we are controlling how the claim goes. We're
doing a lot of it in-house. We are controlling the costs and the result of that is that not only
is the claim safely handled, but it's handled by people that we know and trust. And
therefore, the costs are contained. And that control over how a breach is handled and
how the ensuing claims is handled, which you don't always get an insurance, because
oftentimes it's the indemnity policy so the client does it and then we reimburse them. The
control that gives us is a significant advantage for us.

A - Paul Bantick

{BIO 15979097 <GO>}

The other significant advantage that gives us is speed. We see data far quicker because
clients are -- we are their first call. If something is happening, they call us first. So we will
see trends, we will see costs, we should see movements far quicker because we have it
in-house rather than waiting for third parties to tell us about what they are seeing.

Q - Ivan Bokhmat

{BIO 15378004 <GO>}

Great. Thank you. By the way, this focused session on cyber is brilliant.

A - Paul Bantick

{BIO 15979097 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Our next question comes from (inaudible). Ming, please go ahead.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Page 31 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

FINAL

Hi. Good morning. Thank you for taking my question. Just two questions please. First is, US
liability line, there is a comment that you said you are expecting the return of social
inflation. I think that's quite in line with market expectation, but could you just give a little
bit color in terms of what you have assumed and what actions have you taken in that line?
And my second question is that, you are quite bullish in terms of your growth for full-year
2022, and how much of that is actually embedded with the rates momentum outlook and
how much of that will be organic growth? Thank you.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. So to take the first question, we are assuming that the social inflation goes back to
the sort of levels that it was and the sort of drivers that it had before the pandemic struck.
And so we were talking quite a lot about social inflation and where that was having an
impact and the sorts of impacts that that was having back in 2018 and 2019. And our
central assumption is that that's what we'll revert to. And we took underwriting action
around that back in '17 and '18. And we have superimposed on top of that additional
action reflecting the fact that we do think there is a danger of COVID-related claims
activity on top of that, and that's what we have done and that those actions remain in
place.
When we look at growth next year, it is partly rate and partly organic growth. I think our
overall level of rate change is probably slightly down from this year into next year, with
slightly more organic growth, noting that overall that the rate environment should be -could be more positive but we will be able to provide a little bit more guidance on that at
the end of the year when we've got more certainty about what that mix looks like, but at
the moment, those are just our first pass at it. Did I miss anything?

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Thank you, Ming.

Operator
Our next question comes from Andreas van Embden from Peel Hunt, Andreas, please go
ahead.

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Yes. Hello. Thank you very much. I just really had one question. We've seen sort of three
years of rate on rate increases across your portfolio and your peers as well and I
appreciate we are seeing an acceleration on cyber now. But just want to see how this sort
of filters through into your underwriting margins. The rate increases across your whole
portfolio, are they well above loss cost trends now? And are you seeing this translate into
an improvement in your attritional loss ratio, i.e., your loss ratio excluding the reserve

Page 32 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

releases and the large losses and the cat losses you incurred during the first half ? Thank
you.

FINAL

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Okay. I'll have a go then. If I get it wrong, please. So, I think -- so yes, I mean what was Sally
saying earlier, she was saying that one of the goals she had, when she took over the role
a couple of years ago, was to show more consistent and better prior-year reserve
releases. And we've gradually been getting closer to where we used to be as an
organization, which I think is evidence of both the re-underwriting that we've been doing
and the rates that we've managed to charge. So we are hopeful that the underwriting
margin is back in the business and we will start to see that flow through to our financials,
which is one of the reasons why I think we are guiding to the low 90%s.
Having said all of that, we live in risky times, right So we are talking about European
floods, we are talking about wildfires, we are talking about riots in South Africa, we are
talking about cyber changes. The world is a very volatile place and so the game is never
finished, right. So we consistently have to react and make sure we're on top of what's
new as well as fixing what we know about from the past which is a sort of general hedge.
As I said before, that all other things being equal, yes, it should begin to flow back in.

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

And how long do you think it will take for those rate increases to really sustainably take it
back to the sort of low 90%s or perhaps even better combined ratios?

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Well, we are guiding to low 90%s this year, Andreas. So we're hoping that that will start to
go then. When you look at our combined ratios in the past, when we had combined ratios
under 90%, those were generally years with significantly lower than average cat activity.
So we had a sort of a run rate of 92%ish, low 90%s. And then the bonus, if you will, of a
low natural cat-free year.

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Understood. So the rate increases will bring you back to where you were on average
before?

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

That's what a low 90%s projection would imply, yes, absolutely.

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Okay. All right. Thank you very much.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Thank you.

Page 33 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

Operator
And our final question comes from Nick Johnson from Numis Securities. Nick, please
proceed with your question.

FINAL

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Hi, everybody. Just two questions, please. Firstly, on capital, the required capital growth
for next year estimate of 5% is a lot lower than recent years. It's been around about 15% I
think. You mentioned the benefit of rates in that calculation. Just wondering, to clarify,
does the estimate for next year just plainly change in the percentage of premium ceded?
And is it possible that the required capital number for next year could go up once you
finalize your cyber growth plan for next year?
And then the second question is on SPAC D&O growth, perhaps you could just talk a bit
about the risk management in that category? And sure it feels like quite a risky segment.
Thanks.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Right. Why don't you take the first one. While I bring my D&O underwriter on and ask -while you answer the second one.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Sally Lake

{BIO 20925273 <GO>}

Yes. Hi, Nick. So yes, you are completely right what that 5% increase allows for is what
we're planning to -- currently planning to grow in the business plan, early days on it net of
reinsurance which as we've said is similar to what we're looking at this year. So that does
allow for the reinsurance -- a growth in every insurance to continue into next year. If
definitely -- that is an early estimate of the number and as in every year, that will evolve
between now and the end of the year as we continue to evolve the business plan. And
then also depending on what happens on cyber and depending -- A, what happens in
cyber in terms of rate and exposure growth and what our decisions are within the
business, part of which we continue to work through, they will all have effects on the
capital and capital requirement They can go up and down, because as I said earlier, one
of the reasons the capital is down compared to the overall premium growth is that our
exposure is down on cyber in particular. So we have to work through all of that to see
where we end up in the year. Again, following on from the point that Paul made earlier,
that we've got some encouraging data but there is more to learn between now and when
we finalize the business plan, but yeah, it will definitely evolve in the coming months. Over
to you Adrian on SPACs? Was that long enough?

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Thanks. So that's a great question to finish good morning with. So I guess to start with -SPACs have been around for a long time. I first had SPACs explained to me when I was
running SL back when -- and than must have been five, seven years ago, and they've
always been slightly curious instruments, but they've been around for a while and they've
really come into vogue as we all know, the last couple of years or so. And they are quite
esoteric in terms of the particularities of how the different transactions work and what the
Page 34 of 36



Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

FINAL

liabilities are around those different transactions. And so we designed a policy form so
that it was very clear what cover was been provided when because it wasn't always
obvious just using a normal D&O policy.
And that's sort of what we're trying to do, right. When things are a bit different, we
customize and we bespoke sort of this very clear what is being done when. And there
was a chance to do that here I think. We are -- so, although it's been around for a while
and although we've managed to produce a policy form, and I think it's a very good one
that produces that clarity of what's being covered, they always have been and they
remain quite high-risk things. Just like IPOs, high-risk things, and that is reflected in our
underwriting due diligence and how much limit we are going to payout and the sort of
premiums that we charge. And we are very careful about what SPACs we do, avoiding
these celebrity-endorsed ones and so on so forth. We like to do the ones that are proper
businesses and so on and so forth. But they are a valid part of our D&O book and we
have some history with them, but we're very careful because they are high risk just as
we've been very careful with IPOs over the years.

Q - Nick Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Thanks. That is reassuring. Thanks very much indeed.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Thanks, Nick.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Sally Lake

{BIO 20925273 <GO>}

Thanks, Nick.

Operator
We currently have no further questions registered. So I'll now hand back to Adrian, Sally,
and Paul to conclude today's call.

A - Adrian Cox

{BIO 16257010 <GO>}

Great stuff. Thank you very much indeed. Well, thank you very much for calling in this
morning. I hope that was useful. If you have any follow-up questions, please get in touch
with Sarah and we'll do our best to answer them. And we look forward to seeing you very
soon. Thank you very much.

A - Sally Lake

{BIO 20925273 <GO>}

Thanks, everyone. Have a good day.

A - Paul Bantick

{BIO 15979097 <GO>}

Good day.

Page 35 of 36



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Beaz ley PL C
Company Ticker: BEZ L N Equity
Date: 2021-07-23

Page 36 of 36

