Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

S1 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Duncan Russell, Chief Transformation Officer
Jan Willem Weidema, Head of Investor Relations
Lard Friese , Chief Executive Officer
Matt Rider, Chief Financial Officer

Other Participants
Andrew Baker
Ashik Musaddi
David Barma
Farquhar Murray, Analyst
Fulin Liang, Analyst
Michael Hunter

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Operator
Good day and welcome to the Aegon Second Quarter 2021 results conference call for
analysts and investors. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to
turn the conference over to Jan Willem Weidema, our Head of Investor Relations. Please
go ahead, sir.

Jan Willem Weidema

{BIO 15133400 <GO>}

Thank you, sir. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining this conference call on
Aegon's Second Quarter 2021 results. We would appreciate it if you could take a moment
to review our disclaimer, our forward looking statements which you can find at the back of
the presentation. With me today are Aegon CEO Lard Friese, Chief Transformation
Officer Duncan Russell and CFO Matt Rider. Let me now hand over to Lard.

Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Thanks Jan Willem and good morning everyone. We appreciate that you are joining us on
today's call and look forward to updating you on our second quarter results. In my part of
the presentation, I will take you through the strategic highlights and through the progress
we have made on our strategic assets. Our Chief Transformation Officer, Duncan Russell,
will take you through the actions we are taking on our US variable annuity business. And
Matt Rider will then go through the details of the results and our capital position. Finally, I

Page 1 of 18



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

will conclude the presentation with a wrap up, after which we will open the call for a Q&A
session.
So let's move to slide number 2. We have made steady progress on our strategic
priorities and financial targets and I'm encouraged to see this reflected in our second
quarter results. Economic recovery aided by increased vaccination rates supported our
results. The second quarter of 2021 saw an increase in the operating result across all
segments driven by expense savings, increased fees due to higher equity markets and a
normalization of claims experience in the United States. We have made good progress on
the implementation of our expense savings program and have seen EUR220 million
reduction in annual addressable expenses through the second quarter. This strengthens
our confidence in our ability to deliver on the three-year target of EUR40 million expense
savings. Our balance sheet remains strong with the capital ratios of all three main units
firmly above their respective operating levels. We have made steady progress in
managing our financial assets during the second quarter. We launched a program that
offers certain variable annuity customers with a lump sum payment in return for
surrendering their policies.
Furthermore, we plan to dynamically hedge two remaining legacy variable annuity
portfolio for equity and interest rate risks. These two initiatives will create value by
releasing capital at terms we believe our favorable compared to other alternatives and
increases the predictability of the capital that the business generates. By introducing new
innovative products, expanding distribution and enhancing customer service, we are
driving growth in our strategic asset category. We achieved double-digit sales growth in
US life, delivered another quarter of strong sales in US middle market Retirement Plans
and almost doubled the net deposits in our UK workplace business. We continued our
strong growth momentum in the Netherlands with record high levels of both mortgages
and administration and assets under administration in new style defined contribution
pensions.
AEGON Asset Management also continued its growth track record of positive third-party
net deposits as strong demand for our solutions both in our wholly-owned business and in
our Chinese joint venture continues. In our ASG portfolio, Aegon Asset Management and
its partners, have helped to fund investments in affordable and workforce housing units in
the United States to better serve our local communities. We also continue to improve our
risk profile, having already executed around two-thirds of our plant management actions
to reduce interest rate risk in the United States. The progress we are making on our
strategic priorities and financial targets provides us with the confidence to accelerate the
increase in dividends on our path to pay around EUR0.25 per common share by 2023.
Therefore, we are announcing today an increase on our interim dividend by EUR0.02 to
EUR0.08 per common share. Furthermore, the strength of our balance sheet allows us to
take another step towards achieving our deleveraging target. We are therefore
announcing the redemption of $250 million professional Capital Securities in the third
quarter. Let me now give you an overview of where we stand with the execution of our
operating plan on slide number 3. Our ambitious plan comprises more than 1100 detailed
initiatives designed to improve our operating performance by reducing costs, expanding
margins, and growing profitably.
Page 2 of 18



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

We have continued the rapid pace and execution rhythm throughout the second quarter.
We've been successful in doing that as we have completed another 110 initiatives in the
second quarter bringing the total to over 500, this means that 45% of all initiatives have
now been fully implemented and they will contribute to the operating results over time.
Expense savings initiatives have already delivered EUR220 million of savings which this is
more than half of our EUR400 million expense reduction target, that strengthens our
confidence in our ability to deliver on the target for 2023.
Initiatives aimed at improving customer service enhancing user experience in launching
new innovative products are also well underway. These growth initiatives contributed
EUR26 million to the operating result in the second quarter of 2021. We intend to continue
the rapid pace and intense organizational rhythm throughout the remainder of the year
and beyond. Let's turn to slide 4 to discuss the progress we have made with respect to
our strategic assets. Our priority here is to grow the customer base and expand our
margins. In US Individual Solutions, we have the ambition to regain a top 5 position in
selected life products over the coming years. In the second quarter, improving
commercial momentum resulted in a 24% increase in new life sales. World Financial Group
increase the number of licensed agents by 13% compared with the second quarter of last
year. We also expanded our market share in this distribution channel through the addition
of a new funeral planning benefit.
Furthermore Whole Life Final Expense sales increased by 39% following enhancements
made to both product and the application process. Volume growth, more favorable
product mix and lower expenses resulted in a 40% increase in the value of new business.
The US retirement business Transamerica aims to compete as a top 5 player in the new
middle market sales. This business continued to build momentum with the fourth
consecutive quarter of written sales of over $1 billion in the second quarter of positive net
deposits.
Written sales were supported by pool plan arrangement contract wins, which are a
strategic growth driver. Sales from these types of arrangements more than doubled and
now represent more than 1/3 of this quarter's middle market sales. So let's turn to Dutch
Strategic assets on slide 5. We are market leader in both mortgage origination and new
style defined contribution pensions and we continued our momentum in the second
quarter. We originated EUR2.9 billion mortgages in the second quarter benefiting from a
strong housing market. Mortgages under administration reached a record high of EUR58
billion. In our workplace business, we saw a 20% increase in net deposits for new style
defined contribution products. Assets under management for this business surpassing the
EUR5 billion mark for the first time and the scoring Aegon's leading position in this market.
We want to develop the online bank Knab into a digital gateway for Individual Retirement
Solutions. Knab continued its growth trajectory and added more than 5,000 customers in
this quarter. In the United Kingdom, assets under administration reached GBP200 billion
for the first time driven by net deposits and favorable market movements. Our aim is to
grow the Retail and Workplace channels of our platform business. In these channels, we
doubled the net deposits to GBP1 billion which included a significant massive trust contract
win. This underscores that we are well positioned in this fast-growing market of multiemployer pension schemes, market movements and expense savings had helped to
Page 3 of 18



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

further improve the efficiency of the platform. By growing the platform business and
taking out expenses, we aim to mitigate the impact from the gradual run-off of the
traditional portfolio which is the driver behind the annualized revenues lost from net
deposits for the quarter.
So let me turn to our global asset manager and our growth markets in slide number 6. In
our Asset Management business, we aim to significantly increase the operating margin of
the Global Platforms business by improving efficiency and driving growth. Third party net
deposits in the global Platforms were EUR2.1 billion driven by significant net deposits in
various investment strategies and the Fixed Income Platform. The operating margin of the
global Platforms business increased by nearly 2 percentage points. This resulted from
higher revenues from net deposits, favorable market developments and higher
origination fees in Aegon's real assets business. These origination fees were driven by
responsible investing mandates in workforce and affordable housing.
Net deposits and strategic partnerships, were EUR815 million for the quarter driven by our
joint venture in China. Increased performance fees and management fees from growth of
the business led to a significant increase in the operating results for strategic partnerships
to EUR56 million. In Aegon's growth markets, we continue to invest in profitable growth.
The value of new business from new life sales increased by 6%, mainly driven by higher
sales in Brazil, Spain and Portugal. New premium production for property and casualty and
accident and health insurance increased to EUR28 million as a result of new product
launched in Spain and Portugal. Here, sales through our Spanish bancassurance partners
are benefiting from the redesign of the digital sales channels to accelerate the digital
transformation and insurance distribution. These actions supported the doubling of sales
through digital channels to over 15% of the total production in June.
In summary, on slide number 7, we are making steady progress in growing our strategic
sssets. We will continue to drive efficiencies while at the same time investing in products
and services to our customers in the various core businesses. And with this I would like to
hand it over to Duncan who will talk about the actions we've taken regarding our US
variable annuity business. So Duncan, over to you.

Duncan Russell

{BIO 21983913 <GO>}

Thank you, Lard. At our Capital Markets Day, we laid out our intentions to maximize the
value from our financial outlook by accelerating, increasing or derisking the cash flows of
these blocks of businesses. To date, we have focused our resources on identifying and
implementing unilateral action that we can take ourselves and bilateral actions that we can
take in conjunction with our stakeholders. I would now like to highlight two recent actions
that we have taken on the variable annuity business which in total have $85 billion account
value. These actions demonstrate our approach to managing our financial assets.
The two assets that we are announcing today are aimed at reducing our risk exposure to
the legacy blocks of the business with income and death benefit riders.The first action is
targeted at the GMIB block of business. This is a mature block of business with an account
value of $6.5 billion and mainly consists of policies sold by Transamerica from the '90s
until 2003. Associated guarantees were not originally priced nor subsequently managed
Page 4 of 18



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

FINAL

on a risk-neutral basis. And therefore, despite being less than 10% of our variable annuity
assets, the GMIB riders alone consume about 40% of the required capital the variable
annuity book.
In mid-July, we launched our buyout program for the GMIB customer base whereby we
offered customers a lump sum payment in return to surrendering their policies. This may
be an attractive choice to some customers given that their needs may have change since
they originally purchased their policies about 20 years ago. On our side. we compare the
costs and benefits of this program with our alternatives including, running the block off
over time or transacting with a third party. And we see the buyout program as an
attractive way to reduce our financial market risks and create value by releasing capital at
a reasonable price as we buyout the policies below the economic value of the liability.

Bloomberg Transcript

This initiative aimed at reducing our GMIB exposure achieving a 15% take-up rate once it is
fully completed would be a good outcome. There is uncertainty around that and we will
not have a better sense of the actual take-up rate until the fourth quarter of this year. As
we get more insight, we will update you on the program's progress. Second, we have
decided to expand our dynamic hedge program to cover the GMIB DB block of business,
meaning that going forward, all of our variable annuity liabilities will be dynamically
hedged for equity and interest rate risk.The expanded hedge will build on a dynamic
hedging program we have already in place for the GMWB book, that program has been
running since the mid-2000 with a good track record and achieving hedge effectiveness
for the targeted risks of about 95%.
We will introduce expansion as of the fourth quarter when we have more clarity on the
outcome of the buyout program and that will drive the amount of hedging we will need to
do. During the third quarter, we are adjusting the existing macro hedges to smoothen the
transition to full dynamic hedging. The negative financial impact of these two actions,
expanding the dynamic hedge and the lumpsum buyout program is expected to be less
than 5 percentage points on the RBC ratio assuming the market stay around the current
levels and we do not see extreme market movements on implementation. The impact on
the RBC ratio consists of a higher level of statutory reserves as we will include the hedge
costs now in our reserves, but a lower level of required capital as our risk has reduced.
The lower level of required capital means that operating capital generation from the VA
block will also be slightly lower than otherwise as less capital will be released over time as
the block runs off. And because we no longer have an open equity exposure associated
with the GMDB Rider. We expect annual operating capital generation to be around $50
million lower than otherwise would have been the case.
Looking forward, we will be left with a large mature block of variable annuity business that
is hedged and consumes relatively low level of required capital. We will continue to
explore ways to improve the net present value of the business. On an IFRS basis, these
actions are expected to result in a one-time pre-tax other charge of approximately $500
million to $700 million in the third quarter of 2021 mostly driven by a non-cash write-off or
deferred acquisition costs.
On slide 10, I want to touch upon what we mean by dynamic hedging. Put simply, interest
rate and equity risk embedded in the guarantees will be immunized on an economic
Page 5 of 18



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

basis. Therefore, the financial position of Aegon will not, over time, be subject to changes
in the value of the legacy guarantees that we have provided deposit holders on this
product. One implication of our statutory reserves will effectively move to a fair value
basis and move away from a regulatory prescribed grading to 3% long-term interest rate
assumption. By dynamically hedging the interest rate risk embedded in the guarantees,
we will mitigate the interest rate sensitivity of the reserves. Aligning our capital position
and economic view of the liabilities simplifies our management and decision-making
around this block of business going forward.
I also want to be clear on the two exposures that will remain for our shareholders and why
we have decided not to hedge these. First, while we hedge the equity risk embedded in
the guarantees which we have not to hedge changes in the present value fee income
from the base mutual fund contract. We see these as an asset management type
exposure on which we will earn a return over time. This base fee sensitivity is the main
driver of our residual equity market sensitivity in the US of 34 percentage points on the
RBC ratio for a 25% drop in equity market. Second, we will remain exposed to risks from
changes in realized and implied volatility. We considered hedging this, but concluded that
the cost of doing so was onerous relative to the benefits that we bring to our
shareholders. The level of implied volatility is an input into the valuation of our variable
annuity guarantees. Implied volatility tends to be higher than actual realized volatility,
which makes it expensive to hedge. And scopes and spikes in implied volatility tend to
mean reverting. Our exposure to realized volatilities caused by the convexity of our
liabilities and -- and our delta hedge program given the nature of the guarantees to our
customers. It is costly to fully hedge the impact of realized volatility in the convex
instruments like options or variant slots. Therefore, we have decided to only partially
hedge this risk to protect ourselves against the tail risk of extreme market movements.
We will explore ways to further reduce our sensitivity to movements in equity implied
volatility. In the meantime, this means that a period of higher implied volatility, all else
being equal, will lead to a lower RBC ratio and vice versa.
Let me wrap up my part of the presentation to slide 11. Our aim with the finance assets is
to proactively manage our risks, exposures and profitability in order to improve the net
present value of these businesses. We have allocated resources to finance assets in
order to drive this and we feel that we are making good progress. The actions that I have
described today are significant examples of the measures we are taking. The buyout
program the GMIB block will reduce our exposures and risks on terms we believe are
favorable compared to the alternatives. The remaining exposure will be more tightly
managed on a risk-neutral basis, thus to ensure that shareholder outcomes are more
predictable. We will continue to seek additional ways to create value from our financial
assets. This can include additional unilateral or bilateral actions as those are more in our
control and we can more easily quantify and understand the financial impact of this. So we
will now allocate internal resources to investigate our options around potential third party
solutions. We aim to be transparent in our considerations on this and how we intend to
maximize the value of the variable annuity business. So, we will provide an update on our
progress sometime in the first half of 2022. With that, I will hand over to Matt.

Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Page 6 of 18



FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

Thanks Duncan. And good morning everyone. On the next several pages, I will take you
through the highlights of our second quarter 2021 results, our capital position. Let me start
with the financials on slide 13. Expense savings increased fees from higher equity markets
and a normalization of claims experience in the US drove the increase of our operating
results by 62% from the year ago quarter to EUR562 million. Our balance sheet remains
strong with the capital positions of all our three main units firmly above their respective
operating levels and the Group Solvency II ratio at 208%. Cash Capital at the holding is in
the upper half of the operating range at EUR1.4 million. This allows us the flexibility to
continue to execute on our transformation. As well as to further reduce our gross financial
leverage which stood at EUR6.1 billion at the end of the second quarter. One of our
priorities is the reduction of economic interest rate exposure in our US business. Thanks
to the actions discussed by Duncan, we have executed on about two-thirds of our interest
rate reduction plan.

Bloomberg Transcript

This primarily involved lengthening the duration of our asset portfolio and extending our
forward starting swap program. Another priority is proactively managing our long-term
care portfolio. In the second quarter, we obtained approval for additional rate increases
worth $64 million. This brings the total to $176 million and means that we have already
achieved over 50% of our $300 million target. Let me turn to slide 14 to go into more
detail on the expense savings. On our Capital Markets Day, we announced our plan to
reduce addressable expenses by EUR400 million. In the last four quarters, we reduced
addressable expenses by EUR245 million compared with 2019. EUR220 million of these
savings are driven by the expense initiatives as part of our operational improvement plan.
We are continuing to execute on this plan and are satisfied to have already delivered half
of the expense reduction target. Expenses in this quarter again benefited from lower
travel and marketing activities due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. We expect
these benefits to reverse over time. Furthermore, we aim to profitably grow our business
by improving customer service, enhancing user experience, and launching innovative new
products. While these growth initiatives resulted in EUR28 million of expenses in the last 4
quarters, they contributed EUR26 million to the operating result in the second quarter of
2021.
Let me turn to slide 15 to share with you the most important drivers behind the increase in
our operating results. In the second quarter of 2021 our operating result amounted to
EUR562 million, an increase of 62% compared to the same period last year. In fact, the
apples-to-apples increase is 74% at constant currencies and when adjusting for the
reclassification of the operating result of Central and Eastern Europe to other income. The
operating result not only benefited from lower expenses, but also from higher equity
markets. We saw significant revenue growth mainly in asset management and our feebased businesses in the US. Improved investment margins in the Netherlands supported
by increased allocations of corporate bonds also contributed to higher earnings. In US life
business, mortality claims experience was EUR27 million adverse relative to our long-term
expectations, which is a significant improvement compared with the second quarter of
last year. The adverse mortality experience was largely attributable to COVID 19 as the
cause of death. This was offset by EUR55 million favorable morbidity claims experience in
the long-term care book which included a one-time reserve release. Correcting for this
one-time reserve release, the actual to expected claims ratio was 81% driven by elevated

Page 7 of 18



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

claims terminations as a result of higher mortality. In the UK, the operating result increased
by 19% to EUR44 million driven by lower expenses and higher fee revenues from growth
of the platform business. The operating result from International increased by EUR1 million
to EUR34 million. However, on an apples-to-apples basis and at constant currencies, the
operating result increased by 60% reflecting significantly better results in TLB and Spain
and Portugal. Finally, the operating result from Asset Management nearly doubled to
EUR71 million mostly driven by our Chinese asset management joint venture. The
operating result of the global Platforms increased as well because of higher revenues
from net deposits and favorable markets.
Let's turn from operating results to net results on the next slide. As you can see on slide
16, the net result amounted to EUR845 million for the second quarter of 2021. Nonoperating items contributed a gain of EUR644 million before tax. Fair value gains
amounted to EUR468 million and were largely driven by private equity and real estate
revaluations in the Americas and the Netherlands. In addition, the macro hedge program
in the Americas delivered a gain as a result of the macro interest rate hedge paying off as
interest rates decline. We realized gains on investments of EUR162 million mainly due to
gains on debt securities in the US which were sold to fund investments in long duration
assets as part of the interest rate risk management plan. Once again, we benefited from
a benign credit environment with net recoveries of EUR15 million. Other charges
amounted EUR153 million and mainly resulted from more conservative assumptions for
variable annuity surrender rates to reflect portfolio and industry experience. One-time
investments related to the operational improvement plan along with the charge related to
settlements of litigation in the Americas we're almost fully offset by the release of a
provision in the Netherlands following a settlement related to a co-insurance contract.
Now turning to slide 17 to go through the capital positions of our main units. The capital
ratios of our three main units ended the quarter above their respective operating levels.
The US RBC ratio increased by 16% during the quarter to 444%. The RBC ratio was
positively impacted by higher equity markets and by positive private equity and real
estate revaluations. The RBC ratio benefited from management actions including the sale
of an alternative asset portfolio. In the Netherlands, the Solvency II ratio of the Dutch Life
unit increased by 23 percentage points to 172%. This increase reflects benefits from
management actions, model updates and favorable market movements. The main
management action in the Netherlands was a settlement related to a co-insurance
contract. This led to a release of a technical provision and a reduction in required Capital.
Model updates related to refinements of asset -- of an asset and expense modeling, real
estate revaluations and favorable interest rate movements also contributed to the
increase of the ratio. Operating capital generation had a positive impact and more than
offset EUR25 million remittance to the group in the second quarter. Scottish Equitable, our
main legal entity in the UK, increased its Solvency ratio to 163%. This increase was
primarily driven by a forthcoming increase in the corporate income tax rate which led to a
reduction in required cuts.
Let us now turn to the development of cash capital at the holding on the next slide. Cash
Capital at the holding increased during the quarter driven by remittances from our units.
Some units paid their half yearly remittance during the second quarter, including the US. In
addition, we received the regular quarterly remittance from the Dutch Life unit. After

Page 8 of 18



FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

deducting funding and operating expenses of the holding, this results in free cash flows
of EUR175 million for the quarter. Proceeds from the divestment of Transamerica's
portfolio of Fintech and Insurtech companies was partly offset by minor capital injections
into some country units. Cash Capital at the Holding closed the quarter at EUR1.4 billion
which is in the upper half of the operating range and provides the group sufficient financial
flexibility to both execute on the transformation program and to continue efforts to
reduce financial leverage. Furthermore, we expect to inject capital into one of our growth
markets, Brazil. We will contribute approximately EUR40 million to enable the business to
absorb adverse claims experienced from COVID-19 while maintaining a strong balance
sheet to support its current growth trajectory.
This brings me to my final slide regarding our delivery on capital deployment
commitments. On our Capital Markets Day, we guided for a muted near term dividend
growth. Since then, we have made steady progress on our strategic priorities and financial
targets. This supports an increase of the interim dividend by EUR0.02 compared with last
year to EUR0.08 per share. Finally, we continue to reduce the gross financial leverage as
we have announced today our intention to redeem $250 million in perpetual capital
securities. After the redemption, we will have reduced our gross financial leverage by
approximately EUR700 million since the second quarter of 2020 to EUR5.9 billion. This
puts us on track to achieve our target to reduce gross financial leverage to between EUR5
billion and EUR5.5 billion by 2023. With that I pass it back to you Lard for the wrap-up.

Bloomberg Transcript

Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Thanks Matt and thank you also Duncan. I would like you all to take away from today's
presentation that we are making steady progress on our strategic priorities and our
financial targets. We have increased our operating results supported by all segments. We
are implementing our operational improvement plan initiative by initiative and are
maintaining an intense organizational rhythm. We have achieved more than half of our
EUR400 million expense savings target for 2023. We are increasing the value of our
variable annuities portfolio to a lumpsum buyout program and by extending the dynamic
hedging program. This also allows us to allocate internal resources to investigate our
options around potential third party solutions and we are maintaining our commercial
momentum in our Strategic Assets.
Lastly, we continue to work together with the Vienna Insurance Group to close the
divestment of our businesses in Central and Eastern Europe. VIG is in constructive talks
with new Hungarian states and has indicated that they are confident that the matter will
be resolved in the near term. In summary, I am pleased with the results we announced
today and how we are progressing -- how we are progressing steadily on our strategic
commitments and financial targets. I would now like to open the call to your questions.
And in the interest of time I kindly request you to limit yourself to two questions.
Operator, please open for the Q&A.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Page 9 of 18



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

Thank you, sir. (Operator Instructions). Our first question comes from the line of Andrew
Baker from Citi. Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Hi everyone and thanks for taking my questions. So the first on the US risk management
actions. Wondering if you could give us a sense of the capital that you expect to be
released from the expansion of the dynamically hedged and also lumpsum buyout
program? And then secondly on this, statutory target. So obviously, it looks like you're on
track to well exceed the guidance that you had on OCD for both 2021 and potentially
2023 as well as maybe free cash flow? So just wondering if you could just give an update
on what your expectations on those metrics are? Thank you.

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Andrew, for your questions and the first one will be taken by
Duncan. The second one by Matt. So on US risk management actions, Duncan.

A - Duncan Russell

{BIO 21983913 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Andrew. As indicated, we think the net impact of the two will be a no worse
than a 5 percentage points hit to the RBC ratio and within that we expect a small positive
from the buyout program, a small negative from the implementation of the dynamic
hedge. And the capital back in the VA block, the statutory capital back in the VA block
today is around $2 billion. Once we implement the dynamic hedge, we think that will drop
to around about $1.4 billion.

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Okay. Matt, the operating capital.

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Yeah on a year-on-operating capital generation and let's say the remittance outlook. So
just a reminder, at the Capital Markets Day we had guided for EUR1.1 billion operate cash
gen from the business units and in the first quarter call, I guided more to the EUR1.4 billion.
Given the progress that we have made on the operational improvement plan and other
tailwinds that we have received through the -- through the second quarter, including the
COVID mortality experience has been more benign, especially on the morbidity side,
we're guiding now to something between EUR1.1 billion and EUR1.5 billion for operating
capital generation. Now in terms of the -- the remittance guidance, we had been guiding
toward something like EUR1.4 billion to EUR1.6 billion cumulatively through 2023 at the
Capital Markets Day. At this moment in time, we're not changing the guidance on
remittances, We're more saying that it looks like it more is in the top end of that range
more than the -- more than the bottom of that also. I think that's --

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Thank you.

Page 10 of 18



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

Operator
Thank you. We'll now move to our next question from David Barma from Paribas. Please
go ahead.

FINAL

Q - David Barma

{BIO 19957338 <GO>}

Good morning and thank you for taking my questions. The first one is to come back on
the -- on the measures on the VA block. So I think that they won investors quite -- quite
clear. But you also mentioned the objective around the predictability of the business line
and obviously it's quite difficult to look at the capital generation developments of the
variable annuity block. Can you talk a little bit about how we should think about the
volatility of the metrics and that block post the actions that you've announced today? And
then the second question is on the Dutch Solvency ratio. Could you just help us break
down the -- the moving parts in the second quarter? Thank you.

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Thanks David. So on the VA question Duncan. And then the Dutch ratio, Matt. So Duncan,
please, over to you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Duncan Russell

{BIO 21983913 <GO>}

So you're right, David. That one of the drivers -- one of our philosophies has been to
reduce the volatility around our capital base and capital generation and for the financial
assets, that's an important consideration. If you look at the variable annuity block of
business post the implementation of the dynamic hedge, capital generation will be lower.
We've guided for operating capital generation to be around $50 million lower and to be in
the range of $250 million to $300 million going forward once that's implemented.
Backup generation, there will be a higher quality because we would have immunized the
risks around the guarantees in the block of business and we'll be left with volatility coming
from the base contracts which we think is more like an asset management type of fee
income, because that's the fee we earn on the underlying mutual funds. And then the half
the capital generation will be coming from that source and the rest of the capital
generation will be coming from the recent required capital spread and on reserves, et
cetera, which also we think is a high quality source of capital generation. Hopefully that
answers your question.

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

So Matt, please.

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Yeah. For the, for the Dutch solvency ratio. I can -- I think breakt it to you pretty easily. So
we started out the quarter at 149% solvency ratio. We had some operating capital
generation there. So you kind of add 2% to that. And then we had some market variances
mostly related to interest rate movements. So interest rates declined and also the yield
curve flattened and real estate revaluations which I think I mentioned in the opening.
Page 11 of 18



FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

Those added about 2 percentage points to the solvency ratio. So between those two
things markets added about 6 percentage points. And then there were some
management actions that took place. You may recall from my opening remarks, we did
settle a litigation basically that arose from a co-insurance contract in the Netherlands. That
added 5 percentage points to the ratio and there were some changes to the fixed
income portfolio which added 2 percentage points basically, it was a reduction of
structured credit exposure. And then there were 10 percentage points worth of various
model and assumption updates. I'm not going to get into the detail of that, but I think that
should get you to around 1.72 that we ended the quarter at.

Q - David Barma

{BIO 19957338 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

Operator
We'll now take our next question from Ashik Musaddi from JP Morgan. Please go ahead.
Ashik. Please go ahead, your line is open.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Sorry I was mute, sorry. So good morning Duncan, Lard and Matt, Just a couple of
questions I have. I mean how do we think I mean the two actions we are taking, ultimately
it is negative for RBC ratio, it is negative for operating capital generation, it is negative for
financial numbers like IFRS numbers, so it's like negative from all lower numbers
perspective. I understand it reduces the risk. So that's a good thing. I mean, at least, it will
help your cost of equity. But does it help you to exit that business as well at some point?
I.e., the moment you have -- you have like done all the hard work, heavy lifting of hedging,
etcetera, then does it become very easy for you to exit that financial asset or it doesn't
change anything from that perspective? So, any thoughts on that would be very
interesting. And would you be interested in exiting that once you have done all those
heavy lifting or would you want, okay, I've done all the heavy lifting, why now sell it rather
than this just run it for cash? So that's the first one. And second thing is to to Matt, this
thing about the capital generation, you mentioned EUR1.4 billion to EUR1.5 billion is what
you're thinking about at the moment. I mean, clearly, interest rates have dropped from
when we discussed about EUR1.4 billion in first quarter. So clearly if you are trying to still
say that EUR1.4 billion has actually gone up, I am a bit surprised and would be good to
know what are the drivers of those jump given that interest rates have dropped in second
quarter? So that would be very helpful. And like, is that a good run rate going forward or is
it just for including one-off, etc, something like that? Thank you.

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks Ashik and so Duncan on the VA, please. And then Matt will indeed take the
capital generation question.

A - Duncan Russell

{BIO 21983913 <GO>}

Good morning Ashik. I'll try and break down my answer to this. Firstly, I think the two
initiatives we've announced they are meaningful and do create meaningful value for our
Page 12 of 18



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

shareholders. And part of the reason we focused on them was because in a relatively
short period of time, we've been able to identify ways to create value and also execute
upon it. And and that was part of the consideration of the focus at this point in time on
bilateral and unilateral actions. And as you point out, there is a small negative impact on
the RBC at no more than 5 percentage points negative, only a small reduction and
operating capital generation going forward as there is less capital to be released going
forward. But they're outweighed, in our view, by the benefits to predictability certainty and
just general risk management and also the fact that we've now aligned our statutory
reserves and statutory capital to a risk-neutral or economic view of the liabilities. Just
makes our decision-making going forward easier as our ECOM views align with our capital
capital view.
I think you're right to say that the two actions are helpful as we move now into exploring
third party transactions. As we've got now, as I said, the statutory capital base results in
more economic base and we think that parties will look at it on that way also. And we are
at the same time reducing the size of the GMIB block of business through a buyout
program and basically acquiring licensees back to the side with economic value. And so
we are going to move into the phase now exploring the implications of third party
possibilities to us and we will be rational in our approach there as one of our themes
indeed is to improve the predictability and quality of our cash flow and risk manager.
However, and there are other considerations, will have to weigh up. For example, there
could be capital implications, capital dysynergies from taking out the VA block that can be
counterparty at exposures we'd need to understand and mitigate. There is a large
exposure at the end of the day. And the structure, the VA block is in a legal entity -- is
seen as a legal entity and how exactly we have extract that is something we'd have to
work through. We obviously have a view on value in which we would be rational around
that.
And then finally, as I pointed out to an earlier question, it is an overall -- it is -- the VA block
is still a meaningful contributor to the overall Group financial setup. It's going to contribute
still on an operating capital generation base, it's roughly $250 million to $300 million per
annum. And consumed roughly $1.4 billion of capital post the implementation of the
hedge. So we'd have to weigh up all those things and that's part of the work we're going
to do in the coming months and quarters, I would look with to come back to you at some
point in first half of 2022 on our considerations around that.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

So. Okay, thank you.

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

So I can pick up the operating capital generation. So yes, guiding towards EUR1.4 billion to
EUR1.5 billion for the full year. One thing I would mention is that we have seen interest
rates come down a little bit from the first quarter. So they were down about 30 basis
points as of the second quarter and as of today, maybe another 10 basis points. But it's
just good to remind everybody that the -- we're not so sensitive to interest rate
movements on operating capital generation in the US especially. Where we are sensitive
is on equity markets and those things have continued to perform strongly and that is
Page 13 of 18



FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

driving some of the, let's say, the expected increase in the operating cap gen for the
remainder of the year. Now having said that, you asked like what's a decent run rate. So -so second quarter is a pretty good base from which to start, so just kind of walk it
forward, we had EUR376 million of operating cap gen after holding and funding expenses
sort of add that back, you get to EUR435 million. And then there were some positive oneoffs. We had the combination of mortality and morbidity good Guys (technical difficulty).
And there were a couple of other tailwinds from from other items within the -- in Europe.
They come down to like let's let's say a clean quarter would be about EUR380 million for
the -- just for clean quarter operating cap gen within the business. The first half of the
year, we did EUR723 million. Add two times the EUR380 milloin and then you get to
something in EUR1.4 billion -- something in that EUR1.4 billion to EUR1.5 billion space
depending on what you think COVID is going to do in the last half of the year. We
factored in the 50,000 US population deaths call it a little less than half of let's say EUR20
million for extra COVID claims. You could pencil your own number in there. We could be in
the middle of the second wave. We didn't take anything into account for positive
morbidity experience. So the EUR1.4 billion to EUR1.5 billion seems to be conceivable
number.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Very clear and very detailed. Thank you, Matt.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Fulin Liang from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Hello. Thank you. Very good. Good set of results. I got two questions. So the first one, the
VA the -- the kind of your -- approaching your current existing customers to buyout the
policies, I assume that has been, you need -- have gained regulatory approval and I'm just
wondering how you -- and because, as Duncan said, you actually buyout these policies
under below the economic value of the policies. Will -- have you -- how do you assess kind
of the litigation risk will in the future? That's the first one. And then secondly is you haven't
mentioned about your plan on the fixed annuity book in U.S. which, because that is also
kind of your financial asset, Is the -- for you. Is the fixed annuity solution will come together
with variable annuity book solution or is it a separate consideration? Thank you.

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Thanks Fulin. So Duncan, over to you.

A - Duncan Russell

{BIO 21983913 <GO>}

Sure. I think in terms on the buyout program is we are offering our customers an
opportunity to surrender their policies in exchange for cash Fulin. As I pointed out, these
products were sold a long time ago, in some cases 20 years ago and the circumstances
of our customers could have changed over that period. So they have the ability to
exchange or surrender their policy in exchange for cash payment, which is north of
account value and could be attractive to them, but it's obviously at their discretion on that
Page 14 of 18



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

FINAL

choice and they'll engage with their advisers on that. We did pre-engage with their
advisors before launching the program to get feedback and we've had feedback,
constructive feedback, since launch. It's still very early and want to see how that
progresses over the coming weeks and months. And also, as you pointed out, the buyout
offer is slightly lower than the economic value of the guarantees to us and so we also
think it's beneficial for our shareholders.
And the second question was on the annuities, yeah, and whether that will come together
with the VA, it could do and we'll, as I said, we've just started exploring transaction
considerations and considerations in general around third party solutions for the variable
annuity block. The fixed annuity block is also a financial asset. It could contribute to any
liquidity considerations we may have around the variable annuity block. So that's
something we'll take into account as we -- as it progresses in the coming months and
quarters.

Operator
Thank you, We'll now move to our next question from Michael Hunter from Berenberg.
Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Michael Hunter

{BIO 1957201 <GO>}

Thank you. I had only two questions. But I think -- so the -- can you -- can you say the
various measures in the US and the updated guidance on operating capital generation,
what does it do to the US cash remittance which I think was $209 million first half ? What
stays -- when can we see a meaningful rise in this figure? What I'm trying to say is could
we see it already in the first half of 2022 or the second half of 2023? And the second
question is on the the buyout program. So the figures you have given are based on the
15% assumption? Can you give a little bit of a sensitivity around that figure. You know what
if it were 20%? What would be the -- the benefits? That's my two questions. Thank you.

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Yes, thank you very much. Michael. Let's start with the US cash remittance question, Matt
Rider. And then -- then followed by your question on the program by Duncan. So, Matt,
over to you.

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Yeah. What I can say there is that just maybe the facts first. So in the second quarter the
US did remit $209 million. That's their normal-- their normal remittance. They did EUR18
million in the first quarter as well. We haven't changed our outlook for the remittances
from the US, but I think it's important to reflect the fact that we are increasing the
dividend by $0.02 a share a year for a reason here. So we're not getting into the detailed
remittance guidance within the US. But I think that the EUR0.02 share increase is telling
you something about that. And that is driven by operating capital generation that looks to
be in that $900 million and $950 million range in the US.

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}
Page 15 of 18



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

Yeah, thank you. Duncan.

FINAL

A - Duncan Russell

{BIO 21983913 <GO>}

Yeah, on the second question, Michael. The dynamic here is that we will be paying out
cash if and when that will develop through our option and releasing associated
guaranteed reserves and required capital and we think about that dynamic is a cycle for
the RBC ratio is indicated. We're not giving a sensitivity as it's very early in that program
and in truth, it depends on which policyholders accept, that specific characteristics, that
specific circumstances and also how markets develop between now and the uptake of
the offer. So, if it is okay with you, we will look to come back in 3Q or 4Q with further
details.

Q - Michael Hunter

{BIO 1957201 <GO>}

And just to follow-up, you said you'd spoken to advisors and clearly, the program was
launched about a month ago. Can you say a little bit more about the progress?

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Duncan?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Duncan Russell

{BIO 21983913 <GO>}

No, in short, so you're right, we did -- obviously we've been working on this for several
months and we, as you launch it, a lot of execution, which goes around it. One part of that
is making sure that we have feedback prior to the launch and we've obviously had
feedback since that which havebeen constructive. But it's really early to be honest with
you Michael, as of summer holidays, very early. Customers have to engage with their
advisers. So we're not expecting to get more information really a couple of months now.

Operator
Thank you. I will now take our and our last question from the queue from Farquhar Murray
from Autonomous. Please go ahead.

Q - Farquhar Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Good morning, all. Just two questions if I may, firstly, on capital generation and
remittances, you seem to have increased the capital generation target for year 2021 by
about EUR0.6 billion versus where we were in December. And on the kind of cash flows
remittances that just seems to be basically talking towards the upper end of the
cumulative range that I think adds about EUR0.3 billion. Can you possibly just explain
whether there is something to that gap between the two or is this kind of a bit more of a
conversation at the end of the year? And then secondly, turning to the variable annuity
actions and in particularly RBC and capital generation impact, can you just clarify that those
are based on end of June market circumstances and might you just be able to outline the
sensitivities around those impacts, just so we understand how they could vary between
here and the closing at the end of the year? Thanks.

Page 16 of 18



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Okay. So let me -- thank you very much Farquhar. So let's start with Matt on the cap gen
question and then Duncan at the VA question.

FINAL

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Yeah, so on the operating capital generation. you said, is it -- is it more of a conversation
for the end of the year, we'll see how that -- we'll see how the year turns out. I would just
say that so far the progress has been actually quite good both in terms of implementing
the operational improvement plan, but also the macroeconomics have been favorable for
us. So those are -- those are just tailwinds. So the way that we kind of think about it is that
we've kind of drastically reduced the downside risk in the overall targets put out at the
Capital Markets Day. So all that all that is kind of the encouraging. But to be clear, we are
still early in the transformation and we do have a lot of work to do. So you could say that
were perhaps late in the economic cycle and we do want to be cautious about the
outlook for credit markets for example, but also COVID claims if we get into a second
wave in the US, as we come out of the COVID-19 pandemic. So we're not changing our
guidance at this part point in terms of remittances. Only to say that we are now guiding
towards the top end of that gross remittances guidance for the 2021 to 2023 guidance
that we've done at the Capital Markets Day. So we had that at EUR1.4 billion to EUR1.6
billion. So now we're thinking more like EUR1.6 billion, but clearly the progress that we've
made in the capital markets helped us along here. We are guiding more towards the top.

Q - Michael Hunter

{BIO 1957201 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much Matt. So, Duncan.

A - Duncan Russell

{BIO 21983913 <GO>}

Hi Farquhar. No. They're not -- they're not based on 2Q, they are based on current
circumstances. And with respect to additional guidance is a bit tricky and the reason for
that is obviously quite a few variables here in terms of take out rates from the buyout
program which will in itself may be influenced by equity markets and interest rates and
then also the implementation of the dynamic hedge which also impact of that could be
influenced by equity market and interest rate. Plus the fact that we put in a partial hedge
several months ago as well which is them on rates issue for some mitigation. However, we
feel fairly confident that the -- as I have indicated in my presentation that the net of that is
going to be no worst than 5 percentage point from RBC ratio barring really extreme
market movements. So we think we feel pretty comfortable with that guidance.

Q - Farquhar Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Just a follow-on, does that -- does that kind of extreme circumstances carry through to
the capital generation indication as well?

A - Duncan Russell

{BIO 21983913 <GO>}

The capital generation, the $50 million adjustment to the capital generation is mostly
driven by -- was driven by two things. One is the lower level of required capital being
released because we're effectively transferring capital into reserves here and so that may
Page 17 of 18



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-08-12

FINAL

get slightly impacted by rates and equity markets that depends on implementation,
because that will impact how much required capital is being impacted. But as I said, the 5
percentage points, that should be fairly range bound. The second impact is the impact of
the dynamic -- of the hedge on the equity market in the DB book of business where the
operating capital generation we assume some equity market return and we all no longer
capture that. And so I don't think it's meaningfully -- meaningfully impacted by market
circumstances.

Q - Michael Hunter

{BIO 1957201 <GO>}

Okay, perfect. Thanks so much.

Operator
Thank you. With this I would like to hand the call back over to Lard Friese, Chief Executive
Officer for any additional or closing remarks.

A - Jan Willem Weidema

{BIO 15133400 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you operator. This is Jan Williem Weidema. This concludes today's call. Thanks
again for your continued interest in Aegon.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 18 of 18

