Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

S1 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Aki Hussain, Chief Financial Officer
Bronek Masojada, Chief Executive Officer
Joanne Musselle , Chief Underwriting Officer
Kevin Kerridge, Chief Executive Officer, Hiscox USA
Robert Childs , Non-Executive Chairman

Other Participants
Andrew Ritchie
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Ben Cohen, Analyst
Freya Kong, Analyst
Ian Pearce
Kamran Hossain, Analyst
Tryfonas Spyrou, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Will Hardcastle , Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Hiscox Ltd 2021 Interim Results Call. My name is
Nadia and I'll be coordinating the call today. (Operator Instructions) I will now hand over to
your host, Robert Childs, Chairman of Hiscox to begin. So, Robert?

Robert Childs

{BIO 1776179 <GO>}

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm Robert Childs, the Chairman of Hiscox. After 21
years as CEO and 28 years at Hiscox, Bronek is retiring at the end of the year. During his
tenure, he has taken us from being a small private Lloyd's business to a global specialist
insurer with a premium of $4.5 billion and a market cap of much the same. He's been an
inspirational leader, demonstrating strategic insight, great operational abilities and true
grid in the difficult times. Bronek has always acted like a proprietor, matched with energy
and long-term vision. We have worked together for 28 years and I and we will miss him.
What an act to follow?
We believe in Aki. We have the right person for the next chapter at Hiscox. Aki is an
original thinker, open and engaging and someone who can motivate and build teams. He

Page 1 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

is quite well known to most of you. He's added valuable experience for Committee
Hiscox, with Virgin Media and approved.

FINAL

We believe we have the best of both worlds with an internal appointment with extensive
previous experience. He has a drive, a long-term vision to take us forward, maintaining our
sense of ownership.
Bronek is retiring as the business is turning a corner. It is my pleasure to announce
therefore a very good half year result of $133 million. A very pleasing to all our
shareholders, the Board has agreed to resume a dividend payment with a progressive
policy going forward. Today, as usual, you'll be hearing from Aki Hussain, then Joanne
Musselle, our CUO, followed by a newcomer to the presentation, Kevin Kerridge, our
CEO Hiscox USA, Bronek will conclude the presentation.
I'm now going to pass you over to Aki.

Bloomberg Transcript

Aki Hussain

{BIO 19739719 <GO>}

Thank you, Rob and good morning, everyone. I am thrilled and delighted to be appointed
CEO. I'm being given the opportunity to follow on from Bronek, in leading a wonderful
business for the dedicated and talented people. I will be leading a business that has a
great history, a business that has turned the corner after a prolonged soft market and the
challenges of 2020. When I look across our business, I see significant opportunities
everywhere, in London Market, in Re & ILS and in retail. And in particular, an escalating
opportunity across our digital platforms. I'm looking forward to leading the business as we
write the next chapter in our story and realize this potential.
Now turning to our current financial performance. I'm pleased to report a return to
profitable growth for each of our reporting segments. In Hiscox London Market and Re &
ILS, we're seeing the benefit of multiple years of much needed rate improvements,
combined with disciplined underwriting actions. And this together with a quite a second
quarter for loss experience is driving material improvements in combined ratios. In these
improved conditions, we have deployed capital, enabling the businesses to grow the net
written premiums at a much faster rate than growth.
As you know net written premiums are the key source of earnings power. In retail, we are
continuing to see robust growth and our digital partnerships and direct business globally
continues to go from strength to strength. Particularly in the US, which is up 30%. I'm
pleased to report an overall profit of $133.4 million. Adjusting this for COVID loss
estimates, arising from new lockdowns in 2021 of $17 million and the LPT charge of $26
million disclosed earlier in the year, the underlying profit rises to $176.4 million.
In light of the Group's improved performance, having carefully considered the capital
requirements of the business, the Board has decided to resume dividend payments. And
today we are announcing an interim dividend of $0.115 per share. In absolute terms, the
dividend cost of $40 million is consistent with our last interim payment in 2019. However,

Page 2 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

FINAL

of course, on a per share basis, it is a 20% dilution following the equity raise in May of last
year.
Now moving on to each of the business units. As usual, I'll begin with Retail. Hiscox Retail
has delivered a strong performance in challenging conditions, growing its top line by 7.9%
or 2.6% in constant currency. This was driven by growth in Europe, a resilient performance
in the UK and a slight top line decline in the US, with the planned reductions in the US
broker channel were mostly offset by stronger than expected growth in the US digital
partnerships and direct business.
We now roughly halfway through the $100 million of US broker GWP reductions we
announced in March. Now adjusting for this, the retail go forward portfolio grew at 6.4% in
constant currency. Our global digital partnerships and direct business now represents over
a quarter of retail GWP. It grew 23% in the first six months of the year to over $355 million
and we now have 880,000 DPD customers globally.

Bloomberg Transcript

There continues to be considerable room to grow into an estimated 50 million individual
small, micro, and nano businesses. The opportunity is particularly significant in the US
where we grew DPD premiums to 220 million in the first half. Now to provide more color
on the business and the attractiveness of the opportunity, you will hear shortly from Kevin
Kerridge, the CEO of our US business and the architect of the DPD business from
inception.
I'm particularly pleased that our retail business remains on track to return to a combined
ratio in the range of 90% to 95% by 2023. In the first half, there are a couple of things
that you've noted, which distort the picture. Firstly, as you remember, the retail combined
ratio we guided to exclude COVID-19 losses arising from lockdowns in 2021. You will recall
we estimated this would amount to less than $40 million for the first six months. In fact,
the current estimate is around $17 million.
Secondly, in May, we completed a loss portfolio transfer, transaction related to selective
lines of Hiscox Syndicate 3624 at a net cost of $23 million to the retail segment. This is a
one-off transactional cost. Adjusting for these two items, the retail combined ratio is
showing an improving trend at 96.7% compared to full year 2020.
Moving onto London Market. Hiscox London Market has delivered a strong performance in
the first six months of the year, continuing the performance trend from the second half of
2020. We have seen robust GWP growth and an even stronger net written premium
growth at 16.7%. Over a number of years, our focus has been on improving the
performance of our portfolio into a hardening market. So we are growing where it matters
and where we see the best opportunities. Importantly, the impact of underwriting actions
taken over the last few years are now manifesting themselves in much improved loss
performance and profitability.
In the first half, London Market delivered in net combined ratio of 81.7%. That's a 23.5
point improvement on the prior period and an underwriting profit of $68.7 million. The
outlook for the rest of the year remains positive. Rates are up 12% year to date and
Page 3 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

FINAL

momentum is continuing. As a reminder, 2021 is the fourth year of rate improvement with
a cumulative increase of 60% since 2017. We believe we are now writing new business
with a mean combined ratio expectation in the mid-80s, which we'll earn through in the
coming years. We're also making good progress on e-trading as we use technology to
increase efficiency, improve risk selection and open up new pockets of business and you'll
hear more on these initiatives from Joe in a few minutes.
Now turning to Re & ILS performance. Whilst GWP has increased, on adjusting for
reinstatement premiums, the top line remained flat. In the second quarter, the team
attracted $190 million of gross new inflows into the ILS funds. This resulted in a significant
increase in gross written premiums as the new capital was deployed in June.
In our reinsurance segment, we have seen multiple years of rate increases, much like
London Market. Rates are up 9% year to date and 36% since 2017. In this improving
market, we have closed some of the gap left by some of the gap left by reduction in
third-party capital support by deploying our own balance sheet and supporting the 40%
increase in net written premium.

Bloomberg Transcript

In growing the net, we have taken a more many catastrophe bet. Our reinsurance
business has returned to profit and I'm particularly pleased with the material improvement
in combined ratio, which is after absorbing a $33 million impact from Storm Uri.
Now turning to investment performance. We achieved an investment return of $61.9
million or an annualized return of 1.7%. Given the low interest rates, the investment income
is ahead of expectations, but as you can see, it is almost entirely driven by risk assets with
bonds giving us very little in total. The current yield to maturity on the bond portfolio
remains low at around 0.5% with investment-grade corporate bond spreads at historicallylow levels. Now rather than reach for yield, we are comfortable maintaining our credit
exposure, given the supportive economic policy backdrop. Then the Group continues to
maintain a modest exposure to risk assets.
Now turning to results. Our reserve position continues to remain robust with a margin
above the actuarial estimate of $348 [ph] million or around 11.3% of net reserves. We
continue to see positive aggregate reserve development with prior year reserve releases
of $79 million. Now staying on the topic of reserves, in the first half, we completed two
loss portfolio transfer transactions, which means we now have reinsurance cover in place
totaling $899 million on net ceded reserves of $587 million. This is equivalent to a 1 in 200
[ph] return period reserve deterioration cover. These transactions have been capital
accretive and will moderate P&L volatility.
You will recall from previous updates that we have seen reserve volatility in recent years
from three specific areas. Firstly in retail, US broker channel originative [ph] standalone
general liability business. In Re & ILS volatilities come from the legacy Bermuda healthcare
book and in London Market it's been the property portfolio binders.
The first of these, the first two of these have been largely addressed by completing the
loss portfolio transactions. The third issue in London Market has been addressed through
Page 4 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

FINAL

portfolio re-underwriting actions that have been taking place over the last three years, as
well as rate improvements. We have completed the last significant leg of remediation
actions this year on this.
Now turning to capital. Capital strength and financial flexibility is of paramount importance
to the Group. The two LPT transactions added an estimated 10 points to our regulatory
capital ratio and this in combination with profitable growth in the first half has resulted in a
20-point improvement to our regulatory capital ratio taking it to 210%.
The last leg of the BSCR strengthening implemented by the BMA across the industry will
complete at the end of this year. The expected impact is a reduction to the BSCR ratio of
between 10 points to 15 points. This will be moderated or this impact will be moderated
by further internal capital generation in the second half.
Our capital position is strong. The biting constraint as you know, over the years has been
the desire to maintain an A rating from S&P. And as you can see, even in a post-stress
scenario, we expect to maintain a BSCR ratio of around 180%. This is comfortably above
the minimum required for an S&P A-rated company with our risk profile. As we look
forward, we have sufficient capital to execute our business plans and the opportunities we
see ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

And now, I will conclude with some remarks on our outlook and guidance. As you may
recall, I provided some quite specific guidance regarding 2021 performance back in
March, which we summarized for you on this slide. I'm pleased to report the half year
results illustrate we are on track to deliver against this guidance.
Our London Market gross written premiums are in line with expectation and as promised,
net written premiums in both London Market and Re & ILS have materially exceeded gross
written premiums. As a reminder, this is the key source of earnings power and will emerge
as earned premiums over the next 24 months.
In retail, we are halfway through reshaping our US broker channel book. Adjusting for this
movement, retail premiums grew a 6.4%. This is in line with our guidance of being at the
bottom end of the 5% to 15% range in 2021. The underlying retail combined ratio is 96.7%,
showing an improvement on 2020. And last but not least, we have committed to driving
1% per annum reduction in our operational expense ratio in 2021 and 2022.
Our disciplined expense control in the first half has resulted in an expense ratio of 44.9%.
This includes 1% adverse impact from exchange rate fluctuations, as the dollar has
weakened comparing this to a normalized expense ratio in 2019 of over 46%
demonstrates solid progress.
As I look into the second half, I'm optimistic. Our business performance is on track and the
course correction actions will continue to earn through. When thinking about full-year profit
projections in your models, it will be important to factor in two things. Firstly, investment
income outperformed in the first half, we don't expect to repeat in the second. Secondly,
the first half included benign claims experience in the UK. This is already, not the case in
Page 5 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

the second half with multiple flood events experienced in July and we also benefited from
a quiet second quarter from a loss experience perspective in London Market and Re & ILS.

FINAL

I am optimistic as we go into the second half. Our business is strongly capitalized with
greater financial flexibility with business lines carrying more rate and margin than in recent
years.
And now, I'll hand over to Joe to take you through our underwriting performance.

Joanne Musselle

{BIO 19106109 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Aki and good morning, all. At the year end, I laid out some expectations for
2021 and we'll start with an update on Slide 13. Given the market conditions, we had a plan
to grow where there is opportunity and we have done this with gross written premium
across the portfolio increasing 8.5%. Our plan was to retain more premium net and big
tickets, deploy more of our capital in a favorable markets. Re & ILS has grown its net
written premium 40% and London Market 17% and this is compared to 9% and 10%
growth, respectively.
In retail, digitally-traded business has seen a 23% growth in the first half with US digital
and partnership up at [ph] 30%. Whilst the more favorable market, discipline and active
portfolio management remains key. The refocus of our US business to small revenue
customers, cyber remediation across the portfolio in addition to actions on our Decile 10
portfolios across the Group is progressing well and on track. Active portfolio management
is not just on the go forward, as we've heard from Aki, we've also successfully completed
two legacy reinsurance transactions, which will reduce volatility capital and management
time on the back book.
Great momentum continues and I'll go through the detail in the later slides. A familiar slide
to many, Slide 14 shows how we actively manage our portfolio. Overall, I am pleased as
our underwriters have grown where there is opportunity and shown discipline where
needed. In aggregate, we've increased our top line while walking away from $100 million
of underperforming business. We've also strengthened the portfolio through reduced
exposure and tighter terms and conditions, and I'll take you through a few highlights.
Our largest segment, small commercial, which can be seen on the far left, has grown by
5% and this is pleasing as some portfolios like events and cancellation are still affected by
the restrictions and we're exiting some US broker business. As I've mentioned, our
reinsurance topline increased by 9% growth, but over 40% net as we've taken the
opportunity to retain more on our balance sheets. After many years of remediation of
property lines grew by 5% overall, and global casualty, which is our casualty lines written
through Lloyd's has grown by 12%, once again driven by rates, our exposure in 2021 is
lower 2020 and materially lower than '19 and '18.
Another familiar slide is our rating chart on Slide 15. As a reminder, the chart shows our
rates indexed back to 2012 on a rolling 12-month basis. And it's really satisfying to see a

Page 6 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

FINAL

continuation of upwards rating momentum. London Market, which is the blue line
continues its dramatic rise where rates are up 12% overall.
2021 was the fourth year of rate rise in London Market, a compound growth of 60% since
2017. While some of the early rate rise negated an increased view of risk, we are now
seeing the rates materially improve profitability. While overall momentum continues, the
picture is more nuanced by line of business. Cyber product recall in space have hardened
significantly over recent months.
Rates in casualty lines continued double-digit, but at a slower pace as we have benefited
from dramatic rate increases earlier in the cycle. This underwriting discipline is extending
beyond pricing, as we're also reducing exposure through line size and terms and
conditions, which reduces volatility.

Bloomberg Transcript

Rate momentum is also continued in Re & ILS, which is the red line, with an average
increase of 9% across the portfolio on a cumulative rate increase of 36% since 2017. The
business benefited from double-digit increase in risk, marine, retro and North American
property at the important January renewals. April reinsurance renewals focused on Japan,
delivered mid-to-high single-digit rate rise and June's Florida renewals achieved a 10%
average rate increase.
Retail, which is the green line accounts for more than half of the Group gross written
premium and nearly three quarters of net premium and it's much less cyclical with regard
to pricing. Whilst the rolling nature of the graph and the scale makes this tricky to see in
the chart, we are seeing just over 5% positive rate movement with rates accelerating
through 2021.
Quarter two rates are up 6% compared to 4% at quarter one. Increases in construction
material and labor cost, plus the ongoing debate around casualty, social inflation is making
claims inflation a hot topic. Whilst inflation has increased, our view is rates are being
achieved in excess. We're also taking preemptive actions across the portfolios at the
underwriting stage to ensure adequate sums insured and rebuild costs.
Whilst rates have improved, the quality of our portfolio has also improved. And I would like
to thank our underwriters for all of their hard work. Slide 16 shows how we've grown
premium, whilst reducing aggregate exposure. Claims arise from exposure not premium
and the 2021 underwriting year looks promising, tracking below 2020, which in turn is
tracking below 2019 at the same point in time. We continue to actively manage our
portfolio, focusing on repricing or reducing the bottom decile, whilst continuing to invest
and grow our exposure in our top performing lines.
We have embedded an active portfolio management cycle in each one of our business
units with visibility and tracking of the structural performance of our lines. When the
market eventually softens, visibility and course correction is key, emerging claims trends
and underlying risk evolve and we need to adapt our underwriting to take these changes
into accounts. We have not always got the time in spot on historically, but this underwriting
discipline, ahead of the cycle will position us well for the future.
Page 7 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

FINAL

Turning to Slide 17. Cyber is one such portfolio that has evolved materially. As can be seen
in the top left quadrant, global ransomware attacks have increased materially since 2019.
In line with the rest of the industry, we have also experienced an increase in frequency
and severity across a number of our markets, particularly in the US region.
We saw early signs of this emerging trend three years ago and have been undertaking
portfolio action since 2019. Examples of which can be seen in the top right quadrant. Even
though we are a Tier 2 player in cyber, we have adjusted the Group's cyber risk appetite
and taken corrective action, focusing on customers with lower revenues in retail and
reducing exposure to lower attachment business in big tickets.
In addition to the underwriting action, we've also put through material repricing, which can
be seen in the bottom left quadrant. This repricing is gathering momentum. And in
quarter two, the average increase across the whole of our portfolio is over 30% and is
now up 60% since 2019.
We also attach great importance to mitigation actions as human error is by far the biggest
business vulnerability when it comes to cyber attacks. We incentivize our small business
customers to attend the Hiscox CyberClear Academy, an approved training program
designed to help counter cyber risk.

Bloomberg Transcript

To date, around 5,000 businesses have gone through the program and early indications
show a positive impact on their loss ratio compared to those who have not. We're also
introducing changes to our cyber product offering as well as utilizing third-party data and
models.
It's not just cyber where we're utilizing technology. We are increasingly using technology
across the portfolio to achieve underwriting advantage. And Slide 18 shows our focus in
four areas; improved risk selection, enhance customer experience, access distribution or
assist with underwriting efficiency. So let me give you some examples of these, starting
with risk selection.
In the UK, we have partnered with a third-party data provider and discovered a strong and
consistent predictor associated with ghost [ph] post office boxes. Customers registered
at these are costing us around GBP10 million per annum, running at a loss ratio around
300%.
Two examples of improved customer experience. In Europe, we have launched an app to
assist our customers with assessing the true valuation of their classic cars. And in the US,
our cyber customers with less than GBP100 million in revenue will receive complementary
access to breakthrough AI-powered cybersecurity protection provided by Paladin. To
enhance our distribution capability, in London Market, we have extended our Hiscox plus
API flood and household offering to commercial.
And finally, underwriting efficiency. We have embarked on an IT transformation program
across all of our retail platforms. And given the size of our retail customers have an
ambition to underwrite 90% by volume without referral to an underwriter. We are well on
Page 8 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

the way to achieve in this and our new business written through our digital partnership and
direct portfolio is already at 95%.

FINAL

I will now hand over to Kevin Kerridge, our US CEO. Kevin has been a key architect of the
Hiscox digital proposition, first in the UK and then in the US, and he will talk more about
our US digital partnership and direct business.

Kevin Kerridge
Thank you, Joe, and good morning, everyone. I'm delighted to be talking to you today
and bringing to life the opportunity ahead for our digital partnerships and direct business
in the US or DPD, as we refer to it internally.
Whilst I've met some of you at investor conferences over the years, I'm probably a new
face to many, but this is certainly not the case in Hiscox. Prior to taking the reins as CEO of
Hiscox USA earlier this year, I've spent most of my 25 years at Hiscox, building and running
our digital businesses, starting in the UK and then moving to the US in 2009.

Bloomberg Transcript

I've always been excited by what we call our digital DNA, a drive to grasp opportunity
using digital models, which is not just about the technology itself, but also about the way
we think. We know that small businesses and also the partners that serve them are an
underserved market. They want to embrace digital to give them better access to product
and better service. We believe that leveraging digital in the way we have gives us the
opportunity to create America's leading small business insurer against that need. That
puts us front and center of a very significant opportunity.
There are approximately 32 million SMEs in the US. The insurance penetration is low, and
the market is underserved and competitively fragmented. According to our internal
estimates, in gross premium terms, this translates into a total addressable market of
about $130 billion, which has grown at a compound annual growth rate of 3.5% since 2016.
Most importantly, as you can see on Slide 21, US DPD has been growing at a 35%
compound annual growth rate since 2016, significantly faster than the market.
We've been taking share by offering a market proposition that resonates with small
businesses, focused on a great experience, empowered by digital, but also supported by
humans when a customer needs it. While our risk appetite and product set narrows
today's target market to $16 billion of premium, we know it will grow substantially over
time through evolving our own underwriting appetite as well as finding opportunity to
work with third-party carriers.
We've built the ecosystem that allows us to digitally trade. And so now expanding our
industry footprint and adding new products will drive further scale with marginal
investment required. Increasing our target market is a key strategic lever we will pull in the
next stage of our journey. This puts us in an incredibly strong position to build on our 2021
annualized DPD premium of around $400 million to drive further into this market and help
more small businesses to secure coverage. But getting to this stage didn't happen
overnight. So let me take you through the detail of how we got here.
Page 9 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

FINAL

We've been very busy over the last decade after entering the market as a first mover on
the 15th of November 2010, with no legacy, a lot of digital expertise from the UK and
huge amounts of ambition. That was before InsurTech really became a thing.
Let me walk you through some of the broad themes on this chart. First, we have a
significant head start on the market having launched in 2010, which is key to our
profitability now. Building a digital business is about constant small turns of the dials and
constant small course corrections, whether that's operations, underwriting or marketing
and distribution.
The compounding nature of those cumulative turns and course corrections over a
decade, are hard to replicate. Second, we have continually expanded the footprint of the
business. On product, we started with general liability and professional liability, building
that out across business owners policy, cyber and also products like workers' comp
underwritten by third-party carriers.

Bloomberg Transcript

On industry classes, we have built out from office space professions to artists and trades.
On geography, we started in '21 states and now have a national footprint with the sole
exception of Alaska. And on distribution, we started with a pure direct-to-consumer model
and very quickly leveraged our digital platform into partnerships, where today, we have
over 100 partners accessing our products.
Third, we've invested heavily in market presence and capabilities, whether that be our
marketing investment to build brand awareness, brand affinity and consideration, an
investment of over $250 million since launch, with about 20% of that, specifically on
building our brand amongst small business owners or the investment in APIs and the
recent investment of over $100 billion in renewing our full technology stack, so it's fit for
purpose for the next decade ahead, an investment which is in market today, in our service
centers and on track to fully complete by the end of this year.
We also believe strongly that digital DNA encompasses access to people when
customers or agents need them. And so whilst over 80% of transactions go through the
machine without touching a human, we've also invested in our two service centers, one in
Virginia and the other in Nevada, which together now handle about 1 million calls per year.
It has taken a lot of hard work and investment to get to where we are today. And as we
look back at our achievements, I'm filled with excitement about the next 10 years, not just
because of the foundations we've built here, but also because of the way the market is
shifting. If you need evidence of that, you see that we wrote $30 million of premium in a
single month for the first time in June 2020 as the global pandemic took hold.
With the entire Hiscox team working remotely, we were able to meet the growing
demand to trade digitally as new business formation accelerated. We now have 490,000
customers, and it is not long before we crossed the 0.5 million milestone. A key part of
our expansion has been an omni-channel distribution strategy we like to refer to as all
roads lead to Hiscox.

Page 10 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

FINAL

We strongly believe that the most effective way of acquiring customers is by supporting
all the various channels where they choose to place their business insurance. We are
ultimately agnostic as to whether a small business reaches us and transacts with us
directly or through our partners. And we constantly look for new ways to reach new
customers.
DPD started life as a direct-to-consumer play, which we see as a long-term opportunity as
businesses change their buying behavior, similar to the journey personal lines auto
insurance has been on. The opportunity there today is growing fast, but it's still small.
When we're asked about how we feel about new entrants coming into this space, we
welcome it because that accelerates the change in buying behavior and floats or boats.

Bloomberg Transcript

We are well positioned as the landscape continues to change over time. The bigger
opportunity today is the digitization of partner distribution. We have well over 100
distribution partners, funnelling small business insurers our way. These cover the full range
from the agencies of the personal lines powerhouses, to captive agent networks to
InsurTech aggregators to the thousands of mom-and-pop retail agents that exist in every
main street in the US.
In a recent survey, 91% of users said that our platform was better or much better than
others they've used. We continue to invest to keep that experience differential in place.
The foundation of this opportunity is our multi-faceted digital platform where we can
support partnerships with Hiscox portals or integrate into their shop windows using APIs,
all backed by best-in-class service center experience when needed. And through all of
this, we've been obsessed with meeting customer needs and delivering products that
work for them. To do this well, we've been very selective on the makeup of the DPD
book.
Let me describe our typical customers and the products they purchase. The US DPD
appetite covers over 800 industry classes. And some examples are shown on this slide,
over 60% of our customers are professionals. Within that category, the largest segment
are emerging professions, examples of which include technology and marketing
consultants. Often, we see these customers leaving full-time employment to start-up their
own specialist businesses.
Next, are the traditional professions, such as architects, engineers, realtors and
accountants. These customers are typically highly educated and operating in industries
with professional standards. The final professional segment are service industries, which
range from wedding photographers to hair dressers and new salons. The common theme
here is that they are providing a service to their clients, often interacting with them in
person.
In addition to these three segments, we have a growing trades book. In this space, our
landscapers, plumbers, carpenters and many other trades, which are a critical part of the
US small business population. While these industries present an attractive market
opportunity, given the diverse nature of these businesses, we are very selective in our risk
appetite.

Page 11 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

FINAL

For example, we don't tend to cover certain activities, such as roofing, excavation or
construction. Our digital platform enables us to put a very tight box around appetite and
underwriting. Across all industries, the biggest driver of demand comes from contractual
obligations. About three quarters of our customers buy general liability and just over a
third purchase professional liability. Clearly, there is some difference in buying behavior,
depending on the nature of these businesses.
Traditional and emerging professionals who offer advice or an intellectual product, seek
professional liability coverage to protect against errors in their work, services and trade
industries who interact directly with their clients or clients' property seek general liability
coverage to protect against accidents, leading to property damage or bodily injury.
We also think about our customers in terms of size. And for US DPD, that means the
smallest possible. 82% of our customers have annual revenues below $150,000 and 96%
below $0.5 million. Many of our customers are purchasing insurance for the first time
and/or starting business for the first time, working out of a home, office or shared space.
Because of this focus on nano businesses, we see less take-up of our business owners
policy, often called BOP.

Bloomberg Transcript

BOP is typically purchased by larger businesses with more meaningful property exposure.
That said, we are seeing increasing demand as we expand the product footprint. Industry
product and customer size are all important dimensions we consider when looking at the
US DPD book. And because of our sophisticated approach to underwriting, we are able to
write business at attractive loss ratios across the entire book.
So in summary, I think you'd agree that the opportunity ahead of us is significant. We want
to keep capitalizing on our first-mover advantage and the decade-long head start we
have in the SME digital opportunity. We have an enviable position on the scale of what
we've built so far. The inherent structural profitability and the capabilities and market
presence we've built.
Our focus now is on continuing to invest to drive growth, further enhancing structural
profitability and widening the competitive moat. We will continue to leverage the
resources, expertise, experience and capabilities of the broader group. The capital
required to support our growth is fully funded from profits generated across the Group,
including the big ticket business. The cost of back and middle office functions is shared,
which contributes to DPD being a profitable business, and we are benefiting from the
deep underwriting expertise of the rest of the business.
Last but not least, our single global brand supports the success of our distribution
strategy. US DPD is strongly positioned and has the full support of the Group to continue
its expansion, leveraging this capital, brand and know-how. I hope you now share my
excitement about the opportunity that lies ahead of us.
Now let me hand it over to Bronek for his final thoughts.

Page 12 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

FINAL

Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Thank you, Kevin. As always with Kevin, he's sold himself short. What he didn't tell you was
that back in the year 2000 when the dot-com boom was at its peak, we did claim GBP1
million and said, please go and figure out what this Internet thing is all about. And he built
from scratch, our UK direct business, which is now a $150 million business and contributes
very well to the UK business's profitability. He then, as he said, relocated to America with
his family and is repeated it clearly on a bigger scale, and ultimately, we expect an even
more profitable scale.
I think, though, it's really important to look at the digital partnership and direct businesses
around the world in the context of our retail businesses as a whole. As you can see, the
retail businesses have gone over the last five years from $1.5 billion per annum to at the
end of last year, $2.2 billion. Within that, the digital businesses grew at a compound 22%
rate, but importantly, and in a way that I expect to continue. The breaker channel business
has gone at a compound 5%, and both are really important as we look for our future
opportunities.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of profit, you can see how strong the underlying profits have been. Clearly, last
year, including COVID we would have lost money, but you can see how much smaller that
loss was, thanks to the performance of the business. And the first six months of this year,
retail has made over $70 million. So you can see that we're back on track on an underlying
level.
So looking forward now, clearly, I'm delighted about the way the strategy has worked over
the last 18 months. Our big ticket businesses in Re & ILS and London Market, as you see in
the P&L today, have made a material contribution to the Group's profitability. And given
the rating position that you've heard from Joe and that's impact of the constant course
correction, that will continue in the future. And we expect to be able to use some of the
excess profits that the big ticket businesses generate to overinvest in the retail business
so we can continue to capture both the digital opportunity, but also important other
opportunities in the broker channel and in our high net worth business.
Because I think as I look at opportunities ahead on the next page, the portfolio cost
correction, as I listened to the presentations, I think you've got some new words that
you're going to learn from or hear a lot from Joe and from Aki is this constant course
correction, never being satisfied with what you've done and tweaking the dials piece by
piece quarter-by-quarter to ensure the portfolio stays in the good shape. And you've
seen the impact that Joe has had in the 18 months since she took over that leadership
role.
At the same time, we've had a material rating action. That's partly thanks to market. But
more importantly, in fact, has been thanks to the efforts of hundreds of underwriters
around the world, if you've negotiated that policy by policy, breaker interaction by breaker
interaction or through the analysis and tweaking of portfolio actions, and that's what we
are benefiting from today.

Page 13 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

FINAL

And at the same time, there's been hard work on expense management above and
beyond the shorter-term impact of reduced travels. So we are seizing the opportunities in
every part of our business. And that means we are very well capitalized. We're above
200% on the BSCR capital ratio, and we're pleased to have achieved that.
And that's allowing us to pay the dividend, the promise we made to all of you, our
shareholders when raised the capital that we returned to dividend list as soon as the
Board thought it's the prudent thing to do. This is why last opportunity to speak to all of
you as Chief executive of Hiscox.
I've been privileged to lead this business for a very long time. I think it's important though
that you all know that it has never been me alone. I had a wonderful partnership with
Robert Hiscox and with Robert Childs, then with Richard Watson, Aki and Joe. And it's that
team effort, which has driven the growth of Hiscox.
I'll leave now it in good hands. I'm delighted that Aki is succeeding me. I know that he's
got an ownership mentality and will run the business for the long term. I can see at least a
decade of opportunity ahead. In Joe, we have an underwriter who's got rigor discipline
and inspiration to ensure that constant course correction continues forever. And in the
senior team, we have depths and breadths, as you're seeing today from Kevin and others
who you don't know. So I leave Hiscox in good hands. And (inaudible) Aki and Joe, and the
other senior team have my wholehearted support, and I look forward to their continued
success.

Bloomberg Transcript

So with that, I'll -- we'll take any questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Will Hardcastle from UBS. Will,
please go ahead. Your line is open.

Q - Will Hardcastle

{BIO 16346311 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone. Thanks. Thanks for that. First one on the US DPDs, it's really
helpful presentation. Thanks for that. Just clearly a fantastic growth, delivery and
opportunity. Just trying to get the current profitability of this relative to the rest of normally
given how fast the growth is, there's a differential there. I guess the focus clearly in the
near term, perhaps in the medium-term is absolutely taking the opportunity. Just trying to
understand, over the next few years, that is a part of retail, should we be expecting a bit
of a pressure on the retail combined ratio as a result, albeit a higher absolute profit?
And the second question is just thinking about the July loss activity, you mentioned on the
UK flood losses. I guess you also have some European flood losses. So any comment on
that would be helpful. Just really thinking about perhaps retention levels or Kevin, you can
provide that, that would be great. Thank you.
Page 14 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you very much. It's Bronek here. I will act as the sort of question coordinator
between the different areas. But as those are both financial, the first question about how
we expect DPD to deliver an impact on profit profile of retail going forward? And the
second one is really about the financial impact of the floods. I'll hand those both to Aki.

A - Aki Hussain

{BIO 19739719 <GO>}

Thank you, Bronek. Hi, Will. I guess, taking the second one first, I think, is straightforward.
Of course, we've had deferred events in UK and Europe. We expect those to accumulate
between single retention, which will be about GBP10 million to cover those events. In
terms of the DPD business, I guess in terms of the overall economics, and now it's not the
time to kind of go into the detailed economics, I guess the comment I was making firstly
that we're writing business at attractive loss ratios. And for us, that is the key KPI that
we're looking at.

Bloomberg Transcript

Expenses are elevated, and I would expect they will continue to be elevated for a little
longer. Because as you said, we are striving for growth. And given those attractive loss
ratios and the secular change in consumer buying behavior that you just heard from Kevin
and the fragmented nature of the market, the right interest to do is continue to pursue
that growth. And we do expect the US digital business to become a growing part of the
overall retail business.
Perhaps of course, we will start to generate some efficiencies on the expense ratio as
well. And we would expect to see that start to come down. We continue to expect our
overall retail business to achieve -- to be within the 90 to 95 branch range by the end of
2023. So no change there.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Thank you, Aki. Coming to the next question please.

Operator
Of course. Our next question comes from Kamran Hossain from RBC. Kamran, please go
ahead. Your line is open.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Hi, good morning, everyone. Three questions from me, but that's all just from a good luck
with kind of I guess the future and thanks for everything over the last 10 years or so. The
three questions I have based on the resale presentation, which I thought was fantastic.
The first question is just on the market side, when you kind of flag the 16 billion kind of
where you think your real market on the face of addressable market is less 130 billion,
how much is excluded due to product offering versus risk appetite and kind of which
products are rolling out next and how fast you're saying that you will be kind of grow that
substantially. And the second question is just, could you give an indication on retention in
DPD versus the rest of the retail book, retail has got a fantastic retention ratio should

Page 15 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

essentially and kind of whether there is any major differences and kind of if there any kind
of key drivers for that versus elsewhere in retail? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Great, thank you, Kamran and thank you for your good wishes, clearly those are both to
do with additional partnership and direct, the first one of us in a product change and how
we see that evolving and the second on bulk retention levels, I'll hand across to Kevin.

A - Kevin Kerridge
Well, thanks, Bronek. So let me take the second question first around retention, but what I
would say on that Kamran is our retention rates are in line with market standards. So,
obviously not going to give you a figure, but they're in line with the market, which is good.
In terms of the gap between the 16 billion and 130 billion, I mean we're really excited
about our plans over the coming years to expand from 16 billion out to 130. And you're
absolutely right that there is definitely opportunity to continue to round out and fill gaps in
our current general liability and professional liability.

Bloomberg Transcript

But I think by far the two biggest opportunities are around continuing to expand the
footprint of our BOP product in pulp is a significant market in terms of right, 10s of billions
of dollars and our current state and industry appetite is relatively small. So as we move
towards the end of this year, we're already on the journey to actually expand that
footprint, it's more of a national geography and more industries, so that's our own
manufactured underwriting. And then equally the other opportunity is to look to work with
other another carrier or carriers to do something on workers' comp.
So our aspiration over time, as well as a customer being able to buy a Hiscox professional
liability which is underwritten by us, alongside that they could buy workers comp from
another carrier in our shop window. And the advantage to us is it's a nice risk free income
stream for us and it also improves the stickiness of customers overall as we get bigger,
bigger share of their wallet.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Great, thank you.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

The other thing I would which I think really come up in the presentation is the ability to roll
out the Business Owner's product, the BOP product is being facilitated by the fact that
the new IT system has been rolled off now in Q3 and Q4 and that will give us more
flexibility and more access to that broader product set. So the tech capability as you all
know we've invested within a lot over the last 3 or 4 years. This is where it begins to pay
off for Kevin running the business on a day-to-day, week-to-week basis.
Let's move onto the next question please.

Operator
Page 16 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

Of course. Our next question comes from Andrew Ritchie of Autonomous. Andrew,
please go ahead, your line is open.

FINAL

Q - Andrew Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

So, hi there. The first question, thank you, I was a bit confused on your commentary
around expenses -- on the Group expense ratio. I think you sort of try to give us a
normalized base, but when I look at the detail of the expenses breakdown I think so 10 in
the accounts. I am surprised that some of the deflation year-on-year and some items, so I
just -- let me just give as a sense, is there some type of investment or salary increases or
investment to occur in the second half that just clarify exactly what you were saying on
expenses would be useful.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, Kevin, I'm just curious on your perception around the acquisition cost of business in
DPD, I think the acquisition cost with some of the platforms is very similar to brokerage
commission in levels, some carriers have talked about inflation in that because there's
quite a lot of competition to get on some of these platforms even though they're
proliferating. So do you see a lot of pressure on the sort of acquisition cost to get your -it is where in some of the platforms or maybe sort of comment on that would be useful.
Final question, I guess we've been surprised over the years sort of embedded cat load
especially in London Market, so we've been even when is helping high profile cat has
been quite a lot of attritional type cat noise, especially in the property book. Can you talk
about mid-80s is where you're writing new business, I just wanted to ponder if you could
just give us some degree of confidence to what degree you stress tested that for a full
examination of trending secondary losses sort of a higher frequency of that purchase
event would be useful. And finally, congratulations Bronek on your retirement, hopefully
we'll hear from you again before the end of the year, I hope your successor is elephant in
his outlook and industry comments in the Annual Report, which have always been a good
read, but thanks for that.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Thank you, Andrew. So, Joanne's will go through that I might sort of actually I chose to do
that last question around what we've done in the feather. So first Aki on some more color
on Group expenses, then Kevin I guess on the acquisition cost. I'd say there is a benefit
being a first mover. We have been talking to a lot of these people for a long time, but
Kevin will be able to sort of help you on that. And then to Joe for the property and what
we've done to improve the underlying cat exposure within the books? Aki?

A - Aki Hussain

{BIO 19739719 <GO>}

Sure. Thank you, thank you, Bronek. I guess in terms of expenses, the key let's see there
is half-year expense ratio was acquisition and admin expenses went up 44.9, let's call it
45%. And I guess what I was trying to do there is compare it to the more normalized
period which was back in 2019, 2020 as you can imagine for a range of reasons was
exceptional and the equivalent figure in 2019 was 46.5%.

Page 17 of 28



FINAL

Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

And hence the comment that the expense control measures and the focus on expense to
decline over the last 12 to 18 months is looking to take effect. And I guess your comment
on the figures that you've seen in those 10, where certain elements of the costs are
actually lower in absolute term year-on-year in particular with salaries and associated
costs. There still be (inaudible) that we have taken measures to auto expenses and we
have been certainly in our group function during the course of clearly part of 2021 a
number of rules have been reduced and that's all part of our activity motivation measured
going forward.
So there isn't pent up investment. The only thing I would add to that is in the first half our
marketing expenditure which is out here in the notes has been moderated simply
because again many of the countries operating have been in lockdown. I would expect
the marketing expenditure to increase in the second half.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Great. Kevin?

A - Kevin Kerridge

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Yeah, so my question on the partnership side, you're absolutely right. We have
been at the front of the line or over 100 times now as part of. I would think on the front
line because we're first mover of status, the fact we've got a very progressive mindset
and the fact that capabilities have been ahead of the market in terms of ease of
integration, so haven't really felt any pressure there on acquisition costs because people
really want to work with us.
On the direct side, I mean clearly when we started out, we were heavily reliant on Google
paid search. And again you're right that those costs are going up every year. So overtime,
we have diversified our acquisition activity away from paid search, we still do some
obviously, but more and more of what we acquire in the direct business is through natural
search where we spent over 10 years obviously building those rankings. And also let's not
forget the investment, Aki was talking about in terms of investment in the brand, what
were our brand awareness is over 50% now in the small business space, which really
helps reduce acquisition costs.
So feeling in a pretty good place there, Andrew.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

I mean I think, Andrew, I think you shouldn't underestimate. We're talking about brands.
You can see are involved in narrow costing for our target audience and through
sponsored for things like major league baseball. We do get to the sort of traditional
trades and professional. So that will help to something independent of sort of Google
Search. So Joe, should we tell on then to the profits.

A - Joanne Musselle

{BIO 19106109 <GO>}

Page 18 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

FINAL

Good morning, all. And thanks for the question. So yeah, you're right. In recent years, we
have seen an increase in our attritional claims in our lens and market property portfolio.
And this, coupled with an increased year for us, has led to significant remediation over the
last few years, particularly in our binder portfolio in London Market, we've seen a
reduction in aggregates in certain areas. And obviously, that couples with portfolio action
and also three years of rate rise has now started to earn through the P&L and obviously
improving the profitability.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Good. Thank you, Joe. So moving on to the next question, please.

Operator
Of course. Our next question comes from Freya Kong of Bank of America. Freya, please
go ahead. Your line is open.

Q - Freya Kong

{BIO 20097488 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. So you've touched on this briefly that
you talked about Asia investing in the retail business, given how good the opportunity is
right now. When can you provide an update on your plans (inaudible) and quantify any
other investment you've planned for this year? Are your brand building campaigns and
marketing expenses, DPD captured in the current underlying retail combined ratio
guidance of 97% to 98%?
And secondly, on cyber, could you elaborate on the incentives you're giving customers to
come to your training academy? Do you think rate intervention might be needed to
improve the quality of the book? Thanks.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Great. In terms of the yearly investments in the brand, to me, it's always been a basis
prior of having those profits flowing through from the big ticket business and then
reinvesting some of those in retail that's how we provided the initial investment to Kevin
and the team to get up and running and we've continued to build that going on. In terms
of the impact of the guidance we provided for this year, we would expect to operate
within that guidance for the balance of this year, and I'm sure we'll be going into next year,
when Aki takes over, he will provide updated guidance and clarity about where we're over
investing and what's core underlying investment.
In terms of, I don't know Kevin you want to add anything to that. And then after that we'll
go to Joe about the cyber. Thank you.

A - Kevin Kerridge
Bronek, I think you really captured the essence there, which is we do expect to operate
within the existing guidance for this year, our plans for building out the brand are factored
into the 97% to 98%. You're also seeing in the results today, the benefit of the strategy

Page 19 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

FINAL

that's been operating for a pretty long time. And we're seeing the profits begin to flowthrough from the big ticket business, both London Market and Re and ILS. We are
optimistic about the future. We've seen solid rating momentum in both of those
businesses.
And in fact, much of the business that we wrote in the second half of last year and into
this year is yet to earn through over the course of the next 12 to 24 months. So we're
optimistic about the flow and emergence of profits from those -- from the big ticket
businesses. And with that creates the financial flexibility to think about how we might
capture even more of the growth opportunity that you just heard from Kevin and as we
develop our plans on that, which we will be doing towards the back end of this year early
next year, we'll be able to review more of that as we go forward.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

And I would just add to that, Freya. I mean, remember that the US digital (inaudible)
business has grown by 30% year-on-year at the current level of investments. And I know,
as I sort of referenced earlier on, the investment in operational capability, the new
technology platform, which is being rolled out. And then other areas is critical to
maintaining that growth, and that's a focus going forward. So investment isn't always just
tracing marketing. It's also on the broader infrastructure.

Bloomberg Transcript

The API connectivity is a critical area of competitive activity, and we have a great capability
in there and a lead in terms of where we are. So those are all the things which support
that beyond just brand marketing.
So over to you, Joe, in terms of the cyber question as to how we're incentivizing people
and what else you're planning to do in that space.

A - Joanne Musselle

{BIO 19106109 <GO>}

Thanks, Bronek. So yeah. So as I mentioned, the CyberCare Academy is a training
program that's really aimed at our small customers. So these are the small businesses
that really don't have access to the same level of IT security and IT training that maybe
some bigger organizations have. And really, what we see in that space is human error. So
an employee clicking on a link that they shouldn't, et cetera, is still, by far, the biggest
source of claims. There's a training around cyber risk and highlighting areas for caution is
really key. So we intensified our customers, things like reduced deductible. The benefit
that we see, of course, is as I said, the people who have taken the program, actually, we
do see defines a good. Things like early time of the reporting. So these customers are
more aware. And clearly, it's prevention, but also if there is an issue, they report their
claims earlier.
We're also seeing benefits within the customer retention. So again, customers that have
gone through this training program, we see the benefit in terms of retention. In terms of
some other things that we're doing, cyber, as I mentioned, is clearly a hot topic for the
industry. And those increased ransomwares that we're seeing across the market, clearly
having an impact.

Page 20 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

FINAL

As I said, we've really changed our underwriting appetite, where we're really refocusing
our bigger ticket business on higher attaching and our retail business on the smaller
customers. So we're also looking at the product proposition that we offer our customers
and also investing heavily in technology, whether it's around modeling, but also in terms of
the risk mitigation, which clearly is the most preferable to prevent claims from (inaudible).

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Okay. Great. Thank you very much, Joe. Should we move on to the next question, please.

Operator
Yes. Our next question comes from Ashik Musaddi from J.P. Morgan. Ashik, please go
ahead. Your line is open.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you and good morning, Bronek. Good morning, Aki. Just a couple of questions I
have is -- I'm just thinking about this 90% to 95% combined ratio guidance, you still have
for 2023. I mean, if I look at the first half combined ratio, ex-COVID (inaudible) is 96.7%.
You're expecting the expense ratio to improve by 1 percentage point. So shouldn't we be
a bit more optimistic that like 95 or just sub 95 you can take by 2022 as well. So that's the
first one. Given -- especially given that the pricing is coming through, and you mentioned,
if I'm not wrong, that claims inflation is lower than the price increases. So that's why.
The second thing is, how do we think about like the capital basically after taking this 10
points to 15 points of hit that you are flagging? I mean how much strain does the 10%
growth in business put on the capital? I mean, would you still be okay? Because if you think
about 10 points to 15 points of capital knocking off because of this regulatory changes, we
are at 195 in pro forma. So how do you think about that 10%, 15% growth if you try to do
on your business? Or would you say that you would be thinking about more management
action to reduce the BSCR next year to actually accommodate the higher growth? Thank
you.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Great. Thank you, Ashik. So I guess question number one is around given the good
performance we've seen, are we going to accelerate the achievement of the 90%, 95%
target. And the second one is capital and what we can do to ensure we have the capital
to fund the growth. So it's a 2022 target, I think I won't be here. So it's very clear Aki has
to take that going forward. And I'm sure you can then carry on to answer the question on
the capital as well. Over to you, Aki.

A - Aki Hussain

{BIO 19739719 <GO>}

Sorry, I was on mute. Thank you, Bronek. Ashik, hi. Look, there's no change to our
guidance for this year or indeed for 2023. And you're right, we are seeing some positive
trends coming through. We're making traction on the expense ratio. Pricing is coming
through. The thing to bear in mind on pricing is, our retail business is largely casualty is
longer tail, and therefore, it does take longer to come through to the P&L. We're
Page 21 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

FINAL

optimistic and positive about reaching the guidance that we've set out, but there's no
change to that guidance. And frankly, if we get that soon, you will be the first to know,
along with the rest of your colleagues.
And then in terms of capital, again, a very good question. Look, we made solid progress
on capital in the first half, both through increasing non funds as a result of capital
generation of profit and also a reduction in the required capital as a result of the LPT
transactions that Joe has completed.
Now as we look forward to the end of the year, you're right, we've got -- we have a 10
point to 15 point reduction expected from the BSCR, potentially a little bit more from -sorry, and also a small adjustment for the dividend. But against that, we do expect to
generate capital in the second half as well. I'm not going to give you a prediction, but we
do expect to generate capital in the second half. So those reductions will be moderated.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now the key thing for our business and how we think about the capital for our business is
the biting constraint is the desire to maintain an A rating from S&P. And that's been a longheld sort of desire, and it's been a requirement that we've held within the business. The
broad equivalent for that under the BSCR capital regime is a ratio of around 165% today.
And with the BSCR strengthening, that is likely to be a drop below 160. So there's plenty
of headroom still available. Nonetheless, I expect the ongoing capital generation to be
sufficient to execute our business plan and to support the growth of the business as a
whole.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

That's very good. Yeah. Thanks a lot. Thank you, that's very clear.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Great, thank you. Shall we go to the next question please?

Operator
Yes. Our next question comes from Ian Pearce of Credit Suisse. Ian, please go ahead,
your line is open.

Q - Ian Pearce

{BIO 17168137 <GO>}

Hi, thanks for taking my questions. The first one was just on the reserve buffer. I think at
the full year you sort of said the reserve buffer was at the top end of the range and that's
actually moved up in the first half despite the sort of derisking that you've done with the
portfolio loss transfer. So, if you could just touch on sort of how you're thinking about the
reserve buffer whether that's sort of now above the top end of your sort of target range.
And also if you could touch on the frequency developments, I think you've mentioned
previously you had some positive frequency development that you hadn't recognizing,
sort of waiting to see if that played out, if you still have those in results as well would be
useful.

Page 22 of 28



FINAL

Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

And then just on the US DPD business. Kevin, in terms of that sort of $16 billion target
market, I don't know if you could sort of clarify how much you think that target market is
currently being digitally traded, thought of what your market share of the digitally traded
business is at the moment. And also just if you could touch a little bit more on the
competitive environment that you're saying we've had a lot of fundraising in the space,
some of the incumbent talking a lot more about targeting SME business, but here you are
saying is your sort of best competitors who you are competing against when you're going
through some of the digital channels that be really useful as well. Thanks.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Great. All right. Thanks, Ian. I'm kind of on the reserve buffer to actually -- I would just sort
of remind you that in identity it was 362 million, I mean now 348, so the actual number has
come down. And so you're really talking about quite small sums of money, but I -- to full
that out and then we'll go across to Kevin. So Aki once you could continue on that.

A - Aki Hussain

{BIO 19739719 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Sure, Bronek. Hi, Ian. You're right, I did say that the reserve buffer at around 10% was at
the upper end of my expectations and this is slightly above the upper end of my
expectation. I guess the lesson learnt, if you can't land based on the head of a pin, so but
as you heard from Bronek the absolute quantum of the results were pretty slightly, slightly
lower than it was at year-end.
I think it's fair to say that the reserve resilience is now even stronger than it was at the
year-end because the -- I'll give you some of the more sort of volatile or the areas where
we've seen high level of volatility now has a significant amount of reinsurance cover and
therefore we have this remaining reserve over the remaining over the rest of the book.
I would expect the aggregate reserve buffer to go-no higher than the current number,
now just 1.5% [ph], if you could see the reserve, sort of the small guys because it can be
tough on the head of a pin, but don't expect it to go above where it is. Now we are
comfortable more than comfortable where the buffer is. To address your other question
on frequency and development, the way we've kind of reflected that in the P&L is on the
short tail lines, which typically have the property lines if we're seeing a frequency benefit,
that is going into the P&L and specifically in the retail book we've seen some of that in UK
APC business in the first half.
But as you know, particularly in retail, the vast majority of the business that we write is
casualty and where we've seen frequency benefits there where we think they are may be
well be related to sort of the sporadic lockdowns and if I said the measures are in place,
there was being -- we're not giving credit to those, so those are being retained, but
noting the reserve buffer, they're actually in the actuarial best estimate, so they won't be
visible to you.
We will continue to see how that experience plays out. It is still somewhat early. We do
need to see to actually the societies and economies open up properly and they are

Page 23 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

hopefully now doing and we'll know much more toward this frequency benefit is real and
therefore can be taken into P&L probably next year.

FINAL

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Great, thank you, Aki Before we just go across to Kevin, I'd just say in terms of our ability
to understand the detail of what's going on within the $16 billion market, it is quite opaque
in terms of market shares and who's got worse and so on and but Kevin is clearly the
expert on that and the competitive landscape.

A - Kevin Kerridge
Yeah, thanks, Bronek. Hi. So as I said earlier in the webcast, direct-to-consumer is growing
fast, but it's still very small and we believe we're taking a significant share of that market
because of things like Google rankings on both natural and paid search. On the
partnership side, I mean it's hard to say because it's still a lot of business in traditional
channels. I think the good news is that we have seen a kind of wholesale acceleration of
embracing digital across all channels. And you know COVID has been a big impact there
as people start working remotely, just embracing having to embrace digital models has
obviously been a bit of a tailwind for us.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the emergence of platforms like Bold Penguin, they are kind of greasing the wheels
of commerce in digital insurance where we are very strongly plugged into with our APIs,
that will surface really well. So I can't give you a percentage of market share by do now
that we're taking a good chunk of new business is gravitating towards digital.
In terms of competitors, I bucketed into 2 areas, I mean clearly there is insurer tech startups and I think we don't -- when I'm worried too much about that because what we've
mentioned over 10 years is get that balance right between really driving growth, but
making sure that we keep an eye on structural profitability of loss ratios. And if I'm a new
entrant today, there is a lot of pressure to grow, grow, grow and but that that's in our
rearview mirror. So I feel really good about the scale we've got that will drive profit for us.
And then in the main stream be the second bucket, the mainstream brands that you know
and love in the US market and we're seeing those emerge not so much really indirect, but
more in the partnership space, but again we feel really good about being ahead of the
pack in terms of the capabilities in our integrations.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Great, thanks. Yes, African -- extend what Kevin saying about being underwriters of heart
and that clearly is actually 7 Kevin has said, what you need to have a quality book is a good
underlying loss ratio. Over time you can use scale to manage the expense ratios down
and leverage the brands especially in the market. But if you have good underlying loss
ratios that is really very difficult to overcome especially in America given the pricing
changes all regulated in a way that they are not in the UK and we have created a good
solid foundation of over $400 million and that's really good for Kevin to be able to use to
and that gives us credibility quite frankly as a partner with -- you are the partner with
somebody who is brand new in this space, but some who has really got an in force $400

Page 24 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

million book with the infrastructure to answer telephone calls, integrated by APIs and pay
the claims when they come.
So let's carry on to the next question.

FINAL

Operator
Of course. Our next question comes from Tryfonas Spyrou from Berenberg. Tryfonas,
please go ahead, your line is open.

Q - Tryf onas Spyrou

{BIO 21705826 <GO>}

Hi, good morning everyone and congratulations on strong results and I'd like to wish
Bronek a happy retirement. I just have a question on cyber. Can you perhaps give us some
color on whether the price increases experienced over the last 12 months or so have
been adequate to keep up with the increased risk premiums? And on that, I think
(inaudible) mentioned in the earnings call last month (inaudible) prices are strongly driven
increased capital requirements of the business due to the partner systemic risk is now
considered to be as greater due to exposure accumulations. Any comments around those
two would be greatly appreciated. Thank you.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Great. Thank you. So clearly, on the side, we will go first to Joe, and then after that the
capital to Aki. Joe?

A - Joanne Musselle

{BIO 19106109 <GO>}

Thanks, Bronek. So yeah, as I mentioned in the presentation, so price increases are
accelerating in cyber. So if I look back into 2020, fiber wasn't the lead line in terms of price
acceleration as I look into 2021, it certainly is. I mean, if we look at the last six months,
we've got about an aggregate 30%. So in the last quarter, there's a 30% rate rise. And if I
look back to 2019, it's about 60%. So I think your question is that adequate in terms of is
that keeping pace with risk premium. And I'd say two things is that's on its own. It's
probably not that, that coupled with the portfolio actions that we're also taking. So pricing
is clearly one part of the toolbox. The other part of the toolbox is looking at where we
write. What lines you write, whether we write primary or whether we write excess? What
parts of the portfolio, what sectors do we write? And clearly, we've made some material
change as well into our portfolio shape as well as the terms and conditions in addition to
pricing. So I think there's a combination of things that are happening in the fiber market.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Joe and over to you. Aki

A - Aki Hussain

{BIO 19739719 <GO>}

Thank you, Bronek. On the capital side, we have seen the aggregation build up or actually
the work that Joe has just referred to that just been leading over the last couple of years.
We've been managing our overall aggregate exposure to cyber. And that obviously is
Page 25 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

included within our capital models. But I think your central point is right that as we've
learned a little bit more about this type of exposure over the last sort of five or 10 years,
capital requirements have increased.

FINAL

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

And I'll also just add on that is that, don't forget that in the back of the analyst pack, we
have some quite comprehensive disclosure about our exposures to both natural
catastrophes, IDSs and also some specific events, including cyber, because we think it's
important for us. Cyber is not a risk-free business people are realizing. That's very
different to where they people believed five years ago. So let's go on to the next
question

Operator
Thank you. And our final question today comes from Ben Cohen of Investec. Ben, please
go ahead. Your line is open.

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks very much. And if I could begin by adding my congratulations to Bronek for what
he's achieved at Hiscox over the years that he's been there. And then just to sort of to
move on with that to ask Aki for any first thoughts he has as to what he might look to be
doing differently when he steps up in terms of any, I guess, strategic emphasis that he
might be looking to place differently?
And the second question was actually just really a clarification. Have you quantified actually
how much benefit there was from lower than sort of expected losses in the combined
ratios for the three different divisions in the first half of the year, that would be helpful.
Thank you.

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

Thank you, Ben. I'm not sure we have on the second one, but I'll leave both of them to
Aki.

A - Aki Hussain

{BIO 19739719 <GO>}

Thank you, Bronek. Hi, Ben. I guess answering your second question first. We haven't
quantified the benefits from lower-than-expected losses. So I'll kind of stop there. In
terms of thoughts on doing things differently and strategy and so on. Well, I guess as you
all know, I've been part of the leadership team here for the last five years, working
alongside Bronek. And I've already had and being part of the team that's been influencing
that strategy and how we do things. And I believe in the strategy of the business. It's
worked well over the last 20 years. What you've seen over the last 20 years is how we
execute on that strategy evolves faster as the business evolves as the external market
evolves as technologies evolve. And that you can expect, we will continue. But the
overarching strategy is a sound strategy. It's enabled us to build a retail business entirely
organically from scratch to near enough EUR2.5 billion, which is where it is now and to
allow our big ticket businesses London Market and Re & ILS to prosper and deliver.
Page 26 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

FINAL

I guess right now, Ben the focus for us and focus for me is to continue on that path and
execute. Because as I look across the business, I see opportunities in every part of our
portfolio. I see that in London Market, the hard yards that the London Market team have
done over the last four or five years in what has been a prolonged soft market and now
beginning to pay off.
We're leaning into that hard market, and we will continue to lean into the hard market and
deploy capital. We're seeing a similar trend in RE and ILS. We have new leadership in that
team, and we're also again seeing the same trends in terms of rate increases and margin
expansion now coming through into the P&L. And of course, in retail, we've had a longterm structural opportunity, which we've been building out through our broker channel,
which is still the mainstay of our overall retail business. And so we stay focused on building
those broker relationships and the service to our broker partners.
And then, of course, frankly, the escalating the huge opportunity, we're now seeing as
consumer behavior is changing in terms of the buying patterns of how they purchase and
consume insurance as closely. It's a very list, where I can add to what Kevin has already
said. It's a fantastic opportunity. We're right. We're four square behind it, and we'll be
continuing to invest significantly in building out that opportunity.

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

Great. Thanks very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Bronek Masojada

{BIO 1776109 <GO>}

And again, I guess -- I get to have the last words for the last time. And I can only -- I've
clearly been the CEO a long time, and I've always wanted to hand over Hiscox into my
successor in the rising market. And as you just heard from Aki, I also want to do that when
we saw opportunity across multiple areas of the business, and clearly, Aki just laid out,
that's what we all see the executive here at Hiscox. So Aki, Joe, Kevin, other senior
leaders, you all don't know how my wholehearted support. And I expect it to change. In
fact, as a shareholder, I would want it to change as the market opportunity changes.
And can I then just turn to all of you collectively and individually. Some of you like you Ben
and Nick Johnson, I think we met back and Nick, I know we met back in 1993, when we -yes, 1993, when he was fresh out of University. And I think Ben you were then too, and
you've covered us in various guises throughout our -- the entire period that I've been
group Director and then CEO.
Others, like Andrew, like Kamran, we've got to know in more recent times and others too
like Freya and others here more recently. But I've always regarded analysts, I have always
agreed with what you said about us, that's only to be expected. But I've always regarded
you all as critical friends. And quite frankly, your insights on Hiscox have helped us make it
a better business because you see things and compare us to others.
And sometimes, we've over-delivered against your expectations as we have today. Other
times, we've underdelivered, but that is the nature of running a business. It's not landing a
Page 27 of 28



Company N ame: H iscox L td
Company Ticker: H SX L N Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

helicopter on the head of a pin quarter-on-quarter. So thank you for your support. I'm sure
we'll see you at various events, but I don't think you'll be hearing from you again in
something like this as CEO. It's over to Aki, over to Joe, and I wish them all the best of
luck for the future. Thank you all.

FINAL

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call. Thank you all for joining. You may now
disconnect your lines.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 28 of 28

