Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2021-04-01

Business Update Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Mark Satchel, Chief Financial Officer
Paul Feeney, Chief Executive Officer

Other Participants
Andrew Sinclair
David McCann
Gregory Simpson
Gurjit Kambo
Paul Allen

Presentation
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

(Call Starts Abruptly) This conference call is being recorded. Today I'm pleased to present
Paul Feeney. Please begin your meeting.

Paul Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Good morning all. Many thanks for joining us at short notice today. At our full-year results
we promised that we would get back to you on the strategic review of our International
business. And as this morning's announcement makes clear, we've now concluded that
process. So, let me give you the high level context; Mark will then walk you through the
financial implications and expected timeline to completion; and then I'll talk to what it
means for our strategy; we'll then take questions.
Right, let's dive in starting with Slide 3. I'm delighted to announce that we have agreed
terms to sell our International business to Utmost for approximately GBP483 million in
cash. It was the best bid, which emerged from a competitive process involving a number
of bidders. And the terms of the transaction provide very little residual risk to us. And it's a
good deal for all stakeholders. Our shareholders get a great price; the customers of our
International business get a new owner, who will view this business as core; and it will also
provide a range of career opportunities for the employees in our International business
today.
Now back at the full-year results, I said that international had been a good business for us
and all options were on the table. So, why are we announcing a sale today. Essentially
there are two reasons; one strategic and one financial. First, strategic. While international
delivered a solid contribution to our profits and cash generation, it is less aligned to our
Page 1 of 12



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2021-04-01

FINAL

core UK business and the level of integrated flow is fairly modest. So, we concluded that it
makes more sense to double down on the area, where our opportunity is most
compelling, the UK wealth market.
As you know, this market is large and structurally growing. So, focusing here is more
sensible than allocating valuable resources to try and deliver a similar rate of growth from
the International business. Without international, Quilter would be a nimbler, simpler,
faster growing business. That's why we are also restating our target for NCCF growth to
at least 6% today.
The second reason is financial. As you know the revenue line in the International business
has been going backwards for the last few years. We've managed to offset that through
strong cost reductions to support profitability. But there is only so much you can do to
drive profits by reducing costs if revenues are not growing.
So, while the team have done a great job maintaining profitability over the last few years,
the impact of the back book run-off cannot be avoided forever. We would have to make
considerable investment both in terms of P&L cost and capital to drive the International
business forward from here. As a result, we have concluded that a disposal delivers the
greatest value for shareholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now moving to Slide 4. As you all know capital discipline is a key focus for us. When we
sold our single strategy asset management business, we use the proceeds to repay a
GBP300 million bank loan, which we took out to fund a pre-IPO distribution to our
shareholder. And we followed it with another GBP220 million special dividend post listing.
When we sold Quilter Life Assurance, we announced we would return the entire net sale
proceeds to shareholders through a share buyback and we're making good progress
here. And we are saying today that we are minded to return the majority of the proceeds
from this sale to shareholders after allowing for costs, a contribution to the 2021 dividend
and some investment in the business.
What do I mean by minded? Essentially, if we had the money in our hands today, we
would be happy returning that majority of the net sale proceeds to shareholders. But we
don't expect this transaction to complete until later this year or early 2022. And as we've
learned over the last year, the world can change fast. So, while we plan to make a
meaningful distribution, the Board will take stock of the financial and business conditions
prevailing at completion, as well as the opportunities to invest and accelerate growth,
before deciding the amount and means of a distribution. And it goes without saying that
this is something that we'll continue to consult with our shareholders about as well.
Right, let me hand over to Mark to talk through the financials. Mark?

Mark Satchel

{BIO 18275874 <GO>}

Thanks, Paul, and good morning all. Right, so I'm starting with Slide 5. As you know, the
International Life businesses tend to be valued at a discount to own funds, rather than a
Page 2 of 12



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2021-04-01

FINAL

multiple of earnings, given their complexity and capital intensity. We think we've achieved
a very good valuation at 84% of ends 2020 own funds, particularly given the nature of the
Quilter International back book.
The total consideration is made up of a base consideration of GBP460 million and a ticker,
which is interest income on net figure from the 1st of January this year until completion.
So, if we complete on 31 December, 2021, that is worth GBP23 million, hence the GBP483
million.
Costs are expected to absorb around GBP33 million, leaving net proceeds of GBP450
million. Given the size of the transaction, it will require shareholder approval at a general
meeting and we will be issuing a Class 1 circular to support the approval process. It also
requires regulatory approval in each of the five main jurisdictions in which our International
business operates and there is an EU antitrust approval requirement too. So, we need
three main things to complete on the transaction: our shareholders' approval, regulatory
approvals, and the antitrust approval.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of use of the GBP450 million proceeds, first we expect to allocate a portion to
cover Quilter International share of the overall Quilter 2021 dividend on a pro rata basis to
this year's earnings. Next, as Paul has said, we are currently minded to return the majority
of the proceeds to shareholders following the disposal and we will update you on that at
completion. Finally, we also intend to reinvest a portion of the proceeds into our core
business to fund selected revenue growth plans and to help optimize the cost base. We
will update you on our detailed plans at a Capital Markets Day that we are planning in Q4
this year.
Let me now turn to the impact of the sale on our financials and what we expect from here
on Slide 6. Our International business made an IFRS profit of GBP57 million in 2020. You'll
recall that at the full-year results announcements, I referenced the group benefiting from
a total of some GBP42 million of tactical cost savings.
Quilter International contributed some GBP8 million of that through lower variable
compensation, reduced travel and lower change in marketing spend. Without that benefit,
the profit contribution from international in 2020 would have been around the same level
as that of the prior year and our expectation is that, if we retain the business its profit
trajectory would trend downward from here, without meaningful restructuring actions and
investments in the business.
Turning now to the operating margin, as you know Quilter achieved an operating margin
of 25% for 2020. Quilter International has a high margin legacy run-off book, which gives it
a higher operating margin than the group average. Excluding international, the ongoing
Quilter business delivered an operating margin of around 20% last year.
Now you've heard us say on a number of occasions, that we believe our business should
have an operating margin that starts with the 3, and we believe that is what our UK
business should be achieving.

Page 3 of 12



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2021-04-01

FINAL

Based on our current plans for the continuing business, excluding Quilter International and
assuming broadly stable market conditions with some normalized equity market growth,
we expect to get an operating margin of at least 25% by 2023 and at least 30% by 2025.
Flipping to Slide 7, let me now say a few words on capital. I know one of the first questions
I'm going to get is whether there is scope for a change in our capital regime. This is
something we intend to discuss with our regulators. It's important to caution that we do
expect to remain group Solvency II regulated for the time being because all the pension
assets on our UK platform are held through a life company.
So, on technical grounds, we remain a group Solvency II regulated group, regardless of
where the Quilter International is part of the group or not. By swapping the value in force
VIF, in the International business for cash, we expect the capital and cash positions of the
group to be materially enhanced immediately after the transaction, before considering
the return and redeployment of the sale proceeds.

Bloomberg Transcript

As I said earlier, the International business will contribute its share to the Quilter full year
dividend on a pro rata basis to earnings. In effect this means that partial distribution of the
net sale proceeds in the form of the full-year dividend. That is also what we did in 2019,
when we sold Quilter Life Assurance using a similar locked in box mechanism. So, you can
regard the 2021 Quilter full-year dividend as effectively based on the same corporate
perimeter, as the 2020 dividend. And our dividend payout policy remains unchanged.
We've also announced today that we'll restart the share buyback shortly to continue
returning the Quilter Life Assurance sale proceeds, and we're aiming to accelerate the
program by removing the 50/50 LSE-JSE split that was in place last year.
Turning now to the timetable on Slide 8. The main points to note here are that, as I said
earlier, the transaction will require shareholder and regulatory approval. We expect the
Class 1 circular to be published in around six weeks and for the General Shareholder
Meeting to follow some five to six weeks after that. And that's a slightly extended
timetable than you might typically expect, due to [ph] I need to mail our documents in
South Africa. If all goes to plan on the shareholder and regulatory front, we expect that
the transaction should complete by late this year or early in 2022.
Just before, I hand back to Paul, let me show you Slide 9, which you will recognize as a
summary of our financial guidance. The key changes that I would highlight are; a revised
expectation of growth in NCCF from 5% to 6%, which is just the mathematical adjustment
from excluding the slower growing Quilter International from the ongoing business; a new
target for our operating margin; a higher overall group tax charge once release the
benefit of low tax earnings from the Isle of Man based business.
Finally, you'll note that the revenue margin for the International business in 2020 was
broadly in line with the group average. So, the disposal will not have much of an impact on
the short-term margin, but we think a future drag is removed, which should lead to
increasing stability over time.
And with that, let me hand back to Paul.
Page 4 of 12



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2021-04-01

FINAL

Paul Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Thanks, Mark. I'm now on Slide 10. Since we listed back in 2018, we've had two main
objectives to simplify our structure and to deliver on the growth potential of our business.
2021 as seen has made two key strides here, selling Quilter International delivers a major
simplification and it leaves us with a faster growing core business, and completing the
migration onto our new UK platform sets us up to deliver a meaningful acceleration in
growth.
This slide shows the new Quilter on a page. We cover all three parts of the wealth value
chain; financial advice, platform and wrappers and a full range of investment solutions.
That covers the full spectrum from bespoke offerings for high net worth clients to unitized
and managed portfolios for the affluent and mass affluent market. What also sets us apart
from our peers is our two strong distribution channels, our own advisers and the thirdparty open market IFAs that we serve.

Bloomberg Transcript

And as I alluded to earlier, we think the revised perimeter of the business should be
capable of delivering NCCF in excess of 6% of AuMA through the cycle, with the UK
platform running ahead of that level. So, we will now be targeting that as a minimum over
the medium term from 2022 onwards.
So in summary, on Slide 11, we are delighted to be announcing this transaction today with
the sale of Quilter International and the completion of PTP earlier this year, the heavy
lifting to transform Quilter is now behind us. The foundations are in place to deliver on our
next phase of our journey. Our focus is now on driving growth and efficiency. And under
new ownership, our International business will be free to invest in its core franchise and to
deliver for its customers, employees and new shareholders. And I wish them well for the
future.
Now, let me open up for questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Andy Sinclair
from Bank of America. Please go ahead.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Thanks, and good morning, everyone. Well done on this disposal. Three for me as usual
sounds, okay. Firstly, you've talked about material capital return, but also said about
funding selected growth initiatives. You also just said that the heavy-lifting to transform
Quilter is now behind us. So, should we think about those growth initiatives, just adding

Page 5 of 12



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2021-04-01

some more financial advisors, maybe capabilities for Quilter investors rather than anything
transformational in terms of M&A? That's question one.

FINAL

Secondly, just from looking at the new operating margin targets, how much of that should
we think just the original partner effectively adjusted for the QI disposal? How much is
newly expense opportunities? And how much is deployment and so those new growth
initiatives?
And thirdly, perhaps a slightly tricky question. Look we know at 1st of April, just wondered
if you could give us any color on Q1 trading? And how you feel just now about the 5%
target for 2021? Thanks.

A - Paul Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Thank you Andy, it's Paul. So, I will have a go at number one and number three, and hand
over to Mark for number two on operating margin targets.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of material capital return, as we said, if we had the money in our hands today,
we'd be making that very meaningful -- meaningful capital return to shareholders now. Of
course, it is we are -- we have positioned Quilter front and center in one of the UK's, if not
the UK's fastest secular growth market in financial services, the UK wealth market,
particularly the retirement-driven UK wealth market and that's where Quilter is now
positioned.
So, clearly there are opportunities there. We are not saying -- we're certainly not saying
that we want to, can afford for major transformational move, but clearly there are
opportunities to accelerate our growth still further. So, we will consider those and
obviously we'll update and we will update back at the Capital Markets Day in the fourth
quarter.
In terms of Q1 trading, I think our update is on the 21st of April -- 21st of April. I have said
already that I'm pleased with what I'm seeing in the first couple of months of the year,
given our new platform is in. That's being driven by our new platform. So, that's nice to
see. Obviously, it's early days, but so far so good. Put it this way, I take what I'm seeing at
the moment. But we'll update you on the 21st of April.
And in terms of margin targets, how much when you expense opportunity --

A - Mark Satchel

{BIO 18275874 <GO>}

So, Andy, look, when we set out optimization phase 1 couple of years ago, I spoke then
about what was imprimatur and what was outside of the sort of the Board promote [ph]
that we were looking at is a phase 1. And I spoke about a phase 2 to come.
So, clearly this builds upon phase 2 because there's now, it's quite a different business
construct with the opportunity there. So, there is a -- within what we do and it's a

Page 6 of 12



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2021-04-01

combination of what we previously planned to do, but then more because we've also got
a substantially change to the business perimeter to actually work through on that.

FINAL

So, a large chunk of it is coming through on the expense side. But there are also
additional revenue enhancing initiatives that we are considering. And we'll update you on
that later on this year, as Paul mentioned. It's a combination of the two.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Understood. Thanks. Thanks guys.

Operator
And the next question comes from the line of Gurjit Kambo from JP Morgan. Please go
ahead.

Q - Gurjit Kambo

{BIO 6300383 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, good morning guys. Yes, congrats [ph] on getting the deal done quickly. So, just two
questions from my side. Firstly, just in terms of the -- I think Paul you said, if you have the
cash today, you would give majority of that back. I guess, just thinking about the M&A
environment, the reason you give it all back is it, because you don't see many gaps in the
course we're offering? Or if there was any M&A out there, maybe valuations are too high?
Just you know, the landscape currently, if you were -- if you had that GBP450 million in
your pocket today, why you'd give it back rather than maybe doing something else with it?
That's first question.
And then secondly, just in terms of sort of stranded costs, if we think about adjusting our
models to excel Quilter International. If we take the revenues out, how should we think
about taking the costs out, do they all come out or will there be some, which stick around
for a couple of years?

A - Paul Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Thanks Gurjit. Well, I'll take the first question, and then hand over to Mark for the second
one.
It's actually nothing to do with that. We see the opportunities in this market, which we see
as significant, as a completely separate decision to the fact that we're going to have a
chunk of money. So, the fact that we have announced today, the sale of International
GBP483 million. Just because we'll have that money, doesn't mean to say we shouldn't
make -- we should make it.
If we felt that was good opportunity for significant investment, we talked to our
shareholders anyway. So, I think the two are separate. Yes, we always take a decision first,
what is the right strategic thing to do; this has been the right strategic thing to do.

Page 7 of 12



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2021-04-01

FINAL

Commercially, we got a great deal, which makes it even better. Now separately, we look
at the market, we do see growth opportunities; we see opportunities to accelerate
growth. But at the same time, we're very well aware, this is our shareholders' money.
We've always been very capital conscious. And so we intend to make a meaningful return
of that capital. But it's basically we see the two separately. So, if you're asking me do I see
opportunity to accelerate growth? The answer is yes.
But at the same time, it's our shareholders' money, and we're very well aware of that. So,
it's nothing to do with the share price. It's nothing to do with the fact that we've got cash;
we've got cash in hand. It's to do with two separate decisions. And we're going to update
that to say at the Capital Markets Day on that. Mark?

A - Mark Satchel

{BIO 18275874 <GO>}

Gurjit, on the stranded costs, we've got about GBP8 million of stranded costs immediately
after completion, is obviously work that we'll be doing between now and then in order to
minimize the impact of that. Probably around about half of that is kind of the more you
remember on the side of (inaudible) we spoke about sort of stubborn stranded costs.
And half of that is at the most of the stubborn end of the spectrum. But that's all fully
incorporated in the 23 and 25 guidance that we provided to you. And that will obviously
also form part of the overall next phase of the optimization initiatives that are being
considered.

Q - Gurjit Kambo

{BIO 6300383 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, great. Thank you.

Operator
And the next question comes from the line of David McCann from Numis. Please go
ahead.

Q - David McCann

{BIO 15885639 <GO>}

Good morning all. And two questions from me. The first one's partly been addressed
already, but maybe asking slightly in different way. Just related to the new operating
margin target for the group. I mean clearly to get 25% medium term and 30% longer
term from the kind of base of 20%, where you are, I guess today that is quite an uplift in
where you can talk about further.
I appreciate that you're going to give some details on the Capital Market Day. But I guess
could you give us just a little bit more color on the main drivers of this short, so I mean if
there's more cost reduction in a more significant sense, is it combination of high growth,
the top-line kicking it. Is it something else, just a bit more color just so we can get a bit
more comfortable with that at least a big uplift you're now talking about over that time.
That's I guess question one.
Second question is on the balance sheet, appreciate there is a little bit detail on the slide
in terms of the solvency capital ratios themselves. Maybe could you just walk us through
Page 8 of 12



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2021-04-01

some of them, the matters to what this actually does to your own funds and the
regulatory capital requirements component of that rather than just because of overall
percentages you have, just like to understand those moving parts, what the deal
(inaudible).

FINAL

A - Paul Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, David. It's Paul. I'm going to hand to Mark for both of these, but just very
quickly on the first one. It's a two goals that I've said, we've now got growth and efficiency.
So, once -- one of course, speaks to growth in assets, growth in revenues, growth in
flows. And the other speaks to efficiency and costs. So, Mark do you want to add some on
the operating margin stuff.

A - Mark Satchel

{BIO 18275874 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Paul, that's entirely right. I mean David, this is a meaningful contribution from costs and
that's -- some of that's been planned anyway. That's provided in previous guidance, when
I've spoken about optimization phase 2. That as I have referenced already this sort of
changes the perimeter of that the in scope items on that relatively significantly. And then
there is also revenue growth opportunities too. So, it's both. It's not either or. And it's
probably sort of relatively similar measures across the Op margin.
On the solvency capital, so you've got the own funds number in there. The capital
requirements for the International business of GBP300 million odd. It reduces that part of
the SER that effectively moves the SER from approaching 900 just under 600, is the -- in
rounded numbers the impact that has on capital requirements. And on a Solvency II basis,
it still keeps us at a very healthy Solvency II margins, if you consider it after a post
distribution event two.
As I've said numerous times before, the Solvency II ratio itself is not a constraining factor
for the group from a private capital perspective. It's liquidity, and liquidity stress tests and
ensuring that we got sufficient liquidity in the stress event. That is a constraining factor,
when it comes to, I guess, further capital returns, which you haven't said it. But I'm
assuming that, that's the sort of underpin part of the question that you have around it.
So, even in a post capital return environment, I'd still expect a Solvency II ratio that's going
to be in the high 100. So, it'll be -- I think we expect to be over 200%. But it will be round
about 180%-odd. Obviously that's going to change at time, but that's more or less, where
it expected to be.

A - Paul Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Next question operator.

Operator
And the next question comes from the line of Greg Simpson from Exane BNP Paribas.
Please go ahead.

Page 9 of 12



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2021-04-01

Q - Gregory Simpson

{BIO 18850594 <GO>}

FINAL

Hi, good morning. Congrats on the transaction. Just a few -- a couple on my side. The first
is, could you remind us of the overlaps with the International business and the rest of
Quilter. And in particular, I'm wondering if any of the GBP23 billion of Quilter investors,
AuMA is sourced from Quilter International clients. And if so, will you expect to retain it
with the new owner?
And then the second question. I think you mentioned earlier that you pulled the right
margin for the UK business should begin with 3, I think, you said. So, just to confirm you're
seeing the 30% target is as kind of like a minimum you want to be at in an ideal world
assuming all goes well with markets and then flow, you'd hoped to be above 30% by
2025? Thanks.

A - Paul Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Okay. I'll bring Mark in as well. But there's relatively little overlap between Quilter
International and the rest of Quilter. I mean there is about 600 managed within portfolio
bond wrappers by Quilter achieve it. And about 970 managed within those wrappers with
Quilter investors. And yes, we do expect to retain all of that, certainly the vast majority of
that, as a result of the deal we've done.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, we don't see any real attrition or leakage from that. But of our total overall AuMA, it's
relatively modest. And we've said, at least 30%, we've said at least or 30% plus. So, we
haven't given you an actual number in the 30s, but we've said at least. So, I think that's
fairly clear.

Q - Gregory Simpson

{BIO 18850594 <GO>}

Okay.

A - Paul Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Yes, and again, we'll update, Greg as well at the Capital Markets Day in Q4.

Q - Gregory Simpson

{BIO 18850594 <GO>}

Great. Thank you.

A - Paul Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Thanks.

Operator
(Operator Instructions) We have one more question from the line of Paul Allen from BMO.
Please go ahead.

Q - Paul Allen

{BIO 1402424 <GO>}

Page 10 of 12



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2021-04-01

FINAL

Hi. Yes. Thank you. So, just a question on Solvency II, you mentioned earlier that you'll still
have to report under Solvency II. But that you will have some discussions with the regulator
around that. You said, it would be for time being potentially. So, just interested what your
options are? You mentioned, obviously the UK Life business at the moment, means you
have to report under Solvency II. But what your options going forwards for potentially
transitioning out of that regime?

A - Paul Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

So Paul, it's really a discussion when we're having with the regulators around, as I've said
on technical fundamentals, the remain group Solvency II regulated. But we're unit-linked
business that we're not a traditional life business. So, and sort of on a more practical
basis, when you stand back and look at it, we don't have the same sort of -- I call the
same sort of the balance sheet risk, that's a lot of other groups Solvency II regulated
businesses would be carrying. That operates in the life industry.
But I mean, if we weren't in group Solvency II regulated, we'd be CRD4 group regulated.
We already have a component of that group regulation, but it doesn't apply to the whole
group, as things currently stand. But that's really sort of a discussion to have with the PRA,
I mean, ultimately, it's for the regulators to future [ph] upon on that.

Q - Paul Allen

{BIO 1402424 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

But potentially that is an option that you could get away, I don't know not using the UK Life
business or somehow. So, just in general -- why (Multiple Speakers) the Solvency II?

A - Paul Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

No. So, I'm not saying that we won't be constrained by Solvency II. I fully expect Life and -the Life and Pensions business on the platform we'll absolutely Solvency II regulated on
the solo basis. And we have no plans to change any of that. This is more purely at a group
supervision level in terms of where the ultimate group supervision from a capital
perspective such.

Q - Paul Allen

{BIO 1402424 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
And as there are no further questions, I'll hand it back for closing remarks.

A - Paul Feeney

{BIO 17570862 <GO>}

Well, I just want to say thank you to everybody. Thank you for your support. I am delighted,
as I said, Mark and I are both delighted with the outcome of our strategic review. We do
think it is absolutely the right decision for our shareholders, for our employees, and for
our customers. And it does give us now complete focus on the fast-growing secular
growth UK wealth market. And we have got all three parts of the value chain, they're
increasingly fully integrated.
Page 11 of 12



Company N ame: Quilter PL C
Company Ticker: QLT L N Equity
Date: 2021-04-01

FINAL

We've got two hugely strong distribution channels in the open market, IFA market. And
our own control distribution with Quilter Financial Planning. And as a result of our new
platform now in safely, securely and quite frankly working really well. We're hugely
optimistic and we are where we envisaged we would be. You know, where we have now
completed the transformation of Quilter and it's now up to us to focus on our two core
objectives of growth and efficiency. Thank you very much everybody.

Operator
This concludes our conference call. Thank you all for attending. You may now disconnect
your lines.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 12 of 12

