Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

Capital Markets Day
Company Participants
FINAL

Andrew Croft, Chief Executive Officer
Craig Gentle , Chief Financial Officer
Iain Rayner, Chief Operating Officer
Ian Gascoigne , Managing Director
Ian MacKenzie , Chief Operations and Technology Officer
Peter Edwards , Partnership Director
Robert Gardner, Director of Investment Management

Other Participants
Abid Hussain, Analyst
Andrew Baker, Analyst
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Andrew Sinclair, Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
David McCann, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Enrico Bolzoni, Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst
Steven Haywood, Analyst

Presentation
Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Good afternoon, and welcome to the St. James's Place Capital Markets Day. This is the
first time we have hosted one of these events virtually and all the presentations have
been pre-recorded. But we will host a live Q&A at 5:00 PM.
Now it's a shame that we aren't able to gather together in person for this session.
Although we do have a good afternoon planned for you. And from my perspective, it's a
great opportunity for us to build on some of what we outlined at our full year results
presentation in February providing you with greater insight into some areas of our
business and how they will support the key business outcomes we aim to achieve by
2025. You will hear from four of my executive colleagues who will share insights into areas
of activity that will be important to our success over that time.
Before we introducing the main session for today, you will have seen that we provided a
short trading update this morning. We were pleased to report that the high levels of new
Page 1 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

business activities we experienced in the first quarter of the year have continued into April
and May. Whilst this remains a tricky year-to-call and indeed there remain uncertainties
ahead, we are very encouraged by the year-to-date flows and this increases our
confidence that 2021 will be another good year for St. James's Place.
So let's move on. I will start by covering our strategy and business model, which will also
encompass our purpose and values. As we look ahead, our objective is to support the
UK's leading group of financial advisors with the best technology, the best operations and
the best proposition to enable them to plan, grow and protect clients' financial futures by
making sure our decision making is centered around these long-term aspiration. We have
continued to be successful as we have grown, and this will remain our focus in the years
ahead to 2025 and beyond. Looking after these fundamentals will also help underpin the
explicit goals through our planning cycle to 2025 that we set out alongside our full year
results back in February
Hopefully, these will be familiar to you already. But I want to repeat three key headlines:
first, that we will deliver 10% per annum growth in new business; second, that by
maintaining our record of strong retention of client investments together with modest
stock market growth, we aim to achieve funds under management of GBP200 billion; and
third, that we will aim to limit growth in our controllable expense base to 5% per annum.
We are, therefore, striving achieve continued growth in our business, but we've also
made a firm commitment that we can do so efficiently, limiting our growth in our expense
base, as we make the most of technological infrastructure, enable better use of
automation and process improvement and drive safe and scalable growth in operational
capacity. Achieving these aims will drive significant growth in the cash result, and
therefore, cash returns to shareholders in line with the dividend guidance we have given.
Now with the scale of our business today, these are our ambitious goals, but we are
confident in delivering them given the scale of the market opportunity ahead, our market
leading position and our proven track record.
So St. James's Place is a business where the foundations of success are built on the
strength of long-term relationships. We work hard to deliver for clients and advisers and
this is the key to great clients and adviser retention, which then translates to longevity of
client relationships and ultimately to inter-generational client relationships. This focus on
long-term relationships as helped develop a small life insurance business in 1992 into a
GBP135 billion wealth management business today with a market capitalization of over
GBP7 billion.
Long-term relationships mean we benefit from both long-term industry and SJP
experience across our community. That's across the partnership, the executive and our
employees. This gives us deep market knowledge, but we also benefit from a rich blend
of new talent and joiners to the organization who bring fresh perspective and the
challenge to the business.
You see this long-term approach reflected in much of what you hear today whether about
the partnership, our IMA, or how we are investing in technology. And you will also see in
our approach to developing our business in Asia, which is all about building a business that
does a great job for clients and advisers and provides us with a firm footing in what is
Page 2 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

undoubtedly a very attractive growth market for a long term wealth management
business.
What sets St. James's Place apart is our distinct business model. The original business
plan back in 1991 was known internally as Utopia life, and many of the founding principles
remain true today. But I want to focus on three of these, which have and continue to
provide significant competitive advantage: one, a long-term mindset; two, a strong
distribution; and three, a compelling client proposition.
Let's explore these principles in turn. First that the business would have a long-term
mindset and built on developing long-term deep relationships, that's long-term
relationships with our advisers and in turn with our clients, long-term relationships with our
employees and long-term relationships with our key suppliers. Second, we would have a
strong distribution achieved through the partnership. Partners are self-employed business
owners who exclusively offer our products and services and this was at a time when most
life and asset management companies were closing down their distribution channels, and
therefore, the partnership was a clear differentiator.

Bloomberg Transcript

Today, the partnership is a collection of over 2,500 SMEs distributed principally
throughout the UK with over the 4,300 highly trained and experienced advisers assisted
by 5,000 support staff within those businesses. The partnership is managing trusted face
to face relationships with some 830,000 clients. The enduring relationships partners have
with these clients support the strong retention of client investments that we consistently
experience. This does not happen by chance.
The partnership has been, remains and will continue to be a key competitive advantage.
And in a moment you will hear from Peter Edwards, our Partnership Director who will talk
about the role of the partnership, how we support it and how we plan to develop and
nurture it, in order to support our ambition to deliver that 10% annual growth in new
business.
And finally, the third key principle, which was to offer clients a full holistic suite of financial
products and services to help meet their financial goals, where the nature of a product or
service included options or guarantees or were capital intensive or they were high
volume, low margin or indeed very specialist, then we would work with a third party
specialist. For example, annuities, EISs or VCTs and indeed mortgages. This continues to
be our philosophy today. At the same time, if we did not believe products were suitable
for the retail investors, and we would avoid them, for example, split level investment trust,
precipice bonds and the like.
But with respect to clients' investable wealth, we believe that it was important to have the
right structure in place to manage this wealth by having our own investment funds across
unit trust, ISAs, life investment bonds, that's both onshore and offshore, and pensions.
Furthermore, we would identify the best fund managers to manage these funds on a subadvisory basis. But importantly, they were our funds and so we would also be a
manufacturer as well as a distributor. The structure established allows our clients to switch
between individual funds free of charge, and in most cases, free of capital gains tax.

Page 3 of 42



FINAL

Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

And let's just think about this at the moment. This is an important benefit in the life cycle
of a client. For example, as clients approach retirement, they can reduce the risk of their
portfolio by switching between asset categories importantly without cost or potential tax
implications. Then as clients start to turn their thoughts to mitigating inheritance tax, this
structure enables the use of simple trust structures to optimize inheritance tax planning. In
addition, the client has the peace of mind that as the funds are SJP manufactured funds,
we set the investment objectives of the fund, we hold the assets of the fund on their
behalf, we appoint carefully selected external manager to manage their fund and then we
monitor the manager and where necessary change the manager, and where a change is
necessary, this happens at no cost of aggravation to the client as the investment
management of the fund changes, but the assets of the fund remain with SJP. This
compelling proposition also supports the strong retention of client investments. As I said
earlier, such market leading retention does not happen by chance. The ingredients need
to be in place.

Bloomberg Transcript

We regard our investment management approach as a key competitive advantage and
provides good client outcomes. Rob Gardner, Director of investments, will talk about the
unique fundamentals of our approach, how it drives great client outcomes, and therefore,
supports that 95% retention of funds under management and how we are developing our
proposition to support continued growth in the business.
So SJP is both a manufacturer and distributor of financial products, and therefore, to use
regulatory language, we are known as a vertically integrated wealth manager. This means
we have a full end-to-end proposition for clients, encompassing the provision of bespoke
and long-term financial planning advice through relationships with trusted advisers,
appropriate investment mappers with a diversified range of exclusive in-house funds and
portfolios and the safe and secure investment platform and administration.
We are not a fund platform, nor an advice network, nor a pure asset manager. We are
vertically integrated and our stakeholders are all the better for it. This holistic approach
means we take responsibility for all elements of the client proposition and ensures that
we never lose sight of our end goal, to provide great client outcomes. This is important as
it drives perception of value, but I want to reiterate the great client outcomes are not just
about investment performance, but also about providing appropriate and timely advice
ranging from utilizing routine tax allowances to IHT planning to protection and to
behavioral approaching nudges. It is also about the value of having a personal trusted
advisor to help guide you.
Clearly fees are important for clients, but it is a delivery of great client outcomes that
matters most for them. So it is, therefore, where we focus our attention as a business.
Alongside these competitive advantages arising from the principles of utopia life, our
culture and shared values have been hugely positive factors in driving our business over
the past 30 years or so. And we all take personal responsibility in preserving and
renewing these being the best version of ourselves, investing in long term relationships
and doing the right thing are our values. These will continue to guide us as we grow the
business to deliver our 2025 goals and beyond. This is how we will create future success
for all of our stakeholders.

Page 4 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

The founders of SJP also encourage a culture of giving back to those less fortunate and
they established a Charitable Foundation. Today the foundation is the sixth largest
corporate foundation in the UK and has supported many great charities, which themselves
have had a profound impact on countless lives over the years. Supporting the foundation
continues to be a key part of our DNA, with many fundraising events around the country
and some 80% of our partners and employees contributing every month from their
remuneration.
30 years ago, this would have been classed as a best-in-breed responsible business.
Quite rightly being a responsible business today is broader than just charitable giving. And
over the years, we have broadened our ambition to continue to be regarded as a best-inbreed responsible business. This is personally important to me, the Board, together with
the wider SJP community and increasingly our clients.
After all, achieving financial well-being only makes sense if the world is worth living in. So
we have been doing more and will continue to do more to have a positive impact to our
client investments. We also have a direct influence on the environment and how we
operate as a business. So we will continue to drive down our environmental impact, but
importantly, we will take our suppliers on the same journey to be a more sustainable
future and we will support the partnership in taking the same steps too.

Bloomberg Transcript

A responsible business is one that looks after its employees, one the champions and
pushes hard for inclusion and diversity from the top to the bottom of the organization and
one that looks after the well-being and development of its people. And a responsible
business is one that also looks after the local communities in which it operates.
Like the majority of businesses we have more to do and are on our journey, but it was a
really, really proud moment for the business on achieving the business in the community,
Community Mark, one of only 37 companies worldwide who currently enjoy this status.
Some 30 years after the founders laid down the principles of Utopia life, many remain
relevant today and continue to provide us with significant competitive advantage. And
leap forward 30 years, the 2020s and we see a new and exciting competitive advantage
emerging, which we fully intend to embrace technology. We see a future of face-to-face
advice empowered by technology and COVID has accelerated this journey. Having
already laid the foundations of a modern world-class ecosystem supported by Bluedoor
and Salesforce, we are well placed to take advantage.
Technology will also provide opportunity for some significant efficiency savings. So Ian
MacKenzie, our Chief Operations and Technology Officer, will talk about this emerging
competitive advantage, how we deploy technology today, how we will embrace the
opportunity going forward and how we will see technology supporting our face-to-face
advice led proposition. At the same time, technology is enabling and underpinning our
ability to limit cost growth to 5% per annum and delivering greater operational gearing in
our business. Leveraging these competitive advantages of our business model, our plan is
to drive continued growth in the business in the years ahead.

Page 5 of 42



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

As we look forward to the future, we see enormous opportunity in the UK wealth
management space for St. James's Place. How we grow our business and increase our
funds under management will not fundamentally change. We will continue to increase the
scale of the partnership and provide them with the tools to serve, support and advice a
growing pool of clients. What's really important to know is to ensure that we never take
our eyes off the ball regarding our support strategy, achieving sustained retention of
funds under management through delivering high quality service to advisors and clients,
driving consistently good long-term investment performance and ensuring we remain a
robust and resilient business that clients trust.
Scaling the partnership and providing it with the tools and support to better advisor
growing pool of client investments has been the tried and tested method for building St.
James's Place into the GBP135 billion business it is today. It is a way in which we will
continue to drive the business. We have the opportunity to refine the way we deliver this
in the years ahead. So we've been more dynamic in how we approach advisor recruitment
and productivity, by investing behind technology to further support the partnership and
clients and build our corporate scale in a more cost-efficient manner by developing our
investment management approach so that we continue to drive great client outcomes.
The beating heart of the strategy will see us continue with those original principles of
utopia life paying attention to long-term relationships with our partners and through them
with our clients.
The final presentation today will cover our plans in Asia. Iain Rayner, my Board colleague
with responsibility for Asia will cover the progress we have made there, how we see the
opportunity for our business going forward and our immediate priorities to achieve cash
break even by 2025. But ahead of that, a few words from me.
We purchased Henley, a small distributor in Asia in 2014. Adopting those three key utopia
life principles, which should prove so successful with SJP, the business plan for Asia was to
have a long-term mindset of our own distribution with a focus on building and maintaining
long-term relationships and to have a compelling client proposition, to be a manufacturer
and distributor. To me this third principle and become a manufacturer required us to
obtain the necessary licenses and build manufacturing capability in both Hong Kong and
Singapore. This task proved to be more time consuming than we anticipated. But it's
proving to be a very worthwhile investment. We are confident that we now have a fast
growing and disruptive business in the most attractive wealth management markets in
Asia, which will, in time be value enhancing to the Group.
What I find most interesting I think being with SJP since the start of 1993 are the parallels I
can see between the progress in Asia with those early days in SJP. The SJP operation
established back in 1992 made its first cash profit in 2003, some 12 years after it was
established. We have targeted the cash profit in Asia by 2025, 12 years after we
purchased Henley and 10 years since we had a fully operationally vertically integrated
business with patients on a long-term mindset some 30 years later, the business
established by the founders in 1992 is now managing funds under management of some
GBP135 billion and has a market capitalization of over GBP7 billion. We believe we have
collated together the correct ingredients and established the correct infrastructure in

Page 6 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

Asia, in line with those principles that have made SJP so successful over the years. That's
why we remain totally committed to and excited about the opportunity to SJP in Asia.
So a reminder of the agenda today. In a moment, you will hear from Peter Edwards, who
will talk about the Partnership, followed by Rob Gardner covering our investment
proposition, both key competitive advantages. You'll then hear from Ian MacKenzie on our
technology plans and how we are currently well placed to embrace the emerging
technology competitive advantage. Lastly, you will hear from Iain Rayner, on our plans in
Asia.
I hope today's sessions help you better understand some of the detail underpinning our
ambitions over the next few years and beyond and illustrate why we remain very
confident in the outlook for St. James's Place.
I'll now hand you over to Peter to kick off the first detailed session with a discussion about
how we are developing the partnership. I look forward to hosting the live Q&A later, which
as a reminder starts at 5:00 PM.

Peter Edwards

{BIO 20875780 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good afternoon. I'm Peter Edwards, and I'm the Partnership Director at St. James's Place,
responsible for the growth, management and support to our UK partnership. I'm going to
talk about why people join and achieve success with us and why we are confident in our
ability to continue to grow our new business by 10% annually in conjunction with our
partners in the future.
As an advice led business, our partnership is the leading edge. It's the entity through
which we deliver the great client outcomes that Andrew talked about in his introduction. A
strong partnership delivers clients' outcomes that create value for all our stakeholders. As
a result we take great care in investing to support and nurture it and this forms a vital
component of our strategy. Before I cover some of that, I want to talk a little more about
what the partnership is and why it's so critical to our success.
Firstly, and importantly, it's not a single thing. It's a broad church of over 2,500
independently owned and operated businesses that have diverse needs and motivations
comprising over 4,300 financial advisers. Our support to it is necessarily differentiated
and provides the flexibility to support growth while recognizing and drawing strength from
the diversity it represents. Sociocultural, cognitive, gender and racial diversity help the
partnership engage with and support its clients across the country. As an interdependent
ecosystem with a common infrastructure what brings it together as one is the sense of
community that exists within it as well as the sociocultural link between all of these
businesses and St. James's Place.
Indeed, we have 21 regional offices around the major population centers in the UK. And
the partnership is represented in almost every city, town and village in the UK as well as in
Asia, which Iain Rayner will talk about later. It is an ecosystem which has changed
considerably in recent years. Our partner businesses have increased in size and
Page 7 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

complexity, as well as in number. And now employee almost 6,000 partner support
specialists of their own.

FINAL

As the biggest single group of financial advice professionals in the country, the
partnership supports over 800,000 clients, a number that has doubled in the last eight
years. I'll come on to how we manage and support the partnership. Before that, I'd like to
reaffirm why people join us.
People will want different things when joining the partnership. We pride ourselves in
providing the things that would otherwise distract great advisors from being face to face
with our clients, the activity financial advisors enjoy the most.We spent nearly 30 years
getting this right and the key strength is the attractiveness of our proposition that helps
partners support their clients with the backing of a FTSE 100 company. We offer people
that do join us a range of suitable and relevance opportunities as partners start building
their own businesses or financial advisors with an existing St. James's Place businesses.

Bloomberg Transcript

It's because of this flexibility to choose, the journey they take that I believe we are the
best place to build a great financial advice business all career. Importantly every member
of the partnership was identified, recruited and selected by us and therefore chose to
join, unlike elsewhere where they may have been acquired.
The commercial relationship between St. James's Place and the partnership is stronger
than ever. This appropriately recognizes the balance between remunerating new business
and the provision of ongoing advice. And our reward proposition to the Partnership
incorporates several measures designed to enhance the quality of service to clients. To
complement this, a unique appeal to the partners has always been the means through
which having grown a successful business with those over time, they come at some point
transfer the whole or part of their business to another partner with the terms and financial
arrangements facilitated by St. James's Place. This process which ensures continuity of the
advice and service for clients is a real competitive advantage.
Our corporate support for the partnership is stronger than ever. We deliver diverse range
of services that aim to maximize partners available time, so that they can focus on what
they do best supporting and advising their clients for marketing, investment consultancy,
technology, clients administration, HR and finance support to regulatory compliance,
business checking and our in-house technical connection team. We aim to deliver support
that achieved two simple things to keep partners safe and to facilitate their business
growth whilst delivering outstanding value and great outcomes for our clients.
Providing support where and when it is required or appropriate, our field management
team is a critical differentiator between St. James's Place and our competitors. We've
always been committed to working in conjunction with partners rather than managing
them and our continued investments in regionally based teams whose total focus is to
develop and supervise partners and advisors is a key USP. Investing in this team of
managers, trainers, coaches and business consultants complemented by risk managers,
operations teams and administration staff helps us differentiate our support to partners,

Page 8 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

based on their needs and motivations ensuring we remain in touch with the partnership at
a local level and allows us to be agile to changing circumstances.
We recruit and develop great people, that our passion is about delivering on behalf of our
clients. Their passion is supported by the strength of our product range and our
investment proposition that you will hear about later from Rob. The strength and maturity
of our academy training program, has been developed and refined over a decade. The
academy has delivered over 680 new partners and advisers to the partnership since its
inception in 2012. Highlighting the scale of this homegrown program and supporting our
growth as a business, the coronavirus pandemic has allowed us to refresh the academy.
And it now delivers enhanced training and development to a broader cross section of the
partnership.
Unconstrained by geography or intake size, this evolution has shown our ability to adapt
to a changing environment and will result in the academy generating circa 400 new
members of the partnership every year from 2022. This notably represents more than
two-thirds of our gross recruitment, highlighting the growing importance of the academy
for the future. We help people find success in line with our ambition, skills and
preferences as you will now hear.

Bloomberg Transcript

(Video Presentation)
As Andrew said in his introduction, St. James's Place invests in long term relationships with
the partnership, and they do so with their clients. This is critical to our ongoing success
and these relationships in great many cases are life long partnerships, generating
considerable social capital, that ensures our adviser retention remains so strong. Indeed
experience shows us shows us that retention is stronger still when our advisers have been
with us more than three years. The average age of the partnership is 46. This, against the
market equivalence of 58, gives us confidence of maintaining a 10 to 15 year age
advantage over our competitors. And coupled with high retention and the strength of our
academy, which has an average age on entry of 34 ensures our sustainable pipeline for
growth.
All of this gives us firm foundations to build on through our ambitions to 2025 and
beyond. We have achieved, managed growth through a variety of tried and tested entry
route the partnership, since our inception. I'm confident in our ability to grow the scale of
the partnership on a managed trajectory whilst ensuring we are able to devote time and
resources to evolving and improving support to those who have already joined. To
achieve our planned growth, we need to appoint over 500 people per year from an
advice marketplace that is at best not growing materially. However, the extension and
growth of our academy makes this program an increasingly important strategical lever in
assuring the provision of new partners and advisers over the medium term.
It is natural that academy advisers take a little longer than experienced recruits to develop
their businesses. But data suggests that after five years or so, they are on a similar
trajectory. And of course, they have time on their slide, as they have the benefit of
generally being considerably younger. Growing numbers in the partnership is an

Page 9 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

investment in the future. Sustainability of our business growth and our focus remains to
train and develop people to the points at which they are delivering strong client service as
safely as possible. Of course, having selected and recruited people to join us, it is
fundamental, we manage them to success. And retain them as part of St. James's Place.
Recruitments and retention of quality partners and advisers, therefore, underpins our
growth forecasts, and our core objectives of the management team. To enable the
continued growth of the partnership, we continue to evolve our field management team
support model. Deployed appropriately, differentiated and consistent support to the
partners and advisers based on their specific needs will not only continue to grow the size
of the partnership, but will aid further the new business growth by helping advisers to
become more productive.

Bloomberg Transcript

I've already described how our differentiated support is grounded in the needs of and the
motivations of our partner businesses. And it helps partners and advisers grow and
succeed at every stage of that evolution. I can characterize these into three broad
categories, business development, helping partners attract and retain clients, business
optimization, creating a more efficient business and business change becoming a
different type of business or preparing for exit. By configuring our field management
team to become experts in supporting partners differently across our proposition and
deploying targeted corporate support across a range of specialisms, we can make better
use of our resources and help to drive best outcomes.
Helping partners deliver client service excellence, ultimately deliver strong long-term
productivity. High-quality service that delivers value leads to referrals by clients and around
40% of our new business is generated this way. Our productivity strategy is, therefore,
geared around providing partners and advisers with the knowledge, tools, trade craft and
corporate support to excel in delivering client service. I've already talked about how we
are tailoring our proposition to reflect on the diversity of need and motivations across the
partnership.
Incorporating focused consultancy aimed at our most successful businesses, we also
deploy enhanced growth and development support to newer businesses, they particularly
targeted delivered through a smaller manager to adviser ratio and employs coaching and
how to trade craft to help people become busier and to demonstrate expertise when
working with new clients. Let me introduce an example of this.
(Video Presentation)
We see the developments of expert managers as being a critical part of the
development of expert partners and advisors and we will continue to prioritize these to
strengthen our management depth. Beyond developing the support we are able to
deliver to the partnership, it should not be forgotten this is a group of self-employed
small business owners, the partnership has both the desire and natural tendency to want
to build great businesses. We, therefore, do not need to micro-manage partners. We
achieve growth by harnessing the bottom-up energy and drive they generate, while
delivering the best top-down support we can.

Page 10 of 42



FINAL

Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

Of course, the last year has caused us to adapt to a changing environment and to change
the way we do things. I'm pleased to be able to say that this has been extremely smooth
and our adaptation has exceeded my initial expectations. The partnership has been
incredibly agile and complemented by the many hundreds of working years experience
across our field management team that has managed to pivot from a client's
engagement model that was almost exclusively a physical face-to-face one to one that
has retained the personal aspect of our relationship-based model, but exploited
technology and reach to stay in touch and keep businesses flowing throughout the
pandemic. All this has been helped through our total focus on supporting partners' ability
to engage with our clients. And to be honest, it shifted our perception of what is possible
in the future.

Bloomberg Transcript

Having deployed capabilities swiftly to provide the partnership with flexibility, the way it
can deliver great client outcomes is wider than ever and I am very confident about what
the future holds. Provision of systems and technology to make it easier for partners to do
business with St. James's Place will be covered in detail by Ian MacKenzie later. But
technology deployed during the pandemic has significantly and further enhanced
partners' ability to interact with clients remotely more responsibly and to process their
business more accurately and quickly than before.
Greater investments in systems and data analysis is also helping us determine where and
for what reason the intervention of our management team can generate improved client
service. This is fundamental and continuing to support a growing partnership whilst
helping us prioritize our activity. Crucially, we continue to use secured partner business
loans as a means of providing business development funding to the partnership, while
also ensuring the business transfer between partners is carefully managed to ensure that
client relationships with St. James's Place are maintained and that their advice needs
continue to be met. This process delivers great outcomes to clients, our partners and St.
James's Place.
As part of this, agreement to deliver service to clients through a combination of partners
is increasingly being used where appropriate. As a way of assuring excellence, continuity
of service, 2020 was a year in isolation. We are not planning for the future based on what
we experienced then. However, our growth strategy has been positively influenced by
that experience. And as increasing freedoms return to the way we work, we will be able
to deliver 10% new business growth targets introduced by Andrew earlier. This will be
achieved through a combination of recruitment of new partners and advisers, both
experienced professionals and second careerists.
Accelerated productivity from new joiners to the partnership, better and more targeted
partner support through our field management team and corporate functions, utilization
of technology for clients' engagement, client service excellence, and the sharing of skills
to meet specific client needs, I am responsible for these core outputs and in outlook have
high confidence in all of them.
The partnership strategy will deliver a supported and growing partnership, that is better
equipped to support clients outcomes. A partnership that is comprised of stronger
businesses able to thrive in the future and provide homes for our new advisers.
Page 11 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

Partnership growth each year, coupled with the management of retirees on a planned
trajectory, we will create a diverse optimized partnership generating productivity growth
over the long term. These outputs will positively contribute to the success of St. James's
Place in the future.
While maintaining a healthy flow of new business, we will retain and continue to
strengthen the partnership, which is vital for our business. Through the opportunities
provided by our investments in systems and other tools, we will maintain an efficient
business and support a growing partnership. We make St. James's Place easier for
partners and their clients to do business with, whilst also keeping their own businesses
safe. And we'll continue to strengthen the community feel and belonging of which the
spirit of partnership is built and on which our growth depends.
Let me introduce to you, Rob Gardner, our Director of Investments. Rob will explain how
our investment proposition supports great outcomes for partners and clients.

Robert Gardner

{BIO 15404543 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Pete. I'm Rob Gardner, I'm the Director of Investments of SJP. It's my responsibility
to run our investment proposition, that's our core investment management approach, our
discretionary fund management services and stockbroking. Our goal is really simple. We
invest money to help deliver long-term financial security to our clients, and we do that by
planning, growing and protecting their wealth over time.
I'm going to explain what makes our investment proposition unique, how we contribute to
a retention rate of over 95% and why I'm confident that we can grow to GBP200 billion
and beyond by 2025.
I'll start by lifting the lid and what you can see at the surface. The funds and services that
make us such a unique proposition for our advisers and clients. Later we will go behind the
scenes to look at what the client doesn't see, how we create smooth returns for them
and why we believe our size and scale gives us a competitive advantage.
Let's start with the bigger picture. This is our investment management approach, which I'll
now refer to as our IMA. It's a GBP135 billion today and growing. Discretionary fund
management or DFM for short. DFM enables us to create and manage personalized
portfolios, perhaps with stock and sector exclusions that meet very specific client
mandates. And finally, our stockbroking services enable clients to buy, sell or hold
investments by dedicated stockbroker.
At the base of the triangle, we have our solutions offerings, which makes up over 85% of
our gross inflows. Partners and clients invest in the model portfolios and underlying SJP
funds. These funds, as Andrew mentioned, are unique to SJP. The underlying assets are
held in custody with State Street and we appoint our fund managers with segregated
investment agreements designed specifically for us, which means we have complete
control and transparency of the underlying funds and can evolve their mandate over time.

Page 12 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

These funds can then be blended together into bespoke portfolios by the adviser to
meet specific investment goals and views of their clients.
At the top of our investment proposition triangle, we offer DFM and Stockbroking via
Rowan Dartington, which I now chair. Last year DFM represented just under 5% of our
gross inflows. DFM is an important capability for advisers to meet the needs of current
and prospective clients. We can use this to attract investment managers and smaller
DFMs to our proposition in the future. And as Iain Rayner will explain later, DFM is a key
component in our Asia investment proposition.
This year, my focus is to integrate our IMA, DFM and stockbroking in a single end-to-end
investment proposition, giving partners something distinctive to offer their clients, which
again, as Andrew side, is one of the founding principles of SJP. We currently have GBP135
billion invested around the world. We have over GBP70 billion invested in global equities
excluding the UK and around GBP20 billion invested in UK stocks. We have over 13,000
different securities from equities to bonds and properties. And over 1,500 derivative
positions, and all of that is deliberately designed to give our 4,000 plus advisers a unique
investment proposition.

Bloomberg Transcript

The IMA enables advisers to plan, design and review the financial goals for that 830,000
clients with around 5 million different combinations, it means that no matter how diverse
or specialists the needs of the client something bespoke can be created. We have a
senior and well resource team running the IMA because we believe having the right
people and the right processes will result in all round better outcomes for our clients.
The ingredients that make up the IMA on nine portfolios are three in retirement funds and
underneath that, we have 39 SJP building blocks and funds and beneath that we have
nearly 70 different strategies from equities to bonds to property and private equity,
invested all over the world. Remember, this offering is unique to SJP and gives our
partners and clients total confidence that we can meet their needs in the long term.
So that's what you see on this surface. But how does it work? Our clients are in it for the
long run and the average SJP client has been with us for well over a decade. The life
expectancy is increasing, which explains why we're so focused on meeting their needs in
retirement and taking a holistic approach to the way we advice them.
Now let's talk about performance. Our average client has seen their wealth grow by over
80% net of all fees in the last 10 years and nearly 40% in the last five years. In fact, our
managed portfolio, which is our most popular portfolio has seen our clients double their
money over the past decade. That's over a 7% return, net of all fees, outperforming
money in the bank by 6.5% and crucially inflation by 5.3%. And we've done this with 70%
of the volatility of the FTSE 100. We've delivered more return with less risk than they've
had invested in UK equities.
However, even with the smooth level of performance, we can't predict the future. You'll
never hear me or our CIO Tom Beal make predictions about what will hit the headlines
next week, what will happen to the S&P 500 next month or what will happen to the FTSE
Page 13 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

100 next quarter. But what we do know is in a world where interest rates have fallen over
the last 40 years, and the risk that inflation will continue to rise in the future, doing nothing
we'll not achieve long-term financial well being for our clients. Our partners advise clients
to take risk and invest to grow their wealth.
And what I want to ensure is that we invest for our clients in a safe and controlled way.
Our approach allows clients to remain invested for the long term, giving them peace of
mind in achieving their financial goals. So in this uncertain world, what we can do is ensure
every aspect of what we do is in the best possible condition to deliver and there are four
key ingredients that make up the perfect recipe for long-term results. These ingredients
are fundamental to what we do by how we build portfolios and how we select, monitor
and change our funds. But doing this at scale, whilst maintaining the flexibility of our
investment proposition is complicated. So let me break it down.

Bloomberg Transcript

In order to manage GBP135 billion of assets, our first and most important ingredient is to
have a well resourced team of senior individuals with the depth and breadth of
experience to oversee what's going on across all our SJP funds and portfolios. We've got
in-house specialist investment capability from a team of 39 people with over 300 years
experience, including actuaries and CFAs. And our data technology and insights team
have over 20 people with over 200 years of experience. Our senior team all have
previous investing experience and they've been selected carefully to ensure we've got
specialist input from every angle from equities to bonds to alternatives and private equity.
We have five heads of each asset class and five portfolio strategies all supported by a
team of analysts and researchers. Having this team is key to our disciplined research and
decision making.
When it comes to investment research, there is no silver bullet. Our goal is to build a DNA
profile of our fund managers and ask what are the conditions for success. And from this,
we can design, develop and deliver the portfolios that meet the evolving needs of our
advisers and clients. This gives peace of mind for both parties and ensures that our
portfolios and funds are being monitored and reviewed continuously.
Second, world-class data and technology underpins everything we do empowering
decision makers with extensive insights, so that they can make good decisions. By
combining our team with excellent data and technology, we can get the best possible
results. We have 35 external data providers, for example, FTSE and MSCI combined with
direct feeds from our fund managers and well over a 100 data feeds from internal and
external sources. This feeds into a bespoke investment data hub that we've built on AWS
and Snowflake supported by Ian MacKenzie's technology team. We then plug in state-ofthe-art analytics systems like BlackRock Aladdin, Bloomberg, FactSet and FA Analytics,
which feeds the investment team the insights they need to design a new portfolio or
select, monitor and change our fund managers. We continue to invest in industry-leading
technology, because we believe it keeps us ahead of the game.
The third ingredient in the process is how we make decisions. The science of governance
is a vital component in our day-to-day decision-making. We understand that we can't
make the correct call every time. But what we do know is, if you get the right group of

Page 14 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

people in a room with the right technology, then you're putting together the ingredients
to make better and better choices.
We have an investment committee made up of our senior internal team and five
independent non-execs who between them have over a 150 years of investing
experience. On top of that we have a panel of six external investment consultants, who
we can reach out to. They provide specific expertise on asset allocation, portfolio
construction and fund manager research. They challenge and support our ideas and
improve our decision making, but crucially what guides us. What's the recipe that keeps us
on track when we're investing for decades, not days.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have our investment beliefs, which guide us in everything we do starting with: one,
great client outcomes; two, asset allocation; three, diversification; four, active
management; five, understand the risks; six, disciplined research; and seven, responsible
investing. Those are the four key ingredients. So let me bring them to life through a case
study.
I want to introduce you to two of our clients. Mr. & Mrs. Taylor, who are both in their mid60s and recently retired. Mr. Taylor used to be an engineer and Mrs. Taylor used to be
solicitor. They now enjoy time being grandparents. The problem they face is that they are
no longer earning money, they're just spending their retirement savings. They have a life
expectancy of at least another 20 years, and according to actuaries, a 50% chance of one
of them living to 90, and a 25% chance of one of them living to a 100. Unfortunately the
Taylors, like all of us, don't know what inflation is going to be for the next two, three
decades and none of us know what's going to happen to investment market
performance.
But we do know that the Taylors can't put their money in the bank because with interest
rates where they are, that just won't work. And as they withdraw their money and try to
make it last for the long term, this introduces a new risk, it's called part dependency or
sequence risks. Their need for a solution to this problem is exactly why we built three inretirement funds called prudent, balance and growth, designed to deliver a secure
income to our clients in retirement. So the Taylors' adviser Susie, who graduated from the
SJP Academy a few years ago uses her relationship and deep understanding of the
Taylors, as well as financial planning tools to translate their financial goals into valuable
advice and a tailored investment strategy. She advises them to invest in the in-retirement
growth fund allowing them to take out 4% of their money a year inflation adjusted for the
rest of their lives. And it ensures that they've got capital left over to pass on to their
family. It's a great example of inter-generational financial planning. This is why we're so
well positioned to come up with solutions like this for the Taylors, and similar clients.
So keeping the case study of Mr. & Mrs. Taylor in mind, how do our beliefs work in
practice? Let's start with investment belief one, achieving the right outcomes for our
clients. It's the starting point in everything we do and it's absolutely paramount, but that
also means we need to stay flexible and ready to adapt. So if for any reason the
outcomes of our clients change, their partner Susie can adapt quickly to reflect that. We
are aware of the challenges that people like the Taylors are facing.

Page 15 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

The problem, as defined by William Sharpe is the nastiest, hardest problem in finance,
striking the balance of having enough income to meet their current needs and having
enough to last the rest of their retirement. Regular advice Susie and investing in the
growth in retirement fund is a key part of the solution. In fact, as the number of people
retiring daily is increasing rapidly, we see this as one of the biggest opportunities we face
in the UK and around the world. And as we help our clients have a secure income for their
retirement, we increased the retention rate for Susie and SJP for the next few decades.
The second key investment belief is that the main driver of investment return is asset
allocation. With our 39 SJP funds, we're able to blend asset classes to meet the risk and
return profile of different clients. And as I said earlier, that results in 5 million different
investment solutions. So whilst the situation the Taylors are in is not unusual, we can
provide them with something bespoke that fits their risk appetite and cash flow needs.
And if they want something truly tailored, they can do that with DFM.

Bloomberg Transcript

The third value is diversification, diversification between asset classes, as well as by
managers and geography. Despite the fact we can't predict what the future holds, this
principle ensures we don't have all our eggs in one basket. Diversification defends against
the unpredictable and leads to improve client outcomes. And it means, we're in a better
position to protect clients like the Taylors.
Fourth, active management of asset exposure and stock selection can add value. And
we'll use it appropriately where we think the active management can improve that
process. We believe in active management being proactive about how we select, monitor
and change means that at any given time, we can ensure we continually have access to
some of the best fund managers around the world. The performance of our three new
global funds growth, quality and value have shown strong performance in the last six
months, proving that a proactive approach gets results. And underwriting our commitment
to our UK Equity Fund Manager through our deep understanding of their DNA has meant
we have captured significant relative outperformance in the recent rotation to value
stocks.
Fifth, understanding the risks. So, again, using our data and technology, we're able to
analyze and carefully manage risk, because we know that's the best way to be inflation as
well as part dependency for the Taylors over the long term. We are continually monitoring
our asset allocation decisions and fund manager choices against these risks, which means
finding a way to get more return for less risk and smoothing their performance over time.
Six disciplined research and decision making. We have a well resourced team with worldclass data, technology and insights, put together by a process of continuous
improvement. Our investment committee meets every two weeks and cycles through
strategic asset allocation, equities, bonds, alternatives and property. And we challenge
ourselves by bringing in independent and external expertise to review every challenge.
This process is supported by pre-mortems and decision logs to track and monitor our
choices over time. Again, we won't get every decision right, but by using this disciplined
approach, we'll make more and more of the right calls which will improve our
performance over the decades to come.

Page 16 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

Finally, responsible investing is a strong source of financial performance. We know that
integrating environmental, social and governance factors, ESG, into our decisions will help
us to first manage risk and be a major source of opportunity. In fact, moving from the
linear economy of take, make, waste to the circular economy of make, reuse and recycle,
it's a $4.5 trillion opportunity according to research by Accenture.
Let me bring that to life. We've invested over GBP117 million with Nike and they're
embracing that circle economy. You can buy new Nike trainers made from old ones, they
now cost more than before because they're cool to wear, weighs less and have strong
consumer commitment, and therefore, brand momentum, which means Nike's revenues
are up, their profits is strong and their investment performance over the last five to 10
years has been great.

Bloomberg Transcript

And as a business, we are committed to stewardship and engagement. Two years ago,
we committed to have a 100% of our fund managers signed up to the UNPRI which they
now all are, and 63% of those are rated A plus, which is the very best you can be. Just last
year, we signed up to the Net Zero Asset Owners Alliance and only a few weeks ago, we
produced our Task Force on Climate related Financial Disclosures report TCFD and we
also produced our Stewardship and Engagement Report. We are one of a handful of FTSE
100 companies that have done this.
We've reduced our carbon footprint as a business by 50% over the last three years and
we'll continue to find ways to operate better as a business because we know if we get
this right, our clients like the Taylors benefits as well as the Planet. This is how our
investment beliefs help deliver financial well-being in a world worth living in. We've got
behind the scenes of our investment management proposition to understand the inretirement funds that the Taylors were advised to investing. I hope that this makes you
feel as confident as I am that SJP is ready for the future, whatever it holds.
But where are we now? We're continuing to monitor, adjust and improve our investment
proposition, so that we can maximize performance for the Taylors, and our other
830,000 clients. Our size and scale means we are able to act quickly on market trends,
be it ESG, AI and Big Data.
We'll carry on making changes and addressing some of the short-term performance
challenges, which we identified in last year's Value Assessment Statements. For example,
will be making changes to our UK managers and creating a single UK building block giving
us better control over the style of managers that we have. We'll also emerge our various
alternative funds into a single Absolute Return Fund, which is a simpler way to have
diversification that gains equities and bonds. Later this year, we'll be relaunching our
largest equity fund, which is over GBP14 billion and we will align it with the 1.5 degree C
world.
We will have reduced our fees on the external fund managers and it will also have
significant capacity enabling that fund to grow to over GBP50 billion. It will have half the
carbon footprint and half the carbon intensity of the MSCI World Equity benchmark. And
we'll do all of this with a 1% tracking error. As you can tell, I'm really excited about this

Page 17 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

because we're using the latest data combined with climate science and advanced
machine learning techniques to invest and engage with the company's on ESG issues.
So over the last decade, we've helped many of our clients double their wealth, beating
cash and inflation and we've done it with less risk than equities. We have the recipe and
the ingredients to repeat that performance. Our IMA plus DFM plus Stockbroking gives
our advisers that ability to offer tailored and bespoke solutions for their clients. On DFM,
specifically, we'll continue to report our results separately, and it will be profitable by
2024. On top of this, we are open to considering the right consolidation opportunities in
the DFM markets. We'll continue to ensure our advisers and clients have access to our
unique investment proposition and our core IMA gives a size and scale to keep growing,
not just to GBP200 billion, but to keep doubling again and again.
Let's put that altogether, our size and scale puts us in a unique position. We have a senior,
well resource team with great data, technology and insights. Our investment governance
and investment beliefs gives us the discipline we need to deliver strong performance in
the future helping clients like the Taylors achieve long-term financial security. In a world of
lower interest rates and one where many of us will live to 100, in a world where the big
risk on the horizon is inflation, the biggest risk of all is not investing. We are ensuring that
we are in the best place to make better decisions. And once we can't get every decision
right, I believe that in an uncertain world, we can continue to grow our clients wealth
decade after decade after decade.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. Let me hand over to Ian MacKenzie to talk about how we are investing in
technology.

Ian MacKenzie

{BIO 18366729 <GO>}

Good afternoon, everyone. And I hope that short video gave you a glimpse into our digital
future at St. James's Place. To unpack that, I want to talk today about technology, what it
means for St. James's Place, what we are doing today and how it will drive and support
the SJP of 2025 and beyond?
The pandemic has highlighted the importance of effective technology across all sorts of
businesses and we are no exception. From a technology perspective, we'd argue that
we've shown strong operational agility, our technology has been effective, resilient and
scalable allowing a smooth transition of over 12,000 people from office space to remote
working. This is testimony to our journey over the last five or so years, and specifically, to
our significant investments in Bluedoor, which has laid the foundation for our technology
strategy and also a move towards becoming a cloud-first organization.
Our partners and clients, just like all of us here today, are a lot more tech savvy than they
were a year ago, everyone is more comfortable using technology and expectations
continue to soar. We've risen to the challenge of operating in a difficult environment by
introducing digital and remote tools for our partners and clients, reducing paper and
enabling new ways of working and collaborating. St. James's Place is and always has been,
a business providing a common infrastructure to bring together clients, advisers, fund

Page 18 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

managers and other experts creating and sharing value and experiences exactly as both
Andrew and Peter touched on earlier combining and integrating the St. James's Place
ecosystem with world-class technology will create a strong proposition for all stakeholders
and will underpin our GBP200 billion growth plan both in terms of sustainable growth in
inflows but also significantly in terms of sustainable expense management whilst meeting
the current and future needs of clients and advisers in this age of experience.
We think of this as building our next generation client experience, or NGCX for both
today's and future clients of St. James's Place. It's about next generation experience, next
generation technology and also about next generation clients. This is an ambitious
program of work to reimagine our digital client experience from today's online wealth
account to what we believe will be a truly world-class digital relationship between clients
and partner powered by St. James's Place. This will complement and strengthen the
outstanding personal face-to-face led relationships our partners already enjoy with their
clients.

Bloomberg Transcript

The program will enable great outcomes for clients in this experience age, hyperpersonalized service anytime, anywhere interactions and an experience clients demand,
show me, you know me. It will enable greater outcomes for advisers, efficiency, scalability,
and of course, those great personalized outcomes for their clients driven by data and
insights. And through all of this, it will deliver great outcomes for our business, sustainable
growth of inflows, high retention through great experiences for clients and partners,
operational leverage through efficiencies and scalability, whilst keeping the business
resilient.
With the quality of the St. James's Place partnership and our commitment to an
investment in world-class technology, we are strongly placed to deliver on leading digital
experience between clients and partner powered by St. James's Place. This graph is from
some Gartner research, showing the percentage of wealth clients choosing different
interaction channels based on assets under management, most mass affluent and high
net worth clients use people and technology, a hybrid approach.
Recent research from Salesforce supports this hybrid approach with 31% preferring
human interaction when making significant financial decisions. Over recent years, we have
invested significantly in two key world-class systems to underpin St. James's Place in
2020s. Bluedoor, our system of record and Salesforce, our system of engagement, both
are bedding in nicely. We've seen the resilience and scalability in recent times, and they
will be our springboard to sustained scalability over the years to come as well as the
bedrock for powering our digital strategy.
We invest in long term relationships and this is just as true with technology partners as it is
with our advisers and clients. We have long-term strategic partnerships with SS&C, Insulet
and AWS, enabling our technology journey alongside some more recent partnerships,
such as Salesforce and AutomationAnywhere. As the UK's largest advice-led wealth
manager with ambitious plans for the future, we have competitive advantage and been
able to invest with these leading providers. Through these relationships, our strategy is to
deploy world-class technologies leveraging continuous innovation by tech firms to support
our partners and clients and deliver our next generation client experience.
Page 19 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

Bluedoor, our system of record from SS&C has enabled us to scale our business even
through the pandemic. The recent tax year-end demonstrates this. We saw record new
business in March, all handled by Bluedoor with the majority of cases not touching the
sites. This is the benefit of automation and straight through processing. We will continue
to work with SS&C to continuously improve and automate mode of our business
processing, delivering sustainable scalability for the future.
And whilst mentioning Bluedoor, an absolute game-changer for our technology journey
and now part of the fabric of St. James's Place, we shouldn't understate just what we
achieved in recent years with a very successful implementation and migration journey.
Hundreds of thousands of clients, billions of funds under management, all successfully
transform to the new system, quite a rare event in UK Financial Services. What's even
rarer, it's been able to then actually decommission legacy back office systems, something
we achieved during 2020. And I'm particularly proud that our Bluedoor program was
awarded Best Implementation and Fund Europe's FundTech 2020 Awards.
Salesforce, our system of engagement, is all about long term relationships, hyper
personalized service delivery and efficiency in partner businesses as well as in supervision
of the partnership. Already, we are seeing significant efficiency benefits. Here is a short
video from some of our partner practices to highlight this.

Bloomberg Transcript

(Video Presentation)
Bluedoor and Salesforce are a combined ecosystem, not only providing the backdrop for
powering our digital strategy, but also the key enablers allowing us to re-imagine the way
we build out our operating capacity as we look ahead. Delivering efficiency, delivering
operational leverage are underpinning our 5% per annum expense guidance. And as you
would expect, we are well on the way with leveraging this ecosystem, in particular,
partnering with Fintechs, allowing our partners today to choose to access a range of tools
for their businesses, DocuSign, Qwil Messenger, think WhatsApp by compliant, OPAL from
Ortec Finance to support identifying and tracking against client goals, Digital Wealth
Solutions, which provides advisers with a digital front office, DocPortal, providing a
document management portal for advisers and clients and Digital Clipboard support
digital client onboarding, including fact finding and compliance.
Just like all of our clients today, Mr. & Mrs. Taylor, who Rob introduced to us earlier,
concurrently access their St. James's Place online wealth account. Our digital client portal
available on mobile, tablet, or desktop, providing personalized up to date valuations,
asset allocation information, personalized actual performance information over time
periods of the Taylors choice electronic rather than paper correspondence, secure
messaging, and their St. James's Place Partner has set them up to enable online debit
card payments for the investments at any time of the day or night, including that last
minute ISA investment before the end of the tax year. All this live and used day in, day out
by Mr. & Mrs. Taylor and all our clients and partners today.
Deloitte's 10 disruptive trends in wealth management report notes that many advisers still
face significant barriers to providing holistic financial advice to their clients, including

Page 20 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

access to the right tools and software. I would argue not if you are a St. James's Place
Partner and our continued investment in this area will deliver increased productivity,
stronger client relationships and a more efficient St. James's Place.
Our strategy is also about simplifying our technology estate, reducing costs and
increasing resilience. For example, our investment in Bluedoor and Salesforce has already
enabled us to decommission our back-office mainframe, which was perhaps part of the
largest decommissioning we have seen in UK financial services and it will enable us to
decommission a further 26 smaller systems. Tangible outcomes which support our 5% per
annum expense guidance.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our technology architecture is moving to a simpler and more structured design than we
had before, this approach makes our technology simpler and cheaper to maintain,
reduces operational risk and is much more scalable. Our investment in automation will
deliver over 100 processes automated by the end of this year, an equivalent saving of 25
FTE with more consistency, less operational risk and greater scalability. Examples include
processes within investment operations, technology and business checking. This is on top
of the 70 or so bots we already have working which have freed up 21 FTE opportunities
already.
This operational excellence journey, combined with simplification and automation, is the
fundamental principle which will enables us to deliver on our 5% per annum expense
guidance with the investment fully allowed for within that guidance. Alongside this, our
focus on cyber will continue as we manage and mitigate the associated fast changing and
evolving risks through technology solutions, awareness and training, support from external
experts, including a specific role on the Board's Technology Advisory Group.
So almost a state of the nation as to where we are today and hopefully I've shone a light
on what we are actually doing today, I suspect a far more technology-enabled St. James's
Place than you might have perceived. But what about our future technology journey as we
move from the information and digital age into the experience age? The key word here is
data. The harnessing of our ecosystem with data, will enable us to transcend from digital
to experience, our Next Generation Client Experience.
Let me bring to life how we're using data and the future value we see in it. We start from
a strong place, we have years and years of data around every transaction placed, every
piece of advice given, every investment made and every investment encashed, one of
the strong advantages of being a long-term integrated advice business. Rob talked earlier
about some of the examples of using this data in the investment world. Our key focus
over the coming months and years is leveraging this data to support and drive outcomes
for clients, advisers and shareholders. Data will enable timely and effective interactions
between partners and clients, powered by artificial intelligence insights to increase
efficiency and productivity. We are already working to pilot Einstein artificial intelligence
within Salesforce to identify next best actions and opportunities for clients to achieve their
goals.

Page 21 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

Similarly, AI-driven insights will enable timely interventions with partners as part of
managing conduct risk and keeping the business safe. Data and AI will also enable an
evolution from our successful robotic process automation to intelligent automation of the
future. We are developing this initially within our business checking function and indeed
last year won an award for our early work in this area in partnership with Intellect, the
Celent Model Wealth Manager award in Emerging Technology in 2020.
We were also recognized earlier this year as one of the best global case studies for
intelligent automation in wealth management. This intelligent automation will further
underpin our expense management over the coming years, whilst providing consistency
and scalability for partners and clients. Ultimately, we see this developing into an AIpowered advice assistant to support partners. This will drive efficiency and productivity,
allowing partners to spend more time face-to-face with more clients, focusing on the
complexities of the advice as well as building long-term relationships. Our plan is to have
a proof of concept operational within the next 12 months across relatively straightforward
advice.

Bloomberg Transcript

To support all of this, we will continue to invest in data science capabilities alongside our
strategic partners, as we increasingly leverage the power of our ecosystem through data,
including maturing our use of Salesforce through adoption of marketing cloud, social
media integrations and more AI-powered insights. These plans will enable us to continue
to grow inflows in a long-term sustainable manner through increased insights, deepened
relationships and productivity, all underpinned by tech.
Beyond data, we are focused on re-engineering our business processes from paper
heavy to digital first, a move from electronic correspondence, PDFs rather than paper, to
true digital experiences for partners and clients, delivering efficiencies, cost savings,
scalability and, of course, ESG benefits, all part of our vision of being the best version of
ourselves. We are currently undertaking detailed research with clients and partners for our
Next Generation Client Experience and expect to have a pilot launched in Q1 of 2022 with
continuous rapid enhancement and innovation thereafter.
We are anchoring this in user centered design, working with partners, clients and potential
clients across generations to design and deliver the digital experience they want from St.
James's Place for both today and tomorrow. Our focus on data and re-imagining our
digital experience for clients is part of our operational excellence program of work over
the next few years, making it easier for everyone to do business with St. James's Place,
whilst reinforcing our capabilities to support and enable sustainable growth in inflows and
powering operating efficiency across the organization and, crucially, funded within our
expense guidance.
I believe our plans are significant and ambitious and will power our future growth,
alongside underpinning operational leverage, whilst keeping the business resilient. We
have a track record in safe delivery given our Bluedoor and Salesforce journey in recent
years, we have learned a lot and have the capability and expertise to deliver the
expected benefits. These plans will lead to a data and AI-integrated ecosystem,
delivering growth, scalability, efficiency and resilience, whilst reducing complexity, costs
and operational risk.
Page 22 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

We are already on this journey and beginning to see the benefits and these will further
crystallize over the coming months and years as we deliver an efficient St. James's Place
of 200 billion funds under management and scaling well beyond that and, of course, all
these plans are included in our medium-term expense guidance. We are a people
business with long-term, face-to-face, personal relationships enabled by digital at the
core, powering sustained and efficient growth as we look to the future.
Thank you very much. And now I'd like to hand over to Iain Rayner, who will talk about how
we are building a long-term business in Asia.

Iain Rayner

{BIO 20875747 <GO>}

Thank you for the opportunity to talk to you today about our business in Asia.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'm Iain Rayner, and I led the projects in 2013 and 2014 to acquire the Henley Group to
form SJP Asia. And since October last year, I've taken over Executive Board responsibility. I
think I'm right in saying that the last time we gave an in-depth market update specifically
about Asia was at our Annual Results presentation in February 2015. And it now seems an
opportune time to look again at SJP Asia and provide you with an update. An update on
the considerable amount our team of partners, advisers, managers and employees in
Asia have achieved over the last seven years. And more importantly, an update on our
plans in Asia for the next five years to 2025, and our strong belief in, and commitment to,
the longer-term Asian opportunity for St. James's Place.
There are three key things I want you to take away from this presentation about SJP Asia
today. The first is that we plan to grow gross inflows by 25% per annum compound to
2025, such that we have a business growing from its GBP1.3 billion core funds under
management today to GBP5 billion of core funds under management by the end of 2025,
and annual gross inflows north of GBP1 billion. We grew core gross inflows by 27% in Asia
in 2020 and are confident of achieving the 25% growth in gross inflows target in 2021 to
over GBP400m.
The second is that having invested to build our presence, we plan and expect to move
SJP Asia to cash break-even by 2025. We've built a fixed infrastructure which is now
scalable over the medium term. We can create operating leverage through limiting further
fixed expense growth, while increasing fee income through new investments and the
maturing of funds in gestation. Beyond 2025, we expect to grow cash profits from the
Asian business strongly as those operating jaws widen. In 2020, we reduced the post-tax
net investment cost in Asia to GBP17.4m from GBP19.9m in 2019. And we plan to be below
GBP15m in 2021, and then to reduce on a consistently predictable basis to cash breakeven in 2025.
The third is that we see real long-term value in building a disruptive, growing and
profitable presence in two of the most attractive wealth management markets globally.
With the opportunity compelling and our plans clear, our commitment to Asia remains
firm.

Page 23 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

Before looking forward, I do just want to briefly revisit SJP Asia's history to talk about how
we've got to where we are. When we talk about SJP Asia, we mean Singapore, arguably
the world's most exciting wealth management market right now, and Hong Kong. And our
Hong Kong office has a satellite office in Shanghai, dealing with expats in China.
We purchased the Henley Group, the building block of SJP Asia, seven years ago now in
2014, in order to provide us with a long-term strategic option in an exciting growth market.
The origins of the Henley Group actually go back to the early 1990s, around the same
time that SJP was founded. In 2014 our market entry strategy to the fast-growing wealth
management markets in Asia, was as a British brand, built on largely expat British
partners, serving largely expat British clients.

Bloomberg Transcript

I talked earlier about the considerable achievements of our team in Asia over those seven
years. When we purchased Henley it had GBP0.5 billion of funds under management, and
today SJP Asia has GBP1.3 billion of SJP core investments and DFM, plus another GBP0.5
billion of third-party assets. From 4,000 clients in 2014 to 12,000 clients today. From 50
advisers in 2014 to 132 at the end of 2020.
In terms of infrastructure, we have invested, largely through our P&L, in building out three
offices in Singapore, Hong Kong and Shanghai, a management team, a new life company
in Hong Kong, and a branch of our Dublin life company in Singapore. We operate Rowan
Dartington's DFM service in Hong Kong and Singapore under the St. James's Place brand.
And DFM represents around 25% of Asian new business flows, demonstrating the
importance of that service to our Asian clients and partners. And SJP Asia was an early
adopter of Salesforce. There have been challenges, but we have overcome them and are
well positioned for the next phase of our growth.
We are particularly focused on the UK expat market in Singapore and Hong Kong, where
we are now the dominant UK expat-focused financial advice player. But today, only 50% of
the SJP Asia clients are British expats. The other 50% of our SJP Asia clients are a diverse
group, other international expats, of which Australians make up the biggest concentration.
And increasingly high-net-worth families from across Asia, who live in or use Singapore or
Hong Kong to conduct their financial affairs, but in many instances are really global
citizens, with homes and families spread across the world, including and often in the UK. I
want you to hold onto that thought of the Asian high-net-worth families and the global
expats, using Singapore and Hong Kong to invest and structure their financial affairs
because that's where our big medium to long-term Asian opportunity is.
Partners in SJP Asia today look after 12,000 clients with an average of GBP110,000 core
funds under management invested. That's GBP1.3 billion of core SJP investments and
DFM funds under management. I've said that we plan to have a GBP5 billion core funds
under management business in Asia by the end of 2025. Our Asian partners are
consistently acquiring 800 new clients a quarter, so 3,200 per annum. So even if we don't
increase that run rate, we would expect our SJP Asia partners to be looking after 27,000
clients by the end of 2025. 27,000 clients with an average of GBP185,000 invested with
us is GBP5 billion.

Page 24 of 42



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

So how are we going to do that? There are 4.6 million mass affluent people with between
$100,000 and $1 million to invest in Singapore and Hong Kong combined. There are then
around another 300,000 people in Singapore and Hong Kong combined, with between
$1 million and $30 million to invest. That's a total asset pool of just under $2 trillion. That's
the pool in which we fish. Our market position is between the mainstream Asian life
assurers with their agency and bank distribution and the private banks. Just as we do in
the UK, we offer an upgrade path to those clients who may have bought financial
products on an ad-hoc basis, but who now want and need to take a more planned and
ordered approach to their finances, often as they get older.
And we also want to offer an alternative to the private bank client, who is perhaps tired of
the fact that they are frequently being told that they need to up their minimums to stay
with the private bank. Or whose adviser is thinking about leaving, perhaps because they
want to take a more client-centered approach, in an environment where they work for
themselves. Our guiding principle must be that our partners are doing business with
clients who see value in international family wealth structuring, in wealth extraction
strategies for entrepreneurial families, in long-term capital preservation and investment.
We also believe that our joint UK-Asian focus offers a distinct competitive advantage. The
UK is still seen as an attractive place for many Asian families to educate their children at
either school or university, and also to buy property. Even more so, given the 300,000
BNO visas which are likely to be handed out to Hong Kong citizens by the UK government.
So we do financial planning and investment in a way that is cognizant of these important
international lifestyle considerations. We are very conscious of those clients and their
needs, and working with Asian families on those aspects will be very important to us
between now and 2025. We are also working to make sure our SJP Asian versions of the
investment proposition and DFM are optimized for Asian clients. That means more
international and Asia-centric funds and portfolios, and we're working very closely with
Rob Gardner and his team on that.
Just as in the UK, the powerhouse of SJP in Asia is and will always be our partners and
advisers. The diversity and strength of the UK partnership is incredible. For many years,
I've been lucky enough to work closely with many of the large and small partner
businesses in the UK. We have several businesses around here in London, in the City and
Canary Wharf, who have around GBP1 billion of funds under management each. And these
businesses are compounding at an astonishing rate.
And when I walk into the SJP offices in Singapore or Hong Kong, I feel a strong similarity to
our offices and teams in London in the City and Canary Wharf and beyond. Enthusiastic,
motivated, bright people, serving the bankers, lawyers, accountants and business people
in the world's most exciting financial centers. Clients follow or do business because of
their advisers. What I think we know how to do is recruit and help develop the best
partner businesses to find the right people and back them, to help them recruit, to
provide them with the right products and services, to provide them with the right financing
and technology and expertise. The things that Peter Edwards talked about earlier with
respect to the UK. I think we have proved we can do that in the UK and, I know, that's the
journey we are now on in Asia.

Page 25 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

If we want a business of 27,000 global expats and Asian high-net-worth clients in
Singapore and Hong Kong by 2025, then we need a diverse, high quality team of partners
and advisers who will attract and retain them. We start from a good place. We have some
brilliant partners in Asia who have stayed with us from the Henley acquisition and
successfully built their businesses. We've recruited the very best expat-focused financial
advisers in Singapore and Hong Kong since 2014 to become St. James's Place partners.
And as I've just said, we continue to recruit them.
One of the lessons we have learnt is that we mustn't chase adviser numbers for the sake
of it, recruiting too many inexperienced advisers. You'll have seen our Asia adviser
numbers drift back in 2020 as a result. Our 2025 partner strategy is to have the best 100
partner businesses we can, split roughly 50:50 between Singapore and the combined
Hong Kong and Shanghai offices. Many of these partner businesses will be multi-adviser,
so whilst we'll aim to have the best 100 Asian partner businesses we can, I expect we'll
have over 200 advisers by 2025. Increasingly, we are becoming the home for private
bankers, or those running family offices for high-net-worth Asian families, who want more
control over their lives or to work with their clients on their terms. And we must offer a
career path for the very best Asian life assurance agents. A partner proposition based on
empowerment and responsibility to look after their clients and their own lives. It's going to
be a really exciting next few years.
When I look at what we're achieving now during COVID, I feel extremely optimistic about
what we will do in Asia when the lockdown loosens. Just last week, we completed the
recruitment of an advice firm in Hong Kong with GBP130 million of funds under
management and six advisers. That's the type of thing that I know we can do more of.
Just like we are in the UK, we've got to be the best place for entrepreneurs in Singapore
and Hong Kong to build their financial advice businesses.
I started out talking about the history of SJP in Asia because I wanted to demonstrate that
we have strong roots dating back, through the Henley Group, to the early 1990s. The
point I want to make here is the importance of a long-term approach and long-term
thinking. We've quietly and patiently built a GBP1.3 billion wealth management business
over the last seven years. That Confucian value of long-term orientation is incredibly
important to the people and also the regulators in Asia. Why should you trust your longterm savings with someone who has only a short-term mindset? That's a principle which is
incredibly important to our clients and partners in the UK as well. It's in the DNA of SJP.
This year, our target is to have gross inflows in Asia north of GBP400 million, which will be
25% above 2020 and reduce the cash net investment to below GBP15 million. We're on
track to deliver both. And we plan to move to cash break-even in 2025 on a broadly
straight line predictable basis. Andrew mentioned this earlier, some historical perspective
from SJP in the UK. It was really only in 2003, SJP's 12th year of existence, that the UK
business became consistently cash profitable. And our business plan in Asia is to reach
the same milestone at the same point, 12 years after our acquisition of Henley.
I've set out our medium-term financial targets to the end of 2025. 25% compound growth
in gross inflows to GBP1 billion per annum. GBP5 billion core funds under management
and cash break-even. Just as we have been in the UK over the last 30 years, we intend to
Page 26 of 42



FINAL

Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

be a market disruptor in Asian wealth management, bringing a long-term partner-client
relationship, advisory approach to the market, amongst the big life assurers and private
banks in Asia. We will win by building the best 100 Asia partner businesses we possibly
can by 2025, by building a long-term, advisory client proposition with a distinct Asian, UK
perspective and flavor, by being open and clear about what we're doing, and focusing on
the priorities, to fulfil our promise on cash break-even. We're very excited by our Asian
business and the opportunity for it. Over time, we will build confidence and excitement in
SJP Asia, by delivering, in 2021 and the four following years to the end of 2025, against
the clear numbers and strategies that I've talked about today.
Thank you.

Questions And Answers
A - Robert Gardner

{BIO 15404543 <GO>}

Good afternoon, and welcome to the St. James's Place Capital Markets Day Live Q&A
session. I will now hand over to Andrew Croft, Chief Executive of St. James's Place for
opening comments before we open the line to questions.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Rob, and welcome, everyone. I'm joined not only by my Executive Board
colleagues, who presented this afternoon, but also Craig Gentle, Liz Kelly and Ian
Gascoigne. And I hope you've enjoyed the presentation and let's now open up to Q&A.
So first question please.

A - Robert Gardner

{BIO 15404543 <GO>}

Can we please have the first question from Andrew Sinclair Bank of America, Merrill Lynch.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Thank you, and afternoon, everyone. Thanks for all the presentations. Three from me as
usual, if that's okay. Firstly, just on the academy. You talked about delivering 400 plus from
the academy into the partnership from 2022. Would you see that as a steady state or do
you think you'd look to grow the academy further beyond that level? How big can it get?
That's question one. Question two was on DFM. I think you talked about consolidation
opportunities in DFM, just wondered, is that part of the break-even time frame targets for
Rowan Dartington or accelerate or exclude out in the timeframe? Just the thoughts on
how fast you look any investments to pay back? And thirdly, was just on current trading
and holidays, I think most of us on the call haven't taken many days off so far this year. I
expect your advisers are similar as the world opens up again. How do you think that will
influence flows over Q3? And was there any impact on that in Q2 flows so far? Thanks.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Yeah. Thanks, Andrew. And actually, I'll take them in reverse order and do the current
trading one first. And we are really encouraged by what we've seen year-to-date and that
underpins and increases our confidence that it should be another good year for St.
Page 27 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

James's Place. But you're absolutely right, it's a tricky year to call, isn't it? And it's not a
year where you can do simple extrapolation. I have no doubt, people will take holidays in
August, but I'd just say we got off to a really good start and can be confident for a good
year.

FINAL

And so I'll hand over to Rob on the DFM.

A - Robert Gardner

{BIO 15404543 <GO>}

Hi Andrew, Rob here. So just on DFM, the pathway to break-even 2024 is really just based
on us focusing on getting that end-to-end joined out IMA plus DFM firing on all cylinders
with our partnership. So any opportunities for either speed up or slow down depending
on the nature of that deal.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Okay, thank you. Pete?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Peter Edwards

{BIO 20875780 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you, Andrew. In terms of the projections, the academy moving forward, I
imagine, it will be seven states that in the short-term, but we would always have the
opportunity to increase the numbers of academy graduates into the partnership, but they,
I think, more important things to remember is an Academy graduates trading program
that is not determined in terms of timescale at the very beginning of their journey and
with 60% of the people joining the company having no industry experience whatsoever.
It's not something that's necessarily determined in terms of the date they joining that is a
specified graduation point. So it's something that we remain flexible in the medium term.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks, Peter. Can we have the next question, please?

A - Robert Gardner

{BIO 15404543 <GO>}

Yes. Please can we have the next question from David McCann from Numis, please?

Q - David McCann

{BIO 15885639 <GO>}

Yeah. Good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for taking my questions. There's going to be
three in three different areas. The first one is probably aimed at Rob I'd imagine and as
you outlined in your piece, I think the biggest challenge for anyone involved in the
personal wealth at the moment is trying to get inflation beating returns for the underlying
clients and it goes without saying. There's always been the objective, but it's ever harder
at the moment. So you obviously outlined that you thought that you could. As I just really
curious thinking into a bit more detail that what kind of assumptions are you making in the
big asset classes would be both annual outperformance to offset the headwinds of fuel
cost and obviously the inflation in noting that obviously in the annual report and the
economic assumptions, you're shipping 2.6 plan is unit linked some in the frequent 3.3
inflation rate, appreciate it slightly different purposes. But nonetheless, I just wondered

Page 28 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

what the delta was there and how confident you are getting there? Sorry, long would be
question, but how are you going to achieve those inflation beating returns is the first
question in the area.
Second set of questions around Asia, and thanks for the comments there, Ian. Just
wanted to -- one thing you mentioned was that which I don't think I've really heard in
relation to Asia before that you mentioned that there was a notable amount of gestation
in that number. So maybe you could just outline how much that actually is constraining the
revenues, if you like of the business? So I didn't associate that business gestation
business. And so it's similar to that, it seems, it sounds like revenue growth and asset
growth is really how you're going to turn this into a break-even and beyond business
within that kind of what is the revenue margin assumption kind of now versus 2025?
And then the final question or area really is just a quick one, really just on the Academy
and tracking the kind of productivity of people who have left the Academy after, let's say,
that 5 years what they're up to maturity, how has that been tracking over time? Have
they've been getting better or worse? Thanks.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, David. Since the last question is on the Academy, I'll probably get us
Peter first to answer the accounting question.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Peter Edwards

{BIO 20875780 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you, David. It's a really good question, a good point which we covered in the
presentation. People joining the Academy are predominantly younger, they have less
experience and, therefore, current take slightly longer to get going as opposed to new
joiners from an industry background. However, after about five-year period with the
partnership, all our statistics tell us that they are as productive as people who came from
an existing industry background. Now a little bit of the fact that we've known for many
years, is the longer partners irrespective of background state of the partnership the more
productive maybe come until they reach a point that they decide to evolve and that
business by growing year by way of longer slowly indeed move into a different type of
business shape so we got a long track record of people grow in their business over a
period and at level that with us the more business they attend to.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Thank you, Peter, and I'll got to Rob on the inflation beating question.

A - Robert Gardner

{BIO 15404543 <GO>}

Yeah. Hi David, yeah, as you say, it's a challenging question. The way we've tried to tackle
it with our core building blocks. So I talked about these global equity really got split by
style. So I suppose, our core assumption is in the long term, and I define long term in
decades not days is that one of the best ways to be inflation is equities. You know that
within equities, you've got growth, value and quality and depending on what environment
you're in, quality might do better or growth might do better. So that feeds to kind of the
third investment relief, which is about diversification. So the bedrock will probably be
Page 29 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

inflation over the next decade, it's really about getting our clients invested in the right
blend of equities.
The challenge, as you know, is the bond yields are extremely low, which is why we started
to sort of build out I'll turn it is piece as well, so that, hence the consolidation of
alternatives to give us diversification and a scenario like the 2000 to 2010, scenario we
saw in equities. In terms of the expected return on alpha, each one of those building
blocks has active mandates with a higher tracking areas with 5% to 10%, but the way we
put it, we can get our tracking error down to 4%, which means that we think that we can
get through the cycle, net of all fees or net of our management fees 1% outflow
assumption. So that could be 20% on top of 5%, it's better return or equities depending
on your view different equation environments.
Go ahead, Croft.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks a lot. On the Asia, I'm going to ask Craig on the gestation first and then
Craig can hand over to Ian for the second part of the question, David.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Craig Gentle

{BIO 20095126 <GO>}

Yeah. David, hi. The gestation figure for Asia is inevitably pretty, pretty small at the
moment, but I think the point to note here is that having established our manufacturing
assets here in Asia, the products and the charges were much in the same way as you're
familiar with in the UK products. And say what you'll see is an increase in that top level of
funds under management accumulates is with a lag in cash emerging and that's certainly
something to watch as time goes on and as that becomes a more meaningful figure is
one that we may choose to track at the age of externally. But inevitably at this stage in a
sort of start-up situation, it's relatively small.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Ian, do you want to pick up the rest of it?

A - Ian MacKenzie

{BIO 18366729 <GO>}

I mean, not much to add to that really. Hi David. Yes, it's we should use the UK
experiences as a guide to the parts of cash profitability in 2025 an opportunity we
basically expect and that -- but I think we're going to think we'll probably be stronger
numbers on this stage in the UK video products.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Okay. Could we have the next question, please?

A - Robert Gardner

{BIO 15404543 <GO>}

Yes. Can we go to Ashik Musaddi from JP Morgan Cazenove, please?

Page 30 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah. Hi, good morning -- sorry, good afternoon. Just one question from me, I mean,
sorry I missed a part of the presentation. So I'm not sure if it is already covered. But you
mentioned that there are plans to increase the productivity of the partners over next few
years. I mean, could you give some clarity as to how that could happen? The reason I'm
asking is, I mean see productivity is a bit complicated to measure as in like what is really
driving productivity. So that's one question. And second question, I think you mentioned
that about two-thirds of your gross recruitment in Academy is done by Academy, twothird of your gross recruitment annually is done through Academy. So does that mean that
majority of your net recruitment is done through Academy?

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks, Ashik. I'll pass those both to Peter.

A - Peter Edwards

{BIO 20875780 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. Hi Ashik. So the second question first. The Academy has been growing steadily over
the last decade and indeed, the way we approach recruitment in the wider partnership
has always been on quality led basis. As we mentioned in the presentation, the size of the
available tool of talent that qualifies to join St. James's Place is not increasing and
inevitably this means we to achieve our own growth aspirations needs to focus more on
the Academy achieve in a greater proportion of new joiners. So yes, there will be over
time a move towards more of our new joiner community be their advisers all these
partners in that own right coming from the Academy. This is something that we're very
focused on managing the growth of the business and a sustainable and manageable way.
Moving to the second question in terms of productivity increases, actually, it was on those
slides how we have evolved the management of the partnership through what we
thought would be a management team. What we're looking to do very clearly is as the
partnership matures, and it's important to remember that some members of the
partnership have been for 30 years almost, all the members of the partnership are very
new by definition. But we look to isolate the category -- not category, sorry, the way a
partner wishes to grow their business, be they in the business development phase,
business optimization phase or business change phase, these are very simple processes
that we -- capable management team through so help the partners grow, stabilize their
business, to create more efficiency and to create both the business and the partner
ultimately want to go on an or indeed the advisor within the practice looks to achieve for
the owner of that business. So whilst it's difficult to measure because, you're right, it's an
art, not a science, it's very important that we are able to establish the growth required for
each individual business in the way that business wants to develop so. So we don't have a
one size fits all strategy partnership, it's very much we spoke to the individual businesses.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

I'll just see if Ian Gascoigne has got anything?

A - Ian Gascoigne

{BIO 4439479 <GO>}

Page 31 of 42



FINAL

Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

No. I think Peter covered most of the base is that one of the, I think, one of the life save is
what we're trying to do there actually is fully the management team in the SJP
interventions with the partner businesses to be appropriate and relevant to where that
businesses on these own business cycle. And I think we can see some really great
opportunities for more impact on the apartment business. The second one is a postCOVID world where partners themselves are reports through technology and through
clients' acceptance to being a remote meetings and conducting business remotely, the
partner businesses themselves are seeing opportunities to really increase their own
meeting capacity. So not just face-to-face meeting or the face-to-face brand, but also
supplement servicing meetings and new business meetings remotely for appropriate
clients. So they've opened up an opportunity to increase that there is efficiency in this
post-COVID environment.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Thanks, Ian. Can we go to the next question, please, Rob?

A - Robert Gardner

{BIO 15404543 <GO>}

Yes. Can I just ask if everyone -- you did have your hand raised and we're going to ask a
question. But that's sort of been answered, please could you take your hand down that'd
be most helpful. In the meantime, we'll go to Oliver Steel from Deutsche Bank, please.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Afternoon, everyone. So three questions from me. The first is on revenue margins. I'm
assuming, given the sort of growth you've achieved this year that's going to be a sort of
preponderance and that's of lower margin -- not a preponderance, but given the mix
between gestation business and unit trust and ISA business that faster new business
growth in the short term has a more negative effect on the margin in the short term. So I
wonder if you could just comment on that. Secondly, I think you talked about being open
to or not the opportunity of consolidating other DFMs, which I don't think I've heard
before. Did I hear right? And how much potentially could you spend on that and could you
comment on the risks you talked earlier about having recruited every single agent
yourself ? Obviously if you buy DFMs, you're not recruiting them yourselves. And then the
third question I've got is on technology. I mean, you would say you have a competitive
advantage, but I'm not sure where you do. Can you comment on where you think you're
actually ahead of your competitors? Thank you.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Thanks, Oliver. I'm going to pass the revenue margins to Craig.

A - Craig Gentle

{BIO 20095126 <GO>}

Hi Oliver, the impacts of higher new business and you might expect actually doesn't
impact on the margin range that we've given from net income on the funds under
management, which may sound counterintuitive. If you think about sort of the business
that goes straight into mature funds under management, but is really a function of the
scale of mature funds under managements in switch that business is going so simply no
change in any guidance we give them at that level as a result of business performance
Page 32 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

that we're currently saving. The other area, and obviously this is a trading update, but it's
a matter of fact that we've talked about positive gearing and negative gearing in the
presence of fixed costs in any calculation. But how is it impacts, but fundamentally, I don't
think you should be looking for anything in particular any modeling that you're doing.

FINAL

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Okay. And I'll probably just pick up the consolidating trend. It's always been part of this
business model, Oliver, and you're absolutely right, any acquisition JPN acquisition with
people business is risky. So it's in the business plan, but we have not acquired anything to
date and whatever we do acquire will be very, very careful about it being a wide fit for the
business, so hope that helps. I'm going to pass over to Ian on the technology.

A - Ian MacKenzie

{BIO 18366729 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Andrew. Thanks, Oliver, for question. Couple of points I'll bring out in terms of
what we said, I think we said we believe technology will give us its competitive advantage
as well as giving us one some of that our ability and scale to engage with large tech firms
and their desire to work with us. So we are seeing that as a tech firms want to work with
us, want to talk with us in terms of what we're trying to do and how we can drive the
evolution of the market here, particularly that the hybrid piece there.
And the other point I'd bring out here is, I think for many people when say, it's many
people on the call, we probably not showing of light what we're actually doing and where
we are of the journey we've been on. And I'll feel just to give you a little color here which
we're strong money marketing. About a year ago, we are and I quote, SJP's digital
proposition has further advanced than that of many firms and the article on to save SJP
have a level of functionality and many mainstream platforms that do well to emulate it. So
I think there is some sort of that from last May for McKenna and right to get to money
marketing. So I think there's how we tell the story of what we're actually doing and
achieving and how we capitalize on that, what to move big tech given our scale and our
plans then giving us occupancy ventures is going forwards.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Thank you, Ian, and just looping back to the DFM consolidation, I should have said anything
we do will be small. Again, we're not looking to do some huge deal. But there is a large
number of small DFMs out there that economically will be struggling, and we could be a
good hunt for them.
Can we go onto the next question, please?

A - Robert Gardner

{BIO 15404543 <GO>}

Next, can we talk to Andrew Baker from Citi, please?

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Hi, thanks for taking my questions. So just two from me, please. First is on the Academy.
Can you just give me a sense of your retention rates for graduates from the Academy?
Page 33 of 42



FINAL

Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

So for example of the graduates in any given year, what percent would you still expect to
be partnership and let's say three to five years time? And then secondly, on productivity,
so sorry to get back to this, but maybe I can ask in a slightly different way. If I look at your
gross flows per advisor, it looks on a peaked in 2017 and is declined every year since then.
I appreciate that some of that is the consumer sentiment impacting the flow number, but
with your investments in Salesforce, Bluedoor and your other initiatives that you're doing
there, are you expecting to get back to or even exceed the 2017 levels? And what do you
say the run rate for this? Thank you.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

I'm going to pass you over to Peter in a minute, but I think the -- I wouldn't underestimate
the impact of the markets of the election of Brexit of COVID that clearly has had a large
impact. And of course, you're seeing that already starting to reverse this year, but anyway,
Peter, over to you on the Academy -- both the Academy and productivity questions.

A - Peter Edwards

{BIO 20875780 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. So the Academy retention, I think what we know is the longer people with us,
they're more likely safe. So the Academy in terms of the career change journey for
people is and I'll generalize, it can take a couple of years ago from being a complete nonindustry persons and getting through your exams to becoming competence with clients
and that what we tend to find is if the future is a financial advisor is not for people, it will
be on life journey and that's why we're very careful and diligent that don't supportive of
the people who go through the training program.
Once people have graduated and this is really key point, they are already in the process,
demonstrating that they are able to be sustainable in terms of either winning their own
business or as an adviser insights from analysis business. We have a methodology, where
people move away from the Academy and so what we call the growth and development
phase where they are very closely managed on a small ratio against the field
management team and they are then talk to real trade so they're learning is continuing
over a number of years until they are good and absolutely sustainable business in their
own right. So the Academy post-graduation will not be any different from the published
numbers in terms of our retention for partnership.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

And when the retention question do we -- retention productivity question, do we believe
productivity can get back to 2017 levels and beyond?

A - Peter Edwards

{BIO 20875780 <GO>}

Yeah. No, I mean I think Andrew might point when he talked about in his opening remarks,
when he talked about the volatility about Brexit, about how it is naturally had an impact on
all sorts of businesses. I think all the things that we've done really successfully through this
it is maintained contact with partnership, kept the partnership intact, really stayed close to
their business development, continue to grow the capacity within that such as Ian
MacKenzie has mentioned earlier on. So whilst we want to reflect back to 2017, I believe
that we will improve productivity on an ongoing basis absolutely is fundamentally is the
Page 34 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

growth of the business is something that is actually cornerstone of the strategy we got to
achieve are stated target, so yes, very confident.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Peter. Could we go to the next question, please?

A - Robert Gardner

{BIO 15404543 <GO>}

Yes. Can I have Enrico Bolzoni from Credit Suisse to pose his question, please?

Q - Enrico Bolzoni

{BIO 19966397 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, good afternoon, and thank you for the presentation. Three questions from me if I may.
The first one is on cost reduction and the new technology. So you were mentioning, for
example, that 25, I think full time employees less would be required thanks to a
combination of Bluedoor and Salesforce, I guess. When I look at in the grand scheme of
things, however, this is still a very, very small proportion of your thoughts on workforce.
Can we expect something more for the coming years? By that I mean can the new
technology, the recent investment you made really be a game-changer in terms of
reducing permanently your run rate cost in terms of full time employees, in terms of new
recruitments necessarily to support the business or simply the business model requires
and will continue to require substantial hires, going forward no matter what the
technology is? So this is my first question.
The second one, as you clearly are focusing much more on the Academy for sustaining
your future growth, is there a chance that actually you might move to slightly lower
demographics? By that I mean clearly younger, less experienced advisor might for
example target less wealthy clients and, therefore, you might step into a slightly different
market compared to what has been historically for you? And then the final question, if I
heard well, you say that you would be able to integrate your DFM proposition together,
basically with the rest in a single proposition. Can you just expand a bit more on that?
What actually that might mean in practical terms? Thank you very much.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much. I might take the first one on cost reduction because we were
very, very clear in our strategy back in February that we would be looking to limit cost
growth to 5% per annum and nothing has changed in our strategy there. So technology is
a way that we will enable our sales to do that, whilst growing gross flows by 10% and
continuing to grow the scale of the business. I'll put again go on to the Academy Peter
and to demographics.

A - Peter Edwards

{BIO 20875780 <GO>}

Yeah. I mean, it's a great question, and we go on the -- I think one of the real strengths of
the partnership is this rule the church if you like the demographics, all being nationwide
offering and certainly what we find is that just because people who tend to join the
Academy are younger than people who are in mainstream face-to-face advice elsewhere
in the profession doesn't necessarily mean that people that they attract to do business
Page 35 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

with St. James's Place all the bit out of the different caliber or indeed any lower financial
standing. It's important to remember that the significant number of people who graduate
from the Academy are graduates as well as larger businesses who will have client service
in legend settled within those businesses and giving them the opportunity to ensure first
class client service and retention. So absolutely no indication or record of what happened
in the past, we'll obviously it's something to keep a very close eye on. No indication of
that.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

I might see if Ian Gascoigne, if he wants to add.

A - Ian Gascoigne

{BIO 4439479 <GO>}

No, the only thing I'd say is one of the strengths of the Academy is bringing in a wide
diversity of individuals of age and gender and also it's Rob Gardner told earlier about
taking a long term view of things, it's a level of future proofing going on with the
Academy. I have understand the questions, the intensity of questions about products here
to say and how long do they become et cetera. But this is future proofing the business
both in terms of use and vibrancy and also a diversity, which will put the business in great
stat.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

And Rob, do you want to pick up the DFM?

A - Robert Gardner

{BIO 15404543 <GO>}

Yeah. Good afternoon, Enrico, Rob here. So if you remember back to my presentation,
what I have the proposition triangle, we've said to be our core IMA and then it has
discussed from management's and stockbroking bit. A couple of key changes have
happened in the last 12 months. So one internally, it's now called SJP DFM and so our
partners no longer see this as necessarily a separate proposition, but completely
integrated with the way that we do business.
Second and is probably not come out, but actually in the back end, we're integrating it to
all of the stock -- Ian MacKenzie talked about some has been easy to do business to
create a seamless way of operating. But thirdly, the big game-changer for me is the
integration. If you remember, I talked about the four key ingredients for long term
success; the right people, the pace technology, the investment governance and those
investment believe. So the Rowan Dartington team now sit with our core IMA team here in
Lombard Street and in various offices around the UK, we share the same set of
investment beliefs, we'll be implemented in different ways and that's the whole point.
We're now able to leverage the data and technology between the two businesses. So this
is the real opportunity is that ability to leverage our size and scale of our (Technical
Difficulty) tailored approach to DFM and stop working, but with a common set people
based on technology investment beliefs and investment governance.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Page 36 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

Thanks, Rob. Could we go to the next question, please?

A - Robert Gardner

{BIO 15404543 <GO>}

FINAL

Can I please ask Andrew Crean from Autonomous to ask his question, please?

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Good afternoon, everyone. I've got three questions, if I may. Firstly on performance, Rob,
I think you said there's 12 portfolios with 39 distinct firms. On a weighed basis, what I'm
interested in is the performance of those funds relative to the benchmark over time
comparing to inflation is not particularly high hurdle to beat. So I'd like to know really
whether your funds are actually beating the competition that real competition?
Second, on client growth. Does over the COVID period, I think if I'm taking from June
2020 till now, you're growing the client base by 70,000. Hargreaves loans has grown by
210,000. So it's growing 3 times the rate. And I just wondered, with an advice model, you
are limited in terms of your client acquisition just by the number of advisers, whether
there's anything you can do about that to capture this sort of swing towards investing that
we've seen over the last year?

Bloomberg Transcript

And then finally, I think at the moment, the number of advisers but client is 193 clients per
adviser rather. With the additional technology, where do you think you move that number
to? And what does it mean? And are what the implications of that in terms of overall
adviser growth if you're trying to grow gross flows by 10% per annum?

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Andrew. Go to Rob first on the investment performance.

A - Robert Gardner

{BIO 15404543 <GO>}

Yeah. Good afternoon, Andrew. As you know, the 39 funds means that there is a lot of
different choices. So in July, we will be producing our VAS report with all of our both
absolute and relative performance. The key thing for me, if you look at our big building
blocks which are global equity funds that we've relaunched last year, all three of those
funds are outperforming their relative benchmark, but you'll be aware that the key shift
was the shift in value. So our Global Value Fund was up massively, but it's seen a 22%
outperformance in the last six months. But that's the point I want to go back to decades
not days and the key thing is about making sure that we have both the absolute and
relative performance on a rolling five year and decade basis and get it right.
Looking back, the key challenge, as you know, is that a lot of the performance in equities
over the last five to 10 years is really been momentum-driven and so where we really
repositioned our IMA is to make sure that we are well exposed to the key drivers and
actually, we're taking real active risk where we want to take it. So as I mentioned earlier,
each one of those mandates has a five to 10 tracking error and versus their relative rather
than, let's say, an MSCI one so whether it's a valuable growth or momentum, most of our
managers who have actually demonstrated that by holding the course done right well.
Page 37 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

Take the UK Income Fund deep value manager, that's outperformed UK all share by 20%
in the last 12 months. The preceding four years, as you know, deep value in the UK market
is underperformed. So that highlights why we need to get this right. But I would say twothirds of our equity fund managers are kind of outperforming on a relative basis of a
rolling three to five year period.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Thank you, Rob. On your second question, Andrew, on the client growth, I'll say a few
things and I think Ian Gascoigne, he might go into a few things. We are of course a
different model to offerings. We are vertically integrated as I said in my section being
platform. So it is totally different to compare one way or the other. But Ian?

A - Ian Gascoigne

{BIO 4439479 <GO>}

Yeah. I was just going to build on the same point. I think that there is no doubt Hargreaves
benefits from the lockdown and a lot of people who all staying home and opening
accounts. I'm not sure they would clients. We to acquired 72,000 new clients during a
lockdown period. I think it's quite remarkable performance that only different types of
business, we're acquiring clients through a relationship with a partner for the moment,
some people are opening new account with our groups. I think that are very different.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

And I think it was third point, Andrew, was on the number of clients per adviser. And again,
we're share with some people having been here a long time and other people having
been here for a short time, but I'm going to pass over to Peter on that.

A - Peter Edwards

{BIO 20875780 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you, Andrew, The point Andrew makes that the length of time that Ian
Gascoigne mentioned takes place I think is quite important place to start because as I said
a few moments ago, some people who have been here almost 30 years, a lot of people
are relatively new. So the calculation of dividing the client by the partner numbers is
slightly misleading in some ways and as far as some new people, the day you're
appointed at St. James's Place, you don't have any St. James's Place clients for example.
Why would draw from this, so if we use the 190 to 200 is the longevity of client
relationships with St. James's Place, which Andrew referenced in the very early tenants of
the companies desire to grow the business. The way that we are able to maintain client
relationships with St. James's Place across new advisers throughout the lights on of our
clients and by our ability to use our business sale and purchase agreement means that
actually, yes, I do think that the adviser growth will be well managed moving towards your
the second part of that question. Well, the clients per adviser will continue to grow in line
with the adviser growth and indeed. I think the important factor is the length of time these
client spend with the organization and our ability to maintain the client relationship and
corresponding investments.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Page 38 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

FINAL

Thank you, Peter. And discuss our light statistic, just to put some flesh on that one, we've
got 600 clients on the Asian bond who hopefully are going to be with us for very, very
long time. And we have 200 clients over the age of 100 almost certainly all that's been
done with enhancements tax planning in mind as well. Could we have the next question,
please?

A - Robert Gardner

{BIO 15404543 <GO>}

Yes. Just before we move on, could we just ask if anyone else does have a question,
please raise your hand on the chat, and we'll come to you in due course. For now, can we
move to Abid Hussain from Shore Capital, please?

Q - Abid Hussain

{BIO 17127644 <GO>}

Hello? Hi. I think actually most of my questions have been asked, but I do have one
question that remains. So, I'll start, it's just on Asia. I was just wondering how your
competition in Asia differs to that here in the UK because in the Asian markets and Hong
Kong and Singapore, you've got the large life insurers with large tied agency forces. And
I'm wondering does that sort of provide you with a robust competitive landscape locally?
Or is it simply a case actually this very limited overlap, because you are focusing on UK
and international expats? So any more color on that would be helpful. Thank you.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thank you, Abid, and I'll pass that over to Iain Rayner.

A - Iain Rayner

{BIO 20875747 <GO>}

Thanks, Andrew, thanks, Abid. Yes, I think the competition in Asia is going to be different
than the competition in the UK that's the assumption in itself, I won't go to that. In Asia,
what I think we've done successfully over the last seven years or so is recruit a very
significant majority of the UK and other expat focus IFA businesses, if you like, unless a
limited pool, but I think we've done that. And they in many ways, we're are on original
competition. Now, I think you're right, we're focused in a different area, particularly that
pivot towards Asian high net worth families.
And actually, I think the competition there is actually the private banks, so post the thermal
private banks and also the become regional ones and that's where we would look to have
some conversations with some of their people that might want to come and join us as
partners, and I think we will certainly be competing them with in terms of client acquisition.
The life insurers, the big of life insurers, I think there's an opportunity there to have some
conversations with some of that short-term agents if you like, but I think that's very, very
different model as a very bancassurance product led model, which is we're obviously
advisory, that's not trying to be who we are.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Okay, Thank you, Ian. Could we go to the next question, please, Rob?

A - Robert Gardner

{BIO 15404543 <GO>}
Page 39 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

Yes. Does Steven Haywood from HSBC have a question, please?

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

FINAL

Hi there, sorry, can you hear me?

A - Robert Gardner

{BIO 15404543 <GO>}

Yes, carry on.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Yeah. There was only one question I had. You've given some explicit targets 2025 for the
Asian business. I wonder, if you had some explicit targets for the DFM business in terms of
AUM expectations by 2025? Thank you.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Okay, thank you, Steven. I'll pass that over to Rob.

A - Robert Gardner

{BIO 15404543 <GO>}

Yeah. Hi Steven, yes, so our goal is to get to GBP5 billion as quickly as possible. So that's
kind of a good proxy for when we break-even, but by 2025, we should be able to get to
about GBP8 billion in DFM.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Thank you. That answers the question? Next question, please.

A - Robert Gardner

{BIO 15404543 <GO>}

Can I ask Andrew Sinclair, Bank of America Merrill Lynch? I think he's ready to stand again.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

I have indeed, just one final one for me. It was just -- there's been quite a few questions
about productivity and I would imagine, you'll get a good boost as well from some higher
markets. I think you've previously talked about around 80% of patents gross flows come
from money that was already effectively in the system. I'm just really wondered if you can
give an equivalent figure for investment bonds and unit trust and ISAs, how much of that
would already be market linked to say and ISAs elsewhere? I'm guessing it will be lower
than pensions, but still some market benefits there? Thanks.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Thank you, Andrew. I'm not sure we have doubled getting doing in any face-to-face Q&As.
I think what you're asking, Andrew, is because I missed the question Slide 2 statistics that
we would use is roughly 50% of business comes from existing clients and 30% to 40%
comes from introductions and referrals. I would say that is in different across products if

Page 40 of 42



Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

that makes sense. But I think you've might also been asking your question about how
much money comes to stability in the market, is that the gist of what you're asking?

FINAL

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Yeah, that's the crux of it really. How much is already in the market? I think you'd previously
said something like around 80% for pensions, and I'm just looking for an equivalent figure
for other products.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Who wants to take that one? Anyone. No, I'm not sure I have to take off the top of my
head. Craig is saying that he will take.

A - Craig Gentle

{BIO 20095126 <GO>}

I mean the gist of what you said for pensions, Andrew, is it inevitably correct, because the
nature of the product, simply where you've got people moping up all sorts of legacy
investments. So that tends to be something that we have discussed in the past, but we
haven't yet and I'm not sure we are planning to the data out there showed an analysis of
where the funds come from in terms of already invested or new money in the other
products. So I'm afraid, that's one where I might just draw a line. But you are right in terms
of pensions, because the nature of the business is that there is a lot of transfer work out
that where people are tightening up their repairs.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks you, Craig. Thank you, Andrew. Can we have the next question, please,
Rob?

A - Robert Gardner

{BIO 15404543 <GO>}

Can we please ask Oliver Steel from Deutsche Bank for a question?

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Actually I did the go ahead but up my hand again. I have no other questions.

A - Andrew Crof t

{BIO 5711239 <GO>}

Okay. So I think I'm being told there is no more questions in the queue, which is good
news and it means we can be released a little bit earlier. So I was going to say thank you
very much for joining the Q&A. I hope you enjoyed the presentations and it's given you
some helpful insight into the business and also why we remain very confident about our
ongoing prospects to 2025 and beyond. If you do have any questions, you know where
we are. So please do contact us. So finally, stay safe and thank you, again.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
Page 41 of 42



any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: St James' s Place PL C
Company Ticker: STJ L N Equity
Date: 2021-05-26

Page 42 of 42

