Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

Analyst Meeting - Business Plan
Company Participants
FINAL

Akira Harashima, Senior MD
Satoru Komiya, President
Shinichi Hirose , Director
Tadashi Handa, Senior Managing Executive Officer
Taizou Ishiguro, Group Leader of Corporate Communications & IR Group
Takayuki Yuasa, EVP
Yoshinari Endo, Managing Executive Officer

Other Participants
Kazuki Watanabe , Analyst
Koichi Niwa, Analyst
Koki Sato, Analyst
Masao Muraki, Anlayst
Natsumu Tsujino, Analyst
Shingo Kawaguchi, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Takayuki Yuasaz, Analyst
Wataru Otsuka, Analyst

Presentation
Taizou Ishiguro

{BIO 20620398 <GO>}

At this time, I'd like to start the session. Thank you for joining us for the Tokio Marine
Holdings IR Briefing for the First Half Fiscal Year 2021 in spite of your busy schedules. I'll be
serving as the moderator. I'm Ishiguro, Head of IR Group. As for the format of the briefing,
to prevent the risk of COVID-19 infections, we are holding this briefing through online live
streaming and telephone conference system. We may cause inconveniences, but your
understanding is greatly appreciated. We have taken precautionary measures in our
venues with minimum required staff in operation. The speakers today will be speaking
without wearing masks for better clarity in their voice. Let me introduce our participating
officers from Tokio Marine Holdings, Group CEO; Mr. Satoru Komiya will be presenting.
Vice President, Executive Officer, Mr. Takayuki Yuasa. Senior Managing Executive Officer,
Mr. Akira Harashima. This is Harashima. Managing Executive Officer, Mr. Kenji Okada.
Managing
Executive Officer, Mr. Yoshinari Endo; Managing Executive Officer; Mr. Masashi Namatame.
From TMNF, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Shinichi Hirose; Senior Managing

Page 1 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

Director, Mr. Tadashi Handa; Senior Managing Director, Mr. Shingo Kawaguchi. From
Nichido [ph] Life, President, Mr. Katsumi Nakazato is joining this session.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Today our group CEO, Komiya, will give a presentation using the materials posted on our
home page, followed by Q&A. We are scheduled to end at 5 p.m. Japan Time. Mr.
Komiya, please take the floor.

Satoru Komiya

{BIO 17943039 <GO>}

Hello. This is Komiya. Thank you very much for joining us for the business strategy briefing
today. I also want to take this opportunity to express our appreciation for your continued
support. At the Investor Day held in November last year, we presented our directions for
the new midterm business plan. Today we will take you through the KPIs and the various
measures in achieving them. We are happy if your determination towards growth gets
across to you in the capital market and up here engaging. Today I will take you through
our growth story as well as commitment of the management in contributing to a
sustainable society and continuing to grow not only for the next three years under the
new midterm plan. But beyond 10 years and even 100 years in a sustainable manner.
Without further ado, let me start my presentation.
Please turn to Page one of the handout. The presentation consists of 4 parts: I will spend
the next 40 minutes or so on my presentation, after which, I am happy to take your
questions, comments and feedback as usual as much as time allows. Please now turn to
Page 3. First, let me briefly recap the previous midterm business plan. In the previous
midterm business plan, 3 KPIs were sustainable profit growth, enhanced capital efficiency
and enhanced shareholder return. During this period, a few years, we faced numerous
challenges, such as natural catastrophes and COVID-19, to name a few. And as a result,
profit amount plateaued. However the challenges enabled us to gain capabilities in a
different way and made us steadily boost our capabilities. There are 2 points I want to
highlight in what we implemented and achieved during the previous midterm plan.
Please turn to Page 4. First, as explained earlier, the period covered by the previous
midterm business plan was characterized by tough challenges as a global insurer, such as
natural catastrophes, COVID, social inflation and low interest rate.
We might be able to look back on those three years as the most demanding years for us
as we expanded our international business over the past 20 years to globalize our
business. During this time, our management team gathered wisdom globally. By uniting
our efforts, we took measures steadily against each and every challenge we faced, put it
in a different way I'd like to say that by experiencing the challenges and overcoming them,
we were able to enhance our capability and the confidence as our management team
capable of managing the insurance business globally.
Please take a look at Page 5. The other key point is that we were able to further
strengthen our portfolio by leveraging our core strength, insurance portfolio performance
management. It is extremely critical to be forward-looking and optimize our portfolio by
assessing business growth and diversification. During the previous midterm plan, we

Page 2 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

acquired Pure Group an expansion driver of growth and executed meaningful investments
in emerging markets such as Brazil and Thailand as well as in renewable energy areas.

FINAL

On the other hand, we seem to have surprised many by divesting from TMR, which we
founded in 2002. Through acquisition and divestment, we were able to sell seeds for
profit growth.
As described, environment and business challenges encountered during the previous
midterm plan was not easy. The company, however was able to prepare itself for the next
stage of growth. I have confidence in that and that the seeds will blossom, will be brought
to fusion in the new midterm plan. Now let us see where we position ourselves today.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please go to Page 7. The company thus far, has been using capital generated through
organic growth and portfolio review, first, into business investment. When there are no
good deals, made shareholder return. This has been the growth cycle. We have been
operating with the sense of speed. As a result, we have visibility in achieving our
milestone of over JPY 500 billion in adjusted net income and about 12% in adjusted ROE.
Through steady enhancements in our capabilities. We have established top-level
businesses in each regions.
Please go to Page 8. Page eight illustrates our position and strength in Japan and
overseas. First, in our mother market, Japan, and in oligopoly market, where stable profit
can be generated, we have achieved above market top line growth and below market
expense ratio. Turning to overseas. In the United States, the largest insurance market in
the world and Lloyd's market, the company became top-class player in specialty areas.
Outperforming our peers in realizing steady profit growth while suppressing volatility. In
emerging markets, where high-growth can be expected the company has conducted
business strategically to achieve above-market top line growth. Please refer to Pages 9
and 10 later for more details.
Please take a look at Page 11. Top level business portfolio we've established at home and
abroad is robust at the global level, but the value is not only on a stand-alone basis.
Network and expertise of the group companies are leveraged in creating various
synergies with an impact of $300 million annually.
Then on Page 12, as shown on this page, our insurance portfolio is diversified in
geography and business and in product with diversification effects reaching 50%. As a
result, while our business is expanding, risk volume is well controlled. Although risk
increased slightly with rise in stock prices among other factors in 2020.
Please turn to Page 13. This shows ROE improvement as a consequence of implementing
our initiatives. As already explained, by enhancing profitability and risk diversification, ROE
on the horizontal axis has stably increased while holding down volatility on the vertical axis.
In other words, you will find that the company has realized a growth while raising the
stability of profit. Fiscal year 2020 was obviously impacted by COVID. Yet, the company
positions itself in the upper right quadrant, the first quadrant, with ROE closing in on
peers. We intend to further raise this level by realizing our milestones.
Page 3 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

FINAL

Next, please turn to Page 14. As an example of how the capital market gives us credit,
total shareholder return is shown here. We have been evaluated to a certain extent
already. But as far as I'm concerned, this is not a satisfying level. In order to be better
evaluated by the market, I intend to accelerate the execution of our management
strategy to achieve our milestones. That is all for our current positioning.
Now let me turn to our sustainability strategy. Please turn to Page 17. First, what is our
purpose? The company was the first insurance company in Japan. Since our founding, the
purpose has been to protect your customers and society in times of need. This is a
sustained purpose of the company regardless of times. There is no sanctuary other than
our purpose that cannot be changed. This purpose is the only reason for which the
company must grow. And by offering purpose-driven solutions to various social challenges
that change over time and by contributing to the evolution and advancement of the
society, the company has grown sustainably. Our business offers solution to social issues.
We did not start working on it as if it suddenly came to mind. The more we pursue our
business, the more social challenges address, the better the society. This is our aspiration.
Now to what are we aiming for?

Bloomberg Transcript

Please look at Page 18. What we aim for is to circulate business-oriented social issue
resolution initiatives to enhance our social value and economic value or profit growth at
the same time. To step up our initiatives, last month, Group Sustainability Officer, CSUO,
has been newly established. The sustainability of global committee was also established.
On the left side of the slide, you will find our stakeholders, shareholders, investors,
customers, society, employees. This time, we clearly positioned future generations as our
stakeholder. What are the values we will offer to each stakeholders and how?
Please look at both pages 19 and 20. There is a manifold of social challenges. The
company will clearly outline our thinking towards the challenges that humanity is facing
common across the world and allocate experts, use our wisdom and enthusiasm in areas
where we can be of help or rather where we need to take action.
The ones marked with a black star on the slide. Enhance disaster resilience, promote
climate actions, support people's healthy lives and D&I are the 4 core themes, the
company will steadily execute as a top runner in addressing social challenges to create
social and economic values. The foundations for such initiatives are, as I always say people
and culture.
Please open up Page 21. Since insurance business deals with intangible products, it was
once referred to as a business of paper, pencil and people. The process has largely
transformed today making insurance a truly people's business. To me, people are the
driving force, aspiration and enthusiasm.
That is why I believe it absolutely indispensable to promote diversity and inclusion for all
40000-plus employees of our group to perform at their full potential for us to be able to
continue to solve increasingly complex social challenges.

Page 4 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

FINAL

Bringing together the diverse talent as Tokio Marine one team and turning it into an even
greater power is what culture is all about. By instilling the corporate culture, engraving our
corporate purpose in all aspects from individual action to management decision-making, I
will create a company of enthusiasm and sense of Unity. To realize this, I will lead as the
group culture officer to ensure our corporate culture syncs in across the entire group.
Let me turn to our new midterm business plan for the next three years, Page 23. Lefthand side, inside the orange box, target KPIs for the new midterm business plan, adjusted
net income CAGR 3% to 7% and adjusted ROE around 12%. Payout ratio 40% or higher for
ordinary dividend alone. Dividend payout will be increased sustainably along with profit
growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

Page 24 illustrates the image of profit growth. Adjusted net income, CAGR of 3% to 7%
looks at organic growth only without M&A. I have been saying that by the end of the
midterm plan, we should be able to have a visibility in achieving our milestone. This
suggests that achieving adjusted net income over JPY 500 billion and adjusted ROE of
about 12% is in our sight by organic growth alone. If we are blessed with good deals and
be successful in a large M&A, further growth or achieving target in shorter time frame will
become possible. Now how is the company intending to achieve this?
Please turn to Page 25. This is the qualitative aspects of our new midterm plan I showed
on Investor Day in November last year. KPI will be achieved by implementing the 2 plus 1
growth strategy shown in the center. We are facing a major change and the structural
change of the market, we will not lose against the speed. We will be accelerating the
process so that we can even be ahead of the curve. Today I will go over the specific
initiatives by business.
Please turn to Page 26. First is auto insurance in the domestic non-life market. Auto
insurance for the company has, as shown on the left, continue to demonstrate top line
growth regardless of the pandemic or rate revisions and the rate of the growth beat our
peers. Combined ratio is stable, as you see on the right, generating stable income for the
company.
The company launched a dash cam integrated with 2 cameras, this past April, a first in the
industry. Sales is picking up. In a similar manner, we intend to launch high value-added
products, authentic products together with stories to increase customer support and
share. In the auto market, often referred to as having hit the ceiling, we intend to grow by
generating stable income.
Let me move to the next topic, which is the largest growth driver in domestic non-life
specialty insurance business. Page 27. The company plans to realize over JPY 100 billion
revenue increase during the next midterm plan. Specialty insurance has been a market
with large growth potential because of the low penetration, and the company has realized
3.5% growth so far. In the new and midterm plan, through the initiatives shown on the
right, we will increase the rate of growth by close to double.

Page 5 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Health care in aging society and SMEs supporting regional economies. These are
definitely important social challenges. The company has a talent, network technology,
know-how and track record to contribute in solving those challenges by leveraging the
comprehensive capability of the group, we will enhance our capabilities to a point where
people will say if it's health care, you're looking for, go to Tokio Marine or go to Tokio
Marine for SME. Initiatives have already begun. I believe the company can achieve strong
growth by pursuing this path.
Let me now turn to the topic of profitability improvement of fire insurance, which is a
major challenge for the company. Page 28. In Japan, a country prone to natural
catastrophes, fire insurance system is highly critical. On the other hand, if the business is
constantly loss-making, it is not sustainable. On the premise that the company will
continue its cost cutting efforts, we will accelerate our efforts in taking a comprehensive
approach in building resilience including, but not limited to rate revision, enhancement of
underwriting and initiatives for disaster risk reduction as well as early recovery. Specific
roadmap is shown on the left. By executing with unwavering resolve, I believe to achieve
the more than JPY 26 billion in profitability improvement during the midterm plan and
intend to secure profitability commensurate with comparable to capital costs in the
following years.
Please turn to Page 29. On this slide, our initiatives to improve the combined ratio of the
domestic non-life insurance business. In 2008, 13 years ago, we started a business
innovation project and reduced the internal administrative workload by about 30%. And by
reallocating the workforce to sales, we continuously expanded our market share. This
time, we would like to take this to a higher level. The initiatives shown on the left are
company-wide projects that Tokio Marine & Nichido's President, Mr. Hirose spearheaded
since last fiscal year. This will significantly transform business processes and work styles
through the advanced use of digital technology.
We will invest JPY 40 billion in this project, aiming to improve productivity. The outcome of
this will be a reduction in internal administration of 15% by the end of fiscal year 2023 and
20% to 30% by the end of FY 2026, equivalent to a cost reduction of approximately JPY
30 billion to JPY 50 billion per annum. By reallocating the saved time and resources to the
expansion of the top line, improvement of the loss ratio through loss control, et cetera, as
well as through the development and support of human resources and investment in
human resources, we aim to expand the denominator and improve the combined ratio by
1percentage point by the end of FY 2023, despite making large investments. This will not
be an easy task, but we will do everything we can to make it a success. And further solidify
our support from domestic customers.
Next, I'd like to talk about the domestic life insurance business as a driver of long-term
profit growth. Please turn to Page 30. The domestic life business will aim to achieve top
line growth of plus 5% CAGR in the new midterm plan, but profit will remain stable at JPY
50 billion due to conservative accounting treatment under J-GAAP. However over the long
term, we believe that we will be able to break through the JPY 100 billion profit level and
see profits support and contribute to our long-term growth and risk diversification in the
next 10 to 20 years.

Page 6 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

FINAL

On Page 31, you will find the strategies that we will implement in the new medium-term
management plan to achieve this goal. Regarding the 2 lines at the top, TMNL will focus
on the fields of seniors, health care and asset building to help extend healthy life
expectancy and asset life and will strongly promote the cross-selling of life and non-life
insurance by leveraging Tokio Marine & Nichido's customer base.
As for the products to be introduced, we will shift our focus from savings type products to
protection type products, and we will go one step further to introduce products that are
directly linked to the solutions to the social issues and 100-year life expectancy that I
mentioned earlier as well as products that have high profitability and ROR. That makes
early profit contribution. In this way we will develop a win-win strategy that will lead to
long-term profit growth for our company, while solving social issues.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next, I'd like to explain about the overseas insurance business. Please turn to Page 32.
The international insurance business is the driver of our risk diversification and profit
growth. Our well-diversified portfolio and strong specialty franchise, which we have built
over nearly 20 years, has grown to generate about half of the group's total profits. But it's
not just the numbers. I feel that our strengths, such as our disciplined corporate culture of
insurance underwriting and risk control and our integrated group management, which is
our forte and the resulting realization of group synergies are evolving further. By taking
advantage of the strength, we aim to achieve a CAGR of around 9% in the international
insurance business under the new medium-term management plan, while controlling
volatility. The details of how we are going to achieve this starts from Page 33, where we
talk about specific strategies.
First, let's look at developed markets. In developed markets, we will aim to achieve profit
growth at a CAGR of around 6% through 3 major strategies, specifically increasing
underwriting profit Pure's growth and bolt-on M&AS. Out of the three, we are focusing the
most on this stage, increasing underwriting profit. The market is hardening at the
moment. So it is not difficult to grow top line.
However we need to be forward-looking in securing profitability by correctly assessing the
increase in loss costs, et cetera, or else, it may be good for now, but will lead to reserve
risk in the future. Similarly, the profitability of each business line also needs to be
accessed. Therefore, we will intentionally not go after top line growth solely we will
continue to apply the same strict underwriting discipline to build a healthy underwriting
portfolio, even if it takes patience.
At the same time, we will steadily increase prices, which exceeds loss costs for lines of
businesses that have no future profitability problems and opportunistically acquire risks
whose profitability has improved due to the recent hardening of the market by leveraging
our strong underwriting and risk underwriting capabilities. We will also engage in cost
reduction without any exceptions and hope to create a lean or in other words, a highquality and low-cost business structure. We believe there is an opportunity to do this in
the international business.

Page 7 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

FINAL

The next strategy is on Page 34. Please refer to the left half. This is about the further
growth of Pure Group, which we acquired last year. Pure has always been a high growth
company, and it continued to grow by about 20%, even under COVID-19. Their main
market is the high net worth market in the U.S., but one of its key success factors is its
credit rating.
Last month, AM Best decided to upgrade Pure's rating. Pure has been able to raise prices
of new premiums following upgrades in the past. And now it's on par from a ratings point
of view with its rival, which will continue to drive its growth. This is one of the group's
synergies, and we are making good progress in our efforts to expand synergies between
each group company and pure, as you can see at the bottom left.

Bloomberg Transcript

So the third strategy is on the right, which is bolt-on M&As, which we are aggressively
engaging in. Following PHLY's acquisition of World Wide, Delphi recently announced the
acquisition of SSL, a leading player in the paid leave compensation market, which is
expected to expand in the U.S. TMHCC has successfully completed more than 60 bolt-on
mergers and acquisitions in the past, and its expertise will be leveraged by the group
companies and through proactive governance by holdings we will aim to enhance the
quality of bolt-on M&As even further and roll it out to our group globally, so as to
accelerate our growth.
Next, please turn to Page 35 for an explanation of our strategy in emerging markets. In
emerging markets, we will aim to achieve profit growth of more than 10% CAGR by
capturing the high-growth potential of the market, while developing one growth pillar
after another. Looking at the left half of the slide, our company in Brazil is already
generating profits of around JPY 10 billion and our joint venture with Caixa Bank started
operations in February this year.
Backed by the strong Brazilian housing loan market. The JV business plan was revised
upward as soon as it started operations, and we expect further growth going forward.
Regarding the right half, in India, we will aim to double our profits during the new mediumterm management plan by leveraging our expertise in the pan-Indian network with our
partner, IFFCO, an agricultural corporation and developed the company into a driver of
long-term profit growth thereafter.
Please continue on to Page 36 for an explanation of our asset management strategy. Our
asset management policy is to generate long-term stable investment income based on
the characteristics of insurance liabilities. In the new medium-term management plan,
managing credit in the U.S. will be the key to income gain. As we are in a low rate
environment globally, we assume that income yield will decrease by a certain degree at
our company, too.
However we will continue to expand our investment income in a disciplined and stable
manner by increasing our assets under management, in line with the expansion of
insurance underwriting and fully utilize the strength of the Delphi investment team, which
is a credit investor and their high level of discernment. I hope my explanation so far has
given you a feel about our thoughts on organic growth.

Page 8 of 26



FINAL

Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

But our company will also actively pursue inorganic opportunities too. Please turn to Page
37. We are often asked the question, what are the missing parts in our business portfolio.
As we won't be able to make good acquisitions, if others get ahead of us, I won't be able
to answer this question directly. However we will make the most out of our in-house
functions, such as marketing intelligence and M&A execution, which have a track record of
nearly 20 years internally. And by doing so, we believe that we will be able to execute
good deals with discipline. As I mentioned at the beginning, we believe that our ability in
managing a global insurance company is steadily strengthening every year. Therefore,
larger M&As are feasible and the potential areas for investment is expanding.
In addition, we would like to explore the possibility of investing in businesses even if they
are not in the insurance business. As long as they are in areas that match our company's
purpose of protecting our customers and society in times of need, that would be in the
areas of health care, cyberspace as well as asset management. We have already set up a
new organization to look at the opportunities. We will be disciplined in our M&A activities
and constantly monitor the status of our portfolio to take necessary actions. We will
continue to work on this.

Bloomberg Transcript

Lastly, regarding specific strategies, I'd like to talk about post COVID-19 and digital
strategies that are key words of change, which will have an impact on our business. These
strategies will be applied on a group-wide company-wide basis to lift the overall
organization. Here, I would like to talk about the management view of these strategies
and what our company is doing.
Please turn to Page 38. First is post-COVID-19 strategies. COVID-19 has led to a number
of major changes in terms of customer needs and employee work styles. However if you
think about these changes in depth, you will find that most of them are changes that were
already underway but surfaced in light of COVID-19 were changes that were accelerated
by the pandemic.
The issues themselves did not suddenly appear in the wake of COVID-19. We set up postCOVID-19 task force with participation from top management of overseas companies,
too, in order to identify issues and review strategies. As you can see on the slide, there
are no brand-new issues. What's important is to come up with appropriate measures that
are spot on and to have executional power. In addition, the measures to deal with the
issues have already been integrated into the strategies that will be implemented by each
company. I'd like to say that the preparations for the next stage of growth based on postCOVID-19 are ready to go, and we are working on it with a focus on speed.
Next, I'll explain our digitalization strategy. Please turn to Page 39. At present, the use of
digital technology in our business largely means that it's a catalyst for productivity
improvement and creating new value. First of all, with regard to productivity improvement,
as I mentioned in the section of domestic nonlife insurance, we would like to take the
efforts we have been making to date to a higher level by using digital technology. As you
can see on the slide, this is an area where we intend to have a greater impact in Japan
and Asia, where we have a retail business. The other is on Page 40, which is creation of
new value. As we recently announced in the news release, Tokio Marine dR will start
operations in July of this year. Will be in charge of our core data capabilities. The new
Page 9 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

FINAL

company will consolidate the group's advanced digital capabilities and will be responsible
for strengthening the group's data analysis and solution development capabilities.
In the fields of health care, cyber and disaster prevention and mitigation, we will
strengthen our efforts to prevent emergencies before they occur and provide peace of
mind after they occur. In order to support our customers in times of need, which is our
purpose. We will take on the challenge of evolving into a company that can always support
our customers and a company that will be appreciated by our customers.
In addition to the initiatives described here, for example, we are further evolving e-design
insurance in anticipation of the rise of digital natives and are creating a business model in
which, although it may be a digital company, we are more caring and dependable than
others. In addition, we will take all possible measures to create new value, such as
establishing a new corporate venture capital to further expand the source of potential
future alliance partners. We would like to do this proactively.

Bloomberg Transcript

Lastly, please turn to Page 41 for an explanation of our capital policy. As I have explained
from before, we believe that we can achieve our medium-term and long-term targets of
adjusted net income of over JPY 500 billion and adjusted ROE of around 12% through
organic growth alone. In reality, we are improving our organic growth earnings power
steadily. On the other hand, although reaching JPY 500 billion or more in profits with an
ROE of 12% in a steady manner is one of our milestones, we understand that maintaining
profits at this level is an easy task.
In order to lower the volatility of profits, we believe that we need to further diversify and
execute the acquisition and divestment strategy, so that our portfolio can be stronger.
Therefore, if we find a good investment opportunity, we will continue to execute on it as
we have done before. With this as a backdrop, regarding our current capital policy, as you
can see on the slide, currently, ESR is at 127%, which is within the target range and at an
appropriate level, so the capital generated will be allocated for investments and
shareholder returns.
Please turn to Page 42 for a more detailed explanation of shareholder returns. The basis
of our shareholder return policy is ordinary dividends. We would like to increase DPS in a
sustainable manner in line with profit growth. This has not changed. In fact, the ordinary
dividend for fiscal 2021 will be JPY 215 per share, an increase of JPY 15 a share and an
increase in dividends for the tenth consecutive year. We will continue to focus on steadily
increasing DPS. This is our baseline.
As for capital level adjustments, I mentioned earlier that we will use our capital for
investments and returns. If there is a good deal, we will invest as before. However I think
it's only natural that if there are no good opportunities, we should return the capital in a
disciplined manner. This stance has not changed at all either.
Regarding what was announced last week, JPY 100 billion will be budgeted for capital
level adjustments and small to medium-sized growth investments within one year. If we
come across a good opportunity, however we may exceed this amount. In the past, as
Page 10 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

FINAL

you know, we have made decisions related to capital policy adjustments biannually in May
and November. But from now on, we will look at the conditions around those and take
action immediately and flexibly when we feel it necessary, even if it's not the end of the
fiscal period.
Moreover, large-scale M&As will be conducted under a different budget from the JPY 100
billion. Over the medium term, whether it may be three years or four years, we will
consider the feasibility of opportunities and if we are not able to come across any or feel
that a deal cannot be closed, we will return the capital in a disciplined manner as M&As
are not the ultimate goal but a way to grow. We are not thinking about accumulating
capital. As you can see, we want to move out of the trend of coughing anticipation in the
market of whether or not we are going to do shareholder returns. Our intent was to show
our determination that we are going to conduct shareholder returns, in what kind of way?
We thought that we were communicating a stronger message about our shareholder
return policy. Our point of view is that we took a step further in our shareholder return
policy.

Bloomberg Transcript

But if your impression was that we went a step back, I'd like to confirm that, that is not our
intent. Needless to say if the situation changes drastically, such as a financial crisis or major
changes in the economic situation, we will, of course revisit these decisions. In any case,
we will steadily implement our management strategies to achieve our medium and longterm targets and meet the expectations of capital markets.
With that, I'd like to ask you for your ongoing support. That is all I have to say. Thank you
very much for your kind attention. Now we would like to take any questions that you may
have.

Questions And Answers
A - Taizou Ishiguro

{BIO 20620398 <GO>}

There may be a case where we may not be able to accommodate all questions that are
raised due to time. In that case, we will have the Investor Relations group, contact you at a
later date. We appreciate your understanding. SMBC Nikko, Mr. Muraki, let us take your
question.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

This is Muraki from SMBC Nikko, I hope you can hear my voice. I have 2 questions. My first
point is with regards to investment going forward. And my second is non-life domestic
improvement in profitability. I want to ask you to look at numbers. Detailed numbers. My
first question, major M&A, if there is an opportunity, you want to be proactive, the
engaging. You are holding shares of large listed companies who are saying that they will
be making big investment. That is quite a risk for shareholders for what would be the
reason or rationale for shareholders to hold your share, who is calling for conducting large
M&As.

Page 11 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

FINAL

In terms of positioning for the company, what kind of position do you have which is
different from peers. For example, you called for having a long list imagining for about 100
companies, but there is this story about the greenfield from last year to this year and also
health care and cyber and asset management. What is the setup? And also, you are able
to do a global M&A, your capability is enhancing. But how has the management structure
strengthened itself over time. I would appreciate if you could show us some rationale
what you described? And my second point is about domestic non-life.
On Page 29, the combined ratio, 92.2% has to improve. You said that you will improve to
that level. There are a couple of things that are contributing to this. For example, Page 27
in specialty, JPY 100 billion in profitability. Combined ratio is likely low, and therefore,
maybe 10% will be profit. And Page 28, fire insurance, improvement in profitability also
might contribute. So if possible, so Holdings has come up with specific numbers,
improvement in profitability. So for domestic non-life, I would appreciate if you could share
with us specific numbers as to why you expect improvement in profitability.

A - Satoru Komiya

{BIO 17943039 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I see. Thank you very much for your questions. First question was related to investment.
And now for investment, one is M&A, particularly overseas. So for overseas M&A, what
kind of setup do we have what kind of organization do we have? I would like to ask
Harashima san to answer. Then for non-overseas M&A, new type of investment from
Holdings, the corporate planning section. So Yuasa, Mr. Yuasa, CFO, will take that
question.
The second question, which is about the improvement in profitability for domestic non-life
business, about the roadmap, the numbers, quantitative roadmap from TMNF, corporate
planning, I think new Director, Mr. Handa, will respond to that question. Let me start with
Harashima san.

A - Akira Harashima

{BIO 18946450 <GO>}

This is Harashima, and thank you very much for your questions. With regards to our M&A
setup for overseas, there is a team that is exclusively involved and dedicated to M&A.
Using market intelligence, they're gathering information from the market-based on our
appetite, basically, we will look at our targets. We have a long list and also a short list, and
we are monitoring the situation regularly to seek the right -- our opportunities. And this
team are based in Japan. But in the meantime, we are also gathering information from
the international market. We have global meetings. We use these global meetings in
order to have discussions on international targets to review our lists. And as for global
management structure, as was mentioned in the discussion of M&A track record, large
M&As and bolt-on type M&As have been conducted over the years. We have the knowhow accumulated and therefore, leveraging the know-how is what we intend to do. And
as was mentioned earlier, the global management structure consists of various global
meetings and committees, engaging in discussions in order to further enhance our
management capabilities. This is what we are currently working on.

A - Satoru Komiya

{BIO 17943039 <GO>}

Page 12 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

Mr. Yuasa, can you please continue on?

FINAL

A - Takayuki Yuasa

{BIO 17941516 <GO>}

This is Yuasa speaking. For domestic new business, in terms of our structure, the
corporate planning department has now a new organization, who will be playing a key role
in working on it. In terms of area or field, in areas where we have expertise, where we can
enjoy synergy. Those are areas in which we will be looking into and also take action in
areas that we see potential and growth. We will be looking into various aspects. If there is
an opportunity. We want to take action as soon as we can. I think that is all for me.

A - Satoru Komiya

{BIO 17943039 <GO>}

Handa san?

A - Tadashi Handa

{BIO 20083844 <GO>}

This is Handa speaking. Combined ratio, 1-point improvement, this is about JPY 30 billion,
a little less than JPY 30 billion in balance. Fire insurance, improvement in profitability, will
contribute a little over JPY 20 billion. And for specialty business expansion, JPY 10 billion
plus. This is taken into account, we're expecting in that quarter. That's all for me. Thank
you very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Satoru Komiya

{BIO 17943039 <GO>}

And this is Komiya speaking once again. As I mentioned earlier, Tokio Marine to achieve
our milestone we want to achieve as soon as possible because it's a critical milestone for
us. We also want to stably maintain the performance. The business not faltering at any
times and be able to maintain JPY 500 billion and 12%, that we still need to diversify our
risks. It is exactly for that, that new investment, overseas M&A and new businesses. So
existing business as well as new business, nurturing new business we need to be
addressing both aspects. So it is through those structures that was outlined in the
responses that we are addressing.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

For overseas, in terms of new lines of business -- that's for domestic business, I guess. For
overseas, apart from P&C, is it your target for M&A or not? And for domestic non-life,
profitability improvement is for fire and specialty, you said, but since you'll be making
investment, the expense cost, actual amount is not taken into account for the next three
years under the new midterm plant. Is that a fair way to interpret?

A - Satoru Komiya

{BIO 17943039 <GO>}

Well for the first point of this question, traditionally, should I say M&A for insurance
companies is we have been conducting M&A overseas outside of Japan, and I think that
will stay true. But when it comes to new business for domestic and overseas, we could
think of new business in both markets, in Japan and outside of Japan. And may I ask
Handa-san to explain once again about the second part of the question.

Page 13 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

A - Tadashi Handa

{BIO 20083844 <GO>}

FINAL

This is Handa speaking. Let me explain a little bit about expense. We need to be making
investment of JPY 40 billion upfront for growth. We've already made an announcement
on this, the headquarters building will be rebuilt and relocated, it will incur huge cost. This
is underway and the Mirairo project, which is currently underway we will seek to improve
efficiency. And for expenses, we would like to offset any upfront investment that is
necessary. That's all for me.

Operator
Next is Mr. Tsujino from Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I have a question about expenses as well as your midterm plan as well as the way you
think about the target for adjusted net profit. And for the CAGR range, it is pretty wide
that you set forth. And for fiscal year '20 results, you have said -- you have disclosed
adjusted net profits, but for expenses at TM NAF, it's going to increase by approximately
JPY 37 billion. So this will go down. That's how you have the JPY 40 billion investments.
You're going to see higher expenses by JPY 37 billion due to that relocation or rebuilding
of headquarters, which I presume is included. But there are some items that will be
ongoing next fiscal year as well, I'm sure.
So what you just explained earlier. Expenses are expected to increase by JPY 37 billion in
this fiscal year, in the March '22 fiscal year. What's going to drop off next fiscal -- the
following fiscal year? And what is going to become capital life, what's going to be
expense? Can you give me more flavor on how things are going to look like because you
may be heading towards the JPY 500 billion target, but I just wanted to get a feel of are
you growing closer to JPY 500 billion? Or is it still going to be distant?

A - Satoru Komiya

{BIO 17943039 <GO>}

I think you were talking mainly about expenses in Japan and the balance between that
and earnings or profits. So first of all, Mr. Handa will explain again. Then our group CFO will
make some follow-up remarks.

A - Tadashi Handa

{BIO 20083844 <GO>}

This is Handa speaking. For the details of expenses, the rebuilding of headquarters and
making the IT system open and the recognition of software, we're capitalizing software is
what we're going to be doing from an accounting point of view. So we're going to see
expenses be higher by JPY 20 billion, which are nonpersonal expenses. And also, as you
can see on Page 29, due to the Mirairo project, we are -- we will be striving to make back
office administrative work more efficient. This will probably materialize earlier as a positive
impact in non-personnel cost. Towards fiscal '23, annually, we expect the impact will be
approximately JPY 20 billion to JPY 25 billion. To say a little bit more for business
expenses, we don't have a target for that per se. But in accordance with our growth, we
would like to reduce expenses. So for -- we are expecting growth from specialty

Page 14 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

insurance. We are expecting growth to be driven by specialty insurance. With that growth
in place, we would like to strive to reduce business expenses.

A - Satoru Komiya

{BIO 17943039 <GO>}

FINAL

We would like to take this opportunity to have Mr. Hirose, the President of TMNF, to also
add some comments.

A - Shinichi Hirose

Yes. Basically, what Mr. Handa said answers your question, but just to add one more thing
is due to the Olympic and Paralympic games, we are a gold sponsor. Last year, the games
were supposed to take place and there were some commercials as well as other types of
expenses that we were budgeting. However it has been -- the budget has been deferred
to this fiscal year, but this is a one-off expense. And depending on where the Olympic and
Paralytic games go, it's a matter of whether the actual budget is going to be used or not.
But that's one additional comment I wanted to make.

A - Satoru Komiya

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 18820991 <GO>}

{BIO 17943039 <GO>}

This is Komiya speaking. So for the domestic non-life insurance business, we are currently
working on improving the profitability of fire insurance, and we believe that's going to
have a large impact. And for investments towards '23 as well as 2026, like Mr. Handa
explained, we are expecting the impact to gradually materialize, and also for auto
insurance. From our point of view, by launching new good products, we hope that our
profits or earnings can stabilize even more. So this is the overall picture for the domestic
non-life insurance business. So all in all, in the midterm plan, with respect to the numbers
in our group, Mr. Yuasa will answer your question.

A - Takayuki Yuasa

{BIO 17941516 <GO>}

So overall -- so we just gave us some comments on Japan, but -- we are expecting to
increase earnings towards '23. But overseas, we believe COVID-19 impact will still remain
in 2021. So reserve provisioning discounts reflects interest rates from the previous year,
and that has been going up in our forecast as well. Towards fiscal '22, that kind of burden
is going to drop off.
So going into fiscal '23, we're expecting that profits will increase. Overall, we have set
forth a target of 3% to 7% growth, which is a wide range, but we basically are confident
that we can achieve growth within this range. That's why we made that announcement.
Therefore if our prediction was at the lower end, we wouldn't give out a range that is 3%
to 7%. So our basic thinking is we would like to reach the midpoint or higher. And as Mr.
Komiya mentioned earlier, reaching over JPY 500 billion should be what we should start
to see at the end of the medium-term plan.

Operator
From Daiwa Securities, Watanabe-san, please.

Page 15 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

FINAL

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

This is Watanabe from Daiwa Securities. I have 2 questions. First question, Page 23 of the
handout. Adjusted net income profit under the new plan, CAGR to 7% in actual amount.
We saw JPY 40 billion to JPY 100 billion in addition in terms of adjusted net income. What
will be the breakdown? What are you taking into account? This is my first question. My
second question is about the utilization of capital, investing in growth, large M&A and
medium-sized investment are being separated out. What is the background? Where are
you coming from in saying that? And as for DPS, stable growth, I think is your intent,
according to explanation, but the JPY 500 billion in adjusted net income. If payout ratio
increases to 50%, DPS will reach something like JPY 350. DPS is JPY 350, what will be the
time frame by which you can achieve that level?

A - Satoru Komiya

{BIO 17943039 <GO>}

Thank you very much for your questions. First question, breakdown by business area of
our plan. I wonder if our CFO can take that question. And my second -- and your second
question was with regards to investment, bolt-on types, medium and small-sized M&As
and large-sized M&AS were separated out. So why are we separating that? And the third
question was outlook for DPS. I guess all 3 questions could be addressed by Yuasa-san,
our CFO.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Takayuki Yuasa

{BIO 17941516 <GO>}

This is Yuasa speaking. Breakdown by business is not disclosed, but if I could give you
some color, the explanation earlier was that for life insurance, short term, not much of
changed, but overseas, 9% or more growth is expected. I think that could allow you to
estimate. So that's the kind of broad breakdown, higher growth in overseas and
therefore, greater take-up from overseas business. And about DPS, for DPS, Komiya-san
said that we want to stably exceed JPY 500 billion in adjusted net income. In the midterm
plan, we said that we will be able to have our sights towards achieving it. So JPY 500
billion is, I think quite tangible. But once we achieve that level, we don't necessarily believe
that we will be able to deliver in a stable manner. And by the time we are able to deliver
JPY 500 billion stably, we want to achieve the global peer level of 50%. So DPS to be
stably increased. That is our intention. We will be increasing dividend for 10 years in a row,
that's our current forecast. We want to be able to continue this over the long-term as
much as possible. And also, there was a question on classification of investment. I think we
talked about this for capital return, medium-sized investment is bolt-on type M&As that
we've been talking about.

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

Is there anything else that you can talk about on this topic?

A - Takayuki Yuasa

{BIO 17941516 <GO>}

Well basically, medium and small-sized investment, that could be included in organic
growth and large-sized M&A has been conducted every 3 to five years -- three to four
years, and that is how we want to seek further growth. But when we decided on
shareholder return, basically, our thinking was the same, it hasn't changed over time. We
just wanted to be able to clearly communicate our thinking to you. We said that we would
Page 16 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

comprehensively take this into account, that was the wording. But instead, we decided to
present a specific number. That has changed, but our thinking has not changed over time.
I hope you would take this as our willingness to be able to communicate in a more clear
way.

FINAL

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

So going -- if I may ask another question. With regards to assumption on the price
strategy, decrease in rates for auto and increase in rates for fire and rate increase
overseas. If there's anything you could comment on that?

A - Satoru Komiya

{BIO 17943039 <GO>}

Thank you for that additional question. Domestic non-life, fire rate up and rates for auto,
Mr. Kawaguchi, responsible for product. And also for overseas market, hardening other
markets, and track record, I will ask Harashima-san to take that question. So let me first of
all ask Kawaguchi-san.

Q - Shingo Kawaguchi

{BIO 5768643 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

The pricing strategy for the domestic market. For auto, as you know, safety device has
become very popular, and therefore, accidents are on a decline. But in the meantime,
with higher functionality on auto, the unit prices have increased. Claims have increased. If
we do nothing, the rate, the advisory rate is on a declining trend -- advisory rate is on a
declining trend.
And for auto insurance, we think that it's changing in substance. For example, road
services riders have been added, and these are bodily injuries and DAP rider, which
consists of a dash cam with telecommunication devices that is offered to the users, to the
policyholders, to arrange for emergency vehicles and also extend support for tailgating.
So we are increasing the rates in that way. So the advisory rate is on a declining trend but
the riders is to be added in order to increase our income. To what extent is that going to
increase? Well it's -- the answer will be that we want to achieve a level that will offset the
decrease in rates. And for fire, twice already rates have increased.
October 2019, 7% to 8%, 7% for individuals and 8% for corporates, that was the kind of
increase that we saw. In January this year, for individuals and corporates, 9% is the raise.
This year, advisory rating agency is expected to revise their rate. Typhoon impact from
2019 and loss trend in recent years will be reflected, and therefore, we're expecting the
rates to go up. We will be eyeing those changes in raising our rates as well. But basically,
in fiscal year 2020, combined ratio if the natural catastrophes on our average year to have
less than 100% combined ratio. That's the kind of adjustment that we want to seek for.
But it's not just a rate increase for segments with lower profitability. Separately, reserve
improvement measures will be strongly promoted. So in both ways, we intend to improve
our profitability.

A - Satoru Komiya

{BIO 17943039 <GO>}

Thank you for that. For auto, autonomous driving and shift to EV, and therefore, we are
expecting a dramatic change in the performance, and that can have a challenge on our
Page 17 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

FINAL

product. Therefore, we have developed products for support, victims and so forth. So the
auto insurance or auto itself has become a social challenge. Therefore, we are trying to
respond to needs of our customers by introducing new products. And for fire, as was
explained, rate increases in underwriting and disaster prevention and so forth will be
worked on. And now about the overseas market, let me ask Harashima-san to take the
question.

A - Akira Harashima

{BIO 18946450 <GO>}

This is Harashima speaking, the rate increase overseas. Page 33, on the left-hand side, in
the center, 2020 -- 2020 rate up increase is shown. Please take a look at this. In 2021, in
the First Quarter, as you can see, this is very similar to rate up that was seen in fiscal 2020.
However if you look at the market, in certain line -- business lines, there is a sluggish
performance in terms of hardening of the market. We need to be monitoring very closely.
However although we are seeing somewhat of a slowdown in hardening, but we will seek
to increase rates exceeding loss cost.

Operator
Next is Mr. Otsuka from JPMorgan Securities.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

This is Otsuka. If it's possible, I want you to answer one question at a time. Is that all right?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Satoru Komiya

{BIO 17943039 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

So my first question is about Page 23. I'm looking at Page 23. On the right-hand side of
the slide, you compare profits and market cap and you show PE and the dotted line in the
middle is the industrial average PE ratio, I believe. The higher you go, PE valuation is
higher. If you go below the line, it means that relatively speaking, the PE valuation is lower.
As you have indicated here, currently, you are below the line. I'm sure you understand that
situation. But in the previous pages, for example, on Page 13, against your peers, from a
capital efficiency and volatility point of view, you were making improvements. However the
valuations on Page 23 is still relatively lower. I was wondering why you feel that way? Why
do you think this is the case? Can Mr. Komiya share your view? Or can you talk about what
kind of discussions are happening at the Board meeting with their Independent Directors?

A - Satoru Komiya

{BIO 17943039 <GO>}

Let me take your question. This is Komiya. First of all, with respect to the dotted line and
how that was drawn, but we are not completely satisfied with where we stand right now,
as I spoke to in the presentation. In the world, the world is changing dramatically right now.
With regards to us, we would like to ensure that the market understands our growth
potential. I think it's most important that we are able to well communicate what we are
doing. But Mr. Yuasa, the CFO, may have something to add.
Page 18 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

FINAL

A - Takayuki Yuasa

{BIO 17941516 <GO>}

Yes, let me add some comments. Looking at Page 13, we have been reducing volatility
whilst we enhanced our ROE. But in this -- but we are still on the bottom left, meaning that
we still have much more improvement from an ROE point of view that we should make.
Then going on to Page 23. When it comes to peers, their profit levels are steady at a high
level, although they might be seeing some volatility. But wherever you look at, they are at
higher levels than us. So we feel that we want to exceed the JPY 500 billion mark as soon
as possible and ensure that we generate this level steadily. Then we believe the
valuations can become better. So we hope that we can continue to grow in a disciplined
manner, whilst we also focus on diversification. That's all for me.

A - Satoru Komiya

{BIO 17943039 <GO>}

This is Komiya again. I'd like to add that on the other hand, we are focused on our
stakeholders, as we say in this presentation as well. Various stakeholders have different
interests, and they all support our business. So although it may not be easy, we would like
all of our stakeholders to be satisfied. I'm sure there is an optimal answer available,
whether it be the market or shareholders, we will ensure that we strengthen our dialogue
with you. I think that is also another important thing we need to do to enhance your
satisfaction.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

My second question is about Page 18. It may be a qualitative question, but this time
around, you disclosed medium to long-term targets of JPY 500 billion, and this is a
milestone. Over the long term, you were saying that this is going to be a passing point. I
did fully understand that. So after that passing point, you have indicated on Page 18, and
what comes beyond that. But amongst the management, I'm sure that you have a clear
idea about where you stated our vision. But what I want you to share with us is specifically
-- so once you've realized this vision you state here, how would you be differentiated as
an insurance company? For example, relative to peers, how will you be? Or you could
compare -- or you could answer this question in a qualitative way but in realizing your
vision, how is Tokio Marine going to be different from others? That's my second question.

A - Satoru Komiya

{BIO 17943039 <GO>}

We were founded back in 1879. We have been resolving social issues by offering a sense
of security as well as safety. That is how we have been growing our business. As was the
case in the past, through our core business, we would like to continue to be of help to
society and contribute to society and this thinking is unchanged. So in other words, in the
transition of society going forward or in resolving social issues, we would like to update
and upgrade our management and grow and strengthen our businesses and ensure that
we solve issues in society. So this all comes hand-in-hand. So we also need to strengthen
and evolve our governance. So from our point of view, we would like to be highly
conscious about running ESG management in the company. This is what we would like to
realize by taking steady steps along the way. In its extension, we talk about globally
integrated management. I think we are making a good development around that area. We
would like to leverage that as our utmost strength.

Page 19 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

Operator
Sato-san from Mizuho Securities.

FINAL

Q - Koki Sato

{BIO 19983862 <GO>}

I am Sato from Mizuho Securities. Allow me to ask 2 questions. My first question is Page 49
in the handout, business profit during this period and the midterm plan is shown,
especially bottom right, for international business, the business unit profit. Just looking at
the numbers, fiscal 2020 reversal of past reserves and also a nat cat budget compared to
a normal year may be slightly high for 2021. So you're expecting a dip in 2021, but then
JPY 60 billion or so will be increased in two years according to your projections. So let's
say is 2021 being sort of the starting point and towards 2023, in two years, increase of
JPY 60 billion. What are the factors that makes you believe that this is possible, if you
could please give me a breakdown. If you do an adjustment of apple-to-apple, is it going
to really grow in a linear fashion or growth rate in '22 to '23 is expected to accelerate?
That is also something that I want to understand. So I would like you to respond to my
question one at a time.

A - Satoru Komiya

{BIO 17943039 <GO>}

I see. Thank you very much. So let me ask Harashima-san, responsible for international
business to take that question.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Akira Harashima

{BIO 18946450 <GO>}

This is Harashima speaking, and thank you very much for your question. So the figure for
2021, it looks like it's a dip. Let me start by talking to that point. As Yuasa-san mentioned
briefly, 2021 is still under the pressure from COVID-19 because it hasn't subsided yet,
specifically in life insurance business, death rate is still increasing. Mortality is increasing.
And for life insurance, loss claims is expected to increase still in fiscal 2021. It's a onetime
factor, but if we eliminate that onetime factor, the situation is quite similar in 2020 -similar level in 2021 compared to 2020. And if we compare 2020 and '21, in 2020, due to
COVID-19, there was a decrease in investment gains. That has been reversed. In plan for
2021, low interest rate situation continuing over the long term, decrease in investment
income and also sluggish economic performance leading to a negative impact of loss
from investment. So those factors are taken into account for fiscal 2021. So for '21, in
substance, there's basically an increasing in profit. So for '20 to '23, '21 is also on an
increasing trend, especially '22 and '23, we'll be expecting bigger growth. Now how did
we come up with the estimate for 2021. It consists of underwriting profit and investment
profit.
The biggest growth will come from increase in underwriting profit. Investment profit will
also increase, but the low interest rate environment will have an impact, and therefore,
not much growth as we've seen in the past. Now how are we going to achieve this plan?
In the previous midterm plan, for the next profit growth, we sort of prepared ourselves.
That's the first point.
Page 5, as I explained earlier, it talks about improvement in portfolio in and out or
acquisition and divestment. New -- building a new portfolio, that's what we mean by inPage 20 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

FINAL

strategy or the acquisition strategy. The group companies are also working to improve
their portfolio. For example, Philly, Philadelphia, the low profitability portfolio has been
reduced.
The third point is that we've been addressing social inflation. This is also from Philadelphia.
In 2019 they have increased significantly their reserves and other countermeasures in
order to improve profitability have been implemented. So a portfolio that is resistant to
social inflation is being developed. In each of the group companies, foundation is being
strengthened in order for further growth. A specific example comes from TSMR in Brazil,
digitalization is being promoted and building foundation for retail business is also being
promoted. So preparation for next stage of growth is being addressed, and that is
combined with a favorable wind of hardening of the market. So '21, '22 and '23, we expect
to see growth. And more specifically, in advanced nations, on Page 33 and Page 34. This
already was explained.
But underwriting profit to expand and pure growth and bolt-on M&A, these are already
implemented. We want to capture the growth from these initiatives from Pure and also
bolt-on M&As.

Bloomberg Transcript

And Page 35, in the emerging markets, Brazil, which is a large market; India, also a large
market; and also in the Thai market, we intend to seek organic growth in these markets.
And also, as we've explained earlier, we will be active on the M&A front as well. So all
combined CAGR of 9% is, I believe, possible, sufficiently possible. It is definitely a figure
that we must achieve.

Q - Koki Sato

{BIO 19983862 <GO>}

And my second question is the capital-level adjustment. What is it? I want to ask that
question. Once again from the perspective of improving visibility, sometime this year, you
will be implementing JPY 100 billion in budget for capital-level adjustment. That has been
presented. But based on the current level of ESR, JPY 100 billion is adjustable. If that's
where you're coming from, maybe now is the right timing to mobilize and more flexibly
implement. Setting this budget for the fiscal year sounds like capital-level adjustment is
done on a flow base within the company or maybe, as I asked earlier, why are you not
executing this capital-level adjustment now? I would like to ask for your explanation.

A - Satoru Komiya

{BIO 17943039 <GO>}

Yes, let me ask Yuasa-san to please take this question.

A - Takayuki Yuasa

{BIO 17941516 <GO>}

Allow me to respond to your question. Well as we've done in the past, end of March, 127%
in ESR. This is -- whether this is within the target range or not. If it's within the target range,
we will call it an appropriate level. If it's at an appropriate level, we will look at how much
profit is accumulated in dividend and also, prospects for M&A will be taken into account. In
May and in November, twice a year, shareholder return will be made. We will consider
ways of doing it. So those are some things that had been taken into account in the past.
So there is stock and flow, both were taken into account in making the final decision. And
Page 21 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

FINAL

from the market's perspective, whether we're going to do it or not, how much is it going
to be, where there is a discrepancy between the 2 and someone also pointed out that
the volatility of our shares is increasing. That is why we've decided to adopt a more
flexible approach in light of the situation that we're facing. But in May we did not
implement.
Therefore, some of the investors must -- might have seen it that we have decided to
forego for May. But it's not that we did not implement or execute in May but instead, what
we could have done in May could actually take place in the following months like June, July
or August. Instead of implementing in May in just one go, we will be implementing in a
more flexible manner from May to October. The budget is JPY 100 billion. And economic
conditions, unless there is no big change in the economic environment, we want to be
flexible in executing this for the second half of the year. It's not to say that we're not going
to do it or if we are going to make the capital-level adjustment. If there is an M&A, then
we will not be insisting on the JPY 100 billion. The total amount could exceed the JPY 100
billion in budget.

Q - Koki Sato

{BIO 19983862 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I see. Well for the nonlife insurance sector overall, ever since COVID-19, share prices were
not necessarily that good. And unfortunately, in the case of your company, you had the
Greensill incident. So I think when you consider the level of your share prices, you could
have done the capital-level adjustment. So in the time you do the capital level
adjustments, how would your account for the share price level at that point in time?

Q - Takayuki Yuasaz
Yes. This is Yuasa again. I will take your question. For our share price, of course when we
buy back our shares -- if we were to buy back our shares, of course if the share prices are
lower, we will look at. We will conduct the buyback. So it is a very important piece of
information that we will look at.

A - Satoru Komiya

{BIO 17943039 <GO>}

This is Komiya. Yes. In managing the company, we are being conscious of where our share
prices are. And for capital level adjustments, we will continue to conduct them. But when
the ESR comes out biannually, that was a timing when we considered the capital-level
adjustments. We looked at nat cat as well as claims and all kinds of aspects, and we made
decisions in a comprehensive manner by having dialogue with the market. So we have
been doing capital-level adjustments in the past to a certain degree. But like Mr. Yuasa
mentioned earlier, when we talk with you all, we heard feedback that it is hard to predict,
and it's like a prediction game. Therefore, in that case, we thought about what kind of
things we considered when we went ahead with capital-level adjustments to enhance the
predictability of our policy. And like I mentioned, we are trying to find an optimal answer to
respond to all stakeholders, and we believe shareholder returns is one of the important
aspects of it.
From that point of view, we would like to achieve our long-term targets in a steady
manner and ensure that we maintain that level. However that's not hard to do -- that's not

Page 22 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

easy to do. We would like to continue to diversify our risk and reduce our volatility. And for
that purpose, we will need to invest. Of course acquisitions require the counterparty, but
what's most important is that if we don't come across good opportunities, we will return it
back to our shareholders, but the size of the returns are some questions that will probably
be raised.
So in that case, we wanted to give out our thoughts about how we view the year as well
as our thinking over the medium to long term. And for the short term, on a fiscal year
basis, I wanted to share our thought process that we will look at profit accumulation, and
we will pay out half of it as ordinary dividends and many other things may happen. But for
fiscal '21, we will start off with a budget of, like, JPY 100 billion, which we believe is
feasible. And of course over the medium term, we'll need to prepare for large-scale
M&As as well. So we probably won't be able to account for everything with the reserves
we have in place, and we will need to prepare for the future. So we won't give back the
entire amount of profits generated for that given year. However for fiscal '19 as well as
2020, when you apply the scheme to the past years, I don't think the numbers are that
bad. But I'm not saying that the same thing is going to apply for fiscal 2022. We will be
reviewing our policies along the way. And for our small- to medium-sized investments, we
don't know when we're going to come across the deals, and we don't want to miss the
opportunities. So in some cases, we might exceed the JPY 100 billion budget. And for
large-scale M&As, it's not the ultimate target. Of course there's a counterparty, and we
need to do it in a disciplined manner. So for the time being, maybe we won't be able to
close any deals. In that case, we would like to offer it back in some kind of form. If we have
something that we've accumulated for large M&A purposes, we would like to offer it in
the form of shareholder returns, if we don't come across good opportunities. But
whatever the case may be, over the short term, meaning every year, as well as over the
medium term, we are going to offer shareholder returns. Our intent was to communicate
our policies in an easier to understand way. We will do capital-level adjustments in a -- with
flexibility, and it won't have to be necessarily at fiscal year-end.

A - Taizou Ishiguro

{BIO 20620398 <GO>}

We're past our given time so we would like to take our last question.

Operator
Mr. Niwa from Citigroup.

Q - Koichi Niwa

{BIO 5032649 <GO>}

My name is Niwa. I have 2 questions. It's about group synergies and investment
management. So Page 11 is the page I'm on. For last fiscal year and this fiscal year,
approximately USD 300 million were the synergies you were able to generate, are you
going to expect more synergies to materialize, especially for top line synergies, I was
wondering whether we can expect more? And in which areas we can expect synergies?
Next is investment management. For Pages 67 and 70 for investment management in a
low rate environment for income yields, I guess the downward pressure is strong. So I was
thinking that you could do something else. So do you have any intentions to make any
large changes? And can you also tell me how many basis points of an increase you are

Page 23 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

expecting? And it seems that you are considering additional measures. So if you can
comment on that as well, that would be helpful.

FINAL

A - Satoru Komiya

{BIO 17943039 <GO>}

So I would like to first say that group synergies are going to expand even more, but I
would like the question to be answered by Mr. Harashima. Then for investment
management, the person in charge, Mr. Endo, will take your question. So Mr. Harashima
first.

A - Akira Harashima

{BIO 18946450 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you for your question, for group synergies, I'd like to talk about the overseas
business part. For top line, to your point, Niwa-san, we still believe there is space for
expansion, especially on Page 34, on the left-hand side, we show our expectations for
Pure. At the bottom, further expansion of synergies is what we show. Welcoming Pure into
our group. What we're currently doing is we're discussing synergy opportunities between
our group companies. So we think that this will be one key aspect. Also, this is something
we also announced. But in Canada, we are going to be establishing a local subsidiary.
Through this subsidiary, various companies will strive to grow their businesses in Canada.
So it's not just these two examples, but there are other ways we would like to grow top
line. Apart from that, post COVID-19, as Mr. Komiya explained, globally, we are having
meetings, and we have considered various opportunities. And looking out beyond
COVID-19, globally, cost synergies are expected to be enhanced more than before. So
we would like to pursue synergies in the future, and we expect by doing so, we'll be able
to expand the synergies compared to where we are now.

A - Satoru Komiya

{BIO 17943039 <GO>}

This is Komiya. In the U.S., Kiln from the U.K. is joining a meeting once every three months
to have a CEO meeting. The heads of each group company are very proactive and TMNL
is organizing this meeting, but as you can see in the presentation, we are coming up with
various types of synergy ideas. So there's a wealth of ideas on the table and we are
having active communication around this. So I'm sure that new types of synergies can be
generated in the future. And as Mr. Harashima explained earlier, since summer last year,
we have been having a COVID-19-related meeting, engaging people from both Japan
and abroad. So we're not just communicating about COVID-19, but now we're
communicating more about our daily operations increasingly. So I'm sure that we will be
able to generate synergies on that front as well. So next for investment management. Mr.
Endo will explain.

A - Yoshinari Endo

{BIO 21589121 <GO>}

Thank you very much for your question. This is Endo. So the direction of investment
management overall, first of all, we are engaging in ALM, being mindful of the liabilities of
our insurance business. So this large principle will be intact. On top of that, there are 2
points, the market environment is expected to be volatile going forward as well. So we
would like to be flexible in our approach. Secondly, is we would like to be mindful about
risk and return when we make investments and invest into areas where we can generate

Page 24 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

FINAL

high ROR. So it is accepted that low rates will continue and the investment management
environment is going to be tough.
So for credit risk, we will prefer credit risk but we would like to also control credit risk at
the same time. Currently, relatively speaking, allocation into high ROR asset is what we're
doing, but we are also reducing high-risk assets. RMBS or mortgage loans or high-rated
CLOs are areas to which we are shifting our investments into. By taking credit risk, we are
pursuing excess return.
So looking at Page 36, right-hand side, we compare against the index. This is a
comparison with Barclays U.S. aggregate. This difference is basically the excess return we
are able to gain by taking on the credit risk. So for the risk or volatility, it's pretty much the
same. But by taking credit risk, we are able to generate higher ROR.

A - Taizou Ishiguro

{BIO 20620398 <GO>}

Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. We would like to take one more question
because there is a question from overseas in the chat box. It's from Robert Weidenbach
[ph] from Wellington. About bolt-on M&A, how much would you be spending on bolt-ons
in a normal year? For example, in the most recent two years, how much was it?

A - Satoru Komiya

{BIO 17943039 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

This is a question from Mr. Wydenbach [ph] from Wellington. Thank you very much for your
question. Mr. Yuasa, Group CFO, who will take your question.

A - Takayuki Yuasa

{BIO 17941516 <GO>}

Yes. Bolt-ons, basically $100 million or less per deal. This is normal. There are maybe 200
million to 300 million scale once every maybe 2 to three years. But as a track record,
2019, JPY 50 billion or less. For 2020, JPY 20 billion to JPY 30 billion. So that, I hope, will
give you a sense of scale. Looking at a track record in the past, there are certain years in
which there were none, some much bigger. But as Komiya-san explained earlier, if we look
at how we did in the past few years, there is not much discrepancy in numbers or what I
mean by that is return, in terms of the returns that we've made, there is not much of a
discrepancy.

A - Satoru Komiya

{BIO 17943039 <GO>}

Thank you very much. So I apologize for not being able to sufficiently respond to your
questions, but we would like to contact you after the meeting.
Sorry for running over time, but I would like to conclude the meeting. Once again thank
you very much for joining us today and I apologize for running over time. As was
mentioned in some of the questions. We are at a very critical moment as Tokio Marine
Group, the biggest trend for us, which I believe is to strengthen the integrated
management of the company global -- and synergy, global and synergy. This is the kind of
mindset that we want to implement, global and local at the same time and strengthen the
business of all group companies, and the holdings and the group companies to be
Page 25 of 26



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2021-05-27

FINAL

engaging in strong communication to maximize the group synergy. That is why group
purpose and core identity needs to be instilled across the entire group and connect all
the dots. The collaboration system, communication system will be sophisticated and
enhanced going forward. We will have the Chief Officer system and the co-head system.
We also have Global Task Force Committees, global training sessions and management
systems, and is ahead of -- beyond that, that the benefits, the strength of the European
and American management system and the management system typical to Japan, we
want to learn from one another to be able to build a unique sort of a medium. Should I say
a unique management style for the company. This is what we want to explore going
forward. We will make sure to achieve tangible results. The management strategy that
was shared with you today will be steadily implemented. The business strategy will be
steadily implemented to achieve our milestones and be able to respond to you in the
capital market. I want to once again extend my appreciation to you. I want to pass the
microphone over back to our moderator.

A - Taizou Ishiguro

{BIO 20620398 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you for that. With this, we would like to conclude the IR briefing for the first half
2021. Thank you, all very much for joining us in spite of your busy schedules.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 26 of 26

