Q2 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Helge Leiro Baastad, Chief Executive Officer
Jostein Amdal, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
Mitra Hagen Negard, Head of Investor Relations

Other Participants
Blair Stewart, Analyst
Hakon Astrup, Analyst
Jan Erik Gjerland, Analyst
Johan Strom, Analyst
Thomas Svendsen, Analyst
Ulrik Ardal Zurcher, Analyst
Vegard Toverud, Analyst
Will Hardcastle , Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Operator
Good day, and welcome to the Gjensidige Q2 2021 Results Presentation. This conference is being
recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Ms. Mitra Hagen Negard, Head of
IR. Please go ahead.

Mitra Hagen Negard

{BIO 3974076 <GO>}

Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the second quarter presentation of
Gjensidige. My name is Mitra Negard, and I am Head of Investor Relations. As always, we will start
with our CEO, Helge Leiro Baastad, who will give you the highlights of the quarter followed by our
CFO, Jostein Amdal, who will go through the numbers in further detail. Helge, please.

Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Thank you, Mitra. Good morning and welcome everyone. I hope you are healthy and well. We are
very happy to see that the recovery from the pandemic is moving ahead many places in the world.
Rising delta cases are a concern. However, it appears that the general direction is positive and the
economic outlook at least in our part of the world is very promising. I am very proud of our
organization's handling of the extraordinary situation we have all endured, and I am very pleased
to see that Gjensidige's strong momentum has continued into the second quarter.
Let's turn to page two for some comments on our very strong second quarter results. We
generated a solid profit before tax of NOK2,330 million, of which NOK1,527 million in underwriting
results. This is the best ever second quarter underwriting result in our history. Earned premiums
rose by a healthy 6.1%, reflecting strong sales, solid renewals, and effective and differentiated
pricing measures, and we further strengthened our strong market position.
We continued improving our underlying profitability through both strong growth and very efficient
operations. Our cost discipline remains strong, as you can see from the ratio of 14.2% for the



FINAL

quarter. And we generated a financial result of NOK802 million, altogether contributing to a very
strong return on equity of 27.7%. Jostein will revert with more detailed comments on the results for
the quarter.
Turning to page three and our unique customer dividend model. For the 12th year in a row,
Gjensidigestiftelsen has distributed its share of regular dividend from Gjensidige to our general
insurance customers in Norway. This year, more than 800,000 customers will receive a total of
NOK2.3 billion, corresponding to 13% of the premiums paid in 2020. The customer dividend model
is highly valued by our customers and supports our strong brand and delivery of superior customer
experiences. As you can see on this slide, the model is well known.
Then turning to page four, a few words about our operations. Let me start with Norway.
Operations continue to run very well despite remote working for almost all Gjensidige employees
through the quarter. We plan to gradually return to our offices after December. We have gained
valuable experience over the past year and explored the possibilities which lie in remote work, and
we will take this with us in our planning going forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

Sales have been strong this quarter too, particularly in the private segments. Business volumes are
up and we have managed to continue to put through necessary price increases while maintaining
high customer retention. The commercial segment has also continued good development through
the second quarter with strong renewals, adding new business and putting through necessary
price increases. Retention is at a good level on 91%.
The Norwegian Association of Insurance Brokers ranked us number one among the P&C
companies in Norway for the second year in a row, emphasizing our professional ability, expertise,
claims settlement, timeliness, and predictability. This is a great recognition of our highly qualified
staff and the efforts they put forth for our customers every day. And although we don't primarily
focus on market shares, we are happy to see that our shares of the commercial P&C space in
Norway climbed further to 30.1% in the first quarter.
Going forward, we will continue to raise prices in Norway to reflect claims inflation. And for private
property and certain pockets in the large corporate portfolio in the commercial segment, we will
raise prices beyond claims inflation to improve profitability. I will revert to the topic of inflation on
the next slide. With no signs of market contraction so far, promising economic outlook and a
continued firm market, we expect premiums in Norway to continue the strong development.
We recognize the importance of taking a holistic approach to our customer needs. As discussed
before, we have strong ambitions for our position in the Nordic mobility space. Executing on this,
we have recently entered into agreement to acquire two toll service providers in Norway, the
purpose to expand our offering with complementary services, simplifying vehicle ownership and
further strengthening the relationship with our customers. We are awaiting regulatory clearance
and hope to be able to close the transactions later this year.
Over to a few comments on our operations outside Norway. We have had good progress in our
Danish operations. We will be adding new business later this year through the acquisition of NEM
Forsikring. NEM's customer portfolio, partners, and insurance products make a good strategic fit
for us. And we are particularly excited about the opportunity to tap further into bancassurance
through NEM's two saving banks partners. We have also entered into a partnership agreement with
Toyota, this time in Denmark, providing a strong platform for growth in the car dealership channel.
We have moved forward on the launch of our new core IT system, gradually opening up for sale of
private products. We will be moving our existing contracts later this year before moving forward
with commercial insurance lines in Denmark. We are convinced about the benefits of the new
system and look forward to generate efficiency gains from next year.



FINAL

Profitability in Sweden and the Baltics is not satisfactory. As mentioned earlier, we are fully focused
on transforming our Swedish business to become a more digital insurance provider. Our ambition
is to deliver excellent customer experiences through digital services and a high degree of
automated internal processes. We look forward to speaking more about our measures later this
year. We have a clear ambition to improve results in the Baltics with a particular focus on
distribution, pricing, and claims handling processes.
Then over to page five, and a few comments on the inflation, which has caught high attention
lately. Supply shortage and high demand have led to a surge in prices for many products among
others, construction materials. The extent, reach, and duration of the inflationary pressure the
world is experiencing now is uncertain and widely debated.
In our business, agility is key to maintaining good profitability. We need to make sure our pricing
stays ahead of inflation. There are several factors mitigating the impact that the mounting
inflationary pressure within certain materials has on our business. More than 90% of our motor and
property claims settlements are managed through suppliers, which we have multiple year
agreements.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have of course the best terms in the market, reflecting our superior position in Norway and
mitigating the impact of rising inflation. The terms in our contracts for property repairs are such
that labor rates are fixed for one year at the time, according to a pre-defined index. The majority
of our property claims are frequency claims with approximately 75% to 80% of claims costs related
to labor and the remaining 20% to 25% related to materials. We have a similar situation in Denmark
in terms of contracts and frequency claims cost.
Over the past years, we have developed advanced dynamic tariff models and robust processes to
manage and stay ahead of claims inflation. Together with our deep expertise, wide channel
network, and significant data pool, we are able to analyze and process tariff adjustments in a
matter of days, and implement pricing measures upon renewal throughout the year.
So far, the magnitude of price increases for our property repairs have been very modest
compared to the search in raw materials prices. And for motor, there has in fact been a slightly
favorable development due to the depreciation of the Norwegian krone. At this point, we expect a
modest and highly manageable increase in our claims inflation for property to around 5% going
forward.
As communicated earlier, we have been raising prices for private property insurance in Norway,
well above index during the past couple of years. We expect to be able to continue with that to
continue to improve profitability for this product line.
For motor, we still expect claims inflation somewhere around 45%. Thanks to our solid position and
strong competitiveness, we are comfortable that we will be able to put through the necessary
price increases for this product in line with expected claims inflation.
We cannot rule out the risk of a generally high inflationary pressure impacting more than just
materials, most importantly, labor costs and claims for personal injuries. This would impact the
whole industry. Thanks to our strong market position and HR capabilities, we expect to continue
staying ahead of and pricing at least in line with expected claims inflation.
Then over to page six, and a few comments on our latest initiatives and results to support our
sustainability goals. Damage prevention is one of the most important initiatives we can put through
to contribute to safer society and reduce carbon intensity. We have launched several new damagepreventing initiatives this quarter. Customer alert services have been expanded to include flood
alerts based on customer data and information from The Norwegian Water Resources and Energy



FINAL

Directorate. An alert will enable customers to make necessary preparations to avoid or limit
damage from floods that affect our regions from time to time.
We have also launched a pilot for sensor technology installed in private homes. This enables early
detection of, for example, water leakage, which are handled by Gjensidige without the customers
having to take any action. Our online mental health program, together with our partner Braive, has
been very well received with our commercial customers since the launch in February. And so far,
560 customers have started treatment for areas such as depression, work-related stress, and
general mental well-being.
We have also signed the Guide against Greenwashing, committing to open and transparent
information about our work on sustainability. And we have signed the Women in Finance charter,
committing to proactively promoting gender balance in the Group.
We have also received a few recognitions this quarter. We moved two places up to a number four
ranking among all Norwegian companies in the sustainability survey Baerekraftsbarometeret,
conducted by the Norwegian Business School. And we have been ranked as the most attractive
employer in the insurance industry and the climber of the year according to the Universum survey
in Norway. And we continue preparation to report according to the EU taxonomy from next year.
And with that, I will leave the word to Jostein to present the first quarter results in more detail.

Bloomberg Transcript

Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Thank you, Helge, and good morning, everybody. I will start on page eight. We delivered a profit
before tax of NOK2,330 million in the second quarter compared with NOK2,477 million in the same
quarter of last year. The results from underwriting and the pension business improved significantly
year-on-year. Our financial result, although very good, was lower than the extraordinary results we
saw last year as the markets rebounded in the second quarter of 2020.
Our underwriting result increased due to a combination of premium growth and improved
underlying profitability. The COVID-19 pandemic had a positive impact on claims this quarter too,
estimated at approximately NOK119 million or 1.7 percentage points on the loss ratio. Our
Norwegian operations were the main contributors to the improved results, although Denmark and
Sweden also contributed to the increase. The Baltic segment reported lower results.
Turning to page nine, earned premiums were up 6.1% or 8.6% adjusted for currency effects. All
segments recorded higher premiums in local currencies. We saw a strong increase in payments for
the private segment, driven by price increases for motor, property, and accident and health
insurance, as well as higher volumes for motor insurance.
We also increased the number of customers. As Helge mentioned, we have a strong market
position and we demonstrate high competitiveness. Demand for travel insurance is picking up.
However, we are slightly below the pre-pandemic level. The rise in premiums in the commercial
segment followed effective pricing measures, solid renewals, and portfolio growth, including one
new large contract included from the first quarter.
All the main product lines in this segment recorded higher premiums. The July renewals are also
strong, boding well for the rest of the year. In Denmark, premiums increased for both the
commercial and private segments. The premium growth in the private segment was primarily due
to growth in change of ownership insurance, driven by a continued strong housing market. The
premium growth in the commercial segment was a result of volume increases in motor and price
increases in workers' compensation product lines. Travel insurance volumes are up year-on-year,
but were still below pre-pandemic levels.



FINAL

The increase in earned premiums for our Swedish operation were mainly driven by volume growth
in the commercial portfolio. This was slightly offset by a volume decrease in the private portfolio.
In the Baltics, we saw premiums gradually growing again, mainly driven by the health and property
insurance lines. Travel insurance volumes increased compared with the same period of last year,
although still below pre-pandemic levels. The improvement is fragile. However, the potential for
deeper market penetration and economic growth in the region represents an attractive growth
opportunity.
Turning over to page 10, the loss ratio for the second quarter improved by 1.1 percentage points to
64.5%. Large losses were flat with a nominal level slightly above our expectations for our quarterly
average, and run-off gains were a little higher than the second quarter of last year and somewhat
higher than our planned release.
The underlying frequency loss ratio improved by 1 percentage points compared with the same
quarter of last year. Adjusted for the effects of the COVID-19 claims, which are lower this year,
particularly for Denmark, the underlying frequency loss ratio improved by 2.4 percentage points.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of segments, I'm particularly pleased with the development in private, commercial in
Denmark this quarter, showing further improvement in profitability. Sweden and the Baltics do not
deliver satisfactory results yet. We see a clear upside potential here and we will continue to
implement measures to increase growth and improve operations going forward. We will look
forward to speaking more about this at our Capital Markets Day later this year.
So talking about costs, let's turn to page 11. We recorded NOK1,020 million in operating expenses
this quarter corresponding to a cost ratio of 14.2% and 13.6% excluding the Baltics. We have
steadily brought down the cost ratio over time, thanks to combination of growth in premiums, cost
efficiency measures, and strong cost discipline across the group. Denmark recorded a 1.1
percentage point increase in the cost ratio, mainly driven by commissions on higher volumes of
change of ownership insurance.
As Helge mentioned, we have moved ahead with a new core IT system now open for sales for
private customers. We expect this to contribute to our cost efficiency in Denmark when the system
is fully up and running for all products and customers. The cost ratio on our Swedish business
improved by 3.5 percentage points, partly as a result of cost saving initiatives. The cost ratio of the
Baltics was flat. As mentioned, we will continue to put through measures to enhance costeffectiveness.
A few comments on our pension operation on slide 12. The pretax profit came to NOK55 million,
up year-on-year, reflecting growth in the business. Assets under management continued to grow,
reaching almost NOK47 billion in the second quarter. Annualized return on equity was 14.1%. The
solvency margin at the end of the year or at the quarter was 150%. So far, the introduction of
individual pension account has not led to any significant change in the market dynamics. However, it
is prudent to expect some pressure on our profitability in the short to medium term. We and other
players in Norway are in the process of transferring policies and expect it to be completed towards
the end of this year.
The pension business is an important complement to our general insurance business in Norway,
particularly within the SME part of operation and generates cross-selling opportunities. 68% of the
customers in our pension business were general insurance customers as well in the second
quarter.
Moving on to the investment portfolio on page 13. Our investment portfolio generated a return of
1.3% in the second quarter with the match and free portfolios returning 0.5% and 2.7% respectively.
An improved outlook for economic growth, higher inflation, and low and stable interest rates and



credit margins drove the performance of our cyclical assets such as equities, commodities, real
estate and fixed income instruments with credit exposure.

FINAL

Our private equity holdings had particularly strong returns this quarter as a result of both higher
market valuations and successful transactions in some of the PE funds. Returns on property
investments were also very good, reflecting the strong commercial real estate market in Norway.
Over to page 14. Our capital position is very strong with a solvency ratio of 212% at the end of the
quarter. This is down 3 percentage points from the end of the first quarter. The Tier 2 loan in
Gjensidige Forsikring of NOK300 million was redeemed during the second quarter. Adjusted for
the upcoming redemption of Gjensidige's Tier 1 loan of NOK1 billion in September, the solvency
margin would have been 203% at the end of the second quarter.
A minor model change has been approved by the Norwegian FSA, which gives a small reduction in
the capital requirement for underwriting risk and a reduction in the risk margin. And eligible own
funds increased as a result of solvency II earnings and the result in the free portfolio. And as usual,
we have deducted a formulaic dividend of 80% off the result.

Bloomberg Transcript

The capital requirement increased as a result of growth in both non-life insurance and life
insurance as well as adjustments reflecting the introduction of the own pension account regime for
our pension business.
High risk from an increased equity exposure was offset by lower market risk than estimated
related to the two new loans issued in April. It is worth noting that the closing of the NEM and toll
company transactions will in sum, based on the numbers as of June 30, bring down the solvency
ratio with approximately 6 percentage points, all the other things being equal.
And finally, a few words on the latest development of operational targets on slide 15. I am very
pleased with the progress on operational targets this quarter. We delivered on these operational
targets by continue to improve our -- we continue to improve our competitive position and lay the
ground for future profitability.
Customer satisfaction continues to be at a very high level. Retention in Norway is slightly down
from the last quarter, but still at a very high level. And retention outside Norway has improved
slightly for all three segments.
We have certainly exceeded our target on sales effectiveness based on running 12 months at 22%
compared to our baseline year 2017, mainly driven by higher sales in Norway. There will still be
some volatility in these figures going forward. The share of automated tariffs is up compared to
the level last quarter and it currently standards at around 55%. Progress is good and we'll continue
to include more products going forward in addition to further refining tariffs already included.
On the claims handling side, digital claims reporting has gone slightly up this quarter and has
reached the target of 80%, and the share of claims handled fully automatically has improved as
well. For claims process defined as fully automated, no human interaction is required. Several subprocesses are automated and we anticipate an accelerated development going forward. We'll
continue to develop these digital services further through 2021 and onwards. We have reduced
claims cost further and exceeded the target even more this quarter with procurement and
insurance fraud making the largest contributions to the increase.
I'll then hand the word back to Helge.

Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}



FINAL

Thank you, Jostein. To sum up on page 16, we are very pleased with the strong results we continue
to deliver. This is, to a large degree, a result of our solid brand, efficient operations, and dedicated
employees who put strong efforts in serving our customers every day. We will continue to focus on
growth in our markets. Together with strong and efficient operations, this is a prerequisite to
continue delivering solid results and attractive returns.
Our solvency position is very robust. The economic prospects in our Nordics markets are
encouraging and the pricing environments, particularly in Norway and Denmark, continue to be very
good. This, together with our strong product offering and efficient operations, lay the ground for
continued strong results going forward.
We are committed to having strong capital discipline. Together with our encouraging results
outlook, this provides us with a solid base to deliver a continued steady and nice regular dividend
curve. Special dividends have been and will still be utilized from time to time to ensure an efficient
capital structure.
Finally, on page 17, before we open up for questions, I would like to remind you of our Capital
Markets Day on the 24th of November. We are really looking forward to this opportunity to speak
about our ambitions and plans. We will revert with more details on the agenda as we move closer
to the date.
And with that, I will now open for Q&A session. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) We'll take the first question from Blair Stewart from Bank of America.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Thanks very much and good morning. I've got two questions. On the inflation point, thanks very
much for all the details. Is it possible to say how much your agreements on labor rates are
protecting you from the actual cost of labor at this time and how might that roll through in the
years that follow? So I guess, the question is, is it a risk that inflation does pick up as those
agreements expire, I think, on an annual basis? And to what extent can you react to that? So any
color on that inflation question would be really useful.
And then my second question on capital. I think on a mark-to-market basis, capital position is
maybe just below 200, if you adjust for the redemption and the client deals. You do, however,
have quite a lot of debt capacity and you made a comment there about special dividends being
used to ensure an efficient capital structure. So can you maybe comment around where you feel
your capital structure is at the moment? Is it sufficient? Will you make use of those debt
headrooms that you've got in future? Thanks very much.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Thank you, Blair. In terms of the risk of kind of a wage inflation or cost of labor inflation, that is -what we (inaudible) through these agreements of fixed is a postponement of course of the
increase in the labor costs. Over time we will be exposed to these cost increases, but we will also
have time to react on the pricing side. As we have commented, these spikes in certain material
types are dramatic for each and every material type, but in the overall picture, the general inflation
including wage inflation is more important to keep track of. This will then be an issue for the whole
industry. And the point is to be agile enough to react early when you see this -- if there is a
potential for these increases. And as we have mentioned, we do increase premiums now
especially for property by more than the expected claims inflation going forward. So it is a short-



term protection with a one-year kind of agreement and then -- but it also reflects fine with the
one-year policy period. So is it clear on the inflation side, Blair?

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah. Is it possible to comment on how much protection you're actually getting, where is wage
inflation relative to what your agreements are protecting you?

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

In general, wage inflation is not a big issue in the Norwegian economy at the moment. Although
unemployment is -- luckily, on its way down and the economy is doing quite well, the wage growth
seems contained, I would say. So I don't see a large risk there. Yeah. And it will be much -- if there
is any increased inflation, it will be much more gradual than what we've seen in these partly supply
chain induced spikes in timber and so on.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Yes. Great. Thank you.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

On the capital side, I think your assumption is correct. We said that we have a solvency margin of
203, if you adjust for the upcoming redemption in September of the Tier 1 loan and then the sum
of the two toll road operators and the NEM Forsikring is approximately 6%, 197 if you had done
everything by June 30.
And then of course we also need to take into account here that we still continue to take out 80%
of the profit after tax as a formulaic dividend assumption, which then is quite a high number in this
quarter. So the solvency is obviously very strong even though.
On the debt utilization part, I think the communication is that it has been always -- it's -- we have
some remaining capacity still in the Tier 1 space mainly and we will consider that on an ongoing
basis whether we should take on more or not. I think we'll never utilize the full capacity potential
here because we'll then be vulnerable to fluctuations in the Tier 1 unrestricted capital. Yeah.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Okay. Am I right in saying you stand at the NOK1 billion of Tier 1 that is be redeemed in September.
You've already refinanced that, right?

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Yeah. That was part of the communication we had in -- around the first quarter, late March, early
April when we issued the new Tier 1 loan.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Yeah. Okay. Great. Thanks very much.

Operator
The next question comes from Ulrik Zurcher from Nordea.

Q - Ulrik Ardal Zurcher

{BIO 22026627 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you for taking my questions. I have two. One is, do you have any comments on -- I
know it's not a long time since it's expired, but the churn on the back of the loss of the Nykredit
agreement in Denmark. Second question, have you seen any increase in materials cost for your



building repairs in Q2? And also, if you could comment on the claims frequency on property in the
same quarter or maybe compared to recent quarters. Thank you.

FINAL

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Yeah. I can take the first question and Jostein, follow. Our distribution agreement with Nykredit was
terminated 1st of May, and we have strong momentum in our Danish operation, but of course, we
see some leakage of customers to Privatsikring, but it's no dramatic trend actually. So -- and we
have lots of measures to secure our portfolio both on the product side and towards the
customers, but some churn is expected and we have some churn, but it's no dramatic
development.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

In terms of the increases in building cost, I think this has - we -- it's -- what -- the headline inflation
or the news is around timber and steel and raw materials directly and in the reconstruction or fixing
of houses. I mean, this is process materials, it's placed where it's -- I always forget the English word
for (Foreign Language) but...

A - Mitra Hagen Negard

{BIO 3974076 <GO>}

Wooden flooring.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Wooden flooring, sorry, but -- so -- and in these materials, we haven't -- the answer is no, we have
not seen any particularly strong price increase in these inputs when we fix houses in -- so far.
The claims frequency has been benign for property in -- I would say, over a couple of quarters now,
so which means we talked about in the earlier calls, the needs to improve profitability within the
private property also in Norway. But I think this is well underway, I would say, now. We see clear
improvements in that business line or that product.

Q - Ulrik Ardal Zurcher

{BIO 22026627 <GO>}

So basically -- not to put words in your mouth, but basically, if this low frequency and low inflation
on wood flooring et cetera continues into the second half, this will likely be very fine for you on
your claims ratio, but let's say, we get a big storm or something like that, so the frequency goes up
a lot. Will that also increase the risk of you noticing the claims inflation more, like the materials of
the increase?

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

It's a general phenomenon that when there are larger events, there are short-term shortages in
both labor and materials. That is something we calculate in our models -- or assume in our models
for our storm exposure. But overall, we don't see any particular needs for the current good trends,
I mean, except for storms and other kind of volatility events that should change the direction we're
heading in now.

Q - Ulrik Ardal Zurcher

{BIO 22026627 <GO>}

Yeah. Thanks a lot.

Operator
The next question comes from Jan Erik Gjerland from ABG.

Q - Jan Erik Gjerland

{BIO 5346031 <GO>}



FINAL

Good morning. Thank you for taking my questions. I would just go back to the competition issue
here. And since you have a strong premium growth, how much is sort of price or how much is
volume? And how do you see the competitors reacting to this theme of building construction
inflation? What do you -- how do you see the competitive picture these days in Norway private,
Norway commercial, Denmark as well as Sweden?

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Yeah, yeah. Good morning, Jan Erik. The competition is -- you know the competitors, and it's a
competitive market and you know the players. We have especially focused on two strong players,
If and Fremtind, but of course, you know the others as well.
Our price and volume balance, it's actually 50-50 for motor insurance and that's -- we are really
pleased with that balance. So it's an extremely strong position on the motor. We have the majority
of the growth on the property side I know in Norway, property and content. The majority of the
growth is price-driven, but it's positive volume development also for property and content. And as
you know, for several quarters, we have priced above the expected claims inflation.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the commercial side, the competition is If, Tryg, and we see that they take -- they are pricing to
secure -- strengthen profitability and in line with expected claims inflation. So we -- the majority of
the renewals are 1st of January, but we also have a significant renewal per 1st of July, and that was
once again extremely strong. So that means that we increased the number of customers, and we
managed to also price in line with what we have said about -- to meet claims inflation and above
claims inflation for property and some large customers.
In -- and the inflation, you -- we commented maybe that, Jostein, for the next 12 to 18 months for
property and commercial property, it's around 5%, and 4% to 5% for motor insurance. If we move
to Denmark, it's higher underlying inflation and it's a volatile price situation for building material in
Denmark. And we expect claims inflation to be around 5% also in Denmark for the next 12 to 18
months. And our pricing in Denmark is slightly below claims inflation, but we have a task force
established for private property to improve long-term profitability by optimizing claims practice,
terms and pricing. And as you know, we will also have gains from the new legacy system in
Denmark. That will be a positive contributing measure.
Yeah, that was -- pardon?

Q - Jan Erik Gjerland

{BIO 5346031 <GO>}

Sweden?

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Sweden? Maybe Jostein -- once again, Jan Erik.

Q - Jan Erik Gjerland

{BIO 5346031 <GO>}

No, in the competitive picture in Sweden, how are you doing on -- you sort of have -- was lower on
sales in the region for private side, were up on commercial. So how do you view your competitive
edge in Sweden now still?

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Maybe Jostein can -- what I can say initially is that the written premium is very strong actually, the
written premium for all segments, also including Sweden. But Jostein, you can maybe say some
about the competition in Sweden.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}



FINAL

Yeah. I mean, as you very well know, we have less than 2% market share and our position in the
market is very different from -- especially Norway, but also from Denmark. So we do see a higher
growth than we have had in Sweden. I mean, we've done a lot of portfolio pruning actions over the
last couple of years and we see the results of that. But the -- in terms of earned premiums in local
currency, that increased by 6.4% for the quarter. And as Helge mentioned, if you look at the written
premiums, which is a kind of early indicator of earned premiums in the coming 12 months, that has
increased even more. This is mainly driven by volume growth in the commercial portfolio, which is
where we succeed most at the moment, but -- and a slight reduction in the private portfolio. In
terms of the competitive position, we are -- we have less than 2% market share. We are much
more of a price taker in Sweden than we are in the other markets. I think that's enough to be said
on the competitive position.

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Back to your question, Jan Erik, the overall comment is that we are in a very hard or firm market. It's
really extraordinary. And bear in mind my comments regarding motor insurance in Norway.
Extremely strong profitability, we gain new customers, 50-50 balance between price initiatives or
price increase and volume. So that's unique.

Q - Jan Erik Gjerland

{BIO 5346031 <GO>}

It's fantastic. Why do you think you guys are not trying to sort of discount your pricing even more
because it's so profitable for you?

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Ask them.

Q - Jan Erik Gjerland

{BIO 5346031 <GO>}

I will. Finally, on the commercial side, Fremtind has said that they would like to grow in the SME side,
which is sort of where you are a competitor. What -- which areas are you most afraid for? Is it
DNB's distribution power in the SME side? Or what is your most largest worries?

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

No. As I said, we have lots of competitors in Norway, but we follow closely two of them, and that's
Fremtind. And of course, it's SME and the distribution power of both saving bank one and DNB. But
you know, it's not like SME or commercial. It's not like travel insurance, a simple property incumbent
insurance and a couple of cars. So we think -- and I commented over 1st of July renewals, we
actually increased number of SME customers, and that's strong when you know that the strongest
part of our commercial book is SME. So we are in a very strong position there as well, but we follow
Fremtind closely. They are clever, and of course, If.

Q - Jan Erik Gjerland

{BIO 5346031 <GO>}

Thank you very much for your answers. All from my side.

Operator
The next question comes from Vegard Toverud from Pareto.

Q - Vegard Toverud

{BIO 17129809 <GO>}

Good morning. My questions are in the area of Jan Erik, I would say. You mentioned that your
competitive position is strengthening. So the customer dividends and so on are not something
new. Is it the competitive position strengthening then due to larger price hikes from the mentioned
competitors? Or are there something else going on there?



A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

FINAL

It's -- I think it's a combination of several things. We have -- our brand is extremely strong. We are
also investing heavily into our brand at the moment. The customer dividends -- dividend models,
as I commented, 12 year in a row, significant contribution for our customers. But as I said, it's a firm
market and our competitors, it has been lots of debate regarding claims inflation. And if you look
at the profitability level of some of our competitors, they need to strengthen their profitability as
well.
But if you look into our -- what's the really key point for Gjensidige, I think we are gradually
improving our CRM capabilities. And I think in the Norwegian market, talking about services, in
general, we are in the front line actually regarding CRM. And of course, we also work very
advanced with sales effectiveness and digital solutions. And we have a very strong team working
continuously to improve that part of the business. I think the main difference between maybe
peers and ourselves is on that part actually. Yeah.

Q - Vegard Toverud

{BIO 17129809 <GO>}

Would you say that your position is strengthening more on private or on SME?

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I will say private and SME, but of course, the private position now is extremely strong. But you have
seen what we have managed to do since 2018, '19 on the commercial side as well. We have
managed to increase prices significantly. We have maintained our customers. At the moment, we
also gain new customers. And we implement, on the SME side, some of the expertise from the
private side, so -- but maybe the strongest part is private, slightly...

Q - Vegard Toverud

{BIO 17129809 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. And on the growth, not by product, but by business units, is it possible to say how
much of the 7.9% on private and 11.8% on commercial is driven by repricing?

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

As I said -- Jostein can help me on the commercial side. The majority is price, of course, on the
commercial side, but as I said, the two large business lines, cars or motor, that's 50-50, volume
and price. And if you combine property and content, it's like 20-80 or something like that, volume,
price. For travel insurance, it's negative volume development due to the pandemic situation. So we
have some few percent points negative development in volume, but we have a positive price
development, of course.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Travel is a small business.

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

That's a small business compared to the two others. And maybe you could comment on the
commercial side, Jostein.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Yeah. I don't have any fixed number, and it's actually quite hard because when commercial
customers renew, they change the volume business on that the contract is based on the number
of cars and so on. So it's a bit hard to distinguish price from volume effects there. But that -- maybe
I will say, the overall majority are price effects for the commercial segment. So if you look at 11.8% in
earned premiums increase, we will say that 70% or something like that. 60% to 70% of that are
price effects and the remaining part is underlying business volume. But as I said, these are kind of
estimates because the volume isn't that easy to define always in the commercial segment.



Q - Vegard Toverud

{BIO 17129809 <GO>}

Yeah. Understood. And thank you very much for providing the detail.

Operator

FINAL

The next question comes from Thomas Svendsen from SEB.

Q - Thomas Svendsen

{BIO 6070863 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. I have two questions from my side. First, back to the issue of inflation, a more
technical thing. But if I don't remember wrong, you have said in the past that you increase prices by
this Statistics Norway building cost index, which is -- as far as I know, has a model composition,
more 50% material and 50% labor, while you pointed to another composition for your claims. How
should we think about that, the difference between the index and how you are realized (inaudible)?
And the second question, now that Alm. Brand is taking on Codan Denmark, do you see any
opportunities for you now in the Danish market when this transaction has been completed?

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. I'll start on the first one, Thomas. This building cost index is convenient because it's
observed by everyone, but everyone is also aware that that is not the true picture of our real cost
composition. So when we say that we increased prices by more than expected claims inflation, it's
our expectation of claims inflation taking into the actual composition of labor and materials, not
that index as such. But it's a convenient focal point for everyone because it's a well publicized and
well-known index.
So if you want to -- want an estimate, our inflationary exposure, it -- use our presentation rather
than the composition of the building cost index as such. And also, as Helge mentioned, there's a
difference between kind of frequency claims and the larger claims in the property and commercial
property and so on. There are more materials compared to wage costs and there are larger claims
than in the frequency claims. So this varies.

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Yeah. The situation in Denmark, Thomas, as you know, we have been clear about Codan Denmark
being strategically interesting for us. And we assume it would have been a good strategic fit for
Gjensidige, but we have to congratulate Almindelig Brand with the acquisition. But what we note is
that the price is very high, boding for continued price discipline in the market.
We will continue to focus on growth in our markets, primarily outside Norway. It's about growth in
the perspective of eternity for a company like ours, but the list has become shorter, but there are
still further consolidation opportunities in our markets and Denmark. It's opportunities in Denmark. I
think it's medium term, longer term. It's also opportunities in Sweden and Finland.
As I have said before, it's lots of companies looking at what Tryg have done after us and what we
have done with demutualization, foundations, customer dividends, and really good value
proposition for customers. So medium, long term, I think you will see more consolidation in the
market. But short term, the list has been -- become shorter, absolutely. When that said -- yeah, I
stop there. I stop there.

Q - Thomas Svendsen

{BIO 6070863 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
The next question comes from Hakon Astrup from DNB Markets.



Q - Hakon Astrup

{BIO 18861149 <GO>}

FINAL

Good morning. Two questions from me as well. The first one on COVID-19 effects. Q2 has also
some positive effects from the pandemic. So I was just wondering if it's possible to see a
permanent positive impact on claims going forward, for example, from less congestion on roads
or people staying more at home and then limiting damages from certain claims such as pipes
burst, et cetera? That was the first question.
And the second question on your investments into toll services. Another Norwegian company has
received some regulatory pushback on the back of similar investments. And I was just wondering
how will you assess the risk of you receiving similar treatment.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

COVID-19 effects. If I understand you correct -- your question correct, Hakon, is that kind of -- we
reported what we have seen or estimated in -- from our numbers in the second quarter. And then
your question is kind of, do we expect this to continue as a positive effect on claims going forward
in the second half of 2021, for instance.

Q - Hakon Astrup

{BIO 18861149 <GO>}

Yeah. Exactly, perhaps not in the same, I would say, magnitude, but we have seen some
permanent shift in behavior that can support longer claims going forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Yeah. No, it's perfectly possible that we will see positive effects if the economic activity continues
to be somewhat hindered or dampened by regulatory or government measures to keep people
at home and so on. But what we've seen the most effects have been -- or estimated most effects
because these are estimates; we don't have a clear number here, but it's (inaudible) investment to
motor, I would say, less driving. So maybe your guess is as good as mine, but if there is less driving,
there will be less claims. That's an easy statistic. And -- yeah, I don't have a very clear view on what
that will look like in the second half, but probably less than normal. But comparing them with the
second half of 2020, probably more driving and more returning to work and so on. We'll obviously
report on these numbers as we go forward as well, but gradually, it will become less and relevant
and be back to normal, in inverted commas, here, that - we don't quite know what new normal will
be.
The second question on the toll service providers. We strive to increase the offer we make to our
customers. And as you all know, we already are collecting the obligatory traffic insurance here for -on behalf of the government. And we don't quite see any reason why we shouldn't be able to also
collect the toll road fees as well. And by doing that, we could combine that service with other
services that could be given to our customers, the car drivers. And this is obviously something that
both Fremtind and ourselves see, look at in a very similar way. And we think this should be possible.
And under Solvency II regulations, we are actually -- think this is actually within what should be
possible. And then we have the -- what the FSA has said and we of course follow this closely and
complained to the Ministry of Finance on the negative ruling that we have received on Vegamot,
the first one we have bought.

Q - Hakon Astrup

{BIO 18861149 <GO>}

So if I understand you correctly here, you're not in a different position than Fremtind. It's more like
so you disagree with the ruling from the FSA?

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Yeah, we disagree with that. That's correct. And I think we have a very similar view on this as
Fremtind has. So we're very much in the same boat here. But of course, this is --



Q - Hakon Astrup

{BIO 18861149 <GO>}

That is very clear. Thank you.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah. Sorry.

Operator
The next question comes from Johan Strom from Carnegie. Please go ahead.

Q - Johan Strom

{BIO 17541253 <GO>}

Thank you. I had a couple of questions on the claims inflation topic, but I think you've answered all
of them. So thanks very much for all that color. So maybe just a final one. On the own partial
internal model, has there been any progress on the work with the FSA on that side?

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, we've had a small, call it, improvement in what we have been able to -- what we've gotten
approved from the FSA, which we also have reported -- or I mentioned in my comments to the
results. It is technically related to the calibration of some Danish property insurance lines, where
we've been able to get a better calibration approved, which has reduced the capital requirement,
but not a large effect. I mean, you see it from the numbers.

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

But it's positive to see that our discussions and when we dig deeply into this, we have some gains
down the road. So it's very positive.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Yeah. And I think -- as before, we continue to have an ongoing dialogue with the FSA on the areas
within the modeling where we have disagreed historically.

Q - Johan Strom

{BIO 17541253 <GO>}

That's great to see. Thanks very much and congrats with the great quarter, guys.

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Thank you, Johan.

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
We'll now take the next question from Will Hardcastle from UBS.

Q - Will Hardcastle

{BIO 16346311 <GO>}

Hey, good morning, everyone. Just trying to really get to grips with the extent that there is
underlying margin improvement. It's substantial year-on-year, but we're looking at the 1 point -- or
the 2.4 point. I'm just really trying to get a handle on how you guys are really viewing the year-onyear improvement. Which number we should be thinking about or was there some slightly
(Technical Difficulty) that's why it's greater in 2Q than you probably expect as a normal run rate.
Yeah, that's it. And then secondly, just on solvency, just trying to clarify, did you mention the timing



of when the transaction of the 6-point impact would be completed by, when those deals are
closing? Is that 3Q we should expect those? Thanks.

FINAL

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

On the underlying development, I would suggest you would look at the underlying that we have
provided in the appendix to the presentation on slide number 22 or something, which is the 2.4.
This is the underlying frequency loss ratio adjusted for weather, which is really nothing in Q2 and
then the COVID effects. With -- of course, a question mark here is my comment to Hakon's
question earlier on the -- what is the new normal. Will -- when we kind of add back kind of some of
the positive effects from the COVID-19 effect here. Will they actually continue, so we
underestimate how good the underlying frequency loss ratio really is? That is something we can -- I
mean, could discuss, of course.
But if you look at the underlying development tariff, 2.4 percentage points for the group, I feel
that's a fairly representative picture of what's going on there. Of course, even if you take away
large losses and weather, there will still be volatility from quarter-to-quarter. This is non-life
insurance. But I think this is a fairly okay picture of what is going on.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the composition of it is also fairly well stated on the -- at least by business unit level on this
same slide where you see that this is mainly driven by private and the Danish segment. But we
have improvements also for commercial, whereas the development in Sweden and the Baltics is
unfortunately negative.
Timing on the solvency effects, NEM Forsikring closing, I guess, during -- will close during this
quarter, also the third quarter, our expectation, I think. Yeah. But then this is a regulatory process.
And there it's -- also the toll service provider. It's a regulatory process, and we probably would
expect it to close at least in the second half. I'll be that broad in answering that one.

Q - Will Hardcastle

{BIO 16346311 <GO>}

Okay. Just coming back on that, to the extent of that, frequency improvement, clearly that -- if we
roll that forward, that's a very sizable uplift in ROE, for example, presuming some of that sticks for
longer. I guess is there -- on the back of that, is there no change in -- and we're talking about price
increases here. Is there -- at what point should we expect perhaps competition to pick up as some
of that's given away? Or do we think that this sticks and we'd be looking at a higher ROE more
sustainably?

A - Jostein Amdal

{BIO 19939645 <GO>}

That's a glimpse into the crystal ball you're trying to make there. I think, as I said, the 65.5
underlying frequency loss ratio adjusted for weather and COVID, I think that's a fairly okay picture
of what's actually going on, what's the profitability level now. And (inaudible) we do not guide on
future results there, but there is a very good momentum within non-life insurance, the whole
industry in Scandinavia, and we see it certainly in our figures. And I don't quite see in the short to
medium term that this competitive picture should change dramatically. But I mean, we could be
surprised. So I'm not giving any guarantees there, but it looks quite promising.

Q - Will Hardcastle

{BIO 16346311 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks.

Operator
As there are no further questions, I will hand the call back over to your host for any additional or
closing remarks.



A - Mitra Hagen Negard

{BIO 3974076 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you. Everyone, we'll be participating in a number of virtual roadshow meetings and a
conference over the summer, starting in August. The meetings will be held with investors in
Norway, the UK, Germany, Denmark, Italy, and Finland. Please see our financial calendar on our
website for more details. Thank you for your attention. Have a lovely summer and stay healthy. Bye.

Operator
Thank you. That will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation, ladies and
gentlemen. You may now disconnect.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

