Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-10

Y 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Jeff Davies , Chief Financial Officer
Nigel Wilson, Group Chief Executive

Other Participants
Andrew Baker, Analyst
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Andrew Sinclair, Analyst
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Colm Kelly, Analyst
Dominic O'Mahony, Analyst
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Jonathan Hocking, Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst
Steven Haywood, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Unidentified Participant

Presentation
Operator
Good morning or good afternoon all, and welcome to the Legal & General Annual Results
Call. My name is Adam, and I'll be the operator for this call. (Operator Instructions) I will
now hand you over to Nigel Wilson to begin. So, Nigel, please go ahead.

Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining Jeff and I on this call. And I hope you
all enjoyed the video. We feel as though we delivered what we said we would deliver. In
2020, our operating profit is flat, our dividend is flat and our balance sheet is in a stronger
position than when we went into the pandemic. We're very excited about the prospects
for future growth. We feel as though the agenda in the UK and indeed in the US -- and as
you have seen, we're announcing Kerrigan is moving to Asia. So, the prospects for future
growth are increasing for the Group. We remain totally committed to our dividend policy,
which we articulated last year. And we're feeling very confident about our capability to
deliver an exciting future here at Legal & General.
The first question is from Andy Sinclair. And Andy?

Page 1 of 20



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-10

Questions And Answers
Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

FINAL

Thanks, and good morning, Nigel and Jeff. Three from me as usual, if that's okay. Firstly,
just on new business margin on annuity is really strong. Just really wondered if you could
give a bit more color on that, and how we should be thinking about margins for 2021?
Secondly was on LGIM flows, very nice in a tough year but just really wondered if you
could give us some color on the pipeline, how has 2021 started so far in your different
regions, different geographies?
And thirdly was just actually on the Solvency II review kind of post-Brexit, we probably
heard quite a lot during this result season that this margin change is nice but probably not
a game changer. But the expansion of the matching adjustment could be quite helpful. I
just really wondered, firstly, if you agree and secondly, if you could tell us practically
speaking, what does that really mean? Would you be looking at investing in different
assets that you aren't able to at the moment or is it just different treatment for similar
assets? Just some color there would be would be really helpful. Thanks.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, Andy. Jeff is going to take the first one, I'll do the second one and we'll do a double
act on the third one.

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Hi, Andy. Yeah, new business margin, as you say, looks strong. A couple of things going in
there, one we can take credit for which is very much good asset sourcing from the team,
traded well when the spreads are wider around credit, obviously just pricing well and we
play across the whole market from the smallest deals to the largest and we can really
focus where we think there's margin.
And so, we benefited from that asset sourcing and that pricing, and doing everything
while the reinsurance, et cetera. And then it was just longer duration as well. So -- and
there was a quite a lot of business and that was significantly longer duration than 2019. We
talked about that at the half-year, and that's just a business mix thing. But generally,
margins are up across the business.
Yeah, will that be repeated? Well, obviously duration will be what it will be but we certainly
believe we have competitive advantages in sourcing assets and that stands us in good
stead to both right the volume and achieve good margins. And I'm sure we'll cover that
further in other questions.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah, on LGIM, we had GBP20 billion of net inflows last year. I think that was a very solid
year and in sharp contrast to lots of our competitors. How are we thinking about the world
at the moment? I mean America had net outflows last year, which is very unusual for
Page 2 of 20



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-10

FINAL

America, and that was some technical reasons rather than market reasons. America has
got off to a good start this year, good inflows already. We're increasing the product
offering in the United States.
It's very much about Michelle's strategy [ph], it's very much about modernizing,
diversifying and internationalizing. And a good example of that is in Europe where we are
increasing our presence across Europe. We are expanding our sales force across Europe.
We're seeing very strong demand for our ETFs across Europe. And in general, we're
nudging towards moving into higher priced, higher margin products.
Asia, we've been in Asia for a long time, 10 years. We've got a -- what I'll say is a strong
foothold. We haven't made as much progress there as personally I would have liked over
the last 10 years and moving Kerrigan across to Asia is certainly a signal of our intent in
Asia, not just within LGM but right across the board.

Bloomberg Transcript

And here in the UK, DC pension flows are continuing to be very positive. We had a
fantastic year in 2020 and we got off to a great start in 2021, as you heard. This is a very
high growth market and we're market leaders in that with a GBP113 billion of AUM on -- we
hope in the next few years to increase that to about GBP300 billion of AUM as the market
goes from GBP400 billion to GBP1 trillion here in the UK.
In terms of Solvency II, our industry has had a really good pandemic in many ways, I mean
you saw our cash collected of 99.9%. Our strategy, which we very much led on of investing
in different types of direct investment assets. We are very pleased with the regulators
being very positive on affordable housing and build-to-rent housing. And there is a
general theme that the treasury, regulator, ourselves, are all aligned, that our industry -and I think that's all in our industry, I think if you ask of Phoenix, Aviva and M&G, you get a
very similar response right now.
See, there is an enormous demand in the UK for the capital that we have and there is a
greater array of investment opportunities. Climate change is a huge opportunity for our
industry, indeed for the whole economy. We and our industry can play a much bigger role
and we intend that Legal & General play the biggest role in that specific development.
So, what has really pleased me is the fact that the regulator, the central government, the
local governments and indeed the treasury were all very supportive, leveling up Build Back
Better, the 10-point climate plan, and the role that our industry can play in helping deliver
economic growth in the future.
That's all I was going to say at a macro level, but if -- Jeff wants to make few other [ph]
comments?

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yeah, just I think there is some misconceptions that somehow insurance industry wants to
increase risk with this flexibility around matching adjustment, et cetera. We have actually

Page 3 of 20



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-10

FINAL

being able to play in a bigger universe of assets and Nigel sets out all the climate-related
ones that are a key focus for us.
And by that, what I mean is there are some which have standard contract features which
just makes them ineligible, and the most obvious being things like prepayment risk. With -the big debate was do cash flows have to be completely fixed or can they be highly
predictable? And just moving away from that completely foxed allows some flexibility to
make sensible assumption than lots of assets together to get diversification and allows
you to compete with other funders on a larger pool of assets, not move down in a risk
spectrum and take on more risk associated with it.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Thank you. Next question is from Andrew Baker -- questions. We're expecting two or
three from everyone actually.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Great, thanks guys. Good morning. I will stick with traditional and go with three as well. So
first is on LDC. We saw about GBP60 million negative from COVID in the first half due to
the stopping in the housing operations. That was that GBP40 million negative than in the
second half. Can you just help explain what the driver of the second half impact was
there?
Then on LGI, the GBP110 million provisioning in 2021, are you able to give a little color on
what you're assuming in terms of US excess debt and then the timing between the first
half and second half, if possible? And then finally, are you able just to provide an update
on potential longevity charges in the US RBC framework and any impact you might see on
the US PRT market as a whole if these two come in? Thank you.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Good morning, Jeff. I'll answer the first one and Jeff will answer the second and the third
one. On the first one, of the GBP100 million, Cala accounted for GBP84 million. The rest
of it is largely in -- part of that was in affordable housing, which again got -- was all to do
with construction delays in the housing industry as the -- and that was more by accident
than by design. I don't think the government really meant for the housing industry to get
closed down quite so much. And as we've seen in the latter half of 2020 and certainly in
the first 2 months of 2021,.tThe demand for housing has been very strong and forward
owners in the housing business are at all-time high at over 50% right now. Jeff ?

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yeah, just on the LGI point, the GBP110 million, as you rightly point out, the vast majority of
that is in respect of potential claims in the US. We just thought that was prudent given the
range of potential outcomes in the US. That's starting to make better vaccine progress, et
cetera. We work directly off the industry and population projections. So, that sort of figure
would take you add to -- originally it was April, but actually it looks like that figure would
take you out now to round about June time, which is when they would see this trailing off

Page 4 of 20



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-10

to an underlying core number of deaths in the base scenarios, to the IHME projections
around that.

FINAL

It may well have headroom. Of course, there's prudence in that we're not allowing
anything for any potential offset in that -- in the annuity portfolio in UK and US. And so,
we're comfortable that's prudent, but we think it's a sensible thing to do with that level of
variation that's possible in the US from here to, say, the summer.
And then just on the longevity, yeah, I understand it's moving forward as an industry body.
I believe the biggest holder of longevity risk, Profen [ph] is heading that up in terms of the
individuals for the committee. There's a reasonable distance to go around that. We're in
the discussions in the same way when Solvency II came in the UK, companies adapt or
deal with it. And whether reinsurance is a solution, whether it's fully retrospective or only
on new business going forward, we will see. But the industry will deal with that as and
when it happens. I mean we price our economic capital ourselves, which obviously
includes allowance for all these risks. And so, we would expect to just simply flow through
to see what happens and adapt to the market.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Next question, Jon Hocking.

Q - Jonathan Hocking
Yeah, good morning everybody. I've got three as well, please. Firstly, on the capital strain
in the UK PRT, I think, Jeff, in your presentation you said it's around 4%. Given the margin
was very strong last year, should we expect that to get a little bit tougher in 2021, more
things being equal?
Second question, on LGIM, just on the flow, I appreciate you said it was too tricky last year
and then the US that's exceptional. But you've settled down into what seems like lower
level of net flows than historically. I think you've gone back a few years, you used to sort of
run pretty sustainably sort of net new money a year. Is that a level that you could expect
to get back to or is there a new strategy here, more going for sort of margins over
volume. That's the second question.
And then the final question, just on the sort of budget with a higher tax rate coming from
2023, to what extent does that change your capital generation plans in the sort of backend of the strategic plan you put out last year? Thanks.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Jeff, you want to take the first one? I'll take the second and you can do the third.

Page 5 of 20



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-10

FINAL

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yeah, no problem. Yeah, capital strain [ph] was actually better than the 4%. So, it was
certainly sitting between 3% and 4%. It was probably one of the lower strains but the
team performed extremely well on that. And we are obviously very conscious of capital
usage, given the level of uncertainty through last year. They did benefit, as I said, on the
margins from very good asset sourcing, good use of reinsurance. They are a very small
team that adapt to whatever the type of liabilities that are coming to us to optimize that
metric.
So, we've historically delivered in and around that level, whether it's 3.5% or 4.5%. We
anticipate being able to maintain that sort of level, in and around that sort of 4% level that
we've done for many years. It remains to be seen how this year plays out and levels of
competition. It's too early to have too many pricing points in that and there is plenty of
pipeline. So, we'll see how that plays out.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, just amplifying on what I said earlier about LGIM net flow, there is certainly a -- under
Michelle's leadership, a slight change in the strategy. There is less emphasis on index and
volume and more emphasis on ESG, multi-assets, real assets, high yield, emerging market
debt, ETFs. And as a consequence of that, we may see lower absolute net flows. But
we're hoping for higher organic growth and higher margins from this modification of
strategy our over aggressive international footprint. We'd like to see more growth in
America, Europe and indeed in Asia.

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yeah, just on the tax rate, obviously that's the headline in the tax rate. There is obviously
other areas that may well be positive for us. Overall, we'd see a number of the tax
incentives are extremely positive for encouraging investment. But we wait to see what the
details are as they come out later in the month. And so, those would -- those could offset
some of the rate impact of that. All things being equal, obviously the rate on its own
would take something off the range of potential capital cash generation down the track.
But that may well be offset and what we'd expect to do. Given the range we have, the
GBP8 billion to GBP9 billion and the sort of materiality of the tax change, we're obviously
going to stay with those ranges. And we'd look to still deliver in line with those ambitions.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Thank you, Andrew?

Q - Jonathan Hocking
Alright, thank you.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Good morning. It's Andrew Crean. A couple or three questions. Firstly, Nigel, you said you
got off to a good and positive start to 2021 and you've given a couple of examples. Could
you just elaborate a bit more perhaps in terms of the PRT volumes?
Page 6 of 20



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-10

FINAL

Secondly, UK workplace remains I think marginally in loss. Could you just give us a sense as
to when that very large business is actually going to ramp up and make proper profit?
And then thirdly, coming back to the risk margin, I mean I know that a reform of the risk
margin could add 5 points to your Solvency. It would also massively reduce the volatility,
which is I think being the major problem that you've had over the last 5 years. Does that
make you think at all about target levels of coverage and whether you could post risk
margin change that should be running with too high a solvency margin? I know that's a
slightly different question than you usually get.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's answer the slightly different question that we usually don't get, and I'll answer the
somewhat easier first two questions. A good positive start -- I mean right across the
board, I think it is -- every part of the Group has had a very positive start to 2020. We've
seen strong growth in retail protection in the UK, for example, group protections have
been very, very strong, annuity business good flows, as we mentioned earlier, LGIM has
had good flows into the business. PRT business seem incredibly busy. There is a lot of
quoting on deals going on at the moment.
The absolute volume of deals in the UK, at the end of the year -- end of 2021 depend on
whether there are really big deals. I mean we saw the market as GBP28 billion to GBP30
billion, last year we had the largest market share of that. We're expecting market to be
similar this year. But it partly depends on whether some of -- and certainly some of our big
clients are going to do the multi-billion pound deals in 2020 or will they get broken up and
done in bits over the next few years. But we're feeling very good about the start -- as I
mentioned earlier, the housing market has been on fire in the first 2 months.
On workplace, that may be a little bit of misunderstanding, I think communication on our
part. We're probably [ph] separated in two parts. One of it is the platform which is the
number that is the loss-making, which is a sort of GBP80 million to GBP90 million type of
business that the DC platform business sits on, which has always been owned by LGAS,
so it's slightly in the insurance business. But for a number of years, it was managed by
LGIM. LGIM absolutely makes profits of the manufacturing parts of the business,
manufacturing the assets. And so, the GBP113 billion or even more now that we've got
today is actually very profitable for us as a business activity. The platform itself isn't.
We transferred that in a sense back into LGAS. There it always sat in LGAS from an
ownership point of view. It now comes under Andrew Kail who joined us and is part of the
pension strategy that we've got there. And so, you will see some more innovations within
LGRR around the Workplace Savings platform. And our ambition is very much to make that
a profitable part of our business on a go-forward basis.
But it sits in Cardiff. The team are looking at how do we automate more, how do we make
it a bigger and more successful part of the Group and hopefully in the future use it as part
of our international expansion, because there is hardly a country in the world that doesn't
want to have wider (inaudible), the bigger DC business and more efficient platforms.

Page 7 of 20



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-10

Jeff, you want to take the third question?

FINAL

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yeah, just on the risk margin, yeah, you're right, Andrew, that we provide the sensitivity. I
think that's on a 66%, two-thirds reduction in risk margin. Obviously, it will very much
depend where the final regulation ends up. And when all of our regulation lands, we will
reassess one in 20%, one in 50%, one in 200%, what's the sensitivity of our capital and
reassess all of our sort of internal tolerances that we work to. And so, that will be a
process that we go through. Whether there is a scenario in that where it sufficiently
changes the sensitivity to rates, credits, et cetera, that we think we can run with less
capital, it remains to be seen. We push on the outcome at this stage and worry about that
in -- at a later stage.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Thanks.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Colm?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Colm Kelly

{BIO 19140684 <GO>}

Hi. Thanks a lot, Nigel and Jeff, got taking the questions. Yeah, so look, two main
questions from me. First one is just on the annuity portfolio, becoming self-financing at a
GBP100 billion of assets under management, I suppose that at GBP87 billion at the end of
this year or with another year of expected new business, you'll be close to that number in
terms of assets under management where it becomes self financing. So, where does that
timeline fit relative to the 3 years to 5 years that you had indicated before, so maybe if
you can discuss that?
And secondly, just on management changes, obviously quite a lot of changes announced
today across the divisions, including both CEOs of the annuity businesses and obviously
Andrew Kail coming in. Obviously, one was required due to Simon retiring but perhaps the
other is a bit less expected. So maybe just the rationale for making so many divisional
management changes this year, particularly in the context of it being the continued
uncertain trading environment that we're operating in. And maybe (Technical Difficulty) --

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

(Technical Difficulty) question.

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yeah, sure. I mean the self-finance, as we said, it was in the range of GBP90 million to
GBP110 million [ph]. There is some dependency there on the type of business we're
writing, levels of strain, as John referred to earlier. But we're getting close to that sort of
range now. We'd said it was at that range, which puts us 2 years, 3 years away potentially
from being there. So you're right, that's -- it's GBP87 billion with a good deal of new

Page 8 of 20



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-10

FINAL

business. You do get some run-off, of course, of the back book of the order of GBP3
billion, GBP4 billion as it gets bigger. So, we made progress towards that.
We're actually thinking we will -- look, that might be an area we'll be looking to add -- to
disclose. We haven't really decided what would be helpful and what we can show on that.
But it's clearly something where it would be useful to try and show some progression
towards, but it's whether we can produce something meaningful around that, that is
something we'll look at.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, on management changes, we actually have a relatively stable operating
environment and reasonably predictable demand for our products. So, we're feeling
pretty good about that. On the specifics, Simon Gadd has been due to retire for a while
and we have known about that for a while. Chris Knight, it's always part of his career
development that he wanted to become the CRO and has -- the transition been in
progress for several months already. Andrew Kail joined us several months ago, officially
just started last week. Kerrigan was made Chairman of China quite a long time ago and
has been working with me and others on our strategy for Asia. Laura used to run a large
part of LGC and so moving her back to LGC, she'll just run the whole of it now and have
responsibility for that.
Kerrigan is not going to take up his position until later in the year and Laura is not going to
move across until later in the year. We're just flagging these externally. We flagged them
internally a while ago, that these moves are going to happen. And it's very exciting to
have Andrew join us. It's fantastic that Kerrigan is putting his hand up and he is going to
move to Asia because I think it's difficult to do that job, fly in, fly out. It's very exciting for
Laura that she's going to move across to LGC. So, we feel as though overall we've got
great continuity. We've continued to strengthen the capabilities of the Company. And
we've given some new challenges to some of our best and most successful people.
Next is Gordon.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks. Good morning, Nigel. Good morning, Jeff. And three questions please. First
on the mortality release of 177, can you split that out between the base table effect and
the future projections, as you've done in previous years?
And staying with the mortality, second question, you've said you've conservatively
adopted the CMI-18 tables. Now, CMI-18 is -- was a 6-month reduction and less expensive
versus 3 months with a smoothing factor. If you can maybe just say how many months did
you effectively reduce life expectancy by -- in your release today and maybe comment on
the smoothing factor and what it currently is and whether or not it changed?
And just third onto this -- back to this point about the post-Brexit Solvency II reform, in
terms of changes in the risk margin, I know you've talked about sensitivity of a 66%
reduction. But do you share the views that the ABI [ph] put forward their proposal? And if
Page 9 of 20



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-10

the risk margin was to be reduced, would you then stick with the previous guidance of you
actually retain more longevity risk? Thank you.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Yeah, I think, Jeff, if you do one and two, I will do (inaudible) on three.

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yeah. I mean the 177 is all trend assumption. There is no -- there was no material base
table changes. We did our normal BAU where we just reassessed everything against
experience though obviously there is a lot of distortions in 2020 data. So, it's really the
move to CMI-18 is that 177. So, it's all trend assumption there. As you say, we say we've
been pretty conservatively adopted that. So therefore, we're at the -- much at the lower
end of your 6 months. You're talking 1 month or 2 months of change would drive that sort
of level for a book of our size.
We just think that -- you can see the CMI-19 data. So, that's fine. We can allow for that. We
definitely didn't want to overshoot what that was telling you by any means. And at the
same time, there is a lot of noise in 2020. Normally with a book of our size, we will have
an early indication of how experience is playing out and what it looks like a couple of years
ahead of the table were adopting. But clearly, we didn't have that this time. There are a
whole range of new dynamics going on. We don't know whether there's going to be
underlying COVID deaths, what will happen to flu or there will be different attitudes to
health, more people will look at the impacts of a B2C [ph] exceptional outcome, will there
be more funding of health services. So, we want to spend a lot more time looking at that,
understanding what the impacts have been before we would move forward with any
further releases around that. So, we'll -- keep monitoring it, advance around that.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah, on the post-Brexit Solvency II, I don't think any of us are thinking that this is going to
be a capital windfall for us as an industry. And knowing Simon and the rest of the team
that the regulator -- they give it with one hand, they'll take it with another around that. I
think on the risk margin and what level will we return greater longevity risk, at 66% it's in
that pivotal area. We actually thought and asked for even more than that in the submission
that we made to the treasury on this. So we do think there really needs to be a
fundamental change in that. And I think everybody in this industry accepts that. And I think
that's the big change.
I think the -- what the industry is looking for and what the ABI -- we are not members of
the ABI but what we're all looking for is more flexibility and matching adjustment, that we - I think there is a genuine desire to play a bigger role and to get much more asset
flexibility, as Jeff rightly pointed out. This isn't a charge for additional risk for us. It's actually
a charge from greater diversification, more relevance as an industry, and that we are
allowed to invest in assets. We own 25% of PodPoint which will be the UK's largest electric
vehicle charging. That type of asset at some point will be, we think, appropriate to put
into pension funds, anything that's got a future stable cash flow.

Page 10 of 20



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-10

FINAL

We own of -- onshore wind is an asset class that we've been interested in and invested in
for a long period of time. We'd like to see structures emerge and an opportunity to invest
and put that in the annuity portfolio as well. So, that's another one that we want to put in
there. Carbon captures, yet another one that we want to include.
As we mentioned earlier, various types of housing, build-to-rent housing, affordable
housing, are all things that we want to do. Ironically, we've already got housing for
homeless people, which is part of our -- it's part of our (inaudible) included in the pension,
in the annuity business. And so, our regulator has definitely accepted this. We have moved
on a long way in the last 10 years. We used to have to trot across on a deal-by-deal basis
and get the non-objection on a transaction-by-transaction basis.
I think the Bank of England, Andrew and Simon and his team, the PRA, are all realizing that
we can play an important role in future policy as an industry and that they shouldn't just be
looking at sort of the banks to help out. It's very much our ability to have patient capital
and lots of different forms of capital. And the sheer size that we are, w have GBP1.3 trillion
of assets under management, so that's going to get bigger. We've put a -- as Colm [ph]
highlighted, very close to getting GBP100 billion in annuities. You start investing GBP10
billion, GBP20 billion of that in different types of assets and in new assets, GBP20 billion is
1% growth for the UK economy. As an industry, we can easily achieve that.
Next question, Oliver.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Hi, good morning. Three questions from me. First is the impact of higher interest rates, I
mean you talked about the impact on solvency and to be fair, you've also talked quite a
lot about flows today. But I wonder if you can just give us a broader sense, for instance
the impact on AUM, whether there is a sort of change of mix because of higher interest
rates in terms of LGIM flows, any benefits coming through on the PRT or individual annuity
front, LGC and capital generation more widely?
Second question, maybe if Nigel goes just a bit out, but the expenses within LGIM were
actually a bit less than I had expected. Is that something you recognize? And can you just
remind us of the expense progression that you expect in LGM? And then the third
question is on Kerrigan moving to Asia; what are you -- what's the sort of -- can you just
sort of take us through what the sort of targets might be -- loose targets might be for
that business?

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah, those are interesting questions, Oliver. I think on interest rates, we've highlighted
the major changes in interest rate. I think everything else is second order. I mean
theoretically, we should see PRT volumes increasing but we -- there has never been much
of a correlation between volumes and interest rates in the past.
In terms of LGM flows, as you went through that list that -- I went through the list earlier,
there's minor second order impacts on all of those flows. But everything is second order.
Page 11 of 20



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-10

FINAL

On expenses at LGM, yes, we did see some progress in 2020 and we are very aware that
LGM's expenses have gone up 10% per annum for quite a long period of time and that's
higher than we would like and that the team are working incredibly hard to make the
business more efficient.
On Kerrigan to Asia, I mean we've been looking at opportunities over a number of years.
We shied away from the insurance opportunity that a lot of other people had. We have
various relationships out there that we've had for a number of years that we'd like to
scale up now, particularly on the LGR side, on some assets sides for LGR, on the LGIM
side where we've been leading with some index funds and fixed income funds in the -into China and the rest of Asia. We want to particularly increase our share of ESG funds in
China, Japan and the rest of Asia.

Bloomberg Transcript

We recognize that there's huge changes going on in the pension industry and the wealth
industry in China. And on the pension industry in particular, we think we have a big role to
play, as that -- we're pretty sure that'll eventually move to an auto-enroll pension system
out there. DC is going to play an important role. And the richness of our asset base, our
experience here, is we again think market-leading, and people are really interested in
what we have to say about ES&G because we've invested directly in all of those asset
classes.
And so, a lot of our peers in China and the rest of Asia are very interested in what we've
invested in. Modular housing is something that doesn't trip off the time [ph] for an
insurance company or an investment company in China. But there's a huge amount of
interest in particularly that part of our business. And as you may have seen today, we
announced in Bristol that we are building modular houses which are affordable, EPC, A
rated, they have been manufactured in the north just outside of Leeds. So in terms of
leveling up, Build Back Better, having a social conscience, modernization, building
affordable, creating assets potentially for LGR, this sort of investment ticks all the boxes
and you'll be seeing more of that from us on a go-forward go-forward basis.
Okay, Steve.

Q - Steven Haywood

{BIO 15743259 <GO>}

Good morning. Thank you very much. Three questions from me as well. Just following on
from your last comment about Asia, have you considered or are you considering inorganic
growth there as well by potential bolt-on M&As or joint ventures with partners?
Secondly, you talk about in your results a GBP228 million negative COVID impact in 2020.
Now, it'd be interesting to see how much of that you think will reverse in 2021. Obviously
the GBP110 million provision and should not come through again in 2021, assuming your
assumptions and the vaccine rollout is going in line with that. So it'd be interesting to see
what other aspects of this GBP228 million could potentially reverse in the 2021 results?
And then finally from me, on third-party capital in LGC, now it's very interesting because
obviously (inaudible) paid for us to see what third-party capital is coming in here. Can you

Page 12 of 20



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-10

give us an idea of the pipeline of third-party capital? Can you talk about any particular
names or types of institutions that are looking to invest with you as well? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

The first one -- Jeff will take, the second and I'll do the third. It's very unlikely that we'll do
acquisitions in Asia. It is very likely we will do joint ventures in Asia. I think we've had
discussions with a number of people over the years on joint ventures. We've got a couple
of people now we're working with who we think are much more likely joint venture
candidates for us. But you won't be seeing a multi-billion pound acquisition for us in Asia in
2021 or in 2022.

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

I know from partnerships as well, not traditional legal JVs. There's many ways that you can
work with people to -- in partnership to grow in the region.

Bloomberg Transcript

Just on the second one, yeah, I mean you're right. I mean, we would look at those -we've hopefully provided for the claims we'd expected to see from COVID in 2021. And
obviously, a huge range of uncertainty around that and how it could play out. Cala is
having a fantastic time at the moment with strong tailwinds coming into the business. So,
we would expect that to experience a very strong 2021. Again all things being equal, lots
of uncertainty around that. And we wouldn't expect to see the Group cost elements being
repeated either. And so, we're positive to see turnaround in those and we should expect
to see a nice increase around that.
Obviously, other businesses need to perform as well. Some of them had exceptionally
strong results in 2020 in that environment with good strong new business margin. So
everyone needs to continue performing, but we're going into the year confident with a
level of uncertainty that you all know about.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

On third-party equity capital coming into the businesses, if you look at slide 13 and 14 in
the pack that we sent out, Pemberton clearly -- we set up a number of years ago, we put
the actual data on slide 14 showing the AUM growing from not GBP0.5 billion to almost
GBP10 billion in five years. We'd expect that trend to continue, that we'd see absolutely
further support and further funds coming in from third parties. They have over 100 LTEs
already in Pemberton.
In -- so livings and other areas that we think will see third-party equity flowing into that.
Build-to-rent we've already got third-party equity in the terms of a partnership with TGM.
LGIM has already set up a fund, which has a number of insurance companies and pension
funds. So, we're co-investors in that.
NTR has already started on the third-party capital coming into the business. PodPoint is
another one where we think we'll accelerate its growth through further third-party
financing coming in there. I don't think for the next few years much will come into Oxford.
We'll be very much doing that on our own. Bruntwood SciTech, we are still establishing the
Page 13 of 20



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-10

business. We've got a number of exciting opportunities, and Jeff and I are doing a road
trip together very shortly to look at one of those opportunities. The datacenter business,
we'll probably bring third parties into those and fund of funds and ADVs will certainly bring
third-party funding into those. The exact amounts of that we'll tell you as we make various
releases. Some of those will happen as early as the first half of 2021.

FINAL

Thank you. And next question is Ashik.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Good morning, Jeff. Just a couple of questions, I have maybe three. First of all, how do
we think about debt leverage? Now if I look at your peers like M&G, Phoenix, Aviva,
everyone is kind of targeting debt leverage as a percentage of Solvency II Own Funds of
about 30% whereas you are at about 34%. And if I look at the maturity profile of your
debt, I think there is only one bond of GBP300 million coming to maturity of this year. And
for next 4 years, 5 years, there is nothing. So, how do we think about that given that your
peers are targeting, less than 30%, you're at 34%? Would you use the extra capital
because of rising interest rate to reduce leverage on an accelerated basis or you're
absolutely fine with this?

Bloomberg Transcript

Second thing is, if I think about illiquid assets, I mean that is now about GBP30 billion direct
investment in total out of GBP120 billion of total assets you have. I mean how would you
classify your risk appetite? I mean, it's about 24%, 25% at the moment. Peers are saying,
they can go to -- up to as much as 40%. Would you say that more or less that's what your
plan is as well?
And thirdly is in terms of assumption changes, if I look at the assumption changes year
after year after year, it -- for last 3 years, 4 years, 5 years, maybe it's about, say, 20% of
your Group earnings. So how do we think about that going forward, like would it be a
consistent feature of your IFRS operating profit or would you say that because longevity
releases could now reduce as we have seen this year in 2020, this would be much less
prominent feature going forward? Thank you.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Those questions are all for Jeff actually.

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yeah. And then the debt leverage, I mean we talked about before, we will focus on the
rating agency leverage ratios, Moody's adjusted has usually been a number that's been
relevant for us. We've said we're at the top end where we'd expect to be at the current
time. But as you say, there is a debt coming in July, we'll look at that and what we want to
do with that. Obviously, any redemption of that would reduce the leverage. And we have
a strong conviction that we will grow our balance sheet. So in many ways, that -- as our
business grows, those leverage ratios naturally fall for us and that's what's happened
consistently for us over the last 4 years, 5 years, 6 years.

Page 14 of 20



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-10

FINAL

Whenever we go raise a debt we grow the balance sheet, book value again grew 5% this
year. The balance sheet continues to grow. And so, our leverage ratios reduce in that way.
And so, we drive the growth. That's how we invest and we continue to do that.
On the illiquids, yeah, you pointed out. It's less than 30% at the moment, so plenty of
headroom in that. We've talked about a 40% to 50% range and the important point within
that is we don't consider all of these assets illiquid by any means. And so, yes, there is a
ballpark figure, is it 40% to 50%, but we do a lot more analysis underlying that to work out
what do we think is truly illiquid versus what we think is liquid. And it's the liquidity of the
total asset portfolio that we look at in determining where we would set that range. But we
have plenty of headroom in being able to achieve that to get to those sorts of levels.
Just on the assumption changes, actually the longevity release was up this year to last
year, it was 177 versus 155. So, we obviously focus on the numbers exclude in longevity
releases for that very reason because it distorts some of the figures. So, then there
obviously it helps. But it's not the way we run the business, not what we've shown in our
ambitions.

Bloomberg Transcript

And so, we have regular reviews. We have BAU reviews of mortality across our -- all of our
business of persistency, we run through those. There are always areas of modeling that
need updating, whether it's discussions with auditors, whether it's just prudence that's
built up, and as a line of business grows or an assumption grows it becomes more
material and the sort of the more ad hoc version you put it at the start, it needs to be
made more accurate and invariably we've been conservative in those. So, we just carry on
with that process and that leads to changes along the way as BAU.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay, thank you.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Yeah, the GBP300 million is at 10% coupon, so we saved GBP30 million of interest as well
to boost earnings on an annual basis, on a go-forward basis, if we actually do pay back in
July. Next question is from Ming-Ju [pj].

Q - Unidentified Participant
Hi, good morning. Just two questions from me please. First, as your US and pension risks
transfer, that -- the growth has been excellent. Could you just give a little bit more color in
terms of the competition and the sort of competitive edge you have there and what have
you done or what more actions are there to do in terms of going forward to capture
opportunities in that market?
And my second question is, your credit default was just GBP3.5 billion still unutilized and
given what happened last year and there's no default, I mean the assumptions you've got
behind to calculate that credit default reserve, I mean is that too conservative? Just two
questions please. Thank you.

Page 15 of 20



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-10

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Jeff, answer the second question, but I do agree, it's too conservative, but I'm not going
to win that argument necessarily. The -- on the US PRT, yeah, we had a fantastic year last
year. We've taken a very measured approach in the United States recognizing that so
many UK firms have not succeeded in America and so we determined to be very, very
successful. And just as an illustration of our success, in the good old days when we were
busy building up the team there, we had very few people who really wanted to come and
work for us. We had to work incredibly hard to get people to join us.
We advertised for a job a couple of weeks ago, we had 300 applicants, 300 highly
competent applications, because people love the fact that we are supporters of inclusive
capitalism, for ESG, and so our brand is resonating incredibly well with customers in the
United States. I'd say the US is a -- there are more competitors in the United States. So,
the competitive intensity is greater in the United States. We're constantly adding to our DI
capabilities through -- in America. They're not as good as we want them to be. In 2 years
or 3 years' time, we'll have a much stronger DI offering in the United States or DI
capability in the United States, and that's part of the strengthening that we've been doing
of the team in the last few years.
So, we are very well known now. We get access to most of the deals. We're competitive
on deals. There isn't anybody we think has a tremendous competitive advantage over us.
It's not quite like the UK where we absolutely have competitive advantages over
everyone we think in the UK, and that's one of the reasons we've had tremendous longterm success. But we're very -- working very hard to fill the minor gaps that exist between
our competitive position and say the proof in the United States. And certainly, the brand
resonates incredibly well.
Jeff, do you want to take the second question?

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yeah, I mean there isn't a lot to say now. We haven't fundamentally changed our
methodology for years on that. We take a pretty fixed demand, which is of the order of a
sort of a 40 bps or so amount that we put in there. There then is an additional loading on
top of that. We benchmark it around the industry. And we think it is conservative. And as
you say, the fact that we didn't use it and we haven't used it, there is still uncertainty in
how the economy plays out.
There are elements of it that we then are trying to run off over time. But of course, as the
portfolio grows and actually with interest rates falling as well, the total amount in the
reserve goes up, as you've seen. So, there is a small element around the edges that
we're trying to run off, Ming. It's slowed by the business growing. We think it's
conservative. It's useful to have that. Investors like having it and we would -- we've talked
about we would use it in the event of defaults, et cetera. So, I don't think there's a lot
more we can say on that.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}
Page 16 of 20



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-10

I'd just like to say thank you to our team again for year after year after year, we've had
zero defaults and the cash collection on the investments has been truly outstanding and
industry leading. And so, we've got a great team. We work together in a very collaborative
way. I just -- I can take this opportunity to thank you for them all.

FINAL

We've got two more questions to come. The first is from Larissa [ph] and the second
from Dom.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you and good morning. Two questions; the first one, you had a strong year on bulk
annuities in the US. Can you give us a sense of how margins in the US compare versus
those in the UK and how you see those evolving in time? The second question, also on
bulk annuities, your new business trend, been low at 3% to 4% for some time, as you
mentioned earlier. How sensitive is that to inflation? And what happens if inflation reverts
back to the 2%-odd or higher that we have seen historically?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yes, sure. The key determinant for us in pricing the business in the US is a return on
economic capital. We think that reflects all the risks. We target the same sorts of returns
as we do on the Solvency II capital in the UK. Clearly, we think there is upside in both
obviously economies of scale and how much we can spread expenses in that business as
it grows. And as Nigel talked about, in the DI capability and asset sourcing, which is
nowhere here obviously as efficient as it is in the UK, so both those would give us upsides
in those margins. But they are broadly comparable in a capital allocation return on capital
sense but not all metrics are equal for other reasons.
So, we're comfortable with that. We're pleased to grow it. It's a competitive market at
times. And then we don't allocate capital. We then allocate it to UK deals. And similarly, we
were a player in the Canadian market. So, we can look at these and decide where we put
capital to make sure that we're getting the right returns on our capital as we put it to
work.
On new business strain, yes, that continues to be efficient. It is entirely something -- we
don't take inflation risk explicitly on any of those as it does -- obviously do something to
the duration. You have the inflation element, so you get typically longer business in UK
versus US. But we're not active takers of the inflation risk on that. As Nigel would say, we
don't think it's a (Technical Difficulty) risk. We look to hedge and as said, in a similar way to
interest rates. And so, it doesn't have a big impact on it. It's much more driven by the
strains at the moment around what we do with reinsurance, for example.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you very much.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Dom?
Page 17 of 20



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-10

FINAL

Q - Dominic O'Mahony
Hello. Hi folks, hope you can hear me. Two questions from me if that's all right. Just
coming back to Asia, Nigel, it was interesting to hear your comments earlier about having
sort of in the past shied away from insurance risk there. Clearly, LGIM has a real
opportunity there. You mentioned, the asset side of the LGR. But would you consider
other most of the risk-based growth in Asia? I mean, it may sound like a bit of a wild card
but the Japanese defined benefit pension sector, you might think that's right for an
emerging PRT market. Is that something you could be interested in?
Second one sort of on the maths really, LGR, the release from operations, just as a
percentage of the opening balances, on my math that declined from being in the sort of
the mid '90s -- in terms of basis points on the opening balance, where I think for a few
years it was something in the mid '80s. Is that essentially some sort of COVID effect in
2020? Would you expect it to get back to something like the mid '90s going forwards?
And then thirdly, just on UK PRT, I understand that there have been some emerging
structures that some of your competitors are using that involve sort of full costs that are
at risk including asset risk through to insurers in North America. Is this sort of new
structuring creating more competition in the UK markets? Is there any sign that actually
things are intensifying? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

I'll take the first one, Jeff can take the second and the third questions. On Asia, the
answer that is we do like to take informed and rewarded risk. That's a big thematic about
what we are as a firm. And we felt entering some of the Asian markets before we were
taking unrewarded risks, if you like, and with counterparties who maybe didn't always have
the capabilities that we'd want to work with. So, we definitely have much more capability
now than when we first looked 8 years to 10 years ago at the Asian opportunities, both in
the products offerings and the strengths of our specific businesses.
And really our digital capabilities, I think we haven't talked to you about very much on this
call, but if you were to ask Jeff and I what really excites us about what we've achieved
during the pandemic, our digital capabilities have sold and as a consequence of that we
think we have more opportunities for international expansion, including in Asia.
Jeff, do you want to take the other two questions?

A - Jeff Davies

{BIO 20023574 <GO>}

Yes, sure. Yeah, I mean I don't think there's anything in particular going on within that
release of operations as an element. Yes, of course [ph], there is clearly an element that's
COVID. I think you're looking at the two, so total annuity profitability within that would be
slightly reduced volumes from LTM, which then less profitability coming through which
dragged it down a fraction, which is obviously COVID-related, and also some of the cost
of setting up the advice business around the LTM. So, they're small figures, which really is
why you get that little dip. So, we're not seeing anything dramatic. We're not expecting
changes within that away from the norm I would say.
Page 18 of 20



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-10

FINAL

Yeah, the asset reinsurance, that's something we've talked about a lot. We've done trial
versions of that, if you like. We've not done an enormous scale. But we clearly have many
counterparties that would be interested in doing it with us. It's a way that we would fund
larger volumes in a year if we thought that made sense. So, there is capital that is keen to
be put to work in the UK PRT market. We're as well placed as anyone to source the front
end of that and to access some of that capital.
So, we continue to talk to all of exactly the same parties. We have some ready to go on
the blocks as and when they're needed. And equally, we do some proof of concepts to
make sure that we can do everything that's required from reporting to the legal
documentation, et cetera. So, I think it's helpful for the market. We all know there is still a
huge, huge potential market in the UK and a relatively limited capital pool that can write
that business. And so we're always looking at efficient ways and ways to access that, and I
think that's helpful.

A - Nigel Wilson

{BIO 1535703 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. Again, I'd just like to say a big thank you for all of you on the call. There is over 200
people on this call. So, that shows the very high level of interest and they all weren't [ph]
relatives of Jeff and myself. We're very happy with 2020, as I said at the beginning,
operating profit flat, dividend flat and the balance sheet stronger.
Jeff made an important point about rewarded and informed risk, which is what we're
about. Yet again we had no defaults. We had 9.99% of our cash flow from DI was paid. As
Jeff said, we had GBP110 million of COVID costs that we took for -- in 2020 which related
to 2021, so that will be hopefully not repeatable. And Jeff keeps telling me those are
prudent. And Cala was GBP84 million. Together, those two account for GBP200 million of
it. And I think that those will be reversed in 2021. And whilst we didn't mention it here, the
LGI investment variance with -- if they stay where they are right now, that will be better
than reverse in 2021.
Public policy is moving our way. Our capabilities have increased. We've strengthened our
management team. We've got a very focused strategy which is delivered continuously for
us over the last 10 years. And we look forward to the future with confidence. And certainly,
we've got off to a very good start in 2021. I hope very much that we will see all of you in
person. At some point, we'll welcome you all to our office here in Coleman Street. If not,
I'm sure there's one or two well known drinking establishments that would more than
welcome us at some point in 2021 given that -- the poor customers that they had in 2021.
And we're hoping that we and many of us can support the city as the city returns to
business and try to re-establish its position or establish -- continue to establish its position
as a world-leading center.
So, thank you. Have a great 2021.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call. Thank you very much for joining. You
may now disconnect your lines.
Page 19 of 20



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2021-03-10

Page 20 of 20

