Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

Y 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Antonio Huertas , Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Eduardo Perez de Lema, Chief Executive Officer, MAPFRE RE
Felipe Navarro, President and Chief Executive Officer, MAPFRE Middlesea PLC
Fernando Mata, Chief Financial Officer
Natalia Nunez , Investor Relations & Capital Markets Director

Presentation
Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning everyone and welcome to MAPFRE's results presentation for full year
2020. This is Natalia Nunez. As usual, the presentation includes the main figures to give
you an overview of MAPFRE's performance. The MD&A and additional information,
including the usual spreadsheets, are available on our website.
On this occasion, it is a pleasure to have Mr. Antonio Huertas here with us, our Chairman
and CEO. He will give us a brief overview of results and the status of the pandemic and
will later wrap up the presentation. It is also a pleasure to introduce Fernando Mata,
MAPFRE's CFO, who will take you through the main trends and figures of the year. We
also have another guest with us today, Felipe Navarro, taking on my current role, as I will
be taking on new responsibilities at MAPFRE ASSET MANAGEMENT. We will comment
more on this at the end of the presentation.
As usual, at the end of the call we will answer all questions received at the Investor
Relations email address during the Q&A. The IR team will be available afterwards to
answer any pending questions you might have regarding this disclosure.
Now let me turn the call over to our CEO. Antonio, the floor is yours.

Antonio Huertas

{BIO 15896108 <GO>}

Thank you Natalia, and thank you everyone for being here with us today. First of all, I hope
your families are coping well during the pandemic and staying safe and healthy.
Okay, so let's get started. Everybody says, and I would like to highlight, that no one was
able to predict the magnitude of what happened in 2020 and, therefore, no company
was fully prepared. Neverthless what everyone agrees on is that the companies and
institutions that best reacted to the pandemic are those that started with solid financial
positions, sustainable business models, and advanced digital transformation processes in
all their structures, as was our case.
Page 1 of 25



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

FINAL

In addition to the problems caused by the pandemic, in August, MAPFRE suffered a big
cyber-attack in Spain, but despite this, we were able to get our operations up and running
again within a couple of days, while also ensuring that all of our branches were providing
services to our clients. In just two weeks, we took full control of all of our systems,
restored them and avoided the loss of any data.
I do believe that if 2020 had been a stress test, MAPFRE would have passed it with an
excellent score. In response to the pandemic MAPFRE focused on three main lines of
actions: people, business continuity and protecting our balance sheet. Our first priority
was the activation of our business continuity plan in all countries and units, with nearly 90%
of all employees worldwide working remotely at the peak of the crisis, while maintaining
essential service levels including many branches, tow trucks, repair shops, et cetera.
Currently, we are still continuing to focus on the health and safety of our people,
employees, agents, collaborators and clients.

Bloomberg Transcript

In 2020, we mobilized resources and transferred funds to the real economy, via direct
donations through our Foundation and premium discounts for clients, as well as extra
financing and aid for agents and service providers. In addition, we put a special focus on
the self-employed and SMEs, which we considered a more vulnerable client segment. On
top of this, we executed a portfolio retention plan for our main business lines and,
fortunately, we are observing relatively stable churn rates, especially in Spain.
In relation to efficiency, we implemented a cost-cutting plan of over EUR100 million in all
countries and business units, in order to compensate for the unprecedented drop in
business. This involved postponing certain strategic initiatives, calling off many nonstrategic projects and reducing general expenses. These savings have exceeded by far
the non-budgeted expenses related to COVID-19.
Regarding investments, we additionally carried out an extensive review of equity, fixed
income and real estate portfolios, goodwill and other intangibles. As a result of this
review, we concluded that there was no evidence of any fixed income or equity
impairments throughout the year, nevertheless a goodwill impairment was booked at year
end. Fernando will go through the main impacts of this later in the presentation. I do not
have any doubt that MAPFRE will come out of this crisis even stronger than before and
with more opportunities for organic and profitable growth.
Please turn to the next slide. Before we go into the details, I would like to point out that it
was a good quarter, with a Group profit of EUR208 million excluding write-offs, and overall
we are quite happy with the results this year. Insurance units continue consolidating
profitability trends, with an attributable result of over EUR790 million. IBERIA continues
outperforming the market in key segments, growing both in policies and in clients, while
also delivering excellent profitability metrics. Furthermore, improvements are notable in
Brazil, the US, Mexico and other Latin American markets, as well as in Turkey and Italy.
The largest impact from the pandemic continues to be on the top-line due to
confinement measures and economic slowdown. Currency depreciation has been a
headwind, with all main currencies depreciating against the euro, although we saw some

Page 2 of 25



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

FINAL

stabilization during the fourth quarter. The current environment is still complicated for Life
Savings products.
Regarding direct COVID claims, impacts at insurance units, mainly from Burial in Spain, and
Life Protection in LATAM, have been mitigated by lower frequency in Motor across all
markets. The cost of COVID related claims at MAPFRE RE had an EUR80 million impact on
the attributable result. COVID-related travel assistance business was hit mainly in the first
half of the year.
Another important effect has been on financial income, with yield compression, lower
dividend income, and a difficult scenario for capital gains. On the other hand, we have
made the most of our opportunities in the real estate market, with two relevant sales,
which helped us to offset provisions for undeveloped land in Spain.
We booked EUR132 million in intangible write-offs, which was mainly goodwill, at
operations in Turkey, Indonesia and Verti Italy. We also booked EUR26 million in writedowns for software at MAPFRE USA, related to the implementation of a new operating
system in the second half of the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Concerning large events, we had various earthquakes in Puerto Rico during the first half of
the year, with a EUR68 million net impact, and the second half of the year was also active
in terms of large losses. Despite this, MAPFRE continues to boast an excellent capital
position and a high degree of financial flexibility.
At this point, I would like to comment on the Board's decision regarding dividends. As you
know, in order to allow investors to share in MAPFRE's profits, we aim to pay out a
sustainable dividend based on a 50% minimum payout approved at the AGM. For 2020,
the final dividend to be proposed to the AGM stands at 7.5-euro cents, therefore, the
total dividend against 2020 results will amount to 12.5-euro cents, equivalent to a 73%
payout ratio, or 58% when adjusting for write-offs. In 2020, the year of the global
pandemic and despite everything that has happened, we have been able to pay our
shareholders EUR416 million. This decision is proof of our commitment to shareholders,
without compromising our balance sheet, while also following the recommendations from
regulators.
I will now hand the floor over to Fernando, to go into the details of the results.

Fernando Mata

{BIO 18226084 <GO>}

Thank you, Antonio and good morning, everybody. On this slide, the chart on the left
includes the full year figures, while on the right you can see the H2 standalone figures,
which has been quite stable in terms of premiums and recurring results. Premiums are
down around 11%, equivalent to EUR2.5 billion on the year affected by, first, currency
depreciation, with a EUR1.6 billion impact. Second, life savings premiums are down over
EUR750 million in Iberia. Finally as a reminder, last year there was a two-year policy issued
in Mexico for PEMEX for around EUR450 million.

Page 3 of 25



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

FINAL

Non-life premiums are down 8%, but at constant exchange rates and excluding the
PEMEX policy, there has been modest growth of 0.6%. The net result reached around
EUR527 million impacted by the already mentioned goodwill write-off. And excluding
these, the net result was nearly EUR660 million, down a little over 2%. The combined ratio
improved nearly 3 points to under 95%, driven by the insurance units. And main variations
in balance sheet items are due to the reclassification of all Bankia-related assets and
liabilities to the lines held for sale.
Assets under management are down around EUR8 billion to EUR55 billion, of which
EUR7.4 billion is Bankia's investment portfolio. Shareholders' equity is down 3.6% due to
currency depreciation, but recovery in Middle East EUR700 million from the first quarter.
Just as a reminder, the Solvency II ratio at September stood at 180% within our tolerance
range with a reduction in the quarter, mainly due to the interim dividend which was paid in
December.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please turn to the next slide. On this slide, we will discuss the different components of the
adjusted attributable result. Due to the offsetting nature of the different impacts of
COVID on insurance operation, we have not considered this in the adjusted result, or the
final effect should be almost neutral. Also mid-sized storms in Spain have not been
considered extraordinary, because they are recurring in 2019-2020 and this year again
2021, we had Filomena storm.
Regarding large claims events during the year, earthquakes in Puerto Rico had an impact
of EUR68 million, only slightly up versus September by EUR2 million. And regarding COVID
losses, the impact at MAPFRE RE has increased on the quarter by EUR23 million following
a prudent approach based on information for incidence [ph]. We booked write-off of
goodwill at ASISTENCIA for EUR65.6 million. And this year, as the Chairman mentioned,
we carried out a review of all intangibles in line with ESMA's recommendations and
applying more prudent assumptions due to the economic outlook. Write-off reached
EUR132 million at year end.
Regarding the reorganization of operations, last year, there was a positive EUR13 million
impact in the US, the positive tax impact in Spain for EUR13 million, as well as provision at
MAPFRE ASISTENCIA for another EUR10 million. This year, there had been several
restructuring expenses in the Assistance business in the US and Spain, but the most of
them were due to a need to adjust our cost structure to the new COVID environment.
Financial gains and losses are down over EUR90 million mainly due to lower equity sales,
as well as higher real estate provisions, which offset most of the gains from property
sales. In the fourth quarter, we booked a gain from the sale of MAQUAVIT, another
strategy business, and we also realized gains in the life business. Excluding all these
impacts, the adjusted net result reached EUR763 million, up EUR110 million.
Please turn to the next slide. Regarding the goodwill write-offs at year-end, as you are
aware, we are currently facing a very uncertain economic context as a result of the COVID.
Within the framework of our strategic planning process, we have lowered our forecast for
Page 4 of 25



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

FINAL

medium and long-term growth on earnings and the related cash flows, mainly in those
markets that we consider are more exposed to these risk factors.
We have also increased the risk premiums, a component of discount rates, applying public
and commonly used data updated at year end. Regarding other units, we currently have
EUR1.4 billion of remaining goodwill in our balance sheet, of which take the largest is from
MAPFRE USA, with a little under EUR600 million. A full disclosure of assumptions and
values are available in our annual accounts.
On this slide, I would like to go through the main trends and by business unit. Performance
at insurance units has been remarkable with a combined ratio below 93%. We are
reporting better performance based on technical measures implemented in previous
year, mainly in Brazil and USA, and improved profitability is coinciding with lower frequency
from the pandemic effect. Iberia continues to perform very well. The attributable result is
down due to extraordinary tax effects last year. And regarding premiums in Spain, we
outperformed the market in most retail business lines. We have finished this year with
healthy growth in policies. In motor, premiums are down due to discounts made to
policyholders at renewal, but insured vehicles are up by over 90,000 units.

Bloomberg Transcript

We are outperforming the market in Life Protection as well, which is a higher margin
segment with premiums up 1.5%. Life savings premiums are down over EUR750 million
due to a difficult environment for these products. In the other regions, currency
movements continued to have a strong impact both on premiums and results.
In LATAM, results are up EUR15 million and all three regions are reporting excellent ROEs
with LATAM North around 16%, the highest of the group. The combined ratio for the
region is standing under 90%. And despite the economic situation, results have improved
in Brazil, Mexico, the Dominican Republic and across Central America, especially Panama.
Regarding the international business, results are up by around EUR14 million. There were
several large impacts in North America, the real estate gain, the capital gain in the US and
earthquakes in Puerto Rico, both in the first quarter, as well as the EUR26 million software
writedown already mentioned booked in H2.
Results continue to improve in Italy, due to a decrease in motor frequency and Turkey is
benefiting from underwriting discipline. Regarding reinsurance and global risks, results
were extremely resilient and considering the quite active second half of the year in terms
of non-COVID attritional-related losses.
In the Assistance business, the largest hit was from travel cancellation claims and it was in
the first half of the year. We have been prudently reducing exposures and we have also
taken further steps in our restructuring process. Finally, the other -- the line 'other' apart
from holding expenses includes the goodwill impairments booked at year end.
Please turn to the next slide. On this slide, we disclose life business by region. We have
already covered the main variations in premiums. Brazil, despite the current situation,
showed a solid local currency growth with premiums up 12% in the bancassurance channel.
Page 5 of 25



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

FINAL

Regarding results, the performance in Iberia was strong, thanks to improved Life
Protection technical ratios and also resilient growth, together with capital -- it is very
important to mention as well, together with capital gains booked at both Bankia MAPFRE
VIDA, which didn't completely offset the extraordinary positive tax impacts booked in
2019. The pre-tax result at MAPFRE VIDA was up 1%.
In Brazil, the largest impact was from the previously mentioned currency depreciation, but
there was also a drag from lower financial income and some COVID-related claims,
especially in the second half of the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please turn to the next slide. In relation to the Iberia Life business at this point, I would like
to comment on Bankia's bancassurance agreement. As you are aware, in December
2020, CaixaBank and Bankia's AGMs approved the merger of both entities and the
remaining regulatory and legal aspects are expected to be completed in the first quarter
of 2021. Once the Bankia change of control is completed, this will trigger the process to
transfer operations, as established in the MAPFRE Bankia bancassurance agreement.
Consequently, we expect to have all the processes completed during the year. On the
right, you can see the main figures for Bankia MAPFRE VIDA. This is the first time we
disclose this information, which includes Bankia's Life business, of which MAPFRE which
holds 51%. The 2020 numbers include CAJA GRANADA and CAJAMURCIA, the two
acquisitions made a couple of years ago, which were merged with Bankia MAPFRE VIDA at
the end of the 2020. We also included the pro forma 2019 figures for comparison
reasons.
The Non-Life business, is included within the MAPFRE ESPANA unit, is run as an
independent distribution channel. So therefore, the figures are not publicly disclosed.
Bankia's total premiums were EUR392 million at 2020 year end, of which EUR179 million is
Life and EUR213 is Non-Life, this is equivalent to 1.9 total premiums for MAPFRE.
This slide includes a full disclosure of the breakdown and variations of the investment
portfolio and total assets under management. The largest changes in asset allocation
have been driven by the reclassification of the Bankia financial investments as assets held
for sale, which has led to a strong reduction in government bonds, mainly Spain and Italy,
as well as smaller fall in corporate bonds. Spanish sovereign debt continues to be our
largest exposure, but now a little under EUR13 billion, and Italian debt around EUR2.4
billion. As I mentioned before, both of these are mainly allocated to immunized portfolios.
Please turn to the next slide. On the top left are the yields and durations of our euro area
actively managed fixed-income portfolios. The market value of these portfolios are down
from EUR14 billion to EUR13 billion, mainly as a result of the already mentioned
reclassification of Bankia-related assets as held for sale.
Accounting yields in non-life are fairly in line with yields at September, although down
year-on-year by nearly 30 basis points. Yields in Brazil are up due to a lengthening of
duration and a change in asset allocation moving from inflation-linked bonds to fixed-rate
notes. And regarding realized gains and losses in these portfolios, gains reached around
EUR79 million, down nearly EUR100 million compared to the previous year.

Page 6 of 25



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

FINAL

On the bottom left are the details of the portfolios in other main geographies. Despite
falling interest rates in several markets, accounting yields LATAM are still well above those
in Europe.
Please turn to the next slide. Shareholders' equity stood at EUR8.5 billion, down around
4% during the year. The most relevant changes are first a EUR676 million decrease from
currency conversion differences during the year, mainly due to the depreciation of the
Brazilian real, our second largest exposure, which is down 29%, as well as the US dollar,
our largest exposure with at 8% fall. Negative currency conversion differences increased
by only EUR26 million in the fourth quarter. On the right, you can see the breakdown of
currency conversion differences and changes during the period as well as sensitivities.

Bloomberg Transcript

Second, net unrealized gains on the available for sale portfolio have had a EUR275 million
positive impact during the year improving by over EUR240 million during the fourth
quarter, driven by strong performance of Spanish and Italian sovies, whose 10-year bonds
narrowed by 20 and 30 basis points respectively in the last quarter, as well as the rally in
equity markets. And third, a reduction of EUR416 million as a result of the 2019 final
dividend paid in June and the 2020 interim dividend paid in December. At the bottom,
there is a breakdown of net unrealized gains as well as a Iberia's available for sale
portfolio which has reduced significantly, mainly immunized portfolios, due to the
reclassification of Bankia's held for sale and now represents around two-thirds of
MAPFRE's total available for sale portfolio.
Please turn to next page. In the chart of the left, you can see the breakdown of the capital
structure, which amounted to EUR12.8 billion. Very changes compared to previous year. On
the right, you can see the developments of our Solvency position this year. The SCR has
been fairly stable throughout the year and the ratio has moved within our tolerance range.
And regarding Solvency II, the ratio was 180% at the close of September, the main driver
of the move in the quarter was the effect on the -- of the interim dividend paid in
December.
In the same chart are the updated pro forma impacts from potential and regulatory
developments, written in line with previous calculations. The Board has already approved
all necessary steps for regulatory authorization for the longevity internal model. We
expect to receive approval in time to apply this to 2020 year end calculations. This will
imply roughly 10 percentage points uplift to the Solvency II ratio. The process for
diversification benefits of the matching adjustments, which is included in the Solvency II
ratio, will take a little bit longer.
Please turn to the next slide. At this point, I would like to emphasize the resilient evolution
of our capital position and credit metrics. Shareholders' equity and total equity were only
down 3.6% and 2.7% respectively, despite market volatility and currency depreciation and
is supported by a high degree of diversification by geography, currency and asset class.
Intangibles are down by around 16%, driven by a prudent approach to asset valuation with
write offs made this year as well as currency movements.

Page 7 of 25



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

FINAL

Regarding leverage, it is only slightly up 23% with debt closing the year at similar levels to
the previous year and the increase mainly driven by the fall in our equity base. The
Solvency II ratio is down under 7 percentage points at 180% within our tolerance range
and with a pro forma ratio of nearly 200%.
MAPFRE's current ratings are in an excellent position and were recently affirmed by all
three agencies. And last of all, dividends paid were down 7%, optimizing shareholder
return without compromising our balance sheet strength. All in all, we are seeing very -- a
slight variation in our capital position and solvency ratios. But market capitalization is well
below our book value, reflecting some uncertainty obviously in the market.
We understand that some of these could be justified in the current context. However,
some of these factors like the dividend, which is more important, the stability of results in
the third and fourth quarters have already been clarified at the end of this year. And we
are confident that the rest of uncertainties will be resolved with time in a positive
direction.
Now, I will hand things back over to Antonio.

Bloomberg Transcript

Antonio Huertas

{BIO 15896108 <GO>}

Thank you, Fernando. And before wrapping up, I would like to say a couple of words
regarding sustainability. The slide you can see the main global ESG commitments that
MAPFRE is signatory to. Regarding the ESG indexes, MAPFRE is already included in the
main ones, and in January 2021, we were also included in Bloomberg's General Equality
Index in recognition of our successful diversity and equality policies. Also, please let me
briefly mention on our key ESG targets for the three-year period. At least 45% of
vacancies in positions of responsibility are going to be covered by women, an objective
that was already achieved reaching 46.3%. At least, 3% of our workforce will comprise
people with disabilities, having reached 3.3% high success. Another one, carbon neutrality
will be achieved in all MAPFRE companies with headquarters in Spain and Portugal by 2021
and worldwide in 2030. We will not invest in companies deriving 30% or more on the
revenues from the coal-fired energy sources. We will not insure the construction of new
electricity generation plants that are coal-fired nor insure new mines.
Please turn to the next slide. Despite current headwinds, MAPFRE is thriving with a net
result of EUR208 million in the fourth quarter, excluding write-offs thus confirming our
profit generation capacity. Performance of the insurance units has been outstanding
reaching a net result of EUR790 million and a combined ratio below 93%. Although some
of this improvement is due to lower frequency as a result of confinement measures, there
are also underlying improvements and a strong profitable trend in our main markets,
particularly Iberia, United States and Brazil.
In Iberia, growth has been resilient in several key Non-Life segments, with strong
underwriting results despite quite a competitive market. This is helping to mitigate the
pressure on financial income, as well as a challenging market for Life Savings. We continue
to strengthen the MAPFRE brand with growth in clients. In LATAM, we are seeing

Page 8 of 25



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

FINAL

improving results in Brazil, Mexico, Panama and Colombia, despite currency headwinds.
The top line in this market has been hurt by the economic slowdown. Results also
continue to improve in the US, Turkey and Italy, thanks to profitability initiatives, as well
slower claims frequency as a result of lower activity levels. Regarding MAPFRE RE, results
have proven resilient in a challenging time for reinsurance. MAPFRE RE maintains a strong
financial position and a prudent approach to underwriting.
Now, let me say a few words about our bancassurance agreement with Bankia. I do
believe we are well protected under the terms and conditions of the contract, especially
in the exit clauses for change of control and we expect the transaction to close in the first
half of the year. As for net proceeds, any potential capital gain will be included in the
attributable result, and, therefore, could be a source of dividends, if decided by the Board
of Directors. In any case, a significant amount will be retained for business development.
With the help of this sale, we expect to distribute a dividend as we used to before the
pandemic.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to the financial targets, with respect to our three-year strategic plan, we are
outperforming the 96% to 97% range for combined ratio and the average ROE is near to
lower end of the 8% to 9% range. We're not adjusting for write-offs. However, given the
current market context, premium growth will be the most challenging target. We will give
more color on this at our AGM in March.
In conclusion, we are satisfied with MAPFRE's performance in an extremely difficult year.
The group has a solid capital base, flexibility and a high level of liquidity, supported by
strong cash generation from operating units, which allows us to pay sustainable dividends.
The COVID-19 related economic crisis is not over, but MAPFRE has proven able to adapt
to this difficult scenario. If in such worst circumstances, the Group has been able to
maintain profits although slightly lower, we are convinced that we have the necessary
business strength to drive from MAPFRE to relevant growth and profitability as soon as
conditions minimally improve. Even so, we must be very cautious at this time, because
although we have high hopes of the effects that the vaccination can achieve and the
ability of countries to reinstate normality, the reality is that we still do not know the true
depth and the scope of the economic crisis we are experiencing. We are, of course,
absolutely confident in MAPFRE's ability to cope with the complications that we may
encounter as we did in 2020.
Thank you for your attention. And now we hand the floor to Natalia to begin the Q&A
session. Please, Natalia.

Questions And Answers
A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Antonio. So yes, we are going to start the Q&A session. First
question is regarding Bankia. Almost all our analysts have sent us questions on the
bancassurance agreement with Bankia, so we are going to try to summarize them all. Paz
Ojeda at Sabadell, Jonathan Denham at Morgan Stanley, Marina Massuti at JB Capital, Ivan
Bokhmat at Barclays, Paco Riquel at Alantra and Sofia Barallat at Caixa BPI. The questions
Page 9 of 25



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

are the following. How close are you to the agreement with Caixa Bankia on the sale of
the bancassurance JV? And do you consider the EUR500 million that the combined entity
has set aside for JV restructuring to be the accurate reflection of the value of the
business? Yeah, we have more questions, but if you want --

FINAL

A - Antonio Huertas

{BIO 15896108 <GO>}

Let me start, Fernando, with the process. As you know, once things -- is the execution of
the Bankia integration and another integration of the position of insurance companies. In
this case, I think probably the Bankia integration is close to the end in a few weeks,
CaixaBank and Bankia will merge and so this will be one single bank, CaixaBank, because
this is an acquisition.
The second step is the acquisition of the insurance company. It depends on the regulators
and we are ready to do it. It's a matter of process that we know well. The contract reflects
well the condition of the change of control. So it's perfect. The first phase is going to have
an end in a few weeks and authorization for regulators in terms of final insurance
integration will be probably in the second part of the year. Fernando?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Fernando Mata

{BIO 18226084 <GO>}

Thank you, Antonio, for giving us a more color regarding the current process. Regarding
your question, as I mentioned before, thank you, Paz, and the rest of persons. This
EUR0.5 billion assessment was one side estimation. It was only made for Caixa and we
haven't published any estimation from our side. What I mean is that in this amount wasn't
agreed before being published. It was only Caixa's side, and we have been published any.
And we have to wait and and also see the different -- it is very well disclosed in the
bancassurance agreement, the different steps, different procedures that have to be
taken. And one is obviously the final valuation.
We have to wait, but we are not in a position to say how accurate is this value. I mean this
question should be taking to the other side, to Caixa and Bankia. Next, please the second.

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Yeah. The second question is also regarding Bankia. What are your plans for the users of
the proceeds from the Bankia JV? Why to retain a significant amount for business
development? Would you consider paying a special dividend once the transaction
involved with the Bankia bancassurance JV is completed? Now you said that might take it
into account for the -- now you say that, yeah, okay, this is the question.

A - Antonio Huertas

{BIO 15896108 <GO>}

Okay. It's about the potential increase of our dividends, if we have -- the net gain coming
from the sale of Bankia business. So as I said before, any potential capital gain will be
included in the attributable result. It's obvious, and, therefore, can be a source of
dividends, but it needs the approval of the Board. In any case, we want to continue
investing in new areas, but not in surplus. So we'll retain a part of this income for business
development. But we know that we can increase our dividend and recover the situation
before the pandemic. We have the help of this sale.
Page 10 of 25



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Antonio. Next question is what potential partners in Spain do you
consider to replace the Bankia JV, taking into account that --

A - Antonio Huertas

{BIO 15896108 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah.

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

-- most of the Spanish banks already have bancassurance agreements and what could be
the timeline for new bancassurance distribution agreement?

A - Antonio Huertas

{BIO 15896108 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

As you know, we have already other partnerships in Spain with other banks. Bankinter,
CCM, and recently Banco Santander, all of us are very successful agreements. We are
happy with them. And we obviously have always a plan to increase our sales through the
network. Nevertheless, we know that it's the loss of Bankia is a hit, because we are losing,
not in terms of premium, because it's small due to the size of MAPFRE revenues, but it's
important in terms of profits. So we would like to increase our relationship with the current
partners of MAPFRE. We think we have room for growth with them and we are preparing
new plans to develop more businesses. The partnership with Banco Santander is still in
the first phase, but has been very fruitful in the first year. So there are good news coming
from this alliance in the years to come.

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Thank you very much. We have another question it comes from Sofia. She will also like to
have an update on the agreement with Liberbank.

A - Antonio Huertas

{BIO 15896108 <GO>}

Yeah, we are happy with our alliance with Liberbank through CCM, is an old SME banking
in the central region in Spain. We have been -- we have had a very productive alliance with
Liberbank. And Liberbank has been a very loyal partner. We haven't received any
noticeable possible consolidation. We know that Liberbank is going to be absorbed by
Unicaja integrated in a new bank. So if they want, we can continue with this alliance,
because it doesn't compete with other parts of this bank in this area -- in this regional
area. Also, CCM has branches, so it's an isolated area. And it has been very, very
successful working together MAPFRE and Liberbank.

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Now we have some questions regarding dividend and strategy.
Paco Riquel at Alantra has the following question regarding the strategy and targets. Can
you update on your strategy in the US, the exit strategy in some states and their
profitability outlook in this region? And also can you update on your 12% ROE target in
Brazil?

Page 11 of 25



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

FINAL

A - Antonio Huertas

{BIO 15896108 <GO>}

Okay, can I start with our strategy. You know, Paco, we have deployed the strategy, trying
to reduce our footprint in the US. The first stage in this huge country 10 years ago or
more, we decided to spread out our presence, but after some years work in that scene,
the size of each state and the complexity of this market, we decided to reduce our
presence in some states. Now, we are concentrated mainly in New England state, with the
leadership in Massachusetts. Massachusetts represents 90% of our current presence in
the US, and the other states close to this one are relevant also. But with three, four more,
it's enough. We are finalizing our process of exit in some of states. And probably, we -not probably, we are sure that we can improve our results with the new strategy having
less presence in the number of states. Fernando?

A - Fernando Mata

{BIO 18226084 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, if I may add something, Paco, here regarding Assistance, probably you didn't ask
about our business, but we got rid of that also, Assistance business in the US as well and
with small profit. Regarding Brazil, we're pretty close, nearly 12%, what 11.3%, if I'm not
wrong in our ROE. Probably you're right saying that it was due to the depreciation of the
currency and also smaller in net equity. But we're quite happy with Brazil. I mean, we
exceeded this magic amount of 100 and it was one of the targets. And the only thing we
have to fix is automobile, as you know, but our premiums practically is half last year, but
now we have a more prudent, let's say, probably the portfolio we wanted to have. And
the economy in Brazil is pretty dynamic and hopefully, I mean, we will keep on with this
improvement during April next year.

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Fernando. Next question Alex Evans at Credit Suisse also had a question
on the dividend. How should we think about the dividend going forward? Is EUR0.125 a
new base? And Jonathan Denham at Morgan Stanley will also like to know you weren't
able to grow the prior dividend for a number of years. Do you expect to be able to grow
the dividend from this lower base?

A - Fernando Mata

{BIO 18226084 <GO>}

Yeah, thank you, Alex and Jonathan. For MAPFRE, as I mentioned as well at the
presentation, dividend is key and also for you as investors and analysts. If you look back, I
mean, it has been quite stable trend in dividends and we mentioned in previous
presentations as well there were three years in a row with EUR0.145. And the year before
was EUR0.14, so probably it was the most stable in terms of dividend period for MAPFRE. I
know that many, many years ago and due to the previous crisis there was a significant
drop in dividends. And it was, I guess, EUR0.11 [ph] per share, but this one is just to avoid
this volatility. So we know that this a period for uncertain things and what we did is just to
increase the pay for you today, payout ratio, which was similar to last year. And consider
as well that the goodwill impairment is a non-cash transaction, so it doesn't affect -doesn't have any impact on our cash position or in our cash generation. Base, we will see
in the future and that there is uncertainties regarding the pandemic, and also the recovery
in LATAM, which is guess, for me, I mean, is by far the largest uncertainty. I mean, Spain is
performing very well, the US as well, and the insurance has to see a different year after
three years in a row with suffering a lot of cat losses. Probably, it is difficult to go back out
Page 12 of 25



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

FINAL

to see at those years in which we were reporting over EUR200 million on net profit. But
they're probably in a range to close to EUR150 million, I mean, it will be better.
So let's say that our intention is to go to this trend, to go back this pattern, but the base is
net income. If there is an increase in net income, it will be higher dividend for sure. Our
expectations are good, more positive, but we have to see how 2020 -- 2021 performs
particularly in the first quarter. I have -- we have included in the presentation as you
probably have realized, I mean the H2 main numbers. And you have a look to this, I mean,
combined ratio is 92% for these two last quarters of the year. We know that this combined
ratio probably is not sustainable in the long run. But if there is no changes to 2021, it will
be, we guess, similar to this previous trend of the third and fourth quarters. So we don't
close the door to future increases of dividends, but there will be base in an increase of
net income as well. MAPFRE has a strong position. We got a lot of cash and the proceeds
raised from Bankia, as the Chairman said, we have to devote a part, a significant part to
future development. It won't affect our dividend policy significantly.

Bloomberg Transcript

But just giving you more color regarding Bankia, I mean, we studied, as the Chairman said,
20 years ago this business with Bankia. I mean it grew not artificially, it was a successful
process made by two partners. I look back at the numbers and 10 years ago, I mean, the
profit was -- the net income was just the half of the current, which is approximately
EUR500 million -- the net equity, sorry. And net profit, which amounts now EUR225 million,
10 years ago it was EUR50 million. It means that any new business, and we have to
replace Bankia because it's relevant, takes time. So we're going to do is organic and
inorganic, it depends on the opportunities that we will see in the market, we have to
replace this business.
Obviously, and I have to say and quite clear, we're going to apply, I mean, the strictest
capital discipline in this situation. I mean, everybody knows that there are different
potential opportunities in the market, but we're not going to take the first to see, unless
the capital discipline from (inaudible) as it was in the past, it will be in the future, a key for
our strategy.

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Fernando. We have another question from Marina Massuti at JB
Capital Markets. She would like to know if there is -- if there could be additional goodwill
writedowns from other regions.

A - Fernando Mata

{BIO 18226084 <GO>}

Well, we mentioned at the presentation, first of all, Marina, and as I stated in previous
presentations, at the end of the third quarter, we had no evidence on any potential
goodwill impairment applying, I mean, the standard assumptions that we applied last year.
We mentioned that there were a couple of entities that were close to border line. It was
particularly Turkey and -- because of their social economic environment and also Italy,
because, I mean, the performance of the car dealership distribution channel wasn't
working very well. What we did is -- we proposed to the Board is according to ESMA's
recommendation suggestions, this applies the strictest prudent assumptions to our
goodwill impairment analysis.
Page 13 of 25



FINAL

Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

So basically in two different situations. First, we lower financial projections. In the past, we
used 10 years and now we're down to five years. And also then we apply our perpetuity
more prudent basically equal to the inflection -- inflation rate forecast. And also regarding
discount rates, we were waiting in order to see or in order to (inaudible) which is public
information everybody knows, everybody uses to be public at year end. And so we apply
discount rates with this new premium risk and also we were even more conservative
regarding Turkey. And annual increase, I guess, I don't remember very well, I guess, it was
like 200 basis points, I mean, the risk premium in Turkey. Because at that point, we assess
additional country risk due to the current uncertainty regarding the regulatory motor
situation.
So we were prudent in both things, discount rates and also business projections. We
mentioned that there is not any goodwill near the border line currently, and the largest by
far is the US. And it was close to the border line three years ago due to the different
discount rates. Currently, with the situation in the US, we are pretty comfortable.
And then Bankia's agreements, I mean, it will be out of the balance sheet due to the
transaction. Bankinter is performing very well. MAPFRE VIDA, which comes from the
delisting like 15 years ago, and this -- I mean, MAPFRE VIDA, there is nothing like -- there is
no doubt of the good performance. And the remaining, they're pretty, I mean, they're
safe. I mean, so we practically -- I mean, I know this is hard to say after three years in a
row with a goodwill impairment, but now we are pretty comfortable. What we left in the
balance sheet, they're pretty safe.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Fernando. Now we have a set of questions regarding MAPFRE RE,
the business in MAPFRE. Sofia Barallat at Caixa BPI, Paco Riquel at Alantra would like to
have an update on the business interruption losses at MAPFRE RE and what is left for
2021? How much has been already provisioned or booked? Also Alex Evans at Credit
Suisse asks there was an increase in accepted reinsurance in the quarter. Is that related to
new business interruption claims coming in or is that a reassessment of previous claims?
Should we forecast this increase to continue as lockdowns and restrictions persist?

A - Antonio Huertas

{BIO 15896108 <GO>}

If you allow me, Natalia, we've got Eduardo Perez de Lema, MAPFRE RE CEO in the
backstage of this presentation. I guess there is no one better than Eduardo MAPFRE
group has to answer. So please, Eduardo, the mic is yours.

A - Eduardo Perez de Lema

{BIO 20385404 <GO>}

Hello, good morning, everyone, again. On this particular question on COVID and how the
things have evolved in the fourth quarter. And we had mentioned already that there was a
high degree of uncertainty on COVID claims. And there is still a high degree of uncertainty
on what is going on that side. I would separate the answer in two parts. Do we expect to
have new claims on the Non-Life side in 2021 related to COVID? I would say the possibility
is very limited, because already since March last year, we have been, across the industry,
trying to clarify the scope of coverage and, of course, in this renewals as well. So now in

Page 14 of 25



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

FINAL

most of the countries where we had the claims in the past, it's very clear that we are not
providing coverage for pandemics in the Non-Life sector pretty much everywhere.
Concerning our reserve evolution, we have been reviewing the information, and, of
course, during the treaty renewals, we got a lot of information from our clients and going
into much more detail than before. What we have decided is to go -- to be more
conservative and try to reduce uncertainty for 2021 and being very conservative in what
we reserve. So we have decided to increase reserves in some instances that still are
unclear what the outcome will be both on the insurance side and on the reinsurance side.
And we now closed at the best estimate of what the outcome will be. There is potential
of evolution in that upside and downside, but we think we are in a comfortable figure to
not have meaningful impacts or additional impacts in 2021, specifically on the Non-Life
portfolio.

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Eduardo. Also Sofia Barallat at Caixa BPI wanted to know have you
booked any impact related to the Hurricanes Eta and Iota in the Caribbean in the quarter?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Fernando Mata

{BIO 18226084 <GO>}

Well, we have, of course, both the hurricanes were significant in Central America, and we
have booked the claims that we are aware of. Mostly in our case concentrated in group
companies. The figure we haven't disclosed, but it's relatively modest. I have the figure
here before tax. It's -- for Eta, it's 11.4 million in MAPFRE RE, plus a small additional on the
local company. And in terms of Iota, it was 2.8 million or so. Manageable claims that are
within the normal frequency, of course, didn't help in the last quarter, but nothing to be
really worried about. Yes, if I may add, yes, including LATAM, Northern LATAM, some of
them were affected as well and after taxes net income, I mean, the net effect will be the
same, 11 million. So an important hurricane, but you know something affordable of course.

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Now, we move to Iberia. Ivan Bokhmat and Andrew Sinclair at
Barclays, Bank of America, respectively, ask about the Spanish Life business. Spanish Life
business continues to generate very attractive margins, despite the negative top line
impact of the pandemic. Does the 4Q result include any one-offs that may not be
recurring?

A - Fernando Mata

{BIO 18226084 <GO>}

Yeah, well, thank you, Ivan, for the question. Very interesting, because as you noticed,
there was a big increase in profit in the fourth quarter. It was due to realized gains from
Bankia MAPFRE VIDA made at year end particularly. I mean, it was like EUR13 million and
before taxes and minorities in December. We aimed, at that point, just to have a more
neutral balance sheet in order to avoid any potential problem at the transaction date,
considering it could be December or perhaps first quarter of 2021. And it was both, I
mean, equity and also in fixed income bonds. Just one thing as well and that we haven't
commented, we haven't discussed during the presentation. I'm talking about risk profile. I
mean, we're pretty happy, I mean, with Bankia MAPFRE VIDA that you know once we get
Page 15 of 25



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

FINAL

rid of these assets, it will be somehow de-risked in transaction. Because as I mentioned
practically over EUR6 million of Spanish debt which for MAPFRE top executives is not at
risk, but for some investors and analysts. We're looking at some peripheral risk will be out
of the balance, of the balance, and also like EUR5 billion -- sorry, EUR0.5 billion of Italian
sovies will be as well of the balance. So let's say, all in all, it's like one-third, let's say,
peripheral risk in MAPFRE VIDA balance sheet.

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Now, Paco Riquel and Sofia Barallat wanted to know about the
Filomena storm. Can you please give us an indication of the potential losses from
Filomena? How does it compare to Gloria in 2020?

A - Antonio Huertas

{BIO 15896108 <GO>}

Yeah. Antonio speaking. Today, there are a relevant number of claims based on the
assessments performed. And considering region on protection, this event is expected to
have an impact of MAPFRE Group net of taxes between EUR20 million or EUR25 million.
EUR16.1 million net impact coming from Gloria in 2020 in Q1. Taking into account both the
impacts in the Spanish insurance and the reinsurance units.

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much, Antonio. Also, Paco Riquel asks about the BI ruling in Spain. What is
your view on the recent ruling in Spain regarding business interruption losses for SMEs
related to the COVID lockdown without any property damage?

A - Antonio Huertas

{BIO 15896108 <GO>}

Eduardo, do you want to go?

A - Eduardo Perez de Lema

{BIO 20385404 <GO>}

Well, thank you again. I would say that our general view is unchanged, so in Spain we don't
see much exposure of having business interruption claims without material damage. The
policies are clear in most of the cases and the fact is that the coverage isn't there. If we
talk about this particular case, first of all, it's not a MAPFRE case and it's not a case where
MAPFRE RE is also involved directly we know from what we have read so far. Our view is
that the ruling is not correct. It's relatively small amount, but we consider that the
arguments are questionable and we don't see that it should be a broadband approach in
other rules, because we have seen other ruling, where the outcome has been the
opposite. In fact, in all of the rulings that we have seen so far, the decision made by the
judges were in favor of the insurance companies providing that the business interruption
coverage is linked to a material damage that doesn't exist in this case. So well, it's a
ruling, but we don't expect it to be the general rule for the industry.

A - Fernando Mata

{BIO 18226084 <GO>}

If I may add, Eduardo, I guess, Paco had been in the presentation, the first presentation in
the morning, but some of the people they told me that UNESPA has the public

Page 16 of 25



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

experiment giving further information regarding this situation, so probably it's available for
you as well.

FINAL

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Thank you, Fernando and Eduardo. Now we have questions regarding COVID impact. Ivan
Bokhmat and Andrew Sinclair would like to know the next question, they have the next
question. Could you please try to quantify the COVID impact on the business growth and
net of the frequency benefit? Specifically for the motor business, could you provide the
positive COVID impact and indicate whether you are still seeing the benefit of lower
driving or is this now being passed on via pricing?

A - Antonio Huertas

{BIO 15896108 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, Antonio again. The impact of our numbers has been largely neutral with negative
impact from COVID-related claims IBNR and premium discounts largely offset by the
improvements in frequency motor has. The impact on expenses has been neutral, as I
said, savings upset COVID relating expenses. It is true that the mobility -- the lack of
mobility in many countries has changed the scenario regarding frequency we have had,
the frequency benefits. Going forward, the mobility has increased in our main markets,
but with significant developments depending on the country, for example, in Spain or
Brazil or even Mexico, we have seen higher mobility and activity levels since the beginning
of the pandemic. Whereas in other markets such as the US and Germany where they
applied more strict regulation in terms of mobility witnessed lower recovery in mobility
trends.
Regarding pricing, our tariffs are always adapted to the situation and they are reflecting
the risk profile in each individual clients. So we're applying the benefits of this -- fall of the
frequency in the current renewals to lower the prices in the current insurance policy. So it's
an automatic process that we are always applying.

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Antonio. Now, the next question comes from Andrew Sinclair. Kindly
you update us on your COVID provisions for future claims in 2021.

A - Fernando Mata

{BIO 18226084 <GO>}

Well, I guess that you're referring to the 2020 accident year, Andrew. As we said during
the quarter presentation, we booked significant IBNR provisions to cover this gap or delay
in reporting claims. Finally, we disclose at year end the amount, it's like EUR44 million IBNR
for direct business, mainly allocated in Spain health and also in Latin America. Regarding
rate, there is no IBNR because we book these individual cases, case by case, and
according to the communications made by civil entities, and applying obviously because
the majority of them, there are doubts or there is still discussion regarding we apply or
not, I mean, the coverage, and applying a percentage of probability of a good rate in the
end.
Regarding 2021, if there is more burial, I mean, it's still to be seen so far. I mean, the
number of fatalities in Spain is pretty high, but not the one we had in April, and March and
Page 17 of 25



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

FINAL

April. So let's say, there is a sort of contention in this line of business. But we have to say, I
mean, the last communications and statements made by Department of Health Spain said
that the curve of the third wave is coming down. So probably the worst is over. But it is still
-- we are still at an earlier stage to conclude that everything is over. But we are quite
confident that in the end there is sufficiency in the burial tariffs and burial technical
provisions in order to cover any volatility in this loss ratio.

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Fernando. Now Jonathan Denham wanted to know if we can
provide a quick update on how we see -- you see COVID impacting profits in LATAM in
2021?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Antonio Huertas

{BIO 15896108 <GO>}

Thank you, Jonathan. I think that the impact of the COVID has been strong in Latin
America, the first and the second waves. But we think that the process of vaccination is
going to improve in many countries the situation. Even the process of supporting the
economy during the last months in many countries has been less aggressive than in
Europe. And we're maintaining a very positive outlook about the economy in many
countries, mainly Brazil. In terms of how we have seen the development of (inaudible) in
this country, for example, I can say that in the last two quarters -- last year, we observed a
big increase in like production, up EUR27 million on the quarter in Brazil, as well in LATAM
North, the pandemic has had a late development so it has less impact than other markets.
Future development will depend on the evolution of the pandemic, but I can say that we
maintain a positive outlook in the main markets. It's very important as Brazil and Mexico
and others like, Colombia, even Peru, are very, very important to MAPFRE and we are
maintaining this positive expectation.

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Okay, thank you very much, Antonio. Now, we are moving to talk about investments.
Andrew Sinclair at Bank of America would like to have more details on the real estate
portfolio. Can you provide us an update on real estate disposals? Was there anything in
the quarter and is there anything pending we should be aware of ?

A - Fernando Mata

{BIO 18226084 <GO>}

Particularly, the only transactions made in the fourth quarter was the sale of MAQUAVIT.
MAQUAVIT was a standalone entity, I mean, it was a shelter holding for residences for
elderly people across Spain. It was obviously -- it came from the former business we had
with the Bankia as well in the past. Obviously, it was a non-strategic asset for MAPFRE, so
we put in the market and also due to the COVID scenario. It wasn't the best asset to be
held under. So, a potential buyer came across and we agreed on the price. And we
booked this EUR10 million net profit, which was extremely satisfactory for MAPFRE.
Regarding the year-end, yeah, the 30 of December, if I remember well, I mean, we
signed an agreement with (inaudible) it was published on the press and the underlying
investor was Germany, a mutual and pension fund. You know they are acquiring a right to
buy of plot of lands in the south Madrid for an amount of EUR106 million, which by the way
Page 18 of 25



FINAL

Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

was the book value at year-end. So, probably, I mean, the most likely timeline to
materialize this transaction is 2021 with different dates, because there are different plot of
lands and with no capital gains, because the transaction is same price and it's actually the
same as the book value. Other assets, what we're seen is that the -- well, another thing
regarding real estate and is in the financial accounts practically the unrealized gains, that's
the same amount at year-end and more or less like EUR800 million before taxes. So
there is no change in realized, because as a reminder, I mean the real estate are stated
as acquisition cost in our balance sheet. There -- with this plot of land as sale, we're
getting rid of one-third of our non-performing assets and basically plots acquired 10 years
ago when MAPFRE more or less was operating in the residential business.

Bloomberg Transcript

There are a couple of units that we will like to sell as well. It is difficult market, but we are
reducing our exposure to and a base obviously, but we are an active buyer as well.
Because our position in real estate is still lower than the one we had in 2012, because
there were more disposals than acquisitions. So quite simply, the Board approval has to
be presented as well, but we approve at the Board to increase our position in real estate
with the same pattern we did in the past. I mean, we've got investment with our current
partners, DLL [ph] which is a unit pertaining to Macquarie and also to Swiss Life, and
perhaps some more potentially partners that they will join, I mean, this strategy with
MAPFRE.
Another thing regarding real estate, in this -- let's say, in this -- in the wake of the first
wave, I mean, we negotiated rents with most of the tenants and the reduction was not
significant. So we are -- I mean, it was like a 20% reduction and also it was some
agreement as well in order to delay some payments, but we are quite positive with the
strategy applied, I mean, at this business and at this time. So please, Natalia, next
question.

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Thank you, Fernando. Andrew Sinclair and Ashik Musaddi of Bank of America and
JPMorgan, who would like to have more details of the investment income. Can you
provide any guidance on investment income in 2021? What is normalized base investment
income and what is the annual drag we should expect going forward from a normalized
base?

A - Fernando Mata

{BIO 18226084 <GO>}

Yes, difficult to say what's going to be our accounting till next year, because it will depend
on the obviously the interest rate and reimbursement rate. And also, I mean, there is
some assets that are linked to -- with provisions and therefore -- but anyway, we have
seen in the past and we should expect similar trend. It is a 30-basis point reduction every
year on Non-Life fixed income portfolio. You see that our balance sheet practically halfway
with once the exit of Bankia is being completed, approximately EUR20 billion of our
investments are allocated to Non-Life, another EUR20 billion to Life. And also we bought
this as well, our accounting yield currently is like 1.7% and 1.70% more or less for MAPFRE
RE and MAPFRE ESPANA, which by the way they are the main contributors. So let's say that
we should expect perhaps lower, but a decline in the accounting yield perhaps between
25 and 30 basis points. We are trying to replace with another wave of alternate
Page 19 of 25



FINAL

Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

investment, as I mentioned, focus on real estate investment and also alternative as well,
mainly infrastructure with Macquarie and also perhaps new markets -- sorry, new partners.
Our exposure in equity will remain quite similar, but the focus on more cyclical -- cyclical
entities and also we're pretty far from financial institutions and also oil entities. But in any
way -- any case, our equity portfolio is extremely prudent and will remain the same.
Regarding rated entities and our policy hasn't changed, a sovereign BBB or higher, and
then those that are BB is because there was a downgrade, the ones that are in our
portfolio.

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Okay, thank you, Fernando. Now we have some questions regarding solvency. Marina
Massuti at JB capital has the following question. How do you see the Solvency II ratio
evolving in the fourth quarter of 2020?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Fernando Mata

{BIO 18226084 <GO>}

Yeah, I mean, it was one of the questions raised by the Spanish regulator before the nonobjections to our dividend. We're keeping our quite frequent dialogue, conversations with
the supervisor and it should be quite similar. If you consider both things, I mean in terms of
profit contribution and more or less for the fourth quarter, it's EUR208 million. And the
dividend approved is like EUR230 million more or less. So let's say that they're both at the
same level. So let's say, they should be quite similar. There is no -- no, we shouldn't
expect a significant change in our SCR. And so the only thing we published as well in the
report and then MD&A is the sensitivity analysis in our Solvency II ratio regarding the
Bankia exit. And assuming that there is no change in our equity base, which is very unlikely,
we can say we should expect a capital gain. The exit of Bankia from our balance sheet will
add a 5-percentage point increase to our Solvency II ratio.
Regarding approval, we are in contact with the supervisor. I know that the approval has to
come to MAPFRE by February in order to be applied to the 2020 calculation, we are
pretty optimistic and we are in a permanent contact with the Spanish supervisor. The
Board has done so far everything that we had to do. So it is on the regulator side and so,
let's say that the only thing we have to wait. But any case, if there is no -- the approval
doesn't come in February, I mean, the pro forma and the proxy, it is pretty clear. Because
the supervisory body has told us that there is not any -- they don't see any problem in
order to get the approval on time or just in the second quarter. But it will be in any case, I
mean, a significant uplift to our Solvency II ratio.

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Okay. You mentioned that -- because Alex Evans at Credit Suisse wanted to know, if you
could give more details on the 5-percentage points uplift due to the exit of Bankia
MAPFRE VIDA, is it due to premiums or what?

A - Fernando Mata

{BIO 18226084 <GO>}

Is due to -- is the combined effect on the SCR, assuming that eligible funds are flat. So
let's say that we haven't included any potential gain, because we don't know it in our
equity base. And so, yes, basically the change in SCR.
Page 20 of 25



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Okay, thank you.

FINAL

A - Fernando Mata

{BIO 18226084 <GO>}

As I mentioned, I mean, it's a big amount of -- a big chunk of assets that they will be of
the balance in probably this year. So it's again, this is a derisk in transaction for our balance
sheet, very, very important.

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Good, thank you. And now, again, regarding Bankia, Paco Riquel at Alantra would like us to
give an indication of the P&L contribution from Bankia JV in Non-Life. Also Ashik Musaddi at
JPMorgan asks what are the moving parts of earning loss from Bankia and any positives
from acquisitions that are indeed contributing to earnings?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Fernando Mata

{BIO 18226084 <GO>}

Yeah, thank you both of you. What I said is what I can say. And you, analysts, and we at,
Mapfre, is doing is just to put on the financial -- during the financial reporting information
we can't make it public. And there is a full disclosure of business Life. Probably it's a
surprise for some of you, I mean, there is some net equity and also the profit contribution
pretty strong. And for Non-Life, what we can say is, well, we rocked. I mean, it's the
amount of premiums, they're benchmarking the Spanish market further that are
interesting, because there are entities with a similar risk profile as well, bancassurance
entities. So it's easy to get the combined ratio if you want, but we can't publish this
information. As I mentioned for MAPFRE, this business is being run as an independent
distribution channel, but is MAPFRE ESPANA books. And so we can't give you the profit
contribution for Non-Life business in MAPFRE ESPANA, sorry about that.

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Good. Thank you very much. Now, we have, -- I think three or five more questions. Sofia
Barallat asks in your adjustments to attributable results, the slide five of the presentation,
the EUR50 million provision for restructuring booked in the second quarter of 2020 has
been excluded. Was this provision released?

A - Fernando Mata

{BIO 18226084 <GO>}

Well, thank you for -- very important Sofia, because I haven't mentioned during the
presentation. If I -- as I reminder, I mean, this is a general provision. It wasn't covered in a
particular result at that point. But during the fourth quarter, we booked first the US
software deterioration. It was covered for this provision. And also, as we mentioned, I
mean, there are restructuring expenses that we didn't consider extraordinary, part of
them during this fourth quarter, part of them in the early retirement scheme that we have
practically every year in large operations, such as the US and also Spain. And also there is
a downsize as well in some operations, particularly principally contact centers in the large
countries as well is due to the current COVID situation. We have to adapt to our structure
to the current volume and activity of this contract center. So let's say that what we did is

Page 21 of 25



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

we reversed this provision, because those deliveries that, in theory, they will -- it was
covered. They were already in the profit and loss account at the fourth quarter.

FINAL

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Fernando. Now, we have a couple of questions regarding
expectations. Marino Massuti, JB Capital Markets, would like to provide some guidance.
How do you see the combined ratio for 2021 particularly for motor insurance. And also
Ashik Musaddi at JPMorgan would like to know our opinion regarding premium growth in
2021 and ahead, following this large drop of 2020.

A - Antonio Huertas

{BIO 15896108 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It's not easy in the current environment to have any vision -- any clear vision about how
that trends can evolve in next months. The situation with the pandemic is still heavy, so the
limitations of the mobility are affecting all the economic activity, normally motor insurance.
In terms of claims, combined ratio we have continued, consolidated strong underlying
profitability trends. We have offset the increase in burial and life protection with the
improvement in motor and health and other lines.
Regarding guidance about motor, as I said before, it's complicated. In a normal situation,
once the pandemic is finished, we can sustain this -- the current frequency obviously. The
claim ratio and the combined ratio have to increase. But in the last years, MAPFRE has
introduced many new techniques to control this business, in some countries where we
had poor development. So in normal conditions, I can say that combined ratio from 95%
to 97% would be very positive in motor, but we are not still in this situation. And in
upcoming months, we can see a lower combined ratio, not only in motor, also in other
lines.
In terms of premium, this is also difficult because the recovery of the economy can be
different depending on countries. The drop in car sales in Spain in January was huge. And
we can't think about a quicker recovery, but in any way, our ways of distribution are doing
well and we are observing month by month, little by little increase in our offers, also in our
sales, in all the lines, including motor.

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Antonio. And also regarding this guidance of these expectations,
Paz Ojeda ask about the combined ratio. Fernando Mata said that 92% current combined
ratio should be -- could be sustainable for the following quarters. I assume that combined
ratio is still supported by lower frequency, mainly in motor. Could you give us a guidance
regarding the underlying combined ratio or a normalized frequency basis? Are there any
improvements in other areas, lines of business that may offset the expected pickup in
frequency?

A - Fernando Mata

{BIO 18226084 <GO>}

Paz, if I said that following quarters, I correct myself right away. What we've seen is during
the first quarter, particularly January, I mean, a similar trend that we had in the fourth
quarter, particularly for automobile. There is, let's say, frequency in Spain, because there is
Page 22 of 25



FINAL

Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

less mobility as well in Germany and in the US. On the other hand, Latin America is
completely different particularly, I mean, mobility is back to normality. But, let's say that it
will depend on basically our economic activities. I mean, there is -- if fortunately, I mean,
the vaccination process will come to an end satisfactory, I mean, it will be obviously an
increase of frequency and also has to be transferred to prices. Let's say that the first
quarter, I mean, if nothing change, which is what we've seen during January, I mean, we
should expect a similar trend that the last -- third and last quarters. But believe me, we are
looking at only the yes, immediately quarter. I mean, had to see, extremely prudent on
guidance and future outlook further than this current quarter.

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Okay, thank you very much, Fernando. Paz Ojeda at Sabadell asks about holding figures
breakdown?

A - Fernando Mata

{BIO 18226084 <GO>}

Sorry, repeat it again. Yeah.

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Holding figures breakdown. I think this is the last question. Could you provide more detail
about holding and others line, both concerning premiums and attributable results? How
much would this correspond to Iberia? I would like to say something, but Fernando is
going to help you with this, I guess, but if there is any pending doubt or anything, just give
us a call because perhaps it's more technical this question.

A - Fernando Mata

{BIO 18226084 <GO>}

Yeah. But basically holding expenses in that particular year 2020 includes the goodwill
impairment and the remaining overheads cost, let's say, the cost of the service of the
debt, which (inaudible) the magnitude EUR16 million, if I'm wrong. And also some
operating expenses regarding the central offices at Majadahonda. But then also there is a
couple of provisions as well regarding IFRS future expenses that we booked this year
amounting to EUR10 million, but nothing relevant and different from previous years. But
we will work on our full disclosure of -- a breakdown of these holding expenses and we
will give you this full detail, yeah.

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Okay, thank you very much, Fernando. There are no more questions. So, Antonio, you
want to wrap up?

A - Antonio Huertas

{BIO 15896108 <GO>}

Yeah, it's time to close. Thank you for your time today. As I mentioned, we are satisfied
with MAPFRE's performance in a certainly difficult year. We have weathered the storm
quickly adapting to a complex and unprecedented context. The COVID-19 related
economic crisis is not over still, but we maintain high hopes about the vaccination and a
return to some degree of normality. We are convinced that the future will continue
offering MAPFRE excellent opportunities for profitable growth and we are fully prepared
Page 23 of 25



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

to take advantage of them. Now, more than ever, we are committed to our stakeholders
and society at large and we'll continue to create value for our shareholders.

FINAL

I would like to thank you, Natalia, for having made an excellent year of managing IR during
many years. Now, Natalia, you hand over the call.

A - Natalia Nunez

{BIO 19480994 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Antonio. As I announced at the beginning of the presentation, from
now on, I will be taking on new responsibilities at MAPFRE Asset Management as Deputy
General Manager of Strategic Development. First of all, I want to thank MAPFRE for
trusting me to face this new challenge. I'm looking forward to it after more than 11 years in
the Investor Relations team, seven of which I sat as a Head of IR. Overall, these years, we
have learned a lot from our investors and the analysts community and I would like to thank
you all for it.
This close communication and enhanced collaboration has been very rewarding for me.
Thank you, again, and I'm sure this close relationship between MAPFRE and the
investment community will continue. Felipe is an excellent professional with a solid track
record. He will be leading a great and talented team. I will now hand the floor over to
Felipe.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Felipe Navarro

{BIO 19990761 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Natalia. I'm really excited for this new challenge at MAPFRE Group. I
would like to take this opportunity to introduce myself. I joined MAPFRE in 2002 and have
had different responsibilities within the organization. The last six years, I've been CEO of
Malta, where I had the chance to be at the helm of a company that is the absolute market
leader both in Life and Non-Life in a quite unique market. Previously, I coordinated the
bancassurance activity of MAPFRE VIDA for eight years from the initial negotiations to the
acquisition and later the management of the different operations. My first five years in
MAPFRE were at the M&A department and before joining the Group, I had 10 years of
experience in financial markets. I'm 54, happily married and father of four. Thank you very
much. Now, Fernando, would you like to comment on upcoming events.

A - Fernando Mata

{BIO 18226084 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you. First of all, thank you, everybody, for joining this presentation. And thank
you, Natalia and Felipe. Natalia, it has been a pleasure working with you all these years
and we wish you success in your new position. Felipe, welcome to the team. I'm also
convinced that you will be a positive addition. I know that MAPFRE is very complicated and
we live in a quite complex scenario.
So moving on to logistics instead of our traditional in-person analyst breakfast, this week
on the 15th, 17th and 18th, we will be arranging 15-minute one-on-one withdrawal
meetings for those of you that are interested that will be hosted by myself, Felipe
Navarro and also Leandra Clark. Please get in touch with Leandra or the IR team to
reserve a slot. You have the contact details in the presentation.

Page 24 of 25



Company N ame: M apfre SA
Company Ticker: M AP SM Equity
Date: 2021-02-11

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

And also we are happy to announce that on March 16 after the AGM, we will be holding
our first MAPFRE Management Insights Day where our President and CEO and key
managers will give you their insights on recent business development. As well as the
strategy update approval at the AGM. Further details will be announced later. We're
looking forward to seeing you at these events. Thank you for your time and above all, stay
safe. Bye-bye.

Page 25 of 25

