Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

S1 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Neil Manser, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Penny James, Chief Executive Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Freya Kong, Analyst
Greig Paterson, Analyst
Ming Zhu, Analyst
Oliver Steel, Analyst
Thomas Bateman, Analyst
Will Hardcastle, Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to our Half Year Update. A few weeks ago, we
took you through the competitive advantage we believe our claims capability gives the
group. Today, I want to update you on what has been a really strong ﬁrst half, but also
build on the claims conversation by bringing to life the momentum in our strategic
execution and by showing you how that's already reaping rewards and where it will take
us next.
So starting with our key highlights, ﬁrst, we've delivered a strong ﬁnancial performance
with proﬁt of GBP370 million. The beneﬁts of our diversiﬁed business model can be seen
with growth in direct own brands for all lines aside from motor. Here, the deﬂationary
market conditions, driven by abnormally low claims frequency, stabilized in the second
quarter.
Second, we're delighted to have won a new partnership with Motability, which is
expected to increase our motor customer base by around 15% to 4.5 million customers.
It's evidence of the quality of our customer service, vehicle repair expertise, and digital
claims capability and we look forward to welcoming both Motability customers and our
new colleagues.
Third, we successfully launched our new Motor system, which aims to deliver a step
change in our pricing capability and operational eﬃciency, providing a platform for future
growth.

Page 1 of 19



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

FINAL

Fourth, we remained focused on digitalization, personalization, and preparing the
business to win as the transition to a green economy takes place.
And ﬁnally, our strong ﬁnancial performance and capital generation in the ﬁrst half has
enabled us to grow our interim dividend and conﬁrm the GBP50 million second tranche
of our share buyback. We are in an excellent position. Our strategy remains the right one
as we've become an increasingly agile company underpinned by great tech that is fully
digitally enabled.
I'll now hand over to Neil for the ﬁnancials.

Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

Thanks, Penny, and good morning everyone. It's great to be here to talk you through an
excellent ﬁrst half. I'll begin with the highlights on slide ﬁve. Now, as Penny has already
mentioned, it's a strong ﬁnancial performance with operating proﬁt of GBP370 million,
well ahead of last year. We grew our direct own brand policy count by 1.3% with
continued momentum across commercial, home, and Green Flag Rescue.

Bloomberg Transcript

And we made further progress on reducing our cost base. Together, this performance
means we now expect to beat our combined operating ratio target for this year by 3
points, which we now expect to be in the range of 90% to 92%. And we've increased the
interim dividend by 2.7%. So overall, a successful start to the year.
Let's turn to the ﬁnancial summary on slide six. Here you can see the GBP370 million
operating proﬁt, GBP105 million better than last year, leading to a combined operating
ratio of 84% or 86% when normalized for weather and a return on tangible equity of 30%,
all very strong metrics.
I'll ﬁrst talk to some of the speciﬁc factors aﬀecting in 2021 and then come back to the
underlying message. There are three main trends that account for most of the increase in
operating proﬁt. First, COVID related eﬀects. Here, we saw a non-repeat of the travel
claims from the last year and a reversal in the investment losses we suﬀered. This
accounted for around half the variance and is normalizing one-oﬀs from last year. As
you'd expect, we also had a beneﬁt in motor claims frequency. Now, this was broadly in
line with 2020 and so had little impact on the H1 proﬁt change, but was still below normal
levels.
Secondly, we experienced strong prior-year reserve releases, up from the low watermark
from last year, and lastly, weather conditions were favorable.
Now, whilst these factors are important, understanding the shape of the ﬁrst half result,
what is most important is that we continue to make progress on the underlying
proﬁtability with a reduction in our operating expenses, good current year trading across
the book, and strong prior-year reserve releases. And this sets us up well for the future. So
overall, a very strong set of results, delivering against our ﬁnancial targets.

Page 2 of 19



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

FINAL

So turning to the detail, starting on slide seven with policy count and premiums, and this
is where our diversiﬁed model is really showing through. If I look across both charts, there
are three key trends to pull out. First, motor. In a deﬂating market, we traded with
discipline, pricing to our best view of risk, and have reduced rate by less than the market.
This means we did lose some competitiveness, but the beneﬁt being a higher quality
portfolio. As the market stabilized in Q2, so as our performance with Q2 GUP down only
1.5%.
Secondly, other direct own brands and NIG. The diversiﬁcation delivered by these areas
more than oﬀset motor. In home, growth has come from a focused and improved
competitiveness across PCW, together with an attractive proposition for Direct Line. In
Green Flag, we returned to growth in Q2 as driving levels and therefore new business
picked up. And in commercial, we saw the beneﬁts of our transformation come through
across Direct Line, Churchill and NIG.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, lastly we have seen greater than normal movement in other personal lines. This
primarily reﬂects the low levels of travel in 2021, which impacted partnerships, both the
average annual premium we charge partners as well as the level of upgrade premium we
receive from customers. And both of these factors should reverse to some extent in 2022.
So overall, whilst premium was down in the ﬁrst half, we grew by 1.6% in Q2, and this sets
us up well for the rest of the year.
So let's start with the segments before I look at the -- and before I look at the individual
results, I want to spend a bit of time on slide eight, on motor claims trends as context.
What the graph on the left shows is the level of the miles driven through the last 18
months. And there are two key items to pull out.
First, our claims frequency has generally been better than implied by miles driven alone.
Whilst we can't prove it, we believe it's down to the nature of our book and the change in
the pattern of driving away from peak commuter times. Having said that, in July,
frequency is now almost back to the level assumed in our pricing. And secondly, the
frequency we experienced across the ﬁrst half of 2020 and the ﬁrst half of 2021 were
actually quite similar on average, albeit the mix in the quarters was very diﬀerent.
On the previous slide, I spoke about the premium deﬂation we saw across the market in
Q1 before prices stabilized in Q2. The key drivers of this have been claims frequency, but
also the impact of the whiplash reform. It's impossible to unpick a market level how much
of the deﬂation is whiplash related, but it is interesting to note the young drivers where
the impact is greatest have seen some of the largest price reductions, and in Scotland,
where the reform doesn't apply, prices have increased.
Now, ﬁnishing on damage inﬂation. As we entered 2021, we have been running above 3%
to 5%, medium term expectations due to one-oﬀ factors such as cleaning costs and
higher used car prices. We have seen some normalization in these factors and damage
inﬂation returned to around the top end of our expected range during the ﬁrst half. As we
told you last month, we believe we have a competitive advantage through our repair

Page 3 of 19



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

network and supply chain and this will become increasingly important as the economy
unlocks.

FINAL

Looking ahead to the rest of 2021, as frequency normalizes and the impact of the whiplash
reforms works through, market pricing should be expected to more closely resemble
underlying claims inﬂation.
Now let's move on to how that translates into a strong motor result on page nine. As I said
on the last slide, lower claims frequency similarly impacted both 2020 and 2021, leaving
motor operating proﬁt broadly ﬂat at GBP231 million.
I talked about how we traded the ﬁrst half already, and this can be seen in average
premium down 1.7%, which we think will compare favorably with the market. From the
demand side, new car sales remain lower than normal and fewer new drivers enter the
market. Although these factors are starting to reverse and you can see that in direct own
brands gross premium, which was down 10% in Q1 and only 1.5% in Q2.

Bloomberg Transcript

The current year loss ratio was relatively stable compared to last year at 67%. Now looking
forward, we would expect the second half current year loss ratio to increase back to closer
to underlying 2020 levels. And as a reminder, we estimated this was around 79%. And
prior-year releases were higher at GBP101 million, beneﬁting from favorable experience in
large bodily injury and I'll come back to this in a bit more detail later. So a very strong ﬁrst
half for motor.
Turning to home on slide 10, where again we delivered a strong result with an operating
proﬁt of GBP75 million, supported by benign weather and higher prior year releases. Own
brand average premiums reduced by 3.5% and this reﬂected our continued mix shift
towards lower average premium PCW business, alongside pricing actions to take
advantage of a buoyant new business market and to support retention. And this delivered
premium growth across both PCW and Direct Line. Attritional current year loss ratio
remained stable compared to last year with claims trends in line with expectations.
Now, as you know, in July, we've seen some ﬂooding, but this has been a localized and so
not material to date. As you recall, we said last year prior-year reserve releases were lower
in home and they've increased this year, largely driven by favorable development on
escape of water claims. So all of this delivered a headline COR of 79%, and when
normalized for weather, around 86%, an excellent result.
Looking forward, we are preparing for the upcoming pricing practice reforms. Now we
have a ﬁnal rule set that focuses on being ready ahead of the go-live date and we are
conﬁdent we can achieve this. So overall, a very positive ﬁrst half of the year for home.
Moving to rescue and other personal lines on slide 11. Headline operating proﬁt improved
by GBP37 million and returned the segment to proﬁt in H1 with a combined operating
ratio of 93%. And this was predominantly driven by the non-repeat of the COVID impact
on travel in the ﬁrst half of last year. On the right of the slide, you can see that rescue

Page 4 of 19



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

delivered operating proﬁt of GBP29 million, increasing 20% over 2020, an excellent
result.

FINAL

As I said at the year-end, rescue is well positioned and this is coming through continued
Green Flag direct growth despite low shopping [ph] in Q1, better indemnity control
following the launch of the new claims system, and cost eﬃciency. Green Flag remains a
real challenger in the rescue market and we believe with more to come.
Finally, let me turn to commercial on slide 12 where the results demonstrate the
transformation this unit has been on for a number of years. It has grown both top line and
operating proﬁt in the ﬁrst half and is building a really meaningful market position.
Double-digit premium growth was delivered across all of its brands, direct, PCW, and
broker.
And whilst the reasons for the growth are diﬀerent in each channel, the consistency is
around giving customers and brokers the right propositions backed up by great service.
We continue to co-rate and have seen some modest rate hardening in the upper end of
the market. This is pushing more business to market and I'm excited that we have a great
team of underwriters to capitalize on this.

Bloomberg Transcript

Overall, operating proﬁt grew by GBP18 million to GBP44 million. This mostly reﬂected
benign weather, but importantly, we are now seeing growth earned through the book. So
positive ﬁrst half from commercial with a positive outlook.
Moving back to the group result, I'd like to start with prior year reserve releases on slide
13. At the full year results, I said that changes to our reinsurance levels back in 2012 and
2013 have now worked through the system and said 2020 represented a low watermark
for prior year reserve releases. And from this 2020 base, we would expect modest upside
over the next couple of years. This statement still holds true. The ﬁrst half, we saw strong
releases across motor, home and commercial. Importantly, these primarily came from
more recent accident years. Now we don't expect releases to be as high in the second
half with overall releases between the level we saw in 2019 and 2020. And this is reﬂected
within the revised 90% to 92% core expectation for this year.
Now onto expenses on slide 14. We continue to make progress on our cost agenda with
operating expenses of GBP363 million, reducing GBP9 million compared to 2020. In the
waterfall, you can see that our costs before levies and amortization were down GBP30
million in H1. In 2020, we incurred around GBP9 million of Force for Good initiatives. If I
exclude this, costs are down around GBP21 million on this basis. And these savings more
than oﬀset the expected higher amortization costs, but also oﬀset the market-wide
increase in levies.
I talked a lot at the full year results about a number of cost initiatives we have in trade,
new systems, digitalization, our agile operating model, and the property restructuring.
And this is all contributing to our longer-term eﬃciency plans and gives us conﬁdence in
reiterating the 20% expense ratio target for 2023. For 2021, we expect to exit this year on
a run rate of less than GBP700 million.
Page 5 of 19



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

FINAL

Now moving on to investment return on slide 15, which had a better than expected ﬁrst
half. Investment return increased by GBP27 million to GBP68 million, and this was driven
by two key elements. First, we had a reversal of the mark-to-market losses we saw on the
investment property portfolio last year. The value of this portfolio is now back to prepandemic levels. And this is testament to both the high-quality portfolio we hold and to
the actions we took to reduce the retail exposure a couple of years ago.
Secondly, we saw a modest amount of realized gains on our credit portfolio in 2021
compared to the losses in 2020.
Investment yields were down, but have held up slightly better than we expected and we
are now targeting 1.6% for 2021 versus 1.5% previously. So overall, the portfolio remains
sound and we are staying relatively short duration ahead of any sustained pickup in rates.

Bloomberg Transcript

A few words on capital on slide 16 before outlook and targets. As I said in March, I'm
proud of our long-term track record of returning capital to shareholders and I'm pleased
that we can continue that today with the second GBP50 million tranche of the GBP100
million buyback we announced in March together with an increase in the regular interim
dividend of 2.7%. After these distributions and adjusting for the Tier 2 debt callable in
2022, this leaves us with a pro forma capital coverage ratio of 177%.
As you'll notice, this is towards the upper end of our target range, and there are a few
reasons for this. First, we always tend to have a higher capital coverage at half year
because the ﬁnal dividend is ordinarily twice the level of the interim. Secondly, we've had
some tailwinds in the ﬁrst half of the year, particularly the deferred tax asset uplift, benign
credit markets, and the earnings eﬀects of benign weather and prior year reserve timing.
We might see some of these reversing a little in the second half.
And thirdly, we generally only look at additional capital return at year-end when we will
look to move back towards the middle of the range. So overall, I remain conﬁdent on the
group's capital position, albeit the half year paints a slightly more optimistic picture than
likely at year-end.
So let me move on to targets and outlook on slide 17 before handing back to Penny. The
strong ﬁrst half result and particularly the low level of motor frequency means we expect
to beat the core target for 2021. We now expect this to be up to 3 points better in the
range of 90% to 92%. Beyond 2021, we reiterated our existing targets for the combined
operating ratio, the 2023 expense ratio, and return on tangible equity.
Now there are clearly some signiﬁcant changes going through the market at the moment
in relation to COVID, whiplash and the upcoming FCA pricing practice reforms. And
whilst there will inevitably be some market volatility through this transition, we have run
numerous scenarios, and this together with the health of the business gives us conﬁdence
in our ability to achieve these targets.
I'll now hand back to Penny to talk you through how excited we are about the future of the
business.
Page 6 of 19



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

FINAL

Thanks, Neil. I want to begin by giving you a feel for where we are in our journey and why
we are so excited as we look ahead. As I said before, our journey has three overlapping
phases, each involving diﬀerent parts of the business moving at a diﬀerent pace.
The ﬁrst has been building the key technology blocks after years of underinvestment. It's
characterized by very high investments and run costs along with constrained expenditure
on organizational change or in existing systems that are set to be phased out. Well, I'm
delighted to say that having successfully rolled out our new motor system, we're now
largely through the heavy lifting of the tech transformation.
The second phase is business transformation. Here, we expect to materially improve our
cost position as we reduce double-run costs and improve eﬃciency to increase the
accuracy and speed of our pricing and underwriting, and as a result, improve our
competitiveness, to improve the agility at which the organization responds to and delivers
change and to continue to improve our customer experience further through
digitalization and product personalization.

Bloomberg Transcript

Anyone that's tried knows it's not just about technology. It's about partnering technology
with the right cultural mindset to deliver for customers at pace. And that will bring us to
the third phase, which is business growth. Now I'll come back to this later, but ﬁrst, I want
to explore the business transformation in more detail.
Turning then to slide 20, like many data-driven consumer markets, ours is digitizing fast.
Future success will be on -- will be predicated on combining customer focus, eﬃciency
and innovation with the insurance specialisms of pricing and claims expertise. If we get it
right, these attributes become self-reinforcing and we believe deliver sustainable growth
at attractive margins.
The key to achieving this is pace and agility, which means continually removing friction
from the system, and combined with an underpin of great technology and data. Now we
start from a position of strength with leading customer service, strong brands with unique
propositions, and market-leading claims capabilities.
In contrast, our biggest cause of friction has been our IT systems. The tech transformation
aims to address this, giving us tools that we believe are as good as any in the market. Our
pricing teams and data scientists are working to leverage the data and tools now available
to them and deliver a step change in our pricing and underwriting capabilities.
The new systems also enable us to signiﬁcantly reduce our cost to serve our customers
through increased digitalization, self-serve, and automation, alongside the ability to make
changes to systems and products much faster. This is all underpinned by our move to
Agile, which is developing maturity and which, by its very design, works to remove friction
from the system.

Page 7 of 19



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

FINAL

These are the attributes you need to win today, but they are also needed to thrive once
the FCA's pricing practices reforms come in. Put simply, customers will still value strong
brands, great service and a claims operation that delivers what it promises.
Moving to slide 21, commercial is furthest through its transformation journey and is a great
example of what can be achieved if we get all the elements of the ﬂywheel working
together. As you can see from the charts, over recent years, it's driven strong growth and
improved margins with only a small proportion of this growth driven by market hardening.
Now, commercial has all the elements; strong brands in Direct Line, NIG and Churchill;
great customer service and improved pricing tools, both supported by new platforms in
NIG and DL4B launched in the past three years. And with agile ways of working, this has
driven the strong growth you see here, which is across all major product lines.

Bloomberg Transcript

Over the last three years, broker and aﬃnity has delivered 4% compound annual growth,
rising to 16% growth in the ﬁrst half of this year. Over in commercial direct, we've been
innovating with new products designed for small and micro businesses, and this has led
to strong growth with a CAGR of almost 9%. And this gives us conﬁdence in our ability to
deliver organic growth in motor as we leverage our core strengths combined with its new
technology.
And those core strengths in claims management and great customer service have been
key in helping us secure a new partner. I am really delighted that Motability have chosen
to work with us. Our vision of insurance is personal, inclusive and a force for good is fully
aligned with Motability's purpose of giving their customers access to aﬀordable, worryfree mobility. We just can't wait to get started.
This partnership is primarily about delivering brilliant service and claims capability to
Motability's customers. It's expected to deliver around GBP500 million of premium and
grow our motor customer base by 15%, adding scale to our leading claims management
service. Motability underwrite all but 20% of the risk themselves. It gives us further insight
on the ﬂeet of modern vehicles with 600,000 customers. And it's a great ﬁt where we can
combine our vehicle repair expertise and digital customer service over the course of a 10year contract.
Moving on to slide 23, earlier, I spoke about how our technology has been our biggest
area of friction. Now in motor, we've been operating with one arm tied behind our back
with the new systems overcoming impediments that we have faced in the past and set us
up for the future.
A quick reminder then of what we've delivered. We now have a much greater resource of
external data to draw on and the capability to integrate it through the Guidewire
InsuranceSuite and Radar Live pricing engine. We've created a more eﬃcient, intuitive
platform for our frontline colleagues, consolidating over 20 applications and providing
them a 360-degree view of our customers.

Page 8 of 19



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

FINAL

Our new systems create a comprehensive digital oﬀering, including customer
documentation and self-serve. And importantly, and where we've moved ahead of the
market, the tech stack is modular in design and fully cloud-based, which makes it
dynamic. We can plug in new products when we want to. We can update pricing engines
at speed or even introduce completely new ones. And as it is in the cloud, we aren't
limited by the amount of data we can store, making it an increasingly powerful asset yearon-year.
So where do we and our customers expect to see the beneﬁts of this technology
upgrade? Well, you can see the outcomes on slide 24, but I'd highlight just three main
points. First is customer choice and eﬃciency. Some changes catches up with the market.
We can oﬀer tailored products and we're now able to oﬀer customers tiered motor cover
across all three brands.
But self-serve capability is delivering real results. We've seen customer take-up rates
increase in motor to over 50% across service transactions alone. And the system allows us
to automate up to 80% of motor back oﬃce workarounds, freeing up time for our
consultants and delivering our cost targets. We also know our customers love it, with 90%
of them scoring us with a 9 or 10 out of 10 in customer feedback surveys.

Bloomberg Transcript

The second beneﬁt is pricing and underwriting sophistication. At every stage, our
processes will improve, getting faster and leading to greater accuracy because we can
integrate more granular data.
Finally, we can innovate for growth. Our new systems are designed to get new products
to market faster, to onboard new books of business quickly and to allow us to focus on
untapped segments.
To summarize, we've successfully built the tech, removing barriers that hindered our
progress, and now have greater freedom to deliver the commercial outcomes.
Moving to slide 25, today, I've focused on the beneﬁts of our new tech. The future success
is predicated on some broader trends as well. Firstly, digitalization, data and AI. We're
conﬁdent about what our digital investments can bring customers because we've already
had success elsewhere in the business. For example, our digitally enabled brand Darwin
is going from strength to strength. It now has 90,000 policies, tripling in size over the last
12 months. Our in-house developed counter-fraud systems and total loss identiﬁcation use
AI and are improving ﬁnancial outcomes and customer experience already. We've got a
great foundation from which to build.
Secondly is product personalization. Whilst many customers may choose to purchase
relatively homogenized products through price comparison as they do today, we believe
many customers will want an experience that reﬂects their changing needs. Over time,
we'll look to use the ﬂexibility we have in our customer journeys to oﬀer an increasingly
personalized experience that will only be available by coming to us direct. For instance,
we've just released our new cycling product and we're aiming to release further products
in the second half as we expand the direct line oﬀering.
Page 9 of 19



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

FINAL

Thirdly, car technology. We consider this a major strength. As many of you heard at our
recent claims insight session, we believe our vertically integrated model gives us real
competitive advantage. And we continue to expand our DLG auto services network,
having purchased our 22nd site.
It provides the perfect environment to test and learn new capability before rolling it out
across our broader managed network. And we want to remain at the forefront of car
technology. It's why we built a tech center during lockdown, our very own in-house
training facility where we can upskill our technicians in ADAS calibration and electric
vehicle repair. And we continue to engage with other sectors and governments to
support the adoption of electric vehicles because we know the car park's set to change.
And ﬁnally, I want to turn to our vision of insurance as a force for good. When we talked
about this last year, we were focused on our support for customers and the most
vulnerable in society as well as our people's well-being. And our community fund
continues its great work, supporting many fantastic causes through the UK. We've also
oﬀered millions of customers the permanent option of adjusting their mileage levels, and
have oﬀered others a refund or donation to any of three great causes, Mind, NSPCC or
the Sepsis Trust and thus far, they have donated nearly GBP950,000.

Bloomberg Transcript

But we're now focused on climate change and how the green transition can give us a
competitive edge. We want an approach that is good for the planet and good for the
business. We signed up for the Race to Zero campaign and are active in areas such as the
ABI, Climate Change Roadmap, and the Sustainable Markets Initiative.
Engaging is non-negotiable. Every government, CEO, leader and individuals simply has
to do their bit. So we're working to encourage the industry's supply chain to reduce its
carbon footprint. We want our investments to have inﬂuence. And as a major motor
insurer, our green USP should be to ensure ﬁxed and rescue EVs and to do this whilst
aiming to be the most energy-eﬃcient repair network in the UK. And our auto services
colleagues are doing great work on this. So in the ﬁrst half of 2020, we'll be running an
ESG investor insights session outlining our progress on science-based targets and the
investments that we're making across our operations.
So in conclusion, I hope today has given you a feel for the sheer scale of change and
innovation that is going on across the business and why we're so excited and conﬁdent as
we look ahead. We have great momentum after a successful rollout of our new motor
platform, our technology transformation is largely complete, and we're ﬁrmly on to our
business transformation. And commercial has shown, through its sustained growth, what
can be achieved when we add new technology to our existing core strengths in claims
expertise and customer service, underpinned by agile ways of working.
It certainly hasn't been an easy period to navigate with a challenging market backdrop
and a huge amount of delivery from remote working environment, but our ﬁrst half results
show both strong ﬁnancial results and real strategic progress. And this is a testament to
the commitment and resilience of our people. So I really can't thank them enough.

Page 10 of 19



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

Thank you for listening. And both myself and Neil are happy to answer any questions you
may have, and I'll hand back to Jess to coordinate the Q&A. Thank you.

Questions And Answers
FINAL

Operator
(Operator Instructions) And the ﬁrst question comes from the line of Freya Kong from
Bank of America. Please go ahead.

Q - Freya Kong

{BIO 20097488 <GO>}

Hi, good morning, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. I've got two questions, please.
So you've upgraded your combined ratio guidance by 3 points. Could you walk us
through the moving parts of this between your current year loss ratio, which was very
strong in H1, higher (Technical Diﬃculty) expenses?
My second question is on damage inﬂation, which is now back within the 3% to 5% range
that you had expected, but this is materially better than the high single digits at the start
of the year. Where has most of this improvement comes from? And is there something
that the rest of the market is seeing?

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Brilliant. Thanks, Freya, Do you want to take the ﬁrst one on outlook?

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

I would. Yeah, Freya -- good morning, Freya. I'll take ﬁrst one on COR guidance. I think if
you look at -- I mean, the simplest way through it is actually most of the upgrade of the 3
points is really current year motor frequency in the ﬁrst half. That is the majority of it.
Clearly, there is a pretty strong prior year reserve movement in there as well and
(inaudible) expenses. But as I said, most of the movement is really motor current year in
the ﬁrst half.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks, Neil. And severity damage inﬂation, you're right. So we ﬂagged at Q1 that we
were running higher than our sort of normal 3% to 5% guidance range, in particular, on
accidental damage. And we kind of pointed at several COVID-related eﬀects, so things
like cleaning costs, people driving the smartest car on the drive rather than cheaper car
on the drive. So the sort of nature of vehicles that are crashing changed and moved up
the scale. And probably the single biggest eﬀect was that the secondhand market prices
had risen due to lack of supply in the market. So write-oﬀ costs, total losses have
increased quite considerably.
What we've seen in Q2 is that start to normalize back to the -- to somewhere around the
top of our range. And some of that, I think, is some of those COVID eﬀects, not all of
them, but some of those COVID eﬀects starting to normalize. Plus the team has been
Page 11 of 19



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

doing a lot of work, in particular, in the total loss space to try and tighten up the position
and get some better deals on the way. So a little bit of self-help, but probably largely the
COVID position starting to normalize again.

FINAL

Thanks, Freya. Hopefully, that deals with those ones.

Operator
The next question comes from the line of Will Hardcastle from UBS. Please go ahead.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Good morning, Will. How are you?

Q - Will Hardcastle

{BIO 16346311 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Very well. Good morning, everyone. A couple of quick ones, really, I think. On the
installment income, just trying to understand the drivers of this. I guess is there anything -any change in propensity for customers to pay in installments or is there a mix shift?
Anything sustainable here or should we be expecting a bit of a (inaudible)?
And second one is just I know there is lots of moving parts on both the home and motor
pricing dynamics that we're going through at the moment with the FCA or remedies with
the whiplash reforms. I guess just the action you're seeing at the moment, is it as you
anticipated? Or is it (Technical Diﬃculty) now. I know there's some early signs, it sounds
like. And then on the back of that, thinking about the FCA [ph] remedies, just give us a bit
of color (Technical Diﬃculty) you're conﬁdent that you said to be a long-term potential
(Technical Diﬃculty)

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks, Will. I'm sure that's more than two, but I think we can work with them. Why don't I
talk a bit about motor ﬁrst and let's perhaps come onto pricing practices and perhaps
Neil can do installment income in a second.
I'm just going to step slightly back and kind of do a bit of what's happened in the market
and therefore where is it set as we kind of enter the second half, which I think hopefully
will help. The backdrop, as always, is the amount of mileage that people are driving. And
we know through the lockdown last year that that dropped dramatically. It picked up
through the rest of the year, but to nowhere near pre-pandemic levels, fell back again as
we come into the third lockdown. But by the time we get to the end of Q2, mileage levels
are pretty much back up to pre-pandemic levels.
Now, in terms of frequency throughout that period, frequency has lagged the miles
driven. We think that's due to customer behavior, people working from home, may also
have a bit to do with the nature of our book relative to others, diﬃcult to see. But certainly,
it has lagged and continues to do so.

Page 12 of 19



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

FINAL

So what's premium done through that period largely? You saw mix changes through last
year that continued into this year, so less young drivers in the market, less midterm
amendments and so on that pulled average premium down. And then as we entered the - and it became clear we were going into another lockdown. You saw prices come down
across the market. We took a few points out. I think the market went further than us, and
you can see that in some of the GWP ﬁgures.
But in Q2, a lot of that came back again or sort of at least ﬂattened oﬀ. So whereas
average premium was down about 5% in Q1, about half of that down due to those risk mix
factors. By half year, it's only down a couple of points, so you can feel those things starting
to reverse. And the play through to GWP of all of that is, I think as Neil said in his
presentation, we were 10% oﬀ on -- in Q1, about 1.5 points oﬀ in Q2. So again, you can see
and feel the market stabilizing through that as we get to the end of the second quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

So as we look forward then, well, which I think is where the thrust of your question is
going and how we're feeling about it, we've obviously projected what frequency levels
will do. We believe they won't return to the levels that they were pre-pandemic relative to
miles driven. And they are now kind of approaching the level that we've got reﬂected in
our pricing. You can feel, as I said to Freya, that severity NAD is starting to come back into
shape, so not fully unwound yet, but starting to come back into shape. And you've
obviously got the whiplash reforms coming in and it's too early really to see what's going
on there, just not enough claims through the system. But we will all across the market
have taken a view on what whiplash reform means.
When I put all of that together, what we'd say is that broadly the assumptions on all of
those things are hanging with our pricing assumptions at the moment. And whilst there's
some uncertainty at how those things will actually land as we get towards the end of the
year kind of means that in loss ratio terms, we expect to be back somewhere around our
2020 underlying as we move through the back end of the year relative to -- and that's
about, what, 79%, I think it was, in 2020 relative to the 67% we saw in the ﬁrst half. So I
think, in summary, both the markets stabilizing and things starting to move back into line
with sort of core pricing assumptions.
I'll pause there. You can do installment income and then I'll come back to FCA.

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

Yeah. Good morning, Will. So you're right, installment income is down half year on half
year. It tends to track premiums, but it also tracks mix as well. So a higher average
premium business would tend to have a higher installment income penetration. As you
know, there's a few young drivers in the marketplace. So if you take those factors, that
should explain the change. I don't think there is an -- there's no underlying change in
propensity at the kind of cohort level going on there.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

And FCA pricing practices, look, I think the ﬁrst thing is we've got the rules now, which is
actually a big advantage over where we were in Q1 when we spoke to. So we and

Page 13 of 19



FINAL

Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

everyone else in the market will be ﬂat out sort of working on delivery according to them
and so on. But I think what it tells you is that what I've always said that having a variety of
brands, channels, and products is an advantage in this space. I mean, ultimately, we will -and I suspect others will be segmenting their book to work out where the right price point
is for each segment and cohort of business. And that can happen at quite a granular level.
And as we do that, we have plenty of options and levers across the brands and channels
to pull. And that's why, as we look at it, and we've done -- modeled, numerous scenarios
on what the market might do as you imagine. But as we look at those scenarios, we think
we can navigate through within the 93 to 95. Obviously, some have diﬀerent eﬀects to
others, but broadly, we see ourselves in that range. And that's why we kind of expressed
the conﬁdence that we do.

Operator
Yes. So the next question comes from the line of Greig Paterson from KBW. Please go
ahead.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Good morning, Greig.

Q - Greig Paterson
Good morning, everybody. Can you hear me?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

We can. Yeah.

Q - Greig Paterson
Two quick -- I'll be two and a half. How's that? Motability, the 80% reinsured element, do
you have a proﬁt share kickback in the contract for the reinsurance element? Second is,
you talked about business transformation eﬀect. When do you expect that to complete?
And then two and a half, what -- do you still have a diﬀerential in home between renewal
and new business pricing? Thank you.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Why don't I take the second two, and then I'll let Neil talk to Motability. I think do we still
have a diﬀerential on home? Yes, we have some diﬀerential, and you won't see that fully
ﬂatten until we go into pricing practices. I think the -- we've clearly done a lot of work on
the tails of the book over the last few years, as we've told you about. So that range is
much tighter than it was a few years ago. And we're very comfortable, if you think about
the two aspects of the pricing practices rules, one being the pricing remedy and the other
being the fair value test, we're very comfortable that the book as a whole -- in fact across
all the products ﬁts in a completely appropriate position from a fair value perspective.
And that will sort of conﬁrm that we've dealt with any tails. But actually, because the
pricing remedy means you have to ﬂatten entirely through the tenures, if you like, there's
still some margin -- some elements to go through those early tenures. So I think you will
Page 14 of 19



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

FINAL

see in individual segments across the market, some prices go up, some prices go down.
And that may vary from segment to segment at quite a granular level as we go through it.
So that's the FCA answer.
In terms of business transformation and timing, I think diﬀerent parts -- as you can tell,
diﬀerent parts of the book are moving at diﬀerent paces as these things overlap. I think it
will take -- if the question really relates to when do the beneﬁts come out of the motor
transformation, that element will come as we move the book over about an 18-month kind
of time scale. They will evolve. Some of the pricing kind of attributes come immediately
and some take a while to work in.
And what I was trying to express is we brought agile ways of working in. Now we give
people a new tool set to work with. There was some degree of learning period as you
bring that together. So we will get more mature, if you like, in the use of that over the
coming months. So that's a sort of shape. I think obviously business transformation never
really ends, but it's probably the shape that you're after.
Motability structure, do you want to...

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

Yeah. So thanks, Greig. So hope you understand that I can't give you the entire
commercial construct of the deal. What I can say, though, is the 80% -- so 20% is ours, but
we'll generate a return on capital, we put up against that. The 80% is Motability's, but of
course, it delivers scale into our platform and we can monetize that scale beneﬁts to our
advantage.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks, Greig.

Operator
The next question comes from the line of Thomas Bateman from Berenberg. Please go
ahead.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Good morning, Thomas.

Q - Thomas Bateman

{BIO 21707516 <GO>}

Hi, good morning, Penny. Hi, Neil. One question or point of clarity really. Just on the
expenses, you said that you expect to be at a run rate lower than GBP700 million for 2021.
Is that an improvement in your guidance there? And if so (Technical Diﬃculty) about the
change? And what's driving the conﬁdence to meet the expense ratio target in 2023
given that's still 5 percentage points (Technical Diﬃculty)? Second question on (Technical
Diﬃculty). Can you give any color on the kind of rating improvement -- rating increases

Page 15 of 19



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

that you're getting? And what sort of guidance can you give us on the combined ratio? So
could we expect that to come to below 90% next year? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

Right. Let me do cost ﬁrst. So the exit this year at sub-GBP700 million, no change to
guidance, same as we said it last year. So that's a run rate at the end of the year. And it's
coming in line with the guidance we gave a couple of years ago. We were aiming for
GBP700 million, but we're saying -- that's delayed slightly, but at the end of this year,
we're still trying to get to a run rate.

Bloomberg Transcript

If I kind of stand back and look costs more generally, I'm pleased that absolute cost's
down in the second half, underlying cost's down in the ﬁrst half, the expense ratio is down
in the ﬁrst half, and that's against actually a reduction in earned premium because we're
making the right trading choices for margin purposes as well. So I think it's a pretty strong
ﬁrst half on costs. We're getting through the change agenda. Penny talked a lot about the
motor platform, the beneﬁts coming there, taking 80% of the manual process at the back
end, the 20% reduction of cost to serve. There's lots of stuﬀ coming through now as we
deliver the technology transformation, technology change, which should give us -- which
does give us conﬁdence.
But at the same time though, it's not just about cost reduction on the change. It's also
about how do we make change faster, at greater pace for lower cost as well. And that
feeds more into growth in the longer term. So we exit -- we saw Q2 actually business grew
a bit, 1.6%, albeit against relatively easy comparative. But you've got commercial growing
well. We've launched the system capability on motor now. So the business is in pretty
good health to grow forward, and we're winning contracts. So we've won the motability
partnership. So I think if you take the tech we're landing to take cost out and to grow the
business and put all that together, that's why we're conﬁdent on the 20%.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Do COR guidance improving next year or not?

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

The COR guidance, I think if I look into next year, this year, 90, 92, conﬁdent on that. A lot
of that is driven by the metrics in the ﬁrst half. If I go into next year, the question is much
about margin versus growth. So we spent the last three or four years moving this business
away from one that was heavily dependent on prior year reserve releases into one where
the earnings are much more balanced between prior year and current year. And even the
prior year is a much more recent accident year. So it's almost like current year. And we can
-- the guidance of 92 to 95 captures that.
I think when we get to that, now we are at that point, actually, the choice we make is
probably around growth. So 90 to 95, we're making good margins. You can see the
RoTEs we are making at that level, which were strong. So we'll probably now look to grow
the business at those margins, rather than continue to drive the margin and actually not
have a bigger business.
Page 16 of 19



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Thanks. Jess, have we got any others on the line?

FINAL

Operator
Yes. So the next question comes from the line of Alex Evans from Credit Suisse. Please go
ahead.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Good morning, Alex. Hi Alex. You are on mute. Jess, I think we've lost Alex for the
moment. Do you want to see if we've got anyone else we can go to?

Operator
Yes, of course. So the next question comes from the line of Oliver Steel from Deutsche
Bank. Please go ahead.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Hi, Oliver.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Oliver Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Good morning. Hi. So two questions, since I'm told that's all I'm allowed. First of all, the
capital requirement just sort of keeps on nudging up even though the premiums and the
policy counts aren't really. And I know it's quite small in the last six months, but over the
last three years, it's been pushing up quite strongly against premiums. So I'm just
wondering what's driving that and what the guidance is about the capital requirement
going forward. Secondly, investment income guidance, you've given 1.6% for this year.
Are you suggesting 1.6% for next year as well or can it nudge up?

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

So I'll take those. So let me take the second one ﬁrst. So one point -- so we're still coming
oﬀ slightly higher levels of investment income. So we're still reinvesting at rates at or -- we
are pretty close to where the previous 1.5 guidance was. In the ﬁrst half of this year, we'd
held a slightly higher weighting to higher yield, which has given us a little pickup. So this
year, 1.6, I think next year is more likely to be around 1.5 actually as the reinvestment goes
through. But I think we're at the point where the reductions have -- the major reductions
have reduced. And actually, it's plateauing out. And hopefully, if we see some pickup in
rates, either credit or interest, then we should be able to pick back up in the future.
On capital, ﬁrst half, I think the movement was slow tens of millions. You get this volatility
in Solvency II capital models. It doesn't take much to move the number by a small handful
of millions. So I wouldn't read too much into that. I think longer term, we would -- sorry, I
should also say on the (inaudible), we slightly tweaked the reinsurance program on motor
as well, which does require a little bit more capital because we're taking a bit more risk on
motor. So that's one of the changes that's come through recently. Longer term, I think we
Page 17 of 19



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

constantly challenge ourselves on capital eﬃciency, capital optimization, whether there's
more we can do, and we'll continue to do that. So I would hope that the ratio of premium
to capital won't grow any higher.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

FINAL

Thanks, Oliver. Jess?

Operator
(Operator Instructions) And the next question comes from the line of Ming Zhu from
Panmure Gordon. Please go ahead.

Q - Ming Zhu

{BIO 17001429 <GO>}

Hi, good morning. Thank you for taking my question. I only got one question, but it's
largely around your capital. Given your strong capital position, where it is at half year and
sort of look towards the end of the year, and your target, sort of the mid of your target
range, does that mean we could -- if the weather plays out normal, does that mean we
could be expecting some excess surplus to shareholders after your ordinary dividend?
And sorry -- actually, two questions, but it's related. And since the full year, your share
price has just been absolutely ﬂat, apart from today, of course, and so your buyback
hasn't really worked. I mean, would you consider the special over buyback if there is
surplus capital at full year? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Neil Manser

{BIO 5571223 <GO>}

Thank you. Let me kind of do the second one ﬁrst again. So on the buyback, I think we're
pretty pleased in some ways that we've been buying back stock at pretty low prices
during the ﬁrst half of the year. So actually we -- bought back more stock than we thought
we would have done with the GBP50 million. When we talk to shareholders, most -- the
vast majority of shareholders at this point with the stock where it was trading were
supportive of buybacks to special dividends. It's not completely universal, but the vast
majority were of that view. So conﬁdent in the second half of year, buyback is the right
decision. Of course, every time we do this, we'll make assessment on whether this
buyback or specialty is the appropriate way to go.
In terms of the capital outlook, I'm not going to predict there's no weather for the second
half of the year. I think that's a bit -- for me, it's very optimistic to do that. Having said that,
I think the capital position at the half year is strong. You can see that. Of course, as I said,
the dividend in the second half is always bigger. It's about 15 points of capital of a
dividend in the second half, it was last year. So it's a bigger chunk of capital that comes oﬀ
in the second half as you pass the dividend through. But I think the reason to be
optimistic, we have a good track record returning capital to shareholders. We have -- with
the guidance of 90 to 92 for the COR this year, we're generating strong capital. So I think
there were a few tailwinds in the ﬁrst half, but still conﬁdent.

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Jess?
Page 18 of 19



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2021-08-03

Operator
We have no further questions in the queue. So I will hand the call back to your host for
some closing remarks.

FINAL

A - Penny James

{BIO 15157212 <GO>}

Brilliant. In which case, can I say thank you very much for all the questions and for joining?
As you can tell, we're feeling really positive. There's great momentum in the business.
We've got some brilliant strategic execution delivery away in the ﬁrst half, and we're just
looking forward to the second half continuing. So thank you very much. And if you got
any more questions, as ever, feel free to get in touch with us or Paul direct. Thanks.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 19 of 19

