Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-11-11

Q3 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Jan Willem Weidema, Head of Investor Relations
Lard Friese , Chief Executive Officer and Chairman
Matt Rider, Chief Financial Officer

Other Participants
Andrew Baker, Analyst
Benoit Petrarque , Analyst
David Barma, Analyst
Farquhar Murray, Analyst
Fulin Liang, Analyst
Henry Heathfield, Analyst
Michael Huttner, Analyst
Michele Ballatore , Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Robin van den Broek, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Good day, and welcome to the Aegon Third Quarter 2021 Results Conference Call for
Analysts and Investors. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to
turn the conference over to Jan Willem Weidema, Head of Investor Relations. Please go
ahead, sir.

Jan Willem Weidema

{BIO 15133400 <GO>}

Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining this conference
call on Aegon's third-quarter 2021 results. We would appreciate it, if you could take a
moment to review our disclaimer on forward-looking statements, which you can find at
the back of the presentation. With me today are Aegon CEO, Lard Friese, and CFO, Matt
Rider will take you through the key points for this quarter. Let me now hand over to Lard.

Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Thank you, Jan Willem and good morning, everyone. We appreciate that you are joining
us on today's call and we look forward to updating you on our third quarter results. In my
part of the presentation, I will take you through the strategic highlights and through the
progress we have made on our strategic assets. Matt Rider will then go through the
Page 1 of 21



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-11-11

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

details of the results and our capital position. We will also summarize the actions we have
taken to further strengthen our balance sheet and to manage the financial assets. Finally, I
will conclude the presentation with a wrap-up, after which we will open the call for
question and answers.
So let's move to slide number two. In the third quarter of 2021, we continued to drive our
transformation forward by delivering on our financial and strategic commitments, and I'm
encouraged to see this reflected in our results. These results are supported by the
benefit from expense savings initiatives and we remain on track to deliver on the threeyear target of EUR400 million expense savings. In our strategic assets and growth
markets, we are benefiting from the growth initiatives that we have implemented and our
asset manager business extended its track record of over nine years of positive third
party net deposits. We saw an improvement in performance across most of our
businesses. This was offset by adverse claims experience in the US with COVID-19 and a
higher average claim size being the most important driver. As a consequence, the
operating result decreased by 16%. We expect the impact from COVID-19 to abate over
time.
In addition, we want to reduce the volatility in mortality experience in the US and are
looking at management actions to mitigate this. In the third quarter, we remain proactive
in managing our financial assets. We launched a lump-sum buyout program for certain
variable annuity policyholders, which was well received by customers. Moreover, the
guarantees on the remaining variable annuity portfolio are now being fully hedged against
equity and interest rate risk. Furthermore, we have almost fully executed our planned
management actions to reduce interest rate risk in the US, which has led to a significant
reduction in our interest rate exposure. In our long-term care business, we have already
achieved approval for more than $300 million worth of rate increases and consequently,
we have increased our expectations for the rate increase program to $450 million. This
underscores our track record of actively managing this business.
Our balance sheet remains strong and in line with our disciplined capital management
framework. The capital ratios of all three main units are above their respective operating
levels and our Group Solvency II ratio increased to 209%. We have also strengthened
Aegon's approach towards corporate sustainability. Last week, we announced Aegon's
group-wide commitment to transitioning our general account investment portfolio to netzero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 with an intermediate goal set for 2025. This
further underpins our concrete action plans to create lasting value for all our stakeholders.
Lastly, we continue to work together with the Vienna Insurance Group to close the
divestment of our businesses in Central and Eastern Europe. VIG's continuing its
constructive dialog with the Hungarian Ministry of Finance to clarify possibilities for a
positive conclusion of the acquisition.
Let me now give you an overview of where we stand with the execution of our operating
plan on slide number three. Our ambitious plan that now comprises more than 1,200
detailed initiatives is designed to improve our operating performance. We are
continuously adding new initiatives to this plan to make up for any delays and existing
initiatives and to capture the full potential of our organization. In the third quarter, we
completed another 150 initiatives. More than 680 initiatives have now been fully
Page 2 of 21



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-11-11

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

implemented and are contributing to the operating results over time. Expense savings
initiatives have so far delivered EUR248 million of savings, so we remain on track to
deliver on the EUR400 million expense reduction target in 2023. Initiatives aimed at
improving customer service, enhancing user experience, and launching new innovative
products are also well underway. These growth initiatives contributed EUR29 million to the
operating result this quarter. We intend to continue executing the expense and growth
initiatives at pace.
Let's now turn to slide four to discuss the progress we have made with respect to our
strategic assets. Our priority here is to grow the customer base and expand our margins.
In the US Individual Solutions business, we have the ambition to regain the top five
position in selected life products over the coming years. In the third quarter, new life sales
improved by 13%, mainly driven by indexed universal life and whole life final expense
products. Sales are benefiting from a 24% increase in licensed agents at World Financial
Group and from funeral planning benefits for eligible indexed universal life policyholders.
Whole life final expense sales increased following enhancements made both to the
product and the application process. In the US Retirement business, Transamerica aims to
compete as a top five player in the new middle market sales. This business continue to
build momentum with fifth consecutive quarter of written sales of over $1 billion in the
third consecutive quarter of positive net deposits.
So let's turn to our Dutch Strategic Assets on slide number five, we are market leaders in
both mortgage origination and new-style defined contribution pensions. We saw
continued commercial momentum in these businesses in the third quarter mortgage sales
amounted to EUR2.7 billion as we benefit from our strong origination capabilities. About
two-thirds thereof consisted of fee-based mortgages originated for third party investors
through our Dutch mortgage funds. Iin our Workplace business, we saw a 6% increase in
net deposits for new-style defined contribution products. Assets under management for
this business increased to EUR5.6 billion at the end of the quarter underscoring Aegon's
leading position in this market.
As you are aware, we want to develop our online bank Knab into a digital gateway for
individual retirement solutions. In the thirrd quarter of 2021, the online bank attracted
9,000 new fee-paying paying customers. This was offset by 11,000 customers leaving
Knab stemming from our decision to stop offering savings products to non-fee-paying
customers as they were loss-making.
Moving onto the United Kingdom. Assets under administration remained above the
GBP200 billion. Gross deposits increased reflecting stronger investor sentiment as well as
the benefits from ongoing investments in the business. This led to an improvement in
retail net deposits; however, this was more than offset by the termination of low margin
investment-only scheme in the Workplace segment which led to net outflows in this
business. Expense savings initiatives and the favorable impact from market movements
on assets have led to improvement in the efficiency of the platform. This more than
offsets the revenues lost from the gradual run-off of the traditional product portfolio.
Let me now turn to our global asset manager in our growth markets on slide number six.
In our asset management business, the operating margin of global platforms almost
Page 3 of 21



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-11-11

doubled as a result of higher revenues from net deposits and favorable market
developments. Third-party net deposits on the global platforms amounted to EUR2.4
billion, driven by inflows on the fixed income platform. Net deposits in strategic
partnerships were EUR1.3 billion for the quarter driven by our joint venture in China.
Continued net deposits together with favorable equity markets have led to a significant
increase in management fees. This was offset by a normalization of performance fees
compared with the exceptional levels seen in the same period last year resulting in a
decline in the operating results for strategic partnerships to EUR44 million.
To drive further growth, Aegon asset management's wholly-owned subsidiary in Shanghai
has completed its onshore investment advisory registration. This allows us to provide a
range of global investment solutions including those with an ESG focus to Chinese
institutions and high net worth investors. In Aegon's growth markets, we continue to invest
in profitable. Sales growth in the bancassurance channel in Spain and Brazil was, however,
offset by lower new life sales in China caused by an industry wide lower demand for
critical illness products. New premium production for property and casualty and accident
and health insurance increased to EUR21 million as a result of sales of new products in
Spain and Portugal, as we continue to see benefits for sales after the redesign of our
digital sales channels through our Spanish bancassurance partners.
I am now on page number seven. Turning to a topic that's -- that is on all our minds,
sustainability and climate change. Our stakeholders in the wider world expect us to act
sustainably as an insurer, as a manager and employer. We recognize the role that Aegon
plays in society with respect to responsible investing and we continue to progress with
our approach to sustainability. Coinciding with the COP26 conference in Glasgow, we
announced Aegon's group-wide commitment to transitioning our general account to netzero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. In this context, Aegon has joined the Net-Zero
Asset Owner Alliance, the United Nations convened group of institutional investors
committed to transitioning their portfolios to net-zero greenhouse gas emissions.
To ensure progress towards this 2050 commitment, Aegon has set an intermediate
target. By 2025, we aim to reduce the carbon intensity of our corporate fixed income and
listed equity general account assets by 25% compared with 2019. On our path to netzero, we will regularly update our group wide exclusion criteria and increase our
engagement with the most carbon intensive companies in our investment portfolio to
achieve real world carbon emission reductions.
Next to our group-wide initiatives, our local units are taking additional actions and are
working to meet the demand for ESG products from our customers. For instance, Aegon
Asset Management has joined the Net-Zero Asset Managers Initiative and our Dutch
business will commit to an extended 2050 climate action plan to include separate account
assets and off balance sheet investments, in addition to general account assets.
Ahead of COP26, Aegon UK in partnership with Aegon Asset Management launched its
innovative Global Sustainable Sovereign Bond Fund. The fund invests in those countries
that are making the best progress towards the United Nations Sustainable Development
Goals and allows our workplace pension customers to align their investment objectives
with the goal of a fair and sustainable future. In summary, we continue to deliver on our
Page 4 of 21



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-11-11

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

strategic priorities and are making steady progress in growing our strategic assets and
growth markets. We will continue to drive efficiencies, while at the same time and
investing in products and services that better serve our customers in our various core
businesses. And with this, I would like to hand it over to Matt who will talk about the results
for the quarter and update you about our actions on the financial assets.

Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Thanks, Lard, and good morning, everyone. Let me start with the financials on slide nine.
Our operating result decreased compared with the third quarter of 2020 to EUR443
million. Increased fees from higher equity markets and positive contributions from growth
were more than offset by adverse claims experience in the US, which was mainly
attributable to COVID-19 and a higher average claim size. Our balance sheet remains
strong with the capital positions of all our three main units above their respective
operating levels and the Group Solvency II ratio at 209%. Cash capital at the Holding
decreased EUR961 million as anticipated, and now sits in the middle of the operating
range. The decrease reflects the payment of dividends and use of cash for additional
deleveraging. Since mid-2020, our gross financial leverage has reduced by EUR700
million and now stands at EUR5.9 billion. This puts us on track to meet our target of
reducing our gross financial leverage to EUR5 billion to EUR5.5 billion.
We have also made good progress on the reduction of our economic interest rate
exposure in the US. We have now almost fully executed the interest rate reduction plan
that we announced at the Capital Markets Day by lengthening the duration of our asset
portfolio and expanding the forward starting swap program. Together with the expansion
of the dynamic hedging program for variable annuities and favorable market movements,
this has led to a 75% reduction in the targeted interest rate risk since the third quarter of
2021.
Let me now turn to slide 10 to go into more detail on the expense savings, in the last four
quarters, we reduced addressable expenses by EUR253 million compared with 2019.
EUR248 million of these savings are driven by expense initiatives that are part of our
operational improvement. This level of expense savings is comparable to what we had
achieved through the second quarter. The benefit of the additional cost savings initiatives
implemented this quarter was offset by higher one-time employee expenses. Our
progress makes us confident that we will be able to achieve our expense savings target
of EUR400 million by 2023. When we created our operation on our improvement plan, we
took into account the nature and complexity of the underlying initiatives. Most of the
initiatives that we have implemented so far were relatively straightforward and led to
savings coming through with a short lead time. Let me give you an example. We have
implemented changes in our ways of working. For instance in our risk and communications
departments, we found ways for the Holding and Aegon the Netherlands to work more
closely together with shared processes enabling a reduction in overall head count.
Another example is in our Individual Solutions business in the United States where we
have reduced the number of software subscriptions.
In the coming quarters, we expect to see a more gradual delivery of expense savings.
While we will continue to execute on our expense savings initiatives, we also need to
Page 5 of 21



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-11-11

absorb expense inflation and other upward pressures on expenses. In addition, some of
the larger initiatives are still in progress and will take some time to fully execute. An
example is Aegon asset management's migration to a new technology platform for its
global operations that will drive expenses down and make the business more scalable
and client focused. Next to the expense savings, we benefited again from lower travel
and marketing activities due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. These benefits are
starting to fall compared with previous quarters and we expect them to go to zero over
time. Furthermore, we aim to profitably grow our business by improving customer service,
enhancing user experience and launching new innovative products. These growth
initiatives resulted in EUR30 million of expenses in the last four quarters.
Let me now turn to slide 11. In the third quarter of 2021, our operating result amounted to
EUR443 million, a decrease of 16% compared with the same period last year. The applesto-apples decrease is 13% at constant currencies when adjusted for the reclassification of
the operating results of our CEE businesses to other income. The decrease in the
operating result was driven by adverse claims experience in the US, which amounted to
EUR93 million. Deaths that were directly attributable to COVID-19 were in line with our
expectations relative to US population deaths. Furthermore, we saw a higher number of
claims due to respiratory diseases this quarter. While the death certificates did not
attribute all of these benefits to COVID-19, we believe that some of them are related to
the virus. Deaths directly and indirectly attributable to COVID explain approximately one
half of the adverse claims experience. About a quarter of the adverse mortality
experience related to a higher average claim size. In line with our aim to improve our risk
profile, we want to reduce the volatility in mortality experience and we're in the process
of exploring management actions to achieve this. The remaining adverse mortality was
from increased frequency in line with what we have seen in the wider industry this quarter.
The adverse mortality experience was partly offset by EUR23 million of favorable
morbidity experience in the long-term care book which included a EUR14 million release of
the incurred, but not reported reserve.
In the Netherlands, the operating result increased by 8%, to EUR190 million. All lines of
business contributed to the higher result supported by the benefits of expense savings,
business growth and favorable disability claims experience. In the UK, the operating result
increased by 47% to EUR51 million, driven by higher fee revenues as a consequence of
favorable equity markets. The operating result from International decreased by 17% to
EUR36 million. However, on an apples-to-apples basis and at constant currencies, the
operating result increased by 18%. This reflects business growth and favorable claims
experience in Spain and Portugal and a reduction in crediting rates at Transamerica Life
Bermuda. Finally, the operating result from Asset Management remained stable at EUR58
million. Higher management fees offset a normalization in performance fees from
Aegon's Chinese asset management joint venture compared with last year's exceptional
level.
Let us now turn from operating result to net result on the next slide. As you can see on
slide 12, the net loss amounted to EUR60 million of the third quarter of 2021. Nonoperating items contributed to a gain of EUR9 million before tax. Realized gains on
investments of EUR132 million and net recoveries of EUR7 million more than offset a loss
from fair value items of EUR130 million. The latter resulted from an increase in the fair

Page 6 of 21



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-11-11

FINAL

value of liabilities in the Netherlands. This was driven by an increase in inflation
expectations and to a decrease in the own credit spread used to discount certain
liabilities. Other charges of EUR559 million were largely driven by a EUR470 million charge
relating to the expansion of the variable annuity dynamic hedging program in the United
States as well as to the lump-sum buy-out program in line with prior guidance. One-time
investments related to the operational improvement plan amounted to EUR64 million.
And now turning to slide 13 to go through the capital positions of our main units. The
capital ratios of our three main units ended the quarter above their respective operating
levels. The US RBC ratio increased by 2 percentage points during the quarter to 446%.
The RBC ratio was adversely impacted by negative separate account returns in the
variable annuity business. Interest rate movements during the quarter resulted in a loss on
the macro interest rate hedge that was scaled up in anticipation of the expansion of the
dynamic hedge program. The capital released from the lump-sum buy-out program was
offset by the impact of expanding the dynamic hedge program. This led to a combined
negative impact of 2 percentage points on the RBC ratio in line with prior guidance.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the Netherlands, the Solvency II ratio of the Dutch Life unit remained stable at 172%.
Negative market impacts from rising inflation expectations and credit downgrades more
than offset positive impacts from real estate revaluations, mortgage spread tightening
and a flattening of (Technical Difficulty). Operating capital generation had a positive
impact, which more than offset the EUR25 million dividend payment to the Group in this
quarter. Scottish Equitable, our main legal entity in the UK, increased its Solvency ratio to
171%. Strong operating capital generation had a positive impact and there were some
benefits from a number of smaller one-time items.
Let us now turn to the development of cash capital at holding on the next slide. As
anticipated, cash capital at the Holding decreased during the quarter to around the
middle of the operating range. In the third quarter, gross remittances amounted to EUR99
million. These weren't part driven by capital release as a result of winding down both our
Irish corporate insurance entity and our internal reinsurer Blue Square Re. These
remittances contributed to free cash flows to the holding, which were EUR62 million this
quarter. This brings year-to-date free cash flows EUR312 million and puts us in a good
position to exceed the 2021 free cash flow guidance that we provided at our Capital
Markets Day. These cash inflows were more than offset by the payment of dividends to
the previously announced redemption of $250 million perpetual capital securities. Capital
injections amounted to EUR53 million and were mainly driven by an injection into our
Brazilian joint venture that we had flagged last quarter. Other items led to a cash outflow
of EUR29 million driven by the previously announced share buyback in the context of
variable compensation plans.
Let me now turn to our financial assets starting with the US variable annuities business on
slide 15. We are taking both bilateral and unilateral actions to maximize the value of our US
variable annuities business. Last quarter, I highlighted two of them, the lump-sum buy-out
program and the expansion of our dynamic hedging program. The lump-sum buy-out
program was launched in July. This program was made available to certain variable annuity
policyholders with guaranteed minimum income benefit riders. The program reduces
Transamerica's economic exposure at a favorable price, reduces hedge cost for the
Page 7 of 21



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-11-11

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

remaining variable annuity portfolio going forward. At the end of the third quarter, the
take-up rate of the program amounted to 8%, which is encouraging and exceeds those of
similar programs run by Transamerica in the past. We have decided to extend the
program to the end of January 2022 to allow customers more time to consider the offer.
We expect the take-up rate by the end of January 2022 to exceed the original
expectation of 15%.
In the third quarter of 2021, Transamerica also scaled up the existing macro hedges in
anticipation of the transition to a dynamic hedge program for all remaining legacy variable
annuity policies. The dynamic hedging program was expanded in the first week of
October and now covers the interest rate and equity risks embedded in the guarantees
of our entire variable annuity portfolio. This builds on the dynamic hedging program that
we have operated for policies with guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits with a
hedge effectiveness for the targeted risks amounted to 98% year to date. Dynamic
hedging stabilizes cash flows and reduces our sensitivities to changes in equity markets
and interest rates on an economic basis. The combined impact of extending the dynamic
hedging to the full portfolio of variable annuities together with the execution of the lumpsum buy-out program was in line with prior guidance with a 2 percentage points negative
impact on the RBC ratio.
Another action that was entered in the third quarter was an increase in rider fees on part
of the variable annuity portfolio. Certain contracts allow policyholders to elect a step-up of
the guarantee base on the policies rider anniversary, if the policies account value exceeds
the guarantee base. Transamerica will increase the fees to the contractually allowed
maximum when a step up is elected. This is a good example of our ongoing commitment
to actively manage this financial asset. In short, the unilateral and bilateral actions to
maximize the value of our variable annuity portfolio are well underway. Therefore, we
have begun allocating internal resources to investigate our options for potential third
party solutions. We will update the market on our progress in this respect in the first half
of 2022.
Let's now go to slide 16. We have progressed well on the in-force management of our
long-term care book. In the third quarter of 2021, Transamerica obtained regulatory
approvals for additional rate increases of $133 million, bringing the value of approvals
achieved year-to-date $309 million. This means that we have already achieved the
expected $300 million benefit from this program which underscores our track record of
achieving actuarially justifiable rate increases. Based on these better than expected
results to date, we have increased our expectations for the benefit from the current rate
increase program from $300 million to $450 million. Long-term care claims from the third
quarter, it came in at an actual to expected ratio of 83%. The level of new claims has
returned to pre-pandemic levels. The claims experienced reflects a $16 million release of
the incurred, but not reported reserve that was previously set up for delayed long-term
care claims. Excluding this release, the actual to expected claims experience for the third
quarter of 2021 would have amounted to 95%, reflecting increased claims terminations
due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Let me now turn to slide 17. Our aim for the Dutch Life business is to turn it into a low risk
cash generator paying predictable regular dividends. The Dutch Life business again
Page 8 of 21



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-11-11

FINAL

remitted EUR25 million to the Group in the third quarter in line with it's quarterly
remittance policy. Solvency II capital ratio of the Dutch Life business remained unchanged
this quarter at 172% and was again above the operating range. In the second half of
October, the Dutch Life business implemented an expense inflation hedge to further
reduce the volatility of its capital ratio.
To summarize, we continue to actively manage our risks and our capital position. To name
a few examples, we've nearly completed the interest rate risk reduction plan in the US.
We extended the dynamic hedging program to our legacy variable annuities. We expect
to exceed our original expectation of a take-up rate of more than 15% with the lump-sum
buy-out program. We increased our expectations for the long-term care rate increase
program to $450 million and we remain on track to achieve our expense savings target,
and we will continue to take actions to improve our risk profile.
With that, I pass it back to you, Lard.

Bloomberg Transcript

Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Thanks, Matt. So the take away from today's presentation is that we continue to drive our
transformation forward by delivering on our financial and strategic commitments through
the disciplined execution of our operational improvement plan and active management of
the in-force business. Adverse claims experience aside, the operating result development
is encouraging and supported by the disciplined implementation of our operational
improvement plan. We have reached important milestones for our financial assets as Matt
just laid out. We are benefiting from growth initiatives in our strategic assets and growth
markets and we have committed to net-zero greenhouse gas emissions targets by 2050.
In summary, I am satisfied with how we continue to deliver on our financial and strategic
commitments and I would like to open the call now for your questions. In the interest of
time, I kindly request you to limit yourself to two questions per person.
Operator, please open the Q&A session.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you, sir. (Operator Instructions). Our first question comes from Andrew Baker from
Citi. Please go ahead, sir.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Great. Thanks, guys, thanks for taking my questions. So, both are actually on capital
generation, first specifically to the thirdquarter. It seems like there's quite a lot of moving
pieces. You have given update on your view of a normalized run rate, so I guess the
comparable number to the previous EUR380 million pre-holding company cost that you
provided, and maybe just talk through some of the moving parts for the quarter? And
then secondly, related to the medium-term view, when can we expect an update to the
EUR1.3 billion in 2023 target? And then can you also just confirm whether that included an
Page 9 of 21



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-11-11

assumption for a 15 basis point reduction in the UFR? And if so, can you just remind me
what the impact of that was? Thank you.

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Mattt? Thank you very much, Andrew, for your questions. So, Matt, can you take?

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Yeah. So maybe I can walk you through the operating capital generation guidance that we
have now for the full year. And I can walk through some of the moving parts here. So if you
take the 3Q operating capital generation after the holding and funding expenses, that
was EUR327 million, add back the holding and funding expenses and you get to EUR390
million operating capital generation again before holding and funding expenses. And then
some of the puts and takes, I mean we had -- as I mentioned earlier, we had adverse
claims experience on the mortality side, we had benefits on the morbidity side, but if you
back that out, that's -- it adds about EUR60 million to the run rate. And then we did have
some good guys that you have to back out too, so -- and then generally, you can walk
through it, but it's about EUR50 million. So that leaves you with a clean run rate for the
quarter of about EUR400 million.
And then as you look forward to the end of the year, we have, we -- actual year-to-date
operating cap gen within the business units before the holding and funding expenses
amounted to about EUR1.1 billion. Add the EUR400 million clean from the run rate for the
fourth quarter and then subtract out our expectations for COVID in the fourth quarter,
which amounts to about EUR40 million and then take about EUR10 million out for the
impact of the dynamic hedging, remember that does reduce the operating capital
generation going forward, then you get to right around the midpoint of about EUR1.4
billion to EUR1.5 billion range that we communicated last quarter and we're going to retain
that for this quarter. I hope that -- I hope that helps.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

And the medium term view? Yeah and whether it includes -- whether the target includes
UFR reduction? Thanks.

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Yeah. So you're right. So -- and so, at the Capital Markets Day we had included EUR1.3
billion target for 2023. That did not, by the way, include any impact from the 15 basis
points reduction that we would now anticipate not happening in 2023, which would
actually add another about EUR100 million of operating capital generation. But there -- we
always remind people that there are some headwinds here. We do have still continued
low interest rates, the credit impairments are likely to step up here. We're not changing
the guidance at this moment in time, but in general, we're getting the benefit from
headwinds and you can see it coming through in our operating cap gen guidance for
2025.

Q - Andrew Baker

{BIO 20402705 <GO>}

Page 10 of 21



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-11-11

Alright, thank you very much. Very clear.

Operator

FINAL

Michael Huttner from Berenberg. Please go ahead.

Q - Michael Huttner

Thank you very much. Can you -- can you talk a little bit about the take-up rate
expectation, what you're seeing where we are now at the end of October or actually in
November in terms of take-up and what kind of impact this could have in terms of RBC? I
think at September the 8% was 3.5 and I was trying to gross it up, but I'm not very good
at math. And then the other question is on the morbidity. So, understood from your
comments $23 million in Q3, including $16 million the reserve releases. Are we kind of
done with morbidity benefits or is there potentially still more to come or is that the $300
million pricing you've spoken about when will see that in the numbers?

A - Matt Rider

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Yes, so let me take your take-up rate question first. So indeed the experience on the
lump-sum buy-out program through September stood at 8%. If we looked at it yesterday,
it was about 14% and that's, you can't really extrapolate that going forward because the
program itself ended at the end of October and as you might expect, a lot of the take-up
came at the very last part of it. So as of right now, it's about 14%. Now what we are going
to do is extend that offer forward through the end of January in 2022. So that percent will
accumulate, it we'll get it will get bigger, but probably a slower pace than what we saw in
the first stage of the program. With respect to the morbidity experience. Yes, indeed we
are, we are still getting morbidity benefits; however, we see that the entrances to longterm care facilities are picking up in line with pre-COVID levels. We are going to be -- you
saw that we released a portion of the IBNR reserve in the fourth quarter, sorry, in the third
quarter and we'll release the remainder of the $44 million IBNR reserve pretty much level
throughout throughout 2Q of next year.
On the rate increases indeed we had exceeded our expectations on the long-term care
price increases. So now we stand a little bit more than $300 million and we are extending
that and we now put a target out there are $450 million. The $100 million of that is going
to be reflected in what we say our premium deficiency ratio reserve by the end of the
year and the balance of that will come in over time. You'll see it reflected in capital
generation over time. The other question that you had was the -- also impact on RB -- on
RBC and in the -- so the overall program impact was 3.5%. So it improved the ratio by
3.5% and we would expect that again. It will -- we're going to extend the program, but
again that was based on a -- based on the 8% take-up rate. We would expect to get
incremental improvements through the end of January and we'll see that come through in
our -- in our RBC ratio by the end of the year and also into the -- also in the first quarter of
next year.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Great. That's helpful. Thank you.

Page 11 of 21



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-11-11

Operator
David Barma from BNP Paribas. Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - David Barma

{BIO 19957338 <GO>}

Thank you and good morning. On US variable annuities, just -- just to come back on that. In
light of your high expectations for the buyouts pickup rate in your comments Matt on
increases in some contracts, can you remind us what you expect for the run rate capital
generation on that the line to be, please? And then secondly on US mortality, so quite
high in the quarter and I assume that splitting COVID-related from the rest is a bit difficult,
but any color on underlying trends would be would be helpful there? And also, you said
you want to take actions to reduce the sensitivity to so mortality, how do you plan to
achieve that? Thank you.

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks David. So, Matt do you?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Yes, so on the VA run rate capital generation, in the last quarter we had said that we
would reduce operating cap gen by about $50 million as a consequence of implementing
the -- both offset program and the -- or the lump-sum buy-out program and the dynamic
hedging and that we would be in a range of $250 million to $300 million operating cap
gen on an annual basis and we're retaining that guidance. So we came in pretty much
exactly where we thought we are going to be. So the number is $250 million to $300
million on an annualized basis. Maybe on the mortality in the US, I mean, the way that we
really think about this is that we did have -- you could say the impacts of direct and indirect
COVID claims that represented about one half of the adverse experience that we saw in
the quarter. So if you work in US dollars, we had $111 million worth of adverse mortality
experience. Part of that was directly related, so that's the case where I think it was $46
million of that was related to COVID. That's where we get a claim and we got a death
certificate and it's written COVID-19 as the cause of death. But as I said in the, my opening
remarks, we're also seeing elevated claims from things like respiratory illnesses, which are
-- which are guiding us saying that there is a portion of other claims that are not directly
COVID-related, that are more indirectly-related and then if you add those two
components of them, it's -- then it's like 1.5, the 1.5 of the total amount of the deviation.
The other part of it is, we did have an increase in the overall average claim size during the
course of the quarter which contributed to about one quarter or about 1/4 of the overall
mortality experience. This is just what I would call normal average size claims deviation.
We did see a number of higher face amount contract claims that came in during the
course of the quarter. You asked the question around management actions and indeed
we are going to try to take some steps here. This is typically done through reinsurance
and we will be looking at that as a minimum or to reduce the amount of let's say the the
claims volatility in terms of case size. And then the remainder of it is, we would attribute it
to just frequency number -- there were just a higher number of claims during the first
quarter, which was quite consistent with what we seen in the US industry. So I think that will
come as no -- no surprise. I think that covers your questions.
Page 12 of 21



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-11-11

Q - David Barma

{BIO 19957338 <GO>}

It does it. Thank you.

Operator

FINAL

Fulin Liang from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

Q - Fulin Liang

Thank you. Two questions, please. The first one is about your deleveraging plan, because
if I look at the Holdco liquidity is like in the middle of your kind of target range and -- but
actually there is the total leverage is still above your long-term target. Apparently used to
need to go to do another further EUR0.5 billion to EUR1 billion deleveraging. Originally, I
thought that was be -- would it be kind of with the CEE deal being completed that would
kind of give you the cash to do that, but now with the CEE deal contending, would you
actually -- can of still going ahead with the deleveraging target or your deleveraging is
actually conditional on the CEE deal completion? So that is one, first question. And the
second one is, I'm still a little bit -- just clarify a bit number, you kind of integrated your
EUR1.4 billion to EUR1.5 billion clean capital generation guidance kind of for 2021, but your
original strategic plan was EUR1.3 billion for 2023 so this seems like a bit kind of
disconnection there. If you can talk me through about what's the moving blocks between
the current higher target versus a slightly lower target in two years time? Thank you.

A - Matt Rider

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Yes. Certainly, so on the deleveraging side, so we are a hair below at the midpoint of the
operating range for cash capital at the holding. But I would just remind you that we
typically get relatively low dividends and then remittances from the business units in the
thid quarter, a lot of the remittances come in in the fourth quarter. So that's not a
particular concern for us. With respect to the deleveraging target, we're committed to
doing that. EUR5 billion to EUR5.5 billion whether CEE closes or not. So we are going to
continue with our deleveraging plan there.
With respect to the capital generation, so what we're what we're targeting here is a
EUR1.4 billion to EUR1.5 billion a operating capital generation in the business units for 2021
and that includes everything. So that includes the effects of adverse mortality. But it does
include also the benefit that we are getting from tailwinds in the equity markets to a
certain extent the interest rate markets as well. Whereas when we came out with our
Capital Markets guidance back in December, we were anticipating some pretty nasty
market, so low equity markets, we were anticipating, still the level of COVID claims
although they're coming in a little bit higher and longer than what we had anticipated. So I
guess the point here is that there has got to be -- if markets stay the way that they are,
there will be a moment in time we will have to adjust that longer-term guidance, but for
right now, we're not going to do that. We're going to stick with the guidance that we do
for 2021 and go on.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Okay, that's clear. Thank you.
Page 13 of 21



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-11-11

Operator
Thank you. Michele Ballatore from KBW. Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Michele Ballatore

{BIO 17318680 <GO>}

Yes, thank you. So two questions. So the first question is about the CEE, I mean what is
the status there in terms of, you know, how it's proceeding? I mean there is a new probe
probe on the Hungary's veto. Do you think there would be a point where Vienna Insurance
Group will say, well that just not feasible? So, just an update there. And the second
question is about solvency, and on solvency especially the -- so you had a positive effect
on the RBC coming from the -- a better experience in mortgage -- the mortgage
foreclosure. You had the negative impact in the Netherlands from inflation. I want to just
have a sense on this trend, how will this will evolve in the coming quarters? Thank you.

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Yes, thanks Michele. So on the Vienna Insurance Group, so we, to remind everybody, we
sold the business in Hungary, Poland, Romania and Turkey to Vienna. (Technical Difficulty).

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

We are experiencing a momentary interruption in today's call, please standby. Ladies and
gentlemen, we experienced a momentary interruption in today's conference call. Please
continue to standby.

Q - Michele Ballatore

{BIO 17318680 <GO>}

Thank you, guys.

Operator
Please go ahead.

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

I apologize everybody, we had a little bit of a glitch in the line and hope all of you are still
there, so Michele, thank you very much for your questions.

Q - Michele Ballatore

{BIO 17318680 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

So again, the Vienna Insurance Group is in the lead of getting all the required approvals
and as they are busy doing that, we are supporting them in that effort of course. When it
comes to Hungary, they are still in constructive dialog with the Hungarian government to
try to find a way to resolve the situation, and we are just patiently awaiting the outcome of

Page 14 of 21



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-11-11

that. And then what it is -- when we talk about the solvency, et cetera, so, Matt, can you
take that piece of the question for Michele?

FINAL

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Yeah. So I think your first one you're thinking about how much of these points that you
would raise with respect to the RBC ratio for example in the US related to that mortgage
thing and Dutch inflation expectations. On the first one of the RBC ratio that mortgage
thing is really a one-off. So it doesn't have any -- it's actually very small movement in the
RBC ratio. On the Dutch inflation side, they ended up -- they ended up the quarter at
172% solvency and that was negatively impacted by the increased inflation expectations
that they have to reflect in the value of the liabilities. But after the quarter ended in
October, they did put on additional inflation hedges so now the -- the movement in own
funds related to future inflation is really immunized. So that has no further impact.

Q - Michele Ballatore

{BIO 17318680 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
Our next question comes from Henry Heathfield from Morningstar.

Q - Henry Heathfield

{BIO 19760919 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning. Can you hear me?

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Yes, we can hear you Andrew. Good morning.

Q - Henry Heathfield

{BIO 19760919 <GO>}

Great. Good morning. Thank you very much for taking my question. Actually just one
question. Really on this -- just come back to that VA take-up rate that's been -- so 15% end
of Jan, if you could really excuse my ignorance, I mean on reading this question, but 18%
sounds like quite a low number, and so just wondering if you could go and outline how you
set that number, how do you set that target and what it really relates to in the grand
scheme of things? Do you understand what I'm trying to get at?

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

No, not quite, but could you please elaborate because our take-up rate at the end of
September was 8%. We have expressed that we believe that 15% would be a real success
and by now -- so we are now post the quarter end, we are now as of yesterday we're at
nearly 15% at 14% and we are extending the program to the end of January. So we expect
actually to exceed the 15% rate that we internally regard as a success -- as a very
successful one. (Multiple Speakers).

Q - Henry Heathfield

{BIO 19760919 <GO>}
Page 15 of 21



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-11-11

Yeah, I'm not disputing -- I'm not disputing the 15% wouldn't be a successful level. I'm just
saying essentially in my very limited understanding 15% for me on the outside sounds like
a low number in terms of your offering.

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay.

Q - Henry Heathfield

{BIO 19760919 <GO>}

Buyout of 15%, buyout policyholders and then 15% of the policy -- pardon, 50% of the
policyholders taking up that buyout offer. So, Just from an outside perspective, not
understanding internally what kind of levels, which are normal and are normally expected.
Yeah 15% (Multiple Speakers) number out, but it's quite -- quite a low number I say so, but
that's not something that's unsuccessful number in anyway.

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So -- so, yeah, and I now understand where you're coming from. So let me start Henry and
then the Matt will expand on this. This is not our first rodeo. (Multiple Speakers) In fact, this
is the third time that we are doing also a program like this. Transamerica's quite let's say
experienced in this. So we know how what works. We know how to -- what kind of rate
uptake we can expect. We know how -- how in the entire process, the dynamic around the
take-up works. So in that sense, we are experienced in this. But, Matt, you may want to
expand on what the financial benefit of this is? Because we are releasing the economic
value to liability.

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Yeah, I mean, maybe I'll just expand on what Lard said. He is obviously, exactly right. So we
have hit this book before with previous offers so that many have taken it in the past. So
now we're the third time after this and I think it's 15% take-up rate would be a reasonable
result. We think we can get beyond that, by the way, but that's really based on the our -setting our expectations based on prior experience also with this block. That's how we
kind of set our target. Maybe to put a little bit more specific mass around this. So, the 8%
take-up rate resulted in capital generation of about $80 million during the course of the
third quarter and that's generally pretty linear so to the extent that we get a higher
percentage than you would see commensurate levels of capital generation going
forward. And I think we said earlier is that currently we are standing at 14% on the road to
15% and we'll -- we'll likely surpass it.

Q - Henry Heathfield

{BIO 19760919 <GO>}

And that take-up rate is the percentage of policyholders that are offered to the extent a
percentage, I mean it is take-up rightly so?

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Yes, exactly right.

Page 16 of 21



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-11-11

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Yes, that's exactly right.

Q - Henry Heathfield

{BIO 19760919 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay, thank you very much. Appreciate it.

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Thank you, Henry.

Operator
Benoit Petrarque from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Benoit Petrarque

{BIO 15997668 <GO>}

Yes, good morning everybody. Yeah, my question is actually on the inflation, I mean the
US inflation figure, which was pretty -- pretty actually -- like yesterday and we could get
more inflation in the US next year. So just wanted to understand how could play on your
US business? Normally there is a kind of offset with higher interest rate, but you've
hedged at a lot now. So on the US inflation, how the inflation could play on metrics like
operating capital generation? I wanted to understand what you have there in terms of
assumptions? And also on the long-term care business whether we should expect maybe
some major wins from that and if actually the price increase you've been getting this
quarter is actually an offset to higher inflation going forward? So, that's more kind of
broad question, on kind of how the US inflation could impact your business going forward.
Thank you.

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Hey Benoit, I will hand over to Matt. I mean, we all know there's a debate in the market
ongoing to whether it is inflation is temporary in nature or not, but let's not speculate on
that. Matt the question that Benoit just had on inflation.

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

So maybe I can do inflation for kind of in a broader sense, but I'll come back specifically to
the US in one second. So on the first thing that -- I would say there are three main areas
when we think about inflation risk that we have to -- that we have to think about. The first
one relates to the expense savings program that we have out there. So we have a
EUR400 million expense savings program where we -- we are going to be facing
headwinds from increased inflation. We did embed inflation expectations into that overall
savings, but that could be a potential area where we would have -- where we would be -where if there is more than moderate levels of inflation and we could be it a little bit of
that risks, but I would say that, and you've seen it in the presentation that we are on track
to hit our target here with respect to that EUR400 million program.

Page 17 of 21



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-11-11

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

The other one relates, and this is more to the Netherlands and it relates to the inflation
risk on the capital position. But as I said in an earlier answer, it looks like we have that one
pretty much fully hedged, both from a standpoint of in the expense inflation risk within the
capital, but also with respect to the contract guarantees that we have for certain pension
contracts where it's been -- where a lot of that has been hedged from the very beginning.
And we've expanded that program some -- so from a Dutch solvency ratio perspective, I
think we've got that one -- I think that we've got that one covered off well.
And so now to get to the US. You mentioned particularly the long-term care business and
that's where we are the most exposed to inflation risk. I always have to remind people
that in the long-term care business, we're not thinking about medical inflation, we're
talking more about general wage inflation. So there is a couple of aspects to this. I guess
the first one is that the way that the benefit is constructed to the contract holder, there
are maximum amounts both at the daily level and at the policy level that we would pay
out. So, in a way that is a cap to our inflation risk after that the and the policyholder is
really taking on that risk themselves. The other offset that we've seen happen in the longterm care business is there is more of a tendency to seek at-home care rather than to
enter into a long-term care facility. We see that the expenses related to home care, at
least as far as our bookers are concerned, about 25% less than that they would be in a
long-term care facility. So there are just potentially some offset.
The other one is that we have -- we've gone actively to long-term care contract holders to
think about reducing the levels of their daily benefits in return for a lower premium or not
having next premium rate increase and by lowering that daily benefit or by lowering the
policy benefit, than we have an opportunity to mitigate risk inflation going forward in that
book. So it's something that -- it's something to watch out for in general if we get higher
inflation where it's paired up with higher levels of interest rates, then -- then that's actually
a good thing net-net for us. Even though we have closed a lot of our interest rate gap or
interest rate exposure there, we do benefit -- we do benefit from higher interest rates.
So it's a little bit of a mixed bag as far as we're concerned, but it's -- I think that's that.

Q - Benoit Petrarque

{BIO 15997668 <GO>}

Okay, great. Thank you.

Operator
Next question is Robin van den Broek, Mediobanca.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Yes, good morning everybody. Thank you for taking my questions. My first one is on
remittances. Year to date, you've come close to $500 million. You alluded in the call
before that before is more of an interesting quarter when it comes to remittances. So
given your RBC ratio is also at very healthy levels, what should we expect there also
versus your target? And I was also wondering if you could include in that comment on
regulatory movements we can still expect? Are these asset charges changing -- changes
finally coming through in Q4? And secondly, I guess Lard, since you first started CEO, you
haven't had much -- much opportunity to travel and visit the business units, but over the
Page 18 of 21



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-11-11

last few months, I'd assume you've had some opportunities to do some and I was
wondering if you wanted to share your experience from that? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Yes, of course, more than happy to do so. So, Robin, thank you for your questions. Yes,
indeed I started as CEO in the middle of the pandemic. So I did not have a lot of chance
to meet many people in person so I actually been -- I've been spending a lot of my time
like all of you by the way, Zooming my life away, if you will. But over the last months it
certainly happened. In summer, I spent quite a lot -- quite a number of weeks in the US
together with our new management team there and a couple of observations that I have
there. What -- number one, I went to see a lot of distribution, actually and what I found is
where -- we all want to get Transamerica back right? I mean Transamerica was a market
leader in the US and has lost market share over the last year so we want to improve it. So
I hired a new team, we're having all kinds of plans to turn that business and make it much
better performing and growing faster and the good news that I found from all those
conversation with distribution is that Transamerica is just a fantastic brand that -- and many
people want Transamerica back at the top of the league tables. So I think that's one thing
that I would have as a takeaway.
Secondly, I would have is take away that the new team that we put in -- that we recruited
there. So, Will Fuller is the CEO and Chris Ashe is the new CFO, but also many other
appointments that we have made, so we have -- we have appointed a new -- well let's
say counterpart to Duncan Russell. So it's for Duncan the key person in the US to work
with, Chris Giovanni, and we have also appointed a number of other financial talents and
appointed Matt Keppler as the Head of Financial Assets. All people are highly
experienced in this we have worked with before, and as a result, I was also quite -- quite
pleased to see how they have settled in and how they are -- how they are working to
increase the value creation out of the variable annuity book, but also the clear separation
between what we call financial assets and the focus on growth in growth assets and
growth product lines. I think that's in a much better -- much better place. It's more focused
in the business and there is good excitement and enthusiasm. Of course it's part of the
COVID pandemic, right? Because we still see a back and forth on how people can get
back to the office.
I spent time with the sales teams in the US both in the retirement side as in the Individual
Solutions side. I've spent time with WFG. Last week, I spent time with a lot of our financial
distribution partners and actually next week I'm again in the US to talk to distribution to
work with Will on the other plans for growing the business further. So I must say that was -I'm spending more time on the ground with the teams. I love to do that, as you may know,
but -- so that's really good and at the same time I also spend time in the UK business, et
cetera. So yeah, I will not make this a travelogue, but I can tell you that -- it's just, I find it
personally as you know quite a lot of fun to work hard on improving this business. But with
that, the remittances. I think that's something that's on your mind. So, Matt, the question is
on Robin around remittances.

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Page 19 of 21



FINAL

Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-11-11

Yes, just as a brief reminder here that the Capital Markets Day guidance we gave for
gross remittances for 2021 was something in the $600 million to $700 million range. And if
you also -- also remember that we're trying to tie our cash dividend to our sustainable
free cash flows and if you remember from last quarter, we had increased our dividend -interim dividend by $0.02 a share, which gives you a little bit of an inclination where we
think that free cash flow is going. So, in fact, it's right. So, we are now the minimum
amount of gross remittances that will get out as the units for the full year are $750 million,
again, at a minimum. I think Robin you also asked about any other regulatory movements. I
would point out the one that -- the one that you had called out. We still do have a change
in the risk-based capital factors for certain asset classes within the US. There is a negative
impact on credit, it's a bit of a positive impact on real estate, but net-net-net, you're
talking about perhaps 10 percentage point negative on the US RBC ratio and that will be
reflected in the fourth quarter results.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

That's great guys, thanks.

Operator
And we will now take our last question from Farquhar Murray from Autonomous Research.
Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Farquhar Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Just please remind us. Firstly on inflation hedge that was put on. Could I just get a sense
of whether those are (Technical Difficulty) of that going forward, I'm not (Technical
Difficulty) particularly with regards to capital generation. And secondly, just into the RV
offer take-up, just to be precise, should I take it that essentially the (Technical Difficulty)
ratio struck on the 8% level take-up that you had the (Technical Difficulty) point and I think
you kind of (Technical Difficulty) give some sensitivity, but I presume it's a couple of points
on extra on top of that given that we're going from 8% towards 14% or something more?
Is that fair? Thanks.

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

Yeah, so on the inflation hedge in the Netherlands, what's the impact on the capital
generation? Negligible. On the take-up rate in the US, yes, the take-up rate was 8%. I think
we did the math on that to say that 8% relates to about 3.5% on the -- on the solvency
ratio, a little bit over $70 million in capital generation. It was strong at that moment so that
we would anticipate further positive impacts as that goes forward. One thing I would
mention is that you remember that we did take a charge of about US$560 million related
to the combination of the the lump-sum buy-out program and the dynamic hedging. But,
on that one we anticipated further movements in these kinds of things that you're not
going to see that continue to bleed in over over time. So we've taken all the impacts for
any future take-up rate improvements all in this quarter. So capital impacts come and then
we've already taken the negatives on the IFRS accounting.

Q - Farquhar Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}
Page 20 of 21



Company N ame: Aegon N V
Company Ticker: AGN N A Equity
Date: 2021-11-11

All right. Thanks so much.

A - Matt Rider

{BIO 20002664 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you Farquhar.

Operator
Thank you. With this, I will like to hand the call back over to Jan Willem for any additional or
closing remarks.

A - Jan Willem Weidema

{BIO 15133400 <GO>}

Thank you, operator. this concludes today's Q&A session. On behalf of Lard and Matt, I
thank you for your interest. Should you have any remaining questions, please do get in
touch with us, Investor Relations. We're happy to help. Have a good day and thank you for
your participation in today's call.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation, ladies
and gentlemen, you may now disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 21 of 21

