Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

S1 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Josselin Kalifa, Head of Investment France
Olivier Guigne, Chief Investment Oﬃcer
Stephane Dedeyan, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Thomas Behar, Chief Financial Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Benoit Valleaux
David Barma
Marcus Rivaldi
Michael Igor Huttner
Thomas Fossard

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Dear ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Conference Call of CNP Insurances. At our
customer's request, this conference will be recorded. As a reminder, all participants will
be in a listen-only mode. After the presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask
questions. (Operator Instructions).
May I now hand over to Stephane Dedeyan, who will lead you through this conference.
Please go ahead, sir.

Stephane Dedeyan

{BIO 20969638 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Good morning. I'm really happy to present our ﬁrst-half 2021 results
together with the Thomas Behar. I would like to start with a few words of executive
summary, and Thomas will elaborate on our business performance and also our ﬁnancial
performance, asset liability management, corporate social responsibility and I will ﬁnish
with the outlook which is a development outlook for us.
To start with the big picture, our results reﬂect both, the great robustness of our model
and also our capacity to face the challenges related to the context in which we operate. I
think these results form a strong basis for our development ambitions. First, the
robustness of our model. As Thomas will detail later, we are seeing a strong recovery of
our premium income compared to 2020 and the strong increase of our results compared

Page 1 of 24



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

FINAL

to 20/20, but I would add that the comparison to 2020 is not the most signiﬁcant. And
what we are seeing also is there a level of activity and results equivalent to 2019 on the go.
I can say that the 2020 part of the COVID-19 crisis is behind us. Our APE margin is up 1.4
points and our ﬁnancial strength is conﬁrmed as shown by our consolidated SCR
coverage ratio and the conﬁrmation of our ratings. So these results reﬂect our raw
business, but also our capacity to face our three main challenges as shown by the
signiﬁcant events of this ﬁrst half of the year.
Our ﬁrst challenge is the low interest rate environment that requires to shift our in-force
toward unit-linked and to diversify our business mix to our protection, which is less
dependent on ﬁnancial revenues. Three signiﬁcant events show our capacity to face this
ﬁrst challenge.
First, the successful integration in La Banque Postale with both resounding shift towards
unit-linked sales and the plan to link-up the non-life subsidiaries. This plan will allow us to
become a multi-line insurer, life and non-life. And this is an eﬀect of the new dynamic
generated by our integration in La Banque Postale.

Bloomberg Transcript

Second, the dynamic we see with La Banque Postale is also relevant for all our activities
and our savings and pensions model is transforming. A strong momentum in unit-linked
segments, and the faster growth in the in-force with the PACTE transfers, but I will
elaborate on that further. Three, third point, a third signiﬁcant event in face of this low
interest rates challenge is the modernization of the term insurance with our very important
partner BPCE.
We refreshed the product and it's a great success I will also get into details just after. The
second challenge we have to face is in-force growth levers, France being a mature market.
And as far as this issue is concerned, we see a very, very important development in Brazil
and Italy with the new agreements in Brazil and the acquisition of the Aviva activities in
Italy. I will come back on that.
The third challenge is the demonstration of our positive copyright footprint. I will
elaborate later on our corporate mission because this is something which is very
important for us. I would like at this stage to underline for the moment that we have
increased our focus on socially responsible investing signing the ﬁrst global investor
engagement coalition for a just transition. So I will elaborate on each of these signiﬁcant
events.
The ﬁrst one is the integration in La Banque Postale Group, which has allowed us to
reexamine our ways of working together and has given us a new dynamic with two
tangible results. First is the strong growth in unit-linked contribution. The unit-linked
contribution to new money is 27%, up 8 points compared to 2020 which is a real
signiﬁcant results. Second, I would like to underline the successful promotion of PACTE
transfers. PACTE transfers is a low which allows the customer to shift from an old product
to a new one without tax constraints, and what is very interesting in this transfer PACTE
movement is that one customer on two uses the transfer as an opportunity to increase
Page 2 of 24



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

FINAL

their investments, and in the process, we see up 12 points in the unit-linked waiting. This
contributes to the transformation of our in-force in face of the low interest rates
environment challenge.
Outlook for 2022 is the link up of non-life businesses. The project have been -- has been
launched and we anticipate a closing next year. And I would like to say that this will
change signiﬁcantly our business mix towards risk activities, which are less dependent of
low interest rates.
Next signiﬁcant event, which is also supporting the low interest rate challenge, is the
savings and pensions model transformation in all our geographies. As you can see, we
have a high unit-linked weighting in new business in Italy and in Brazil and we see here a
very signiﬁcant unit-linked weighting. But the domain transformation we have to operate
is in France and we see a strong momentum here because the unit-linked weighting is
28.5%, up 4 percentage paint -- points compared to last year. And also, as you can see, a
very positive new money in unit-linked and an outﬂow in traditional savings which means
that the in-force is transforming in the right direction.

Bloomberg Transcript

Also, we are reshaping our technical reserves through EUR4 billion in PACTE transfers
with a strong increase in the UL weighting pre and post transfer, up 14 points. And we are
very, very satisﬁed of this activity, and we raised our target, we anticipated EUR5 billion of
transfer PACTE and we are now targeting EUR6.3 billion because there is a real dynamic
and a capacity to re-examine the situation of each customer, which is very positive in
terms of reshaping our technical reserves.
Outlook for 2022 is our plan to create so called FRPS, Fonds de Retraite Professionnelle
Suppl?mentaire. This will optimize our ﬁnancial revenues and give us a more relevant
framework for pension long-term liabilities, which is really important compared to
Solvency II framework, which is really a short-term oriented. Third signiﬁcant event
supporting the low interest rate challenge, the refreshing of our term creditor insurance
oﬀer with the launch of the new term creditor oﬀer for the BPCE network. This is a very
innovative concept and we are very proud of it.
In this new concept, you have a core oﬀer mainly death and disability. And this core oﬀer
is completed with options and guarantees tailored to each customer's situation and plans.
And this personalization relies on the sales process featuring integrated selling aid. This
means that in a very, very ﬂuid experience, we can adapt to every situation of every
customer. It's already rolled out to Caisses d'Epargne networks and it is in the process of
being deployed in the Banque Populaire networks and it's already a great success. We are
very, very satisﬁed with this innovation.
The second challenge we have to face as the France is a mature market is enforce growth
levers. First signiﬁcant lever is the renewal of our partnerships in Brazil, and we have
renewed this partnership for long periods. I would remember you that in this renewal, we
have two new joint ventures, Caixa Vida e Previdencia, which operates in pensions,
personal risk, consumer ﬁnance term creditor insurance, and also CNP - Cons?rcio which
operates in the new business for credits on the Brazilian market. And of course, still

Page 3 of 24



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

FINAL

remains the historical joint venture with the in-force business in home long-term creditor
insurance.
If we focus on the Caixa Vida e Previdencia, as you can see, we are number two in
pension, number two in consumer ﬁnance term creditor insurance, and as Thomas will
elaborate in a few minutes, we see a very strong momentum of our activities. As far as our
historical joint venture is concerned, this joint venture takes care of the existing customers
in the home loan term creditor insurance and develops for the other activities in an open
model, which means that we have some gross levers that we can activate, not only with
the Caixa network. And as far as Consorcio -- CNP Consorcio is concerned, it's coming
soon. We are waiting for the agreement of the (inaudible), but everything is ready to
accelerate as soon as we have this agreement.

Bloomberg Transcript

The second signiﬁcant event supporting the growth challenge is the agreement we
signed for the acquisition of Aviva's Life business in Italy. We anticipate anticipated to
multiply by two our share of the Italian life insurance market, and we will become the ﬁfth
largest life insurer in Italy which means that we will be a very, very signiﬁcant player on this
market, that we know already well. What is very interesting for us is in this agreement, it is
that -- it strengthens our relationship with UniCredit, and it will also allow us to diversify
our distribution channels, including new bancassurance partnerships and also the access
to networks of ﬁnancial advisors in the wealth management segment.
And we are very conﬁdent in our capacity to develop here because we beneﬁt from
competitive and innovative savings and protection ranges. The fund performance are
ranked among the best in the Italian market, and we have a product with very limited
capital requirement, which is a very interesting in terms of this development in a low
interest rates environment.
And to ﬁnish with this signiﬁcant events, I would like to unphases -- to unphase, sorry, the
supporting -- the launch of the ﬁrst Investor Coalition for just transition. This event is
supporting the challenge of demonstrating our positive corporate footprint. The fact that
we signed and we are part of this investor coalition is very consistent with our former
strong commitments to lower our carbon investments. The point is that we are here
among the 13 founding members that are committed to promoting dialogue with
companies to encourage them, to integrate the social aspects related to transition to a
low-carbon economy. As you know, carbon and oil are employing a lot of people in the
world, and of course, if we go for a low-carbon economy, we have to think about the
social consequences of this movement. And that's what we aim to do as a signature of the
global investor coalition.
I will now leave the ﬂoor to Thomas and I will detail -- he will detail our performance. And
to ﬁnish with after he speaks, I will say a few words on our development perspectives.

Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Stephane. So I will go and present the business performance. I will
go through each of our areas, France, Europe outside France, and Latin America. Let's

Page 4 of 24



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

FINAL

begin with France, and perhaps I would sum up with some key points for trends that we
are slightly around 2019 for the sales and the review and EBIT. But we have a very strong
transformation of the business mix towards unit-linked.
If I begin with the sales for the performance in France, you can see that our sales were at
EUR10 billions -- EUR10.6 billions with -- an increase of 48.9%. If we compare to 2019, it's a
slight decrease of 5.7%. But if we go through each of the lines of activities, you have a
strong increase of unit-linked, an addition of 33% 2019 performance. And the reduction of
the Euro part of 16.2% for Personal Risk/Protection is quite the same as minus 3% in
comparison between 2021 and 2019. The same phenomenon appears with the net new
money. We have a positive net M&A for unit-linked, EUR1.2 billions and negative net new
money for the traditional -- contract with a minus EUR2.8 billions.

Bloomberg Transcript

What appears is that our unit-linked rates have increased now 28.5% for the unit-linked
components of the saving and pension business and additional of 4 points throughout
the last year. And it's very important as Stephane said for La Banque Postale, we are now
at 27% with an additional 8 points in comparison to last year. I would add for the high
wealth net worth that we have rose of 161% of the premium, 113% in if we remove the eﬀect
of the eﬀect of the COVID-19 last year.
And last, I would say that in addition to the performance of the sales, EUR10.7 billions, you
have to add what we are doing with the PACTE transformation, which is also time
consuming for the commercial network is a transformation of the PACTE and we did EUR4
billion of transformation in the sixth -- ﬁrst month of 2021, whereas we did less in the full
2020 year, full-year. As a consequence, the target for 2021 has been changed. We had
initially as I expressed that Q1, EUR5 billion target for transformation and it's now EUR6.3
billion for the transformation of the PACTE business.
Let's go now to the revenue for France. So you have an increase of 11% towards in
comparison to last year and it comes more from the net insurance revenue and from the
revenue coming from the own-funds. For the net insurance revenue, you have an eﬀect on
the Personal Risk and Protection business. You know that last year, we had some very
speciﬁc eﬀects of the COVID-19 in extra guarantees that we had taken into accounts for
the Personal Risk business. It was EUR66 million as a summary for all this eﬀect, so it
doesn't appear anymore. And we have higher margins for the saving and pension net
insurance revenue, but it is smaller eﬀects. And for the own-funds portfolios, increase
comes from the fact that we have refund our revenue coming from equity with the
dividends and proﬁt -- gains that we have realized on the assets.
So next slide is an answer for some questions that we received at the end of Q1. So it's -you have toolkit to be able to modernize our own-fund portfolio as the revenue evolving
from one quarter to the other quarter. So we have a EUR44 billions of for the own-fund
portfolio, but it's an agglomeration, an addition of diﬀerent kind of portfolio. So you have
all the cash management in this part, very limited of course revenue come -- on income
coming from this part is 47%, 148% of this amount.

Page 5 of 24



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

FINAL

We have a lot of bonds and equity, and so you can multiply the each percentage by the
total amount to have the amount of each of the components. On the left -- and on the
right, we show the revenue divided between the realized gain and the investment yields,
and as you can see, we have an increase of the realized gains this part of the year.
Let's go now to the EBIT. On the administrative costs, you have a very speciﬁc one-oﬀ
eﬀects coming from two components. First, we have changed on the recognition of our
legal editor the way we are accounting for the (Foreign Language) which is a tax on sales.
Now it is a continuing for the full year at the beginning of January when we have to pay
the tax and no more on the previous year when we are generating the sales. And second
point is linked with employee beneﬁts. We included the IT teams in CNP Assurance with
the close of CNP TI, and so it doesn't aﬀect on employee beneﬁts. If we remove these two
eﬀects, the increase of the administrative cost is only 0.6%. As a result of that, we have an
EBIT of around EUR1.1 billions which is slightly close to the EBIT of 2019.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's go now to Europe excluding France. The key point is a very is a growth of the activity
with a high level of unit-linked, and an increase of the revenues. Let's begin with the sales.
So we have an increase of 23% in comparison 2020 and 5.6% in comparison 2019. And as
in France, the increase comes from the unit-linked, an addition 36% in comparison to 2019
and a decrease of 20 -- of 35% for the euro components. So net new money is the same,
is positive one for unit-linked saving pensions of EUR351 millions and the decrease of
EUR88 millions for the traditional saving and pensions.
So reduction of net new money comes from the fact that we had a very limited number of
lapses last year. People were not removing the money in Italy. And in 2021, we have a little
bit more lapses in Italy and also for Luxembourg. The level of unit-linked rates remains at
a very high level, 80% for CNP UniCredit Vita in a market where the average is 47%, and
49% for unit-linked rates for CNP Luxembourg, which is aligned with what we are doing in
France for the high wealth network.
For the revenue and the EBIT, we have an increase of 8.4% coming from the net insurance
revenue and from own-fund portfolio with the same motive as in France. Administrative
cost is 0.1%, very, very stable. As a result, we have an EBIT with an increase of 14.3%. And if
we compare to 2019, around 11% increase of the EBIT.
Let's go now for the ﬁrst zone, Latin America. As key points, I would say that it's a very big
increase of the sales. It's a booster for the whole group for the activities that we can have,
ﬁrst point. The second point, we will go for the COVID-19 claims where we have -- I don't
know if we can say that in English, wave of claims in Latin America, and we have also the
impact of the new agreements in Latin America which began -- which has begun in -- at
the beginning of 2021.
Let's go for the sales. For the premium income, you have an increase of 65% like-for-like
with only express numbers like-for-like, as you had a decrease of the real of 20% if we
compare 2020 and 2019. And so you have a very, very important increase of sales of the
pensions where we are the second largest pensions provider in Brazil with 99% unit-

Page 6 of 24



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

linked realized in these details. We have 22.1% of the shares of the market at the end of
May. And this decrease is 19% -- 91% in comparison to 2020 like-for-like.

FINAL

As a whole, as a comparison to 2019 is an increase of sales of 41%. So net money is very
positive and unit-linked based with EUR1.1 billions of Europe for the unit-linked saving
pensions business.
If we go to the revenue, we have an impact of the claim experience. You know that for
Brazil, people who are dying at younger than in Europe around 50 years old, which is the
average age of our portfolio of credit protections for consumer loans. We have younger
age for a particular (inaudible) and for individual risk for the average age of the portfolio.
But we have an increase of the claims is, this increase is EUR116 millions as increase of the
claim, which is oﬀset by diﬀerent factors, and especially some review of the technical
reserves that we did during this, this ﬁrst half of the year for EUR80 million, meaning that
the impact on the accounts is quite small towards what we have seen as increase of the
claims.

Bloomberg Transcript

For the next part of the year, we can't have the vaccine as in Brazil, nowadays, 47% of the
oﬃcer Brazilian populations has received one dose and around 17% two doses, meaning
that they will go quickly as in France at the same kind of level. They will be able to be as
us at around more than 50% receiving the two dose and perhaps more and more months
after months in Brazil with the same kind nowadays of vaccine as we have in France, which
is now Pﬁzer, which is also distributed for the population in Brazil. As a total revenue, so
we are at EUR475 millions of and we have a reduction of the own-funds revenue and it's
like quite the same for the net insurance revenue.
If we go now to the administrative costs, we -- you can see that we as like-for-like has done
a job to in this context to reduce the cost of 2.6%. For the EBIT, so you have -- if we -- I
compare to 2019, it's an increase of 5.3%. So even if we have a change of the agreement
and now we have only 40% of economic rights on the new GV, you can see an increase as
a whole for the EBIT like-for-like.
Let's go now to the value of new business and the APE margin. Due to the best
improvements of the economic conditions in France, you have an increase of the APE
margin for the group. We are now at 13.8% and the increase in France is around 4 points
for the increase of the APE margin. We have a slight increase in Europe excluding France
and a slight decrease in Latin America, but with we've very high level of APE margin in
South America.
Let's go now after the operational performance to the ﬁnancial performance and the
solvency ratio. For the ﬁnancial performance, you can see that the attribute net proﬁt is at
EUR690 millions. So it's a lot more above 2020, EUR629 millions and slightly above 2019,
which was EUR687 million. I will not comment each of the numbers, but just to say that we
are little bit in advance for the realized gains, and so we have the opportunity to add
EUR156 million of net of tax to the policyholder surplus reserve, which is now over
EUR14.5 billion meaning 6.6% of the total technical reserves in France.

Page 7 of 24



FINAL

Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

So net operating free cash ﬂow is EUR691 million and as increase -- as the net proﬁt has
increased during the year. For the solvency capital ratio, it's 219% and the main eﬀect
comes from the increase of interest rates. You have -- even if the 10 years remains around
zero, you have an increase of the maturities, which are over 10 years, which helps for the
solvency capital ratio, 219%, and the increase is 13 points for the market changes. So it
means that we have a very solid ratio and the impact of the policyholder surplus reserve
in this ratio is 71 points in this 219%. Of course, this ratio takes into account all the issues
that we have done during this half year and the acquisition price of Aviva in Italy.
A few words about asset liability management. So ﬁrst point, which is very important for
us is the transformation of our business mix for the sales and for the technical reserve. For
the sales, you know that we have an objective to be at 30% in France at the end of 2030,
and with this 29%, we are very pleased that we are not far from that in the way to 2030,
we've 29% in France, which is an addition of 4 points. We are now for the world at 49%
which is a small increase of 0.5 points. And for technical reserves, the way will be longer
of course, and we are now at 22% for the group and 40% for France, an addition of 1 point
this year and the target is the same, is 30% for France in 2030.

Bloomberg Transcript

So -- let's go to the next part, which is the exposures that we have on guarantee yields.
Nothing new for us, quite nothing for the sales and 0.70% on the in-force business. We
have a reduction of the average return of ﬁxed rates that we have done during this ﬁrst
part of the year of 0.74%. The way we are investing in fact depends on the price that we
can get on markets. So we went not so as much as the ﬁrst half for the year 2020 to
cooperates. And so we have a shorter durations meaning that we the investment yields
that we can get have decreased.
Let's go now to the point that we are very proud of is a way we can support the real
economy. We have done a lot of investments that can add to the ﬁxed rate revenue with
infrastructures, which is an engagement to support EUR1.4 billions of investments, direct
ones in ﬁber networks energy transfer, water and waste management, we have a very big
deal that we have done during this ﬁrst part of the year.
We are also investing in private debt, EUR1.7 billions of and we are committed to take part
as the Fonds de Prets Participatifs Relance with a commitment of EUR1.5 billions if there is
a need to do so. We are also among the biggest -- one of the world's biggest investors in
private equity. And we have invested EUR676 millions of during this as part of the year
and an investments of EUR127 millions in property, and the forests -- we have increased
our investment in the new forests which can also act as a transition for the next part which
is the corporate and social responsibility of the Group.
We continue to be a very strong operator for us to be aligned with the Paris agreement
commitments. As you know, we are investing a lot of money in as equity in a lot of
diﬀerent undertakings, and so we are discussing hardly with each of the undertakings
where we have investments taking part of the general -- in the general meetings of these
undertakings and promoting the alignment with the 1.5% trajectory and supporting
shareholder resolutions calling on company to strengthen their climate commitments.

Page 8 of 24



FINAL

Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

We are also adapting the insurance oﬀer with the launch of unit-linked in contract
specialized to ﬁght to reduce global warming. And we have also increased our greens
investment portfolio. We are now with a total asset of EUR17.9 billions, we have a target of
EUR20 billion at end of 2023. This policy is also taken into account in the way we are in
the insured investing in unit-linked SRI funds. We have now 39%, which we -- unit-linked
funds with respect to ESG ﬁlter. So it's the books that is going to go to ESG factors and is
39% is a very good performance during this year. We remind you about all the ratings that
we have for ESG agencies, I will not details, then which closes my part. And I'll give back
the ﬂoor to Stephane.

Stephane Dedeyan

{BIO 20969638 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much, Thomas. So to sum up, I would like to underline the three points:
ﬁrst, ﬁnancial strength conﬁrmed; second, the robustness of our model; and three, the
strong momentum abroad. And I will add that these three pillars form a strong basis for
the future. And in this ﬁnal chapter, it gives me the opportunity as the new CEO of CNP
Assurance to elaborate and our development perspective. And I would like to start with
our corporate mission. This corporate mission has been included in our articles of
association, pursuant to a resolution of the 2021 Annual General Meeting.
And I'm personally deeply convinced that tomorrow, there won't be any development
without a tangible positive impact for all stakeholders. Our corporate mission includes our
two main activities, insurance and investments, and it pushes us to create an inclusive and
sustainable society. And we want to put our corporate mission at the heart of our strategy,
which means that we want to provide solutions to as many people as possible to protect
and support them on their chosen path. This ambition will be translated into detailed
commitments and in objectives. We are currently working on it and we will of course
report to all stakeholders on its progress and admitting these objectives.
On the investment side, we will ﬁrst continue to commit to low-carbon investments and to
take into account the social consequences of this transition. And we will open a new ﬁeld
in the next weeks, which is to limit our negative impact on biodiversity. We started to
measure the impact of our investment on biodiversity. We have a ﬁrst the situation and we
want to improve our footprint in terms of biodiversity.
On the insurance side, we want to work on two ﬁelds. The ﬁrst one is to extend the limits
of insurability. For instance, for people with aggravated health risk, we are already one of
the best player in providing them with a coverage for instance when they want to acquire
an house -- home and we protect the credit.
Second ﬁeld is to encourage prevention. We are strongly convinced that, for instance, by
modulating our tariﬀs, we have the possibility to encourage virtuous behaviors in terms of
environment and social responsibility. So I've just said that, we wanted to put our
corporate mission at the heart of our strategy, and I would, therefore, like to give you
some details about this strategy.

Page 9 of 24



FINAL

Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

First of all, what is very important to have in mind is that it's a development strategy. You
know, we are today French life insurance company with international activities and we
want to become a full-service, multi-partner bancassurer with a positive operate footprint,
operating as an integrated international group. So this is our development ambition. And
for this, we have launched nine major projects grouped into three diﬀerent priorities. Our
ﬁrst priority is to consolidate our fundamentals. First project, the transformation of our
technical reserves in France, we have already detailed that. This is about adapting our
oﬀers to the low interest rates environment.
Second project is to amplify the BPCE partnerships momentum. BPCE, as you know, is our
second largest partner. We have excellent relationship with BPCE and we want to
continue to innovate as we did with home loan term credit, term creditor insurance, as I
said before.
Third point, deliver and lock the strong business growth expected in Latin America. This is
a bit paradoxal to have a lock-in objective in -- and the growth objective, sorry, in the
chapter which aim to consolidate our fundamentals. But in fact, we strongly believe in
Brazil, we strongly believe in its economic growth and in the development of its middle
class. And we anticipate here a strong momentum. So it's already in our anticipations.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the project for us is to deliver and lock in the strong business growth that we
anticipate for our Brazilian activities. And we want also to use Brazil as a base camp to
develop in the Latin America.
Second priority, enforce growth levers that ﬁrst deﬁne and deploy initiatives to support
new ambition in Property and Casualty Insurance. We want here to capitalize on the new
dynamic with La Banque Postal with the new agreement. And we want to exploit the
untapped potential of the client base of the bank, the penetration rate in the client base,
is very low compared to our bancassurance competitors that started this type of multi
equipment of the customer long-time ago. So we think that we have here organic growth
opportunities and we are strongly conﬁdent in the fact that we can grow here and
diversify our activity towards more risk lines.
Second, we want to strengthen and extend the existing partnership in Europe outside
France. I've spoken already of Italy, but I would like also to underline our agreement with - our partnership with Santander. We are present in 11 diﬀerent European countries. And
for us, this presence is a base camp to extend and to develop our activities in diﬀerent
geographies in Europe and we will be very, very attentive to all the opportunities we can
seize to develop in Europe.
Third, we want to transform our model through operational excellence, digital excellence,
and excellent customer and partner relations. So this is also a little bit surprising to have
operating excellence in a chapter dedicated to growth levers. But for us, this is a very,
very simple. There cannot be any development without customer satisfaction, so this will
be a top priority for us.

Page 10 of 24



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

FINAL

We are speaking here about excellence in the operations, of course, but also user
experience. And also something which is perhaps more important quality of the relation
we have with the customers, because we think that insurance is something that is really
emotional for instance when you have to face a claim or even in the underwriting process
you always have the fear not to be well guaranteed. So all the studies we make with our
customers show that the insurance is emotional and that the quality of the relationship is
very important for growth.
Third priority, optimize our business portfolio. As a joke, I would say that in the CNP, you
have the P of protection. This is a real asset for us, this is historical, and we think we have a
lot of assets and that we can develop in a social protection oﬀers. And we have to
rationalize here our assets and to make sure that we use all our forces, all our strong
points to develop. We are already leader in the term creditor insurance. And as you've
seen, we can be very innovative. So we think that we have also some additional value to
catch with our -- leveraging our leadership in term creditor insurance and in personal risk
businesses.
And last, the management of our own-funds has to adapt was a low interest rate
environment, and this is also a major project for our ambition -- for our development
ambition. So I would like to thank you for your attention.
And of course now, we have time to answer your questions. Thank you very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Dear, ladies and gentlemen, now we will begin our question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) We have a question from David Barma. The line is now open for
you.

Q - David Barma

{BIO 19957338 <GO>}

Good morning, and thank you for taking my questions. The ﬁrst I have is, it's probably for
Mr.Dedeyan this last slide, and thank you for signing your ambitions there. I think I have
two questions on that. The ﬁrst one is you seem to underline quite a bit the ambition to
become a multi-line insurer and that goes obviously by developing more towards the
non-life and protection side of the business. On non-life particularly, what are the big
steps for CNP to get to the place that -- to the place that you want? And do you really
need to set oﬀ the Banque Postale partnership strongly before considering more? And
then on Latin America, you mentioned using Brazil to develop elsewhere, with the IDD be
similar there to strike partnerships with bank insurers and in other countries or are you
more developing the -- take the direct platforms that you have been working on in the
past? So that's my ﬁrst question.

Page 11 of 24



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

Then I have a -- my second one would be on the investment income, and thank you for
forgiving more details on the own-fund portfolio. So, obviously, the result is quite volatile
there and especially with the capital gains being included now. Is there any guidance that
you can give us on the recurring income part of the own-funds revenue?

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

And then lastly on the -- you've mentioned the FRPS transition for 2022. What kind of
capital beneﬁts can we expect from that? Thank you.

A - Stephane Dedeyan

{BIO 20969638 <GO>}

Thank you very much. So, I will take the ﬁrst question and leave to Thomas for the second
one. You know we are going to be a very step-by-step as you said. The ﬁrst step for us is
to -- is a link up of the non-life activities of La Banque Postale in France, because we have
here a huge potential. If you look at the penetration rate of the non-life business in the
customer base of the bank, it's roughly 12% and our competitors that have started this
movement much earlier than us, they are already around 50%, so that means that on the
French market which is quite mature, we have in fact an organic growth possibility and
this will of course be our ﬁrst priority.
We have already non-life activities in Brazil as you said. We can think about use [ph],
which is the ﬁrst ﬁntech in the Latin America. We think that we have a gross potential for
use in Brazil. So this will be the second step to see how we can leverage the presence of
CNP use in the Brazilian market, and I think that's already two main priorities and I don't
want you to know to be too ambitious and not to be eﬃcient. So I think for the next years,
our top priorities will be non-life in France exploiting the untapped potential of the
customer base of La Banque Postale and grow the activity of use in Brazil. Of course, if
there are any opportunities, we will look at them very, very closely, but I think that our
major operational priorities are the two I've mentioned.

A - Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

Coming for you -- your questions. According to the investment income, of course, as you
can always ask, we are not giving guidance about the future, but you have -- we have
explained how it is formed, what is -- how -- what reﬂects the size of the portfolio, how was
the assets are taken, you have both which are following the same kind of revenue that we
can get from the insured the portfolio. Perhaps from the way we are realizing -- we are
doing, we are realizing is the gains. Josselin Kalifa (inaudible) say how we do that and
how long is the rotation of the equity portfolio to the gains.

A - Josselin Kalifa

{BIO 22199802 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. What I can say maybe about the dividend yields that we expect to
rebound in 2021 as compared to the reference of 2020 due to better revenues of
companies, of course, but also a dilution of ﬁxed income revenues and a better realized
gains. We realized a lot of our program for 2021 already and will realize probably not too
much realized gain for the rest of the 2021 with the idea that from 8% to 12%, 8% to 10% of
the value of equity should be in general realized each year.

A - Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}
Page 12 of 24



FINAL

Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

Thank you, Josselin. Your last question which was about the beneﬁt I think again from
Fonds de Retraite Professionnelle Supplementaire. As you know, we are moving all our
pension business to our FRPS, one with the JV (inaudible), which will become FRPS and
also for the activities that we have in CNP Assurances. So, the arrangement acceptance
that we get from our CNP Assurances and the direct business such as -- or the individual
products. They will be switched to FRPS. We have presented our case to the French
Supervisor and are forecasted to do the transformation next year. The impact so concerns
more than EUR25 billion in results growth of pay insurance. The impact on capital is that
we are going from 70 to 71. It's too early to present a number, as of course we have
discussion with the French Supervisor. What I may say that in Solvency 2, you have 70
capital requirement on assets, and as a whole we are now between 8% and 10% of the
technical reserve as the capital.
On the opposites, the minimum in Solvency 2 is 1% per unit-linked and 4% for the
traditional component of the contract, without any requirements on the assets. But you
have in addition to 71 diﬀerent tests that you have to pass and you will be between the
above numbers for the result of going to FRPS, which is now a condition to operate in the
pension business every actors is going to FRPS. So later, we will disclose the number, but
as I said, we are in discussions with the supervisor and will be between that, and it
concerns more than EUR25 billion; and what I said, I think you can do some calculations.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - David Barma

{BIO 19957338 <GO>}

Yeah. It's very clear. Thank you. And just to be sure on this point before on the own-funds
revenues on the assets allocation that the 48% of cash that's just intended for cash
management purposes. It's not -- there's no particular objective to read before that and
yielding asset.

A - Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

We have a lot of cash as you know, it's also in links with the very low investment rate
environment that we know nowadays, and it's a way we are operating our management of
the assets.

Q - David Barma

{BIO 19957338 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
Our next question is from Michael Huttner. The line is now open for you.

Q - Michael Igor Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Thank you very much. Thanks. And I had three questions. On the back book
transformation in France, I was just wondering whether you can give maybe an update, it
sounds to me you're sort of on track, but you're not beating in France. You had 14% now,
you aim for 30% in 2030 and you're doing about 1%, it was six months that might take you
to June 2019. So I just wanted is there -- is this a runway you're happy with or could it
improve? And the second is, so it's the -- and I guess, the non-life business in like
Page 13 of 24



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

FINAL

(inaudible). Maybe you can give some reminders on Italy because I think you have
published, but I forgotten and maybe on La Banque Postale on non-life, give us some
idea of the potential proﬁt contribution these will bring.
And then on mortality in Brazil, I wasn't quite clear. So I probably got the ﬁgures wrong.
What the net impact or net cost was to earnings and I just wondered if you can remind us
of that ﬁgure, and then say well how this could look like if the vaccination improves?
Thank you.

A - Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Many thank you, Michael. So, we'll go for your diﬀerent questions. The ﬁrst one
concerns the transformation of (inaudible) and of course, with the number we have
presented. So as you said, we beat our -- the way we wanted to go and we are very happy
in fact with that, which is -- which comes directly with the transformation that we did with
La Banque Postale, it's not the only network where the transformation is operating, it's the
same with BPCE with our own network committees and with the i world. But it's a very
strong work that has been done with La Banque Postale with working groups that we did
with them to go for all the prevention that was exiting the diﬀerent resistance that we can
get from compliance or other parts to ﬁnd the way, to ﬁnd our way to go for more unique
thing in the sales that we have done and to the success of the PACTE transformations that
we did.
So it's something that is a strong commitment from Philip, I'm and Stephane Dedeyan to
go to this transformation and so conservation we are very happy for that. To be honest in
the transformation, part of it comes from the sales that we did. But also from the
improvement of the value of the unit-linked, you have growth of 17% of the CAC counts
from the beginning of the year. And it's also part of the way, but we are all expecting
more revenues coming from the unit-linked to an increase of the valuation. And so it's
part of the of the road that we lead in 2021.
For your second question is about, I think you were speaking about today, but it's more
about the non-life contribution of La Banque Postale. So, you know the project is open.
We have the perspective to do -- to know what we want to do at the end of the year and
to ﬁnish the acquisition next year. So projects are as begin. And so you were asking a few
numbers, the sales of this undertaking is around EUR1 billion is for diﬀerent undertakings,
its individual personal protection and non-life cash insurance, home insurance for this La
Banque Postale business for the two major undertakings. So, EUR1 billion of sales and
around EUR100 million of net proﬁts.
The way the acquisition will be operate is not deﬁned as it states as usually, you have the
question, it will be done later during the year. For the last point is about -- was about to
mortality in Brazil. So I will repeat the numbers. So you have an increase of the claims of
EUR116 million and revenue of the results for EUR80 million. And the total impact is all
aﬀect COVID-19, revenue of the reserve and other matters concerning the own-fund of
Brazil or the margins that we get from the Brazil business is EUR16 million.

Q - Michael Igor Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}
Page 14 of 24



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

Excellent. Can I -- just on the French non-life business. So the -- you must know the ﬁgure
of the cost there. Let me ask in another way. What is -- what's the capital of this unit?

FINAL

A - Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

We don't have the number of the capital for this, and we clearly and I thought we will
disclose when we will have done all the acquisition path for the project and it will be later,
because asking what is the capital needed means what is a business plan we want to do
for this activity because the capital will be linked with a business plan that we want to ask
for this activity and so it will be done later during the year.

A - Stephane Dedeyan

{BIO 20969638 <GO>}

Yes. Let me add perhaps to a point here. What we decided is to put ﬁrst the -- on the
industrial and operational model, because we think that this is at the core of the growth
engine and the diversiﬁcation engine we want to build. So we start ﬁrst with La Banque
Postale to discuss the operating model and the industrial project, and we will then after
do the M&A transaction to so-called M&A transaction, this is very important for us to start
business ﬁrst.

Q - Michael Igor Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Make sense. Super. Thank you.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Our next question is by Tom [ph] Fossard from HSBC. The line is now open for you.

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. A couple of question. First for Mr.Dedeyan. Just wanted to come
back on the P&C part. Maybe just to get some reassurance regarding the governance. I
mean, actually we are minority shareholders, and in this M&A process, how can we be
sure that actually La Banque Postale is not going to force you to buy P&C assets on the I
would say expensive side and how can we be sure that it will be a positive transaction,
value creative transaction for P&C shareholders? That's the ﬁrst question.
The second question will be also, as and you see you -- can you update us on what's your
view regarding CNP dividend capacity? And your way of potentially embracing the
dividend payout, which has been recently set up by CNP?
And the third question will may be for Thomas. Just on the Brazilian mortality, I think that
in the Q1 call, you said that the events of mortality will be up 40% in Brazil, the impact on
CNP with the EUR100 million. It seems that you're quoting in H1 is a EUR116 million
mortality impact growth of any positive reserve development or (inaudible) exactly what
you what you mean by positive reserve development? So I mean, it seems to be a pretty
extreme development in Q2 standalone, so compared to the initial guidance. So just
wanted to maybe get a bit of your mind regarding what we what we should expect in Q3,
especially if the EUR80 million policy was a bit of a one-oﬀ? Thank you.

Page 15 of 24



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

FINAL

A - Stephane Dedeyan

{BIO 20969638 <GO>}

Thank you very much. So concerning your two ﬁrst questions. We are very concerned by
the interests of our minority shareholders and this is very, very simple because our
governance is very clear. Veronique Weill who is the Chairman of CNP Assurance is an
independent person. We have also BPCE at the board, and we have also a lot of board
member which -- who are independent. And I would add that when the board will have to
decide on this transaction concerning the non-life activities of LBP, the LBP people who
are at our board won't vote. So that will be very clear, and in a having BPCE around the
table or so, it means that the governance is very well balanced and there will be a
structurally a defense of the interests of the minority shareholders. And concerning the
dividend the capacity, I don't give any guidance, but I just want to say that we are very
concerned by the interest of our minority shareholders.

A - Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

On your other parts, ﬁrst, concerning the mortality in Brazil, in fact, you have an increase
of the -- in Brazil that we haven't -- not new in -- an unknown in Q1. It went up to around
4,000 deaths per day. Now it's back to something wrong 1,000 deaths per day. But you
had an increase that we have not -- we didn't knew in -- at the beginning of the year. The
impact in Brazil was only EUR 26 million in Q1 about the -- and we did EUR13 million of
review of the technical reserve in Q1. So, EUR13 million of claims.
In the Q2 and Q1. So, Q2 if you have EUR26 millions of claims of COVID in Q1. In Q2, it's
more around EUR80 million of COVID-19 claims, on the diﬀerent claims of business that
we have. It's an increase of around 20 points of the claims ratios that we add on the three
lines of business, in particular, (inaudible) and personal and risk protection. So it's a
bigger numbers due to the evolution of the disease, due to the delta variant, delta
mutation of the virus that we didn't have at the beginning of the year, and it was sadly the
bad news of this Q2 that we have known in Brazil.
Eﬀectively, the 80 review of the technology provision is a one-oﬀ, we will see what will be
the evolution of -- for the next part of the year. So we don't give any guidance, but
technical reserves, and we will see also what is evolution of the disease. Because we know
what we know today, but with the disease no one can say what will be the evolution of it,
what will be the mutation and so on. But we are looking at that. And plus, I would say that
we have also changed the contract in Latin America and now you have some delay where
when you underway to contract, so we don't take into charge any death coming from
COVID-19 in the ﬁrst month of the other contracts. So, it's a way to prevent deaths from
the COVID-19 situation.
Is it okay Thomas for this question?

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Thank you. Maybe one additional one or strategic one for Mr.Dedeyan. On health
insurance, because maybe I think that this is what you referred when you say that actually
you will gather all the social protection assets. And I've read some comments in -- I think
that we're in fact you formulate the bit more ambition as well for CNP on the health

Page 16 of 24



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

insurance business that is a very smaller tiny business at the present time. So, could you
shed some light as well on this side of things? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Stephane Dedeyan

{BIO 20969638 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you for your question. In fact on the French market, there is a part of the
market which is very interesting because growing and proﬁtable which is the SMEs. And
as far SMEs are concerned, there is a need for all-in-one approach, mixing health,
protection and pension protection. So that means that this is a very interesting together
our assets concerning this three main activities in order to provide our SMEs the
customers with a one-stop shop and an all-in-one oﬀer. So, this is what we are working on
at the moment.

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Our next question is by Benoit Valleaux of ODDO BHF. The line is now also open for you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Benoit Valleaux

{BIO 2443205 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. Few question on my side. Just may be follow-up question still on the
deal to in non-life with La Banque Postale. Just to clarify, you mentioned at closing to be
expected next year, would you expect it to occur in ﬁrst part of the year or more at the
end of next year? And maybe also on that front, it will increase your diversiﬁcation beneﬁt,
do you plan to move to a kind of partial internal model in terms of '22 to remain with the
standard formula?
Second question is regarding PACTE transfers, we have a new target of EUR6.3 billion for
full year '21. Do just some target for next year or should be more or less over for this year?
And with respect transfer, can you tell us what could be or what will be the impact in the
end in terms of, I don't know, EBIT or net income and in terms of solvency. I mean, are you
able to quantify, you mentioned that you will have a higher share of asset into unit-linked?
And maybe third question, just to come back on your investment portfolio. You have
increased -- I understand you -- your situation. What is your situation at the end of June
compared to your industry and what is currently your generation gap? And when I look
also at your investment rate, it seems that in 2020 has been for your ﬁxed income
portfolio reopened 74%, which is roughly 20 bps below the average ﬁnishing rate that you
gave or you paid last year for your customers. So even if it's too early, I assume that your
plan to further decrease, you're creating with this year and it is something that you can
continue to do for the next few years while you are still increasing use of PPE. So don't
you feel that maybe at some point of time, it might become more diﬃcult to further
reduce you creating rate while you will further increase your PPE or not? Thank you.

A - Stephane Dedeyan

{BIO 20969638 <GO>}

Page 17 of 24



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

FINAL

Okay. So for the ﬁrst part of your question about the calendar and the non-life activities,
we are looking at all the options at the moment and we focus on the industrial model
which means that we don't have a precise calendar in mind. We want ﬁrst to make sure
that we leverage on the new possibilities of very ﬂuid work together with La Banque
Postale to deﬁne a very precise and value-creating operational model. So, no new
calendar, no precise calendar at the moment.
Thomas, for the rest of the question.

A - Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

For the diversiﬁcation, it's not with what we will acquire from La Banque Postale that it will
transform the 70 capital ratio of -- the goal is too small to have a real important eﬀect on
the solvency capital requirement. It's more on a medium-term, if we continue after this
operation to diversify in non-life that you will have some eﬀects. But at this stage, it's too
early. And so too early or so to ask a question about an internal partial model. So, it's too
early for that. So we have to go and to have a signiﬁcant part of the sales in activities to go
that way.
Your third question was about PACTE and the transfer. So, we went eﬀectively to EUR6.3
billion as an objective of 2021, doing objectives, commercial activities means having
discussions with partners as a partner as the discussions for 2022 are not settled at the
stage with La Banque Postale or with BPCE. Traditionally, they are occurring between
September and November. And so we'll have a discussion with them about to target for
next year during that part. But there is a lot of capacity to continue on that way for PACTE
transformation as we have a lot of legacy and an old book contracts, that can be
transformed, but the precise objective has to be ﬁxed with the partners and it will be
done during their turn.
We don't have a precise calculation, but in fact in Solvency 2, you can only know that
where you are going for unit-linked is the cost of capital is around -- for the euro
components and nowadays is around 5.45% for the cost of capital in Solvency 2. So you
have a clear reduction when you go from zero to unit-linked. If I looked at the rate of the
transformation, the inﬂow, unit-linked rates average coming after transformation is 31%
and before transformation is -- was 17%. So you have an increase for the business contract
we have transformed coming from 17% to 31%. So, an increase of 40% of the sharing unitlinked in this contracts. And also, it's also more modern contract with diﬀerent fees that
we are thinking and evolution of the contract which is also part of the transformation that
we are operating.
On the questions about the assets, Josselin Kalifa add -- besides Olivier Guigne will
answer your questions.

A - Josselin Kalifa

{BIO 22199802 <GO>}

Yes. So since Q4 2020, we have increased the sensitivity of your assets likely while we
have decreased the sensitivity of our liability. Therefore, our sensitivity gap has now
decreased to a slightly below 3 which is a better than it was at the Q4 2020.

Page 18 of 24



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

Q - Benoit Valleaux

{BIO 2443205 <GO>}

And we're getting question, sorry, I'm quitting, right. I mean, do you believe it's normally
mid-term question? I'm sorry. Yeah. Sorry.

FINAL

A - Olivier Guigne

{BIO 18263857 <GO>}

So yes, on discretionary participation, it's too early because discussions are very -- now we
are doing that in preparing that during September, October and discussions are in
December. So it's too early to give any ﬂavor of discretionary participation that we will
have on Q2 with the near convention that we are using and we're using the same rates as
last year. And on average last year, it was 0.94% for the discretionary participation. So, we
are taking that as a convention, but discussions will be later during the year.
Of course, you know that we have in our policy where we increased extra bonuses where
you invest more in unit-linked and this policy will of course continue. We haven't -- it tells
us insurers in advance and it's a way we are encouraging or so investment in unit-linked
and the risk that insures are taking.

Bloomberg Transcript

For PPA, we are now at EUR14.5 billion 6.6%. Counts rise a little more than this is the kind
of level where we are, because we have to distribute it back to insurer that 80. So it's -- we
have not guidance to give about PPE, but each will not develop a lot more than we're
kind of levels that we -- we are nowadays. So we will see at the end of the year for the PPE,
it depends also on the discussion that we can have on the discretionary participation
rates.
Have we answered all the questions?

Q - Benoit Valleaux

{BIO 2443205 <GO>}

Okay. Just to --. Yes. Thank you. Maybe just looking back on this PACTE transfer, you
mentioned that new product as a new kind of fees and so on. So, -- transfer. But what do
you expect in terms of impact on the P&L? I mean, the EUR6.3 billion transfer, I mean, can
you just give a rough calculation on the impact on your P&L or EBIT?

A - Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

I'm not sure that we are disclosing revenues that we get separately for unit-linked and
from the traditional components. So, it's not something that we are disclosing. But as an
average number in the market that we have more fees coming from unit-linked and when
you increase that, but it's just an average. And so also more work to deliver unit-linked
and manage them than the euro components.

Q - Benoit Valleaux

{BIO 2443205 <GO>}

Okay. Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
Your next question is by Marcus Rivaldi, Jeﬀeries. The line is now open for you.
Page 19 of 24



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

FINAL

Q - Marcus Rivaldi

{BIO 5739374 <GO>}

Good afternoon, everybody. Thanks for taking my questions. I booked three, please. First
of all, when you look at the sales progress over the full half year in France, don't see a very
successful ﬁrst half of the year. If I look back at the commentary in Q1, it was maybe more
cautious reﬂecting on perhaps small subdued consumer demand in Q1 and perhaps more
cautious approach to underwriting from your perspective. So, I was wondering if you
could just describe a bit more detail what happened into Q2 to end up with the results
that you saw that would seem today? Was it very much more consumer-driven to demand
up? I was also from your perspective, be it more comfortable from an underwriting
perspective in the context of maybe a continuing rising rate environment we saw during
that period.

Bloomberg Transcript

Secondly, very interested in PACTE transfer process. Question here is to what extent can
this be used as a real tool to be very fascinated? Maybe fascinated changes to your back
book by may be accelerating that transfer from -- capital, heavy traditional business into
more capital light and such more lucrative you will business, so could you -- (Technical
Diﬃculty) -- liability management is to some extent he oﬀers to policyholders to use this
tool to move into diﬀerent type of products?
And the third question for me, of course, rates have fallen back somewhat since the half
year stage. So, as long as there's any update given the solvency ratio or lease, has it
moved in line with your published sensitivity you've got to rather expensive debt deals
coming to call in the second half of the year. Just want to ask about also the debt raise in
the ﬁrst half of 2021. Was that more aimed at reﬁnancing that or was it for other solvency
general corporate purposes and therefore to what extent should we think about simply
wanting to come back to market in the next two months with a due to reducing its interest
costs going forward? Thank you.

A - Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

On your ﬁrst question about the sales, I wonder if you are not comparing Q2 2021 to Q2
2020. As you know Q2 2020, you have a lot of reduction of activities, it was the beginning
of the COVID-19 in France, a little bit earlier in Italy, and so we have a strong reduction of
activities, and little bit later in Brazil and both Caixa -- in Brazil and La Banque Postale in
France have a priority on giving subsidies to people and not delivering insurance. So, we
have a lot of reduction of business last year. That's why we are comparing 2019 and 2021
and not comparing to 2020 when banking are closed, you don't sell life insurance.
If I compare -- if I go to France, if I compare Q1 and Q2, the monthly level of the sales, in
fact are exactly the same. It's around EUR1,800 million of the level of the monthly sales in
Q2 as in Q1. So we're exactly as the same kind in France of sales, which is very diﬀerent
from Q2 2020 where we run. We were around EUR1 billion as an average of sales in Q2
2020.
Does it answer your question about that? Because it's -- you have a real diﬀerence
between Q1 2020 and Q2 2020.

Page 20 of 24



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

Q - Marcus Rivaldi

{BIO 5739374 <GO>}

Yeah. Thanks very much. I'll follow up with Olivier separately on that point, but I've got
some questions on that, but thank you for that answer.

A - Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

FINAL

So second question, that's some diﬃculty EU, was about capital light products.

Q - Marcus Rivaldi

{BIO 5739374 <GO>}

Yeah. So the patterns of that process, the question being is whether it feels like a very
voluntary process at the moment, and a good route for investors to move products
without losing any tax advantages. Just wondering whether it provides a route for you to
accelerate the transformation of your back book perhaps through more broad oﬀers to
policyholders to shift into new products without losing any tech advances to improve the
back book dynamics of your business.

A - Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Exactly what we're doing, where we transformed EUR4 billion, it's the transformation from
an old product to a new one, with an increase of the unit-linked components. And what is
very interesting is that it's done with any tax penalty about the year, the product was
underwrite. So, it's underwritten. So it's something that can continue and we can
transform two times, three times the same contracts into a new one. So, it's something
that when we have a new contract, we can rediscuss with a policyholder and adapt it to
the new conditions and the new kind of guarantees that we can propose.
And of course, when you are increasing the unit-linked component is not only going from
an old contract to a new contract, it's also revisiting the contract with the policyholder, the
risk appetites as always change, because the person's has become older and diﬀerent
mix from the times where he began to save his money for insurance. And so, it's also way
to revisit the percentage of unit-linked in the contracts, the risk appetite of the object
policyholder and it's within because it's a voluntary process. You need both the insurer
and the insure to do the transformation. And if you go for unit-linked, you have of course
less capital which is needed. So, it's clearly a big part of our transformation of the
business not only the sales, but also transformation of the inﬂows.

Q - Marcus Rivaldi

{BIO 5739374 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

Okay. And perhaps as Stephane said, it's also an opportunity to add additional premium
and it's done as a quite a few cases. That's what was your second question.
As for third question, of course, we are not disclosing when we are going to the market
for issuance of debt, as you know. You can go to see when the diﬀerent timelines of the
maturity of the bond that we have today, so we are -- hence you can see also when we are

Page 21 of 24



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

-- we have some gap to in the next year or so, meaning we are trying to we were to have
some stable way of reimbursing the debt in the years. So, it's what we are doing. And so
we have a call in 2021 that we will come, but it's something that we are -- and we are not
discussing when we are going back to the market.

FINAL

Q - Marcus Rivaldi

{BIO 5739374 <GO>}

Could you give me some, I also said that maybe the mark-to-market on the solvency ratio,
maybe if you're not happy to disclose the actual number, whether if you could conﬁrm,
whether maybe the movements you have may since the half year has been brought in line
with market in solvency?

A - Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

Capital requirement, that I can give the question to Stephane. Could you repeat -- we
diﬃculty to hear you about your question about the solvency capital requirements? Tell
about the impacts on of the markets.

Q - Marcus Rivaldi

{BIO 5739374 <GO>}

Yeah. -- (Multiple Speakers) -- fallen since June, and just a question of the movement in
the solvency ratio, would it be following the public sensitivities that you'd expected, so in
line with expectation.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Stephane Dedeyan

{BIO 20969638 <GO>}

Excuse me. Can you reformulate, because it's very diﬃcult here to hear precisely your
question. Sorry.

Q - Marcus Rivaldi

{BIO 5739374 <GO>}

Yeah. My apologies. So my -- just my question would be interest rate have somewhat
fallen back since end of the quarter, just wanted to conﬁrm that any movements on the
solvency ratio would be in line with the market sensitivity that you published?

A - Stephane Dedeyan

{BIO 20969638 <GO>}

As you know, it's not -- as in the past, it's not an exact calculation, because you have
always diﬀerent phenomenon that are being in the -- when you are doing the precise
calculation. But you can use the sensitivities that are given with a presentation to see in
line with the diﬀerent evolution of the interest rate was going on, but you have to get -take into account, not only the evolution of the 10 years but also solution of the world
curves and especially longer maturity of the rates.

Q - Marcus Rivaldi

{BIO 5739374 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much for your time.

Operator
Our next question is by Michael Huttner. The line is now also open for you.
Page 22 of 24



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

Q - Michael Igor Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you. Thank you so much. Just a one follow up question and one wish. The follow up
question is, you said the 25% -- EUR25 billion pension liabilities would move to a kind of
Solvency 1 plus framework. And you said that would mean between 1% and 5% capital
allocation depending on whether their euro will also unit-linked. And I just wondered
whether you can say these EUR25 of the unit-linked to give a split, that was a question.
And then my wish is and you had a -- you presented today eﬀectively on your new
strategy, but maybe not absent precise targets, and we have an Investor Day please and
when can that be?

A - Stephane Dedeyan

{BIO 20969638 <GO>}

On your ﬁrst question about FRPS, I don't have with me the percentage between unitlinked and traditional euro, but we really give the information later after the call.
On your second question, please Michael could you will formulate it.

Q - Michael Igor Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Yeah. Sure. When could we have -- when is your Investor Day?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Stephane Dedeyan

{BIO 20969638 <GO>}

Good question. And so we are working out to prepare that event. The precise date is not
ﬁxed, but we are expecting to be able to ﬁx a date, when we will be back in Q3 and to
give you -- for this, this meeting because that we know you are waiting for.

Q - Michael Igor Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
We have no further questions. And so I hand back to the moderators.

A - Stephane Dedeyan

{BIO 20969638 <GO>}

Okay. So if there is no more questions, I would like to thank you very much for your
attention. And we were very, very happy to have this question-and-answer session with
you. And Thomas, you want to add something?

A - Thomas Behar

{BIO 18964489 <GO>}

Yeah. Just to note and give you speciﬁc information, just thank to Khalil, because he is
now going to Italy. And Khalil is the Head of the Investor Relations team and will be
replaced with (inaudible) after the summer, and so all good luck for Khalil your move to
choose Italian business, where we have very, very important objective to fulﬁll there.

Page 23 of 24



Company Name: CNP Assurances
Company Ticker: CNP FP Equity
Date: 2021-07-28

A - Stephane Dedeyan

{BIO 20969638 <GO>}

Thank you, Thomas. And Khalil, we are expecting you boosting the Italian business. So,
thank you very much. Have a nice end of day and see you next time. Thank you very
much.

FINAL

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attendance. This call has been concluded. You
may disconnect.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 24 of 24

