Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-02-17

Y 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Camillo Greco, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Massimiliano R. Riggi, Head of Investor Relations and Business Insight
Matteo Del Fante, Chief Executive Oﬃcer and General Manager

Other Participants
Ashik Musaddi
Azzurra Guelﬁ
Elena Perini
Federico Braga
Gianmarco Bonacina
Manuela Meroni
Matija Gergolet

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Good afternoon. Welcome, and thank you for joining Poste Italiane's Conference Call. I
would like to turn the conference over to Mr.Massimiliano Riggi, Poste Italiane's Head of
Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to Poste Italiane's full year 2020
preliminary ﬁnancial results, presented by our CEO, Matteo Del Fante; and our Group
CFO, Camillo Greco. Following the presentation, we will be glad to answer your
questions.
Now let me pass it over to Matteo.

Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today. I hope you and your families are well
and safe and that we will all go back to normality hopefully soon. I will take you through
the highlights of Q4 and full-year 2020 before handing over to our new CFO, Group CFO,
Camillo Greco. As you know, Camillo, has been our Deputy CFO for over six months now,
joining us in July last year, after more than 20 years at JPMorgan. Camillo will lead you

Page 1 of 20



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-02-17

FINAL

through a detailed business review and I will then provide some closing remarks before
we open the call for questions.
Beginning on Slide number 3. Although in 2020, we had to face an unprecedented
challenges, our ﬁnancial and operating performance has been solid, conﬁrming Poste
Italiane's role of systemic player in Italy. The fourth quarter also conﬁrms the tangible
signs of recovery already seen across all segments resulting in higher group revenues
year-on-year. We indeed posted an impressive net proﬁt above EUR1.2 billion for the full
year. This enable us to conﬁrm our dividend policy with a dividend per shares of
EUR0.486, increasing 5% year-on-year and with the corresponding payout ratio slightly
above 50%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Each segment contributed to EBIT quarterly progression and conﬁrm the key secular
trends already observed. Accelerated mail decline, higher e-commerce penetration, ultralow interest rates and increased demand for digital payments and connectivity. In
particular, Mail, Parcel and Distribution, operating proﬁt improved in Q4, notwithstanding
higher early retirement charges, which we choose to anticipate to accelerate
transformation. More importantly, in the quarter, parcel revenues increase more than
oﬀset the mail decline, which is a signiﬁcant achievement for the sustainability of the
segment in the upcoming years.
In Financial and Insurance services, product sales continued their upward trajectory due
to commercial focus with EUR17.8 billion net inﬂows since December 2019 supported by
nearly zero net outﬂows in postal savings, our best results since 2012, so in 10 years. In
Payments and Mobile, we continued to see increasing volumes with revenues rising 15%
compared to Q4 2019. To sum up, all segments recorded a positive EBIT in Q4, if we
exclude early retirement charges. We will provide you with further details on future trends
and targets for the coming years during our Capital Markets Day that has you know, as
been planned for next March 19.
Let's move to Slide 4, on the key highlights of 2020 and Q4. We are glad to present today
to all our stakeholders our signiﬁcant achievements. In this diﬃcult year, we always
ensured business continuity, providing services to our communities with the highest
safety standards, at least one post oﬃce was open in every small municipality during the
ﬁrst strictest lockdown last spring, with a minimum of 7,000 post oﬃces serving our
customers. We delivered over 1 million of personal protection equipments to schools and
issued over 12 million digital IDs enabling remote access to public administration platform
and services. This is also continuing in 2021.
We are delivering COVID-19 vaccines, supporting regional health service and creating a
state-of-the-art IT platform to track vaccine doses along the logistic chain as well as a
multichannel booking system. This proved out once again our commitment towards the
community reinforcing our role as systemic player of the country. 575 million transaction
were processed in our post oﬃces and an additional 90 million via our digital channels,
further 115 million were handled through our widespread the third-party network of
PuntoPoste.

Page 2 of 20



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-02-17

FINAL

On average, we registered the daily gross inﬂows of about EUR150 million per day with
total retail net ﬂows -- inﬂows of EUR15 billion in 2020 conﬁrming our role of most trusted
home for savings in challenging times. We delivered over 210 million parcels for an
impressive 42% yearly growth more than doubling 2016 volumes of 97 million. Our 29
million cards generated EUR49 billion payment transactions, up 16% year-on-year.
Let's move to group preliminary ﬁnancial results on Slide 5, please. In Q4, the group
delivered positive revenues growth of 1.4% comparing to the previous year with revenues
reaching almost EUR3 billion in the quarter. For the full-year, revenues stood at EUR10.5
billion decreasing only 4% year-on-year recovering from a bottom of minus 13% registered
in the second quarter when we experienced the tough lockdown impact.

Bloomberg Transcript

Total costs in the quarter appeared to be ﬂat year-over-year, but it would be down if we
exclude COVID related emergency cost and the additional early retirement charges are
taken to accelerate and enable the restructuring. We continue to register signiﬁcant
operational improvement with EBIT up 19.6% in Q4 reaching EUR1.5 billion in the full year
due to cost management actions eﬀectively limiting the impact of lower revenues. Thanks
to the strength of our diversiﬁed business, net proﬁt stands at EUR308 million in the
fourth quarter, up 18.7% year-on-year including a positive one-oﬀ of EUR96 million of
income tax. In full year 2020, we register as anticipated EUR1.2 billion net proﬁt,
decreasing 10% year-on-year due to the lockdown severely hampering operations for
several months, especially in Q2.
On Slide 6. We see continued positive revenue progression across all business segments.
Mainly Parcels performance was driven by strong parcel growth more than oﬀsetting mail
decline, leading to an increase of 1% in segment revenues. Payment and Mobile keeps
following the trend with a strong revenue growth of 15% compared to the previous year
underpinned by an increase in digital payments.
The Financial Services segment continued to steadily recover from Q2 reaching EUR1.3
billion revenue in the quarter broadly stable year-on-year. Insurance Services revenue
reached over EUR450 million broadly in line with Q4 of 2019 despite some upfronting of
investment margin in Q3 of 2020. This positive result was positive, thanks to the upswing
in commercial activities resulting in higher growth and net inﬂows year-on-year. We will
continue to focus on certain business trends that we have experienced across segments in
2020, including the ﬁrst and second wave of the pandemic and the consequent
lockdowns.
As you can see on Slide 7 and as we have already observed, commercial activities fully
recovered for the ﬁrst -- from the ﬁrst lockdown with a steady increase in digital and thirdparty network transactions accounting now for up to almost one-third of overall
transactions. Parcel daily volume growth has further accelerated in Q4, increasing 58%
year-on-year. Mail volume decline continued impacted by the absence of higher margin
product delivery during the year.
Moving to Slide number 8. We're proud of the results achieved in Financial and Insurance
services as well as in Payment and Mobile in Q4. Daily gross inﬂows reached an average

Page 3 of 20



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-02-17

FINAL

of EUR170 million with a 17% increase year-on-year and we're now back at the prepandemic level even if a number of regions went in and out of lockdowns, even in the last
quarter.
Sales of P&C new products slowed down in Q4 in line with market trend. Nevertheless,
the sustained growth in our modular oﬀer in the second half of 2020 contributed to
mitigating the slowdown of CPI policies, which, as you know, are strongly linked to the
economic cycle. In payment, PostePay, daily card transaction grew 52% year-on-year
fueled by e-commerce growth and the shift in customer spending habits. The telecom
customer base increased 3% since last year, reaching 4.6 million users. Thanks to a loyal
customer base with a low churn rate in a highly competitive market.
Let me now hand over to Camillo, who will take you through a more detailed business
review. Please, Camillo.

Bloomberg Transcript

Camillo Greco

{BIO 21978163 <GO>}

Thank you, Matteo, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm glad to be here today and take
you through the next part of this presentation. Let's start with a quick overview of each
segments revenues, starting with Mail, Parcel and Distribution on the Slide number 10. In
Q4, parcel revenues grew to a record level more than oﬀsetting mail decline. As you are
aware, over the past year, we have witnessed an accelerated shift in the mix of revenues
between mail and parcels. In fact in 2019, parcel revenues represented only 26% of the
combined mail and parcel revenues. With the acceleration of e-substitution and the surge
of online purchases, parcel revenues grew substantially and now represent 38% of overall
mail and parcel revenues which have therefore shifted to a more sustainable mix.
Looking at the revenue break down, the mail component in Q4 was down 16% year-onyear along with a trend comparable to the previous quarter. Looking at parcels, revenues
continued to grow at a very signiﬁcant pace, up 56% in Q4 and by 36% in full year 2020
also supported by record high B2C. Distribution revenues grew 2.8%, thanks to increasing
commercial activities in Q4. At operating level, Q4 EBIT continued to improve despite
higher early retirement charges to support renewed focus on business transformation.
Finally, just a few weeks ago, we completed the acquisition of Nexive, the second largest
mail operator in Italy. We'll discuss the positive impact of this transaction in our Capital
Markets Day on March 19.
On Slide 11, we remain within the Mail and Parcel segment and look at volume and pricing
trends. Overall, mail volumes fell 13.2% in the fourth quarter, impacted by lockdown
though at a lower pace than in Q3. Product mix impacted mail average tariﬀ by 3
percentage points in Q4 slightly better than third quarter's trend. On the parcel side,
volumes are up across all products, especially in B2C. The speciﬁc business focus on
warehousing and logistics services fueled by the delivery of PPE led to incremental
growth consistently with previous quarters. Overall, parcel volumes in Q4 increased by an
impressive 58.9% and by 41.7% in the full-year. Volumes -- B2C volumes recorded an
unprecedented growth of 77% in the quarter leading to a 60% increase in the full year,
conﬁrming Poste as the market leader with an estimated market share of above 36%.
Average parcel tariﬀ was down by 3 percentage points due to product mix. C2X volumes
Page 4 of 20



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-02-17

FINAL

increased 37% in the quarter and 17% in the full year, also thanks to our renewed focus on
retail products sold through our third-party network.
Slide 12 shows the monthly evolution of parcel volumes in 2020. As we have seen
previously, parcel daily volumes have been steadily increasing starting from March with a
strong acceleration throughout the year, up to a record high in December. The
contribution of volumes from China remains robust 3 times to 4 times higher than the last
year since July supported by our oﬀer of value-added services such as end-to-end
tracking. Early '21, we have already put in place two key actions to seize future growth
opportunities in the parcel business.
In January, we acquired the controlling stake in Sengi Express to strengthen inﬂows from
China. In February, we renewed our three-year partnership with Amazon based on
continued growth of volumes and revenues encompassing new higher margin delivery
solutions and mechanism to manage this in a mutually beneﬁcial way. The past three
years of have established Poste as a key player in the parcel market conﬁrming the
successful implementation of the strategy embedded in Deliver '22, paving the path to
our new plan.

Bloomberg Transcript

On Slide 13, we can see the mail daily volume evolution throughout 2020. As expected,
this chart shows monthly volumes bottoming out in March with a stronger impact on
recorded mail. As you know, this is a higher margin product, which we expect to partly
recover in 2021 following government rulings. In December 2020, we have already
witnessed a slight recovery in overall mail volumes trend, that is conﬁrmed also in early
2021.
Moving to Payments and Mobile on Slide 14. Revenues continued to increase up 15.2% in
Q4 and 11.1% in the full-year. Card payment revenues were up by material 20% in Q4 and
by 10% year-on-year supported by higher number of cards as well as transactions. Other
payments increased 11% in the quarter including bank transfers while registering a
decrease of 7% in 2020 mainly related to the tax payment suspension by the government.
Telecom revenues grew 10% in the quarter and 19% in the full year. Thanks to a loyal
customer base in a highly competitive market. Intercompany revenues, mostly from
Financial Services were down due to an extraordinary decrease of physical payment slips.
Notwithstanding the sharp fall in payment slips, EBIT is up by 3% in the quarter and 7.3%
year-on-year due to the growth of digital payments as well as segment -- as well as the
segment key driver.
Moving to Financial Services on Slide 15. Segment revenues were stable in Q4 and down
3.7% in the full-year. Let me remark that both interest income and capital gains are now
reported net of respectively interest expenses and capital losses and previous data has
been restated for comparative purposes. Net interest income was down 4% in Q4 and 3%
in full-year 2020 with record low interest rates mitigated by higher volumes coming from
new deposits. Net capital gains were higher both in the quarter and the year, thanks to
our proactive management, seizing market opportunities arising from narrower spreads.
By changing the mix between capital gains and net interest income, we successfully adapt

Page 5 of 20



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-02-17

FINAL

to the current ultra-low interest rate environment. And postal saving distribution fees were
up. We successfully reduced net outﬂows to nearly zero in 2020. This is the lowest level
since 2012. Asset management fees were resilient year-on-year, thanks to recurring
commissions.
In loan and mortgage, we gained market share even if distribution revenues decreased
43% in the quarter due to lower demand and reduced average upfront fees. This line was
also negatively impacted by some EUR10 million charges conservatively booked in the
quarter to face potential early redemptions by clients. In the full year, this line decreased
39%, mainly impacted by restrictions related to the sanitary emergency. The joint venture
with BNL Finance announced in January would allow us to expand this line going forward
with a focus on that the particularly interesting product of salary backed loans.

Bloomberg Transcript

Transaction banking fees in the quarter are down 1% on lower payment slips volumes
mitigated by a positive ﬁnancial one-oﬀ related to expired liabilities. Intersegment
distribution revenues decreased 4% in the full year, but were up 9% in the quarter. Mainly
thanks to the revamp of commercial activities of insurance products. EBIT is up 15.8% in
the quarter mainly due to a ﬁnancial one-oﬀ on the cost line related to expired liabilities.
In the full year, EBIT declined only 1% despite they ultra-low interest rates and restrictions
related to COVID-19.
Moving to Slide 16. TFA reached EUR569 billion, up by a signiﬁcant EUR32.5 billion since
the beginning of the year supported by EUR17.8 billion positive net inﬂows across all asset
classes and EUR14.7 billion positive portfolio performance eﬀect. The positive net inﬂow
was also impacted by early pension payments. The above results once again conﬁrms
Poste as a safe harbor for Italian savings, in particular, Postal savings beneﬁted from a
signiﬁcant improvement in the net outﬂows EUR0.6 billion in 2020 compared to minus
EUR3.5 billion in 2019 and minus EUR4.8 billion in 2018. Deposits increased by EUR12.7
billion supported by higher inﬂows due to customers' preference for liquidity. Net
technical provisions increased EUR5.6 billion, thanks to the successful placements of
multi-class life products.
Moving to Slide 17. Insurance Services posted a solid performance in the full-year 2020. In
the quarter, life revenues were up 3% supported by the sale of multi-class products
representing about 34% of total gross written premiums. This surge in commercial activity,
more than oﬀset in the quarter, lower investment margin, which was front-loaded in Q3 to
take advantage of market opportunities. Non-life revenues were down, on lower sales of
CPI policies in a market in which personal loans decreased by one-third in 2020, though
mitigated by higher sales of welfare and health protection products.
As already anticipated by the CEO, our modular oﬀer on personal and property
protection continues to grow steadily conﬁrming its key role in strengthening our P&C
commercial oﬀer. Full year EBIT was broadly stable mirror revenue evolution.
Let's move to Slide 18. PosteVita group Solvency II ratio stood at 279%, clearly above our
managerial ambition of 200% through the cycle. Even if PosteVita distributed a dividends
during 2020 in line with the past years, the ratio would still have been above a solid

Page 6 of 20



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-02-17

FINAL

250%. Based on the latest interactions with the regulator, PosteVita should be able to
resume dividends distribution in 2021 in line with previous years. The Solvency II ratio
increased in the quarter beneﬁting from lower spreads across all asset classes.
Transactional measures provide additional 32 percentage points to address potential
market volatility.
Let's move to Slide 19 with an overview of the sensitivities of the Solvency II ratio. Solvency
II ratio remains in line with our risk tolerance threshold under all assumed scenarios.
Solvency ratio is high. And as already mentioned transitional measures provide additional
buﬀer to face potential market headwinds, which remain unlikely under the current
macroeconomic and monetary policy environment. At the same time to ensure the longterm sustainability of PosteVita's growth, we keep working to reduce the volatility of the
ratio going forward, along the three streams already represented. The development of an
internal model, the diversiﬁcation of our investment portfolio, the ongoing review of our
liabilities with the launch of capital light products.

Bloomberg Transcript

On Slide 20, you can appreciate the progression of the transformation of Poste Italiane's
workforce. Over the course of last year, our average headcount decreased 3.5% from
129,000 to below 125,000 comparing to the target of 123,000 FTEs by 2022, this is once
again demonstrates our ability to eﬀectively adjust our workforce in a ﬂexible way
mitigating the impact of revenue headwinds and creating structural eﬃciencies. In
particular, we registered 9,700 exits and we added 5,200 FTEs to enable our successful
transformation. As a result of this headcount reduction, the value-added by FTE
decreased by just 4% in a year that registered an overall decrease of proﬁtability of 14%.
Moving to HR costs on Slide 21. Our cost management actions resulted in lower HR costs
down 6.4% in 2020, half of which represents structural savings coming from lower FTEs.
Employee furlough, lower overtime and a decrease in the variable compensation
contributed to further reduced HR costs in 2020. Though we expect, these expenses will
resume in 2021 as a result of commercial activities normalization. Early retirement charges
amounted to EUR434 million higher than the original target of EUR0.3 billion with a
renewed focus on transformation and reskilling of our workforce. Non-HR costs amount to
EUR3.2 billion in 2020 increasing on a reported basis by 5.2% year-on-year mainly on
business driven or one-oﬀ costs.
More in detail, EUR106 million represent one-oﬀ emergency related expenses as we
continue to provide all the necessary protective equipment and sanitization to ensure
highest health and safety standards for workplaces, employees and customers. EURD190
million referred to higher variable costs related to increased business activity in the core
Telecom and Parcel segments. As we have already observed, this change in the business
mix already envisaged in our plan emerged earlier due to the acceleration of key trends
and we are working on eﬃciency measures to reduce the cost per unit going forward.
Excluding emergency one-oﬀ and business-driven costs, non-HR costs were down EUR136
million year-on-year, thanks to cost discipline on discretionary COGS and lower D&A.
Although 2020 was a challenging year, we have conﬁrmed our focus on transforming the
business by investing close to EUR700 million in CapEx mainly related to sorting
automation and digital evolution.

Page 7 of 20



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-02-17

Now, let's move to Slide 22, showing a positive operating proﬁt progression since Q2.
This is a very signiﬁcant result considering the diﬃcult year we have been going through
and bearing in mind that those of 2019 were record high results.

FINAL

Let me hand back to the CEO for some closing remarks. Thank you.

Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Thank you, Camila. And before taking your question, let me conclude as usual with some
key messages.
And we're on Slide number 23. At the beginning, for the ﬁrst hardest lockdown, back in
March, we've shown conﬁdence in our ability to weather an unprecedented situation, fully
aware of our systemic role for the country in these critical times. And I want to thank all
our employees for what they have done to make this possible.
Leveraging on our diversiﬁed business model, we've been brave in anticipating and
conﬁrm our dividend policy at the beginning of this diﬃculty year. Today we're therefore
proud of our 2020 preliminary ﬁnancial results, which conﬁrm our initial conﬁdence. On
this solid grounds, we will build our future along the lines of the new strategic plan, which
will be announced on March 19, stay tuned please.

Bloomberg Transcript

And let's now move to the Q&A session. Over to you, Massi.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

We will now begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) And the ﬁrst
question is from Manuela Meroni, Banca IMI. Sorry. The ﬁrst question is from Gianmarco
Bonacina from Equita.

Q - Gianmarco Bonacina

{BIO 4077284 <GO>}

(Multiple Speakers) (Technical Diﬃculty)

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. On the CDP agreement, we are still negotiating the three-year
agreement that expired end of 2020, it's not unusual to take a bit of extra time.
Technically, it's not a private low contract, because we are distributing state guaranteed
ﬁnancial saving products. So we are in a public domain and therefore, the negotiation has
to follow some speciﬁc procedure. But the law says that the distributor has to be
remunerated as it has always been according to the service that we provide.
Page 8 of 20



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-02-17

FINAL

So given, I think what is more important is the fact that we've done extremely well in the
last three years, we have done a record 2020 in postal savings and that's clearly the best
way to present ourselves to the negotiation. And certainly, we can say that also 2021 has
started on a very strong foot in terms of collecting savings from our clients.
On the second question, I will introduce the answer and then please, Camillo, if you want
to be more speciﬁc on the both HR and non-HR cost. We said at the beginning of the
lockdown of the pandemic and we repeated in July. And in November that we were
looking at 2020 as an opportunity to do as many transformations we could on the cost
and on the revenue side. So one should look at our cost savings that we have produced
for 2020 with a component of structural, the way we presented it today, any component
which is related to the speciﬁc 2020 scenario. And what we really work on as much as we
could was the structural savings both on HR and non-HR cost because that's what will
allow us to have the best performance in 2021. So the way we're going to present the plan
in March is certainly looking at 2020, but we will keep a reference on 2019, because that's
where we see a solid performance to start from.
Please Camillo.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Camillo Greco

{BIO 21978163 <GO>}

Thank you. And what I will just add is that if you look at the HR costs, we were clear in
identifying what we call a structural saving that out of the EUR356 million is around
EUR190 million. So we believe that that is a saving; at the same time, there are some
emergency related costs and other actions that were taken by management to reduce the
cost base in 2020. As an example, variable compensation, lower overtime allowances. So
we believe that in a normalized market, that part of the business should bear those costs.
With respect to non-HR costs, we brieﬂy touched upon it over the speech. On the page
related to non-HR cost, you can see that there are EUR190 million of business-driven costs.
Those were a result of the fact that part of our business is moving towards a more variable
cost base. And speciﬁcally more than half of that has to do with the mail, parcel and
distribution and the other part has to do with telecom. And we expect that as those
businesses continue to grow, the cost base there would grow accordingly.
On the other hand, the one-oﬀ shifts or emergency related one-oﬀ expenses should not
continue in 2021, touching wood, and looking at the COGS, there too, there are a few
fund releases which really translate into having it through underlying COGS, which maybe
went down by a bit less than half of that amount.

Q - Gianmarco Bonacina

{BIO 4077284 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Thank you. And the next question is from Manuela Meroni, Banca IMI. Please Manuela.

Page 9 of 20



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-02-17

Q - Manuela Meroni

{BIO 1782610 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. Hello. Thank you for taking my question. The ﬁrst one is on interest income. Interest
income declined by 4% quarter-on-quarter. You realized that some capital gains. But I'm
wondering if you can elaborate a little bit more on such a trend of interest income, and if
you can share with us your thoughts on interest income in 2021?
Again related to interest income, it's another question on the capital gains. You have
EUR4.7 billion unrealized capital gains as of December 2020. How many capital gains do
you have now?
Another question is on mail volumes. In December, recorded mail volumes declined by
8% year-on-year after having declined by 20% to 30% in the previous month. So this kind
of reduction, is the reduction in the pace of decline was due to a seasonal eﬀect? Or this
trend has continued also in January and February, maybe it has improved?
And another question is on the recovery fund. Are you involved in the recovery fund,
please?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay. Quite a few question. Thank you, Manuela. I'll start with NII that in itself, I think,
would take quite a bit of time. We're now in under current market condition as of this
morning, we're short of -- just short of EUR7 billion capital gains. And clearly, this is the
record we register. As we anticipated in November, we told the market already, we
bought in a meaningful way the market in the ﬁrst half of the year, if you look at the ﬁrst
half of 2020 and you look at long-dated above money market bonds, we bought short of
EUR16 billion assets.
We lengthened the duration I was looking at end of 2017 versus today, so you are talking
about three years plus. We have lengthened by two years, three years later. So the fact
that we have lengthened by ﬁve years duration of the maturity, sorry of our portfolio. And
marginally the duration, because at the same time as you know, we have the bulk of what
we invested was long-dated, but was bought in as a swap. So as you know 50% of our
portfolio is ﬂoating. So we think we are in a extremely good market position, because
we're coming from a very painful couple of years where we had both long-term and shortterm rates aﬀecting our net interest margin on the short-term side and our mark-to-market
on the long-dated swap rate which was at the minimum.
With swap rates having started to back up in the last few weeks, our ﬂoating rate portfolio
is clearly beneﬁting a lot and it's putting us on your second part of the question in a
relatively more optimistic situation. If you look at Page 35 in today's presentation in the
backup, we show an average yield going down from 2.57% of the portfolio to 2.3%, so
that's kind of a natural reduction because you have obviously a high coupon bonds going
to maturity. You may extrapolate something similar for 2021, obviously we will unveil the
plan shortly. The good news is that we have a meaningful cushion coming from the capital
gains.

Page 10 of 20



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-02-17

As we did in 2018, we presented ourselves to the ﬁnancial community in February with the
capital gains already in the pocket for the ﬁrst part of the plan. And we'll try to do the
same for March, so that investor can rely at least in the short-term on a more reliable net
interest and capital gain ﬁgure. You have to remember that we always say that the NII and
the capital gains were hedging each other in all market scenario. And this is actually
proving to be the case. So we might have a slightly lower net interest margin, but that can
be more than compensated by the potentially higher capital gains. There is a question on
recorded mail recovery and expectation in 2021, which I would leave to Camillo after I
give you maybe a broad answer on the recovery fund and the fact that Poste Italiane, like
any major company, has been invited to present ideas by oﬃcials. Clearly, Poste has
shown in the last 4 years to have a very meaningful role on the inclusion and cohesion
access of what the European authorities are indicating as goals for disbursing the grants
and loans.
So doing initiatives that are keeping communities together and that means increasing
work, so creating jobs, that means helping women increasing their participation to the job
market. That means helping youths and young people participating in the young man, in
the job market that is inclusion. And obviously, our company has demonstrated to be in
the best position to give support to this local and social goals that are very close to our
mission and our heart. And as we have done in the last four years, this is something that
Poste has shown we can do without jeopardizing our attention to cost, so our cost
discipline speciﬁcally on the HR component.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please Camillo on recorded mail.

A - Camillo Greco

{BIO 21978163 <GO>}

Thank you. Well, I mean, what we have witnessed in 2020 has clearly been
unprecedented in terms in terms of acceleration of mail decline. Yes, the recorded mail
has been particularly impacted as public oﬃces were shut down for signiﬁcant parts of the
year. That did translate in a material decrease of that speciﬁc segment of the mail. We do
expect that in 2021, there will be a continuation of the trend we've seen in the fourth
quarter of the year where we're seeing a deceleration of mail decline versus Q3. So I think
that we clearly do not expect a trend that is comparable to what we have witnessed for
the entire year in 2021. And in fact, we expect that in some portions of the overall mail
volume, speciﬁcally in recorded mail, there's going to be a bit of a catch-up eﬀect to
recoup a backlog which has not yet been posted in the previous year.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

And next question is from Ashik [ph] Musaddi of JPMorgan. Please Ashik.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah. Hi. (Technical Diﬃculty) (Multiple Speakers) Thank you, Massi, and hello. Just a
couple of question I have is ﬁrst of all -- (Technical Diﬃculty) (Multiple Speakers)

Operator
Page 11 of 20



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-02-17

(Technical Diﬃculty)

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah. There is a lot of echo on the line. Hello?

FINAL

Operator
Please go ahead, sir.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you. Now, just a couple of questions I have is, ﬁrst of all on the parcels
growth. I mean, I think it's been very useful, helpful on giving some clarity on that mail
decline, the decline -- the pace of decline will reduce in coming quarters, but how do you
think about parcel growth? Because clearly, this year has been instrumental like 36%
growth in parcel revenues? How do we think about that going forward? Shall we go back
to a bit more normal level of 10%? Or do you think that it could be higher or lower? Any
thoughts on that would be very helpful?

Bloomberg Transcript

The second thing is, you gave -- the cost is really where you have done -- you have been
doing really well. So, really a good one on that. But just one question is, there is a slide
that shows that structural savings for this year is about EUR180 million, EUR189 million. So
what should be the starting point for year 2021 for the HR cost? Should it be, let's say
2019, less the structural savings which is about EUR5.3 billion? Or how do we think about
that?
And I appreciate that you plan to give more detailed color at the Investor Day, but any
thoughts here would be very good as well?
And lastly is the dividend, I mean, you have delivered on your commitment to grow the
dividend at 5%. How do we think about that minimum 60% payout ratio guidance going
forward? Does that still remain valid? Or how do we think about that? Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay. Very good question. Thank you, Ashik. And it was Massi's fault with the echo. Yes. I
think is -- you have a point when you say where should we look at 2021 as it pays for HR
cost, and I think what you hinted is more or less in line with what we have in mind. We
don't think that in the next three to four years, Poste will be as much as a cost leveraging
play as much it was in the deliver 2022 plan that we launched in '18. Because now, we start
to see business lines that are growing and those business lines need to be supported with
cost. So this you will see in March, probably -- it's a kind of a diﬀerent story we will tell you.
But if you look at Page 21, I think you take a full-year HR of 2019 and then certainly looking
at the structural saving, you're not far from what we have in mind on the HR cost base for
next year.

Page 12 of 20



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-02-17

On parcel, I mean, let's not forget that 2016-'17, the company was not in the parcel
business, that may be a bit extreme. We were number six player in the country. We were
losing around EUR50 million, the company had decided to give up on parcel in 2016.
What we can say today, four years down the road, that we're now back in the business.
We're now number two player. We're number one in B2C. We enter the warehousing
business, we have entered the last-mile value-added business. We entered the full
truckload business. As you know with ventures, we closed the ﬁrst international parcel
contract. I mean, in 2016, Poste did not have a private contract to deliver parcels in Italy, it
did not exist. And now, as you know, in January, we opened operations in China and this
will bring us growth going forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

The growth, to answer more speciﬁcally to your question, I think we'll have to come from
more the B2B component. We'll start to be a bit choosy, if we have -- if we can say this
word in business. We didn't have this luxury four years ago, we were taking any client just
to print the ticket and see the volumes. Now, we are picking a bit more our clients and
tailor-making tariﬀ to clients and products. And this is extremely important, because if
your tariﬀ in B2B is properly tailor-made over the long run, you crowd out the ineﬃcient
player as opposed to being crowded out the by the competitor.
As you'll see on Page 11, the C2X is also growing from a very low base, that is a product,
but we just launched which I think will add volumes for us, bringing back volumes from
competition that today I'm not even properly monitored in the market, because today if
you're a private individual and you want to send a parcel in Italy, you basically have two
options to this let's say up to two months ago. Either you go to an express service which is
the EUR15 to EUR20 that's also we provide with that, or you go to the postal oﬃce and
that's an old style paper based, long, often maybe with not the necessary quality also of
the product and the service.
So, there was no volume. There was no demand on this product. Now, we just launched a
much more UX friendly product. So you can simply drop the box in the oﬃce. You can do
with a QR code all the registration on your own, on an app, on at home or on the website.
You can drop it in one of our 11,000 third-party networks points, you can do it easy. You
can do it in our 13,000 postal oﬃces and it's taking much less time. So I think growth will
come from a bit of many diﬀerent parcel segment. I think all the ventures will grow. And
the beauty is today we're able to go to for example, a big retailer and say yes, we can do
the B2B for you, but we can do the B2C at the same time.
And if you choose Poste, we can do the return and we give you 25,000 places where your
clients can do return and only Poste can do that. So we can oﬀer now the broad range of
parcel services. And so I think we will see, I'm relatively optimistic, Clearly, 2020 for the
pandemic on B2C, the 77% of Q4 clearly is not the 60% annual, it's - -we're not going to
repeat. But the overall growth and the margins, I mean, our preliminary estimates are
telling us that we're booking something in between EUR50 million and EUR100 million
EBIT for the ﬁrst time, a meaningful amount in parcel for the company. This is very
important.
On dividend, I mean with the price of the share, we're at 5%, we committed to the 5%
growth, we stick to our promise, now we have the Capital Markets Day in March. But with
Page 13 of 20



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-02-17

10-year Italian Gov is at 50 basis point, maybe what we committed is still a good incentive
for investors. We hope.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

FINAL

That's very clear. Thank you.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Thank you. The next question is from Federico Braga with UBS. Federico, please.

Q - Federico Braga

{BIO 19916816 <GO>}

Yes. Hello. Good afternoon, and thanks for taking my questions. (Multiple Speakers) I have
-- (Technical Diﬃculty) -- if you could maybe mute -- (Technical Diﬃculty) --

Bloomberg Transcript

Hello. Okay. So I have three questions, please. The ﬁrst one is the follow-up on recorded
letters, if I may. Just wanted to understand how the Nexive acquisition is actually expected
to impact this part of the business speciﬁcally and speciﬁc impact both strategically and
ﬁnancially?
The second question is on what you deﬁne as other revenues within the parcel division?
Because in the last couple of quarters, the quarterly rate of these revenues has essentially
doubled from EUR20 million, EUR30 million to around EUR60 million, EUR70 million, so I
just wanted to understand if this increase is structural and what's happening behind the
scene, what are the key drivers, it's maybe already some of the initiatives that you just
discussed in the previous question?
And then the last question is related to the Q4 revenues, the Q4 transaction banking
revenues of around EUR300 million, just wanted to understand if there was any one-oﬀ
this quarter? And if yes, if you could please quantify? Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Federico. I think the two question I can summarize. Camillo, the
recorded mail and the other revenues in mail and then the transaction, please.

A - Camillo Greco

{BIO 21978163 <GO>}

Okay. So, let me start with the Nexive -- I'll deal with Nexive recorded mail. To start with,
obviously, we are very proud of the acquisition of Nexive and one of the key main drivers
of the transaction are clearly the potential upside that we see in combining the two
businesses. As part of that recorded mail, it is an important revenue driver.
Let me remind you that Nexive has around EUR200 million -- had around EUR200 million
revenues and negative EBIT of around EUR25 million. And as we will communicate on
March 19th, speciﬁcally on mail, we have a strategy we will share with you at that point, but
clearly, something on which we are working with the relevant division.

Page 14 of 20



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-02-17

With respect to the second question, which has to do with other in parcel volumes, that
has to do with -- that evolution has to do with a contract that we have with the Italian
government and speciﬁcally with the delivery of the PPEs to schools as we mentioned at
the beginning of the presentation.

FINAL

Q - Federico Braga

{BIO 19916816 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Thank you. The next question is from Elena Perini with Banca IMI. Please, Elena.

Q - Elena Perini

{BIO 4202240 <GO>}

Yeah. -- (Technical Diﬃculty) --

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Yeah, very well.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Elena Perini

{BIO 4202240 <GO>}

Okay. Okay. Thank you. Well, actually I was looking at the Slide number 47 on the
insurance services. And well, I see that the segregated funds returns were down by 22 bps
last year, while the minimum guaranteed was down by 10 bps. So I was wondering if you
can elaborate a bit on your investment strategy? And if you are putting more and more
money on real assets or infrastructures also to support it?
And then my second and last question is about your motor business. We read in the press
that you are starting your oﬀer also with clients, so I don't know if you can say when you
have exactly started and you can elaborate a bit on this part of your business which was
done and on the results on the oﬀer that you made on the employees in the past months
and then years. Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Elena. The second question is related to our employees, our colleagues,
labor contracts.

Q - Elena Perini

{BIO 4202240 <GO>}

No. No. -- (Technical Diﬃculty) --

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay. Okay. (Multiple Speakers) Yeah. Yeah. Okay. That's okay. Sorry. Okay. The ﬁrst
question is on Page 47. So, the insurance services. Yes, its correct, we had with a marginal
decrease of the return on our segregated funds. This is due to the fact that a portion of
the portfolio of ﬁxed income bonds has gone to maturity. So they were in the technical
reserves in 2019, and they were not for a portion of 2020.
Page 15 of 20



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-02-17

As you can see, the composition has changed, but not signiﬁcantly. So we are increasing
our diversiﬁcation, but we are still with short of 60% Italian Gov is. You are aware that we
have also managed account with large asset managers that we can use to support the
return for our policyholders and I can tell you that we've been extremely conservative in
2020 not taking coupons from those accounts and keep the value in the account so that
we can tap on if need be in 2020. And you have to consider that we have a very, very
signiﬁcant capital gain today in the segregated funds. Very signiﬁcant. We were there as
well signiﬁcant buyers in the ﬁrst half of 2020 and today we are record capital gains in
that space as well. On the minimum guaranteed, it's the natural decline coming from the
portion of those contracts that are going to maturity because as you know, it's many years
that we're not issuing new guarantees in the new contracts.
On P&C. P&C is going extremely well broadly and we are ﬁnally starting to see -- already
you have some evidence in today's ﬁgure on the non-motor P&C component for the
second half of last year. We launched the modular component in March 2020. Motor is in
the makings. So it's getting traction, but you have to be patient. Don't forget that we
launched the non-motor more or less in the second half of '18 and the machine slowly.
This is Poste, it's now starting to show us traction which we are extremely happy and
satisﬁed. And on our records, we are now already number two bank assurance distributor
of P&C in Italy already without the motor having really kicked yet.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Thank you. The next question is from Matija Gergolet from Goldman Sachs. Please, Matija.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Matija Gergolet

{BIO 3561672 <GO>}

Yes. Hello. Good afternoon. I have three questions if I may. Firstly, they're all about
parcels. The ﬁrstly on the B2C parcels, could you provide us what is your estimated
market share in 2020 in B2C or at least some color whether you think you grew faster than
the market or not?
Second question is, I appreciate you will give us more color in -- on the 19th of March in
the medium-term. But let's say, it seems your division has turned the corner now, now is
back to growth. Can you please conﬁrm that, at least now for '21. I will leave the outer
years for the 19th of March, but now, you would expect that the division basically to, is it
best to assume that now the division is back to top line growth for the full year as a whole,
also maybe it may decline a bit less in the coming year or maybe even not declining?
And then thirdly, just on some of your comments about C2X, the expansion there. I think
you've mentioned that you have now some boxes, basically, some like lockers that you
can have in the post oﬃces where people can drop their parcels for returns. Is there like
kind of a wider strategy of the company to expand into lockers? Now, is it just for returns
or now would you also consider lockers for example, for as a complement to your delivery
capabilities?
And just very last, I think you mentioned you have 25,000 locations where you can install
lockers when you go to a retailer. I have in mind you have around 12,000, 13,000 post

Page 16 of 20



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-02-17

oﬃces. How do we square that 25,000 with the post oﬃces, can you just explain that as
well? Thank you very much.

FINAL

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Yeah. I'll start with the last point. I mean, we have disclosed the number of transaction we
do daily in the Tobacconist network which has grown signiﬁcantly over the pandemic, so
let's say, over one year ago. And part of this business that we do is the parcel business. So
we deliver and we pick up from Tobacconist and there are 10,800 which are today
allowed to do parcel for us, every day something like 19,000 pieces per day. It's an
interesting business for both of us, because this gives us the opportunity to do one stop
with several deliveries and it gives the Tobacconist the opportunity to see clients and
traﬃc. And maybe clients once they go to pick up or deliver a parcel, they will also buy
something. So that's our strategy.
And you know that in any developed market, you have around 20% to 25% of deliveries,
which are going into lockers and pickup points in urban areas, call it 25%. So if you
control the bulk of that network, you have a good market share of the B2C even in urban
areas. So this was since the beginning one way to protect our B2C strategy also versus the
giants and the likes of Amazon, that clearly we'll go into urban areas ﬁrst. So if you own at
least the lockers and pick up points, you protect the one portion of that market. And this
was your last question Matija.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of your ﬁrst question, I'm looking for two ﬁgures, the market share of Poste
Italiane, in B2C, Italy is 37% and the growth of the market in B2C in 2020 was around 50%
and we grew as you know 60%.
The second question, I'm not sure I understood it. But it was the macro growth coming
back and this probably improving our expectation on volumes of mail. Maybe Camillo,
you got it?

A - Camillo Greco

{BIO 21978163 <GO>}

I think that the question was as a result of the positive tailwind on the parcels and a
possible pick up in volumes in mail, whether we expect in 2021, the division will post
positive top line growth, and obviously we'll discuss these on March 19th, but I think that
we have provided to you guys enough elements to take a view on that which you should
develop independently.

Q - Matija Gergolet

{BIO 3561672 <GO>}

Absolutely. Okay. Well, thank you very much. Very clear.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Thank you. And our last question is from Azzurra Guelﬁ, Citi. Please, Azzurra.

Q - Azzurra Guelﬁ

{BIO 6148923 <GO>}

Page 17 of 20



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-02-17

Hi, good afternoon. Thank you for the call. I have a couple of question. One is on the
payment division. Do you expect the new digital agenda of the government to support
further your payment revenue growth?

FINAL

The second one is on the solvency ratio. Can you update us on what are the action and
steps on the measure that you have presented before in terms of reducing the volatility of
the ratio?
And the third one is a bit more wide in terms of ﬁnancial services and your customer. You
have a very strong customer relationship and a very wide franchise, which are clearly at
the heart of your ﬁnancial servicing potential oﬀer in terms of savings. And have you seen
any initial sign of change in customer attitude among the diﬀerent product that you oﬀer,
or you haven't noticed anything signiﬁcantly change from the previous month of the
pandemic? Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Yes. So the ﬁrst question has a positive answer. The cash back and the site to cash
program that we supported with the government is clearly going to help volumes on our
side. There is no doubt that we already seen it. As you know it was basically tested in
December and launched in January.
On customer attitudes, yes, I mean, if you look at the footprint of our digital client base,
it's certainly changing very rapidly. You look at the number of wallets. So ability to make
payments from your mobile, the increase is signiﬁcant. If you look at the number of web
access, the number of transactions performed. So certainly these the pandemic as we say
it has put the watch two years forward, okay. So everything we had in our plan in '18, we
have seen it. Sorry, the plan was in '18, we were targeting something in 2022 and we saw
it in 2020. And we think that that trend is there to stay and we believe that Poste which is
paying a price of this trend to a large extent which as you know the fact that customers
decide not to reﬁll their deals in letter or not to make the payment of the deal in the
postal oﬃce is reducing revenues for us in two businesses, in two segments. That we have
seen it. It has been very strong last year, but our attitude is not to stop this trend but to
actually go along with the trend, push the trend, but get the client and the business in the
new products replacing maybe higher margin products of the old Poste. It's better to be
with a lower margin in a product of the future, which is what we're doing than sitting on a
higher margin business that unfortunately you know will slowly disappear. In terms of
reducing volatility on solvency, okay, Camillo, please.

A - Camillo Greco

{BIO 21978163 <GO>}

Thank you. Thank you, Matteo. Well, ﬁrst of all, let's remind ourselves that the ratio was
279% at the end of the year. But as everyone has witnessed in the last few months, it is
reasonable to assume that, that ratio is higher compared to what was the level at the time
as a result of tightening of spreads.
Having said that, we are indeed working on three diﬀerent measures to reduce the
volatility, ﬁrst and foremost, we're working on the internal model, which is being

Page 18 of 20



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-02-17

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

developed as we speak and we think it will take 18 to 24 months at the minimum to get
through a fruition as a result of our interaction with the relevant authorities. Secondly, yes,
we're oﬀering new capital light products, which are already available. And as a result of
that, we have less limitations with respect to capital guarantees associated with some of
our historical oﬀering of products. And thirdly, as we manage our investments, we're also
moving towards investment that we're conducing to conﬁrm that stability. Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

And you know just to make a ﬁnal comment on PosteVita. I was the CEO for the ﬁrst three
years of that company given that that company is making more than 50% of our margin -I thought that it was very important for me to be close and to understand very well that
reality and as all the insurance experts on this call would teach me, it's a very, very
complicated and technical business where you require very experienced and technical
people. And they need to understand and work overtime. The internal model that Camillo
mentioned is probably three to ﬁve year project in itself.
And that company as you know, you have all met Andrea Novelli, he was the former Head
of Bancoposta and then of the network. He is since May, the CEO of the insurance group,
but we rebuilt that group. When I left it in May, I called 22 top managers for my farewell as
a CEO, and I noticed that 21 were new and last one where was already in the company but
in a diﬀerent job. So that company has been completely rebuilt in the last three years and
that means more technical approach on ALM and impact of ALM on capital, on solvency.
That means more technical approach on asset allocation and impact on solvency, that
means new Head of Risk Management and impact on internal model there and solvency
and so on and so forth. So I think we're now very well equipped to face even more
volatility and hopefully this is not going to be the case. But we're more prepared than we
were three years ago for sure.

A - Massimiliano R. Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Thank you. This was the last question.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much for your time again, and see you all hopefully on the 19th of
March. Thank you.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining. The conference is now over. You may
disconnect your telephones. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
Page 19 of 20



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-02-17

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 20 of 20

