Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-08-04

S1 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Camillo Greco, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Massimiliano Riggi, Head of Investor Relations
Matteo Del Fante, Chief Executive Oﬃcer & General Manager

Other Participants
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Elena Perini, Analyst
Gian Luca Ferrari, Analyst
Gianmarco Bonacinam, Analyst
Giovanni Razzoli, Analyst
Manuela Meroni, Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Poste Italiane's ﬁnancial results for
the second quarter of 2021 presented by our CEO, Matteo Del Fante and our CFO,
Camillo Greco. Following the presentation, we will be glad to answer your questions.
Now, let me pass it over to Matteo.

Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Good afternoon and thank you for joining us. We are pleased to present Poste Italiane
results for the second quarter and ﬁrst half of 2021. Let me start with the key highlights.
Then I will hand over to our CFO, Camillo Greco, for a more detailed business review.
After that, I will present some closing remarks.
Beginning on Slide 3, our diversiﬁed business model is continuing to deliver strong
ﬁnancial results. Revenues increased across all divisions, with a diﬀerent mix adapting to a
changing environment and in line with the new plan direction focused on top line growth.
Our ﬂexible cost base continues to support business growth, with an increasing share of
variable cost linked to revenue growth. Moreover, we continue to demonstrate ﬂexibility
to eﬀectively manage our FTE base.
EBIT for the quarter amounted to EUR429 million, reaching over EUR1 billion for the ﬁrst
half. Let me also remind you that we envisage around EUR0.2 billion, early retirement
Page 1 of 16



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-08-04

FINAL

charges to be posted in the last quarter of this year. This level of EBIT is a signiﬁcant
achievement as it brings our business back to 2019, thus fully recovering from the impact
of lockdown, despite some restrictions being still in place during 2021. In 24SI sustain and
innovate, we deﬁne our target as ambitious but achievable, with a focus on revenue
growth to create and deliver higher and sustainable value to our stakeholders. Q2 results
are indeed showing that our plan execution is progressing in the right direction.
There are three key agreements which give us high visibility, signiﬁcantly reducing the
execution risk attached to the plan. First, in July, we signed a new group labor contract,
which will be in place until 2023. Second, early this year, a three-year partnership has
been renewed with Amazon, enabling volume and revenue growth, balancing urban,
rural area volumes and introducing higher value-added services such as scheduled
deliveries. Finally, our Universal Service Obligation contract covers the 2024 plan horizon,
embedding the Next Generation EU initiative of Poste Italiane on new digital solutions
and cooperation with small municipalities.

Bloomberg Transcript

And let's move to Group ﬁnancial results on Slide 4, please. Overall, our business
activities are progressing in line with the trends in bad debt in our 24SI plan. Group
revenues beneﬁted from the lockdown of 2020 and in the second quarter, increased by
EUR434 million, representing 18.7% increase or 14% in the ﬁrst half. Also on the cost side
as Camillo will explain in more detail later, a straight comparison with last year wouldn't
be accurate.
As in the last heat of the pandemic, in Q2 of 2020, we implemented contingency
measures, resulting in EUR170 million one-oﬀ cost savings. So eﬀectively our cost base is
well under control and higher costs are only borne to support the growing revenues in
line with the plan. As a result, in the second quarter, EBIT grew by 32%, amounting to
EUR429 million. In the ﬁrst half, EBIT exceeded EUR1 billion, up 37% year-on-year. Our
focus on business growth and ability to harness industry trend supported the net proﬁt,
which increased 36% on an early basis to EUR326 million in the second quarter. Year-todate, the net proﬁt achieved EUR773 million, a record high level, posting an increase in
excess of 40%.
Let's move to Slide 5, where we compare the current ﬁnancial results to those of 2019 to
give you a better understanding of how we steer the business. This slide highlights how
our business activities are back to pre-pandemic levels, thanks to our ability to
successfully adapt to emerging business trends with a diﬀerent revenue mix. We were
able to oﬀset the secular mail decline with the consolidation of Nexive and with the strong
parcel revenue growth. We successfully addressed a low interest rate environment
focusing on investment product distribution and we size (inaudible) opportunity from
digital payment with an increase in our card business.
Let me also underline the new activities such as tax credit purchases are already up and
running and will further contribute to revenue growth at a higher pace starting from the
next quarters. On the cost side, the increase is related to a diﬀerent business mix based
on variable cost linked to revenues, costs related to the COVID-19 emergency, and the
consolidation of Nexive as we are still in the process of extracting all the acquisition
synergies that we have in the plan.
Page 2 of 16



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-08-04

All this considered, our cost base is well under control and our operation are carried out
with some 7,000 lower FTEs compared to 2019. As a result, EBIT is back to pre-pandemic
level, if we take into consideration the one-oﬀ cost savings booked in Q2 2020. Bottom
line, we're back to business, growing organically and keeping building our physical and
digital distribution platform stronger than ever. We are optimizing our multichannel
strategy supporting sales eﬀorts in postal oﬃces with customer calls initiated by digital
context with potential clients, a seamless interaction with Poste to optimize user
experience.
Moving to Slide 6, 24SI implementation is fully on track with the whole company
committed to deliver successful results. On this page, we focus on initiative underway and
business trend updates. Let me go segment-by-segment starting with mail, parcel and
distribution. The new labor agreement, as I mentioned, signed back in July at Group level
is in line with the plan. Thanks to our constructive relationship with the unions, we now
have increased visibility on HR cost over the course of the plan.

Bloomberg Transcript

As a strategic pillar for Italy, we are also proud to contribute to the EU Recovery Plan
which covers the implementation of key national projects aimed at supporting local
communities and enhancing social cohesion. They are probably divided into two
workstream. The ﬁrst one aims at creating in 7,000 postal oﬃces a smaller municipality, a
public administration hub that provides citizen with easy access to government services.
The second line of action in villages, a network of around 250 co-working locations,
community and training spaces at aﬀordable rates with a widespread presence from north
to south and in the large and small cities. Both project streams will contribute to support
the growth and of our group green transition focus with eﬃciency, solutions, and
expanded changing station network and photovoltaic energy production. Besides, in
June, we inaugurated Italy largest e-commerce logistic hub with daily capacity of up to
300,000 items. This hub will contribute to reducing parcel cost per unit, optimizing
variable costs.
In terms of the business update, we are registering a normalization of parcel volumes
which are gradually becoming more comparable to stronger quarters in 2020 in terms of
growth and the margin recovery of mail, especially on the register side, which as you
know embeds a higher tariﬀ and margin. Both trends are in line with ours expectations.
Moving to ﬁnancial services, in line with 24SI, we are successfully focusing on wealth
management to oﬀset NII decline. In the current interest rate environment, after securing
the contribution from active portfolio management for 2021, we have also already locked
more than 50% capital gains plan for next year. Our new activity to buy tax credit has
been going extremely well with about EUR2.2 billion nominal value acquired to-date end
of July.
Furthermore, we are now able to use a portion of our deposit to buy additional tax credit,
enhancing the yield of our investment portfolio and providing further ﬂexibility in our
active portfolio management. On loan and mortgages, the joint venture with BNP Paribas

Page 3 of 16



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-08-04

FINAL

on salary-backed loans is now fully up and running, adding to our portfolio another key
product factory, able to structure a comprehensive product oﬀering.
In insurance services, the multi-class product now represent over 60% of gross written
premium, in line with our 2024 target. We have also recently signed an agreement with
Intesa Sanpaolo for a joint venture in real-asset investment. This partnership will enhance
our expertise in alternative investments, enabling us to further diversify our investment
portfolio, in line with 24SI plan. In terms of the business trend, let me highlight that the
investment margin for the ﬁrst half of the year has been strong. Leveraging on market
condition, we were able to anticipate part of the full-year target in half one.
Looking at payments and mobile, our payment transaction continue to increase, both on
our physical and digital channels. Let me also highlight that this business segment has
been able to build and manage a diverse equity portfolio in high growth international
company, which is being continually monitored and optimized. For example, our stake in
SIA Nexive [ph] is not being considered as a strategic investment, embedding a
signiﬁcant capital gain today. Similarly with Visa acquiring Tink recently, we will realize a
capital gain 3.5 times our initial investment at the beginning of last year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to the energy business, we are progressing with the setup targeting early 2022 to
launch our new oﬀer. Finally, in our telco business, the ongoing migration to the Vodafone
network is already reducing variable cost from half two.
Moving to Slide 7, when numbers I believe speak for themselves. Revenues are well above
the pre-pandemic levels with all business segments back to the growing trajectory set
with 24SI. Insurance services, parcel and payments businesses show a very healthy
double-digit increase in line with the growth focused strategy envisaged in 24SI. Also
ﬁnancial Services improved with a 2% top line growth compared to Q2 2020. Overall, we
have witnessed an underlying change in the revenue mix as the investment portfolio yield
declined, it has been more than oﬀset by the revenue increase coming from investment
product distribution, in particular from life insurance.
And now, let me hand over to our CFO, who will take you through a more detailed
business review. Over to you. Camillo.

Camillo Greco

{BIO 21978163 <GO>}

Thank you, Matteo, and good afternoon, everyone. Let's look in more detail at each
segment starting with mail, parcel and distribution on Slide 9. As Matteo previously
mentioned, both in the second quarter in the ﬁrst half of 2021, all business line revenues
have been growing, leading to a strong improvement of the underlying EBIT. Following
record high Q1 '21, up 19% year-on-year, Q2 posted the best yearly revenue progression,
up 30%. This is still true even if we exclude the contribution from Nexive consolidation,
thanks to the recovery of volumes, especially in the registered mail items.
Parcel revenues increased 28% in Q2 '21, which compare to a very strong Q2 '20 when
many items could only be purchased online due to the national lockdown. Finally, other
Page 4 of 16



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-08-04

FINAL

revenues are also up as here we booked, amongst other items, the expense recoveries
related to the rollout of the vaccination plan.
Distribution revenue growth accelerated at 7.5%, consistent with easing lockdown
measures and the general recovery of commercial activities. EBIT stood to minus EUR159
million in the second quarter. This is ﬂat year-on-year on a reported basis, but the
underlying dynamics point to a rather strong improvement when we can see the one-oﬀ
pandemic savings EUR170 million that we beneﬁted from in Q2 '20. We will focus on the
savings when we look at the cost group cost evolution later on in the presentation. To
conclude, in the ﬁrst half of 2021, we recorded the EBIT loss of EUR102 million, improving
by EUR92 million since last year.

Bloomberg Transcript

On slide 10, we look at mail and parcel volume and pricing trends. Parcel volumes
increased by 19% in the second quarter and 41% in the ﬁrst half with the highest growth
still coming from B2C, supported by key customers and China. In Q2, parcel volumes
trended towards a new normal in line with expectations. If we compare Q2 '21 to Q2 '20
when online shopping was the only way to do shopping, it's natural to observe that the
growth trajectory started to ﬂatten.
Moving to B2B, the comparison is polluted by many corporates who were shipping to
retail customers at the peak of the sanitary emergency in 2020. Also for C2X, the
comparison in 2020 is partially misleading as during lockdown we were the only postal
operator open for business. Hence, we temporarily enjoyed a disproportionate market
share. In this product line, we continue to innovate. New omnichannel delivery solutions
have been rolled out with C2X online orders now more than doubling versus 2019. In
terms of pricing, the average B2C parcel tariﬀ was up 2 percentage points in the quarter,
mainly improving, thanks to a favorable mix and higher tariﬀs from top merchants.
Moving to mail, on the right side of the slide, volumes grew 23% in the second quarter
and 14% in the ﬁrst half. As already mentioned, the growth is supported by both Nexive
consolidation and the recovery from lockdown with registered mail items growing 56% in
Q2. The average mail tariﬀ also improved with the mix eﬀect, supported by higher margin
products and was up 3 percentage points.
Moving to ﬁnancial services on Slide 11, the ﬁnancial services segment has witnessed
positive revenue growth, driven by wealth management activities. Gross revenues grew
by 6% in the quarter and 2% in the ﬁrst half. Let's review the items one by one. Net
interest income was down 8% in the quarter aﬀected by low interest rates, but this was
fully oﬀset by a focus on the distribution of investment products. In particular, intersegment contributions from insurance, which BancoPosta as coordinator of the group
wealth management strategy, represented the largest proportion of the revenue increase
in Q2.
Postal saving fees were down 5% when compared to a strong Q2 2020 while in H1 we
were on track to meet 2021 target. Loan and mortgage distribution fees are recovering,
supported by increasing volumes and growing market shares. The salary-backed loans JV
with BNP is now fully operational, further contributing to this revenue line going forward.

Page 5 of 16



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-08-04

FINAL

Transactional banking fees are also recovering from last year's loss, when they were
heavily impacted by the lockdown. However, let me remind you that within transaction
banking fees, there are traditional payment leaps, which are expected to gradually
decline over the plan origin.
In Q2, we did not book any material contribution from active portfolio management, but
leveraging on a low interest rate environment, we have already secured our 2021 target,
which would be booked in the second half of the year. As Matteo already mentioned, we
have also locked in more than 50% of capital gains planned for 2022. Operating
proﬁtability was in line with 24SI with EBIT down 11% in the quarter as the year-on-year
comparison is aﬀected by EUR15 million reserve release in 2020, mainly related to the
conclusion of the procedure to refund customers bearing loss from real estate funds
dating back to early 2000s.
Moving to Slide 12, TFAs reached EUR576 billion, up by EUR28 billion year-on-year and up
by EUR7 billion when compared to December 2020. This ﬁgure is already in line with the
full year 2021 target.

Bloomberg Transcript

Net inﬂows amounted to EUR5.8 billion, thanks to deposits and multi-class life insurance
products. All components of TFA were up over the ﬁrst half. Postal service increased by
EUR300 million with accrued interest more than compensating outﬂows, which were also
mitigated by the investment of expiring bonds. Net technical reserves were up by EUR2.7
billion with multi-class products net inﬂows more than oﬀsetting the negative market
eﬀect. Deposits increased by a strong EUR3.5 billion, supported by continued customer
preference for liquidity products.
Moving to Slide 13, insurance services posted a robust performance. Operating proﬁt
grew steadily in line with the plan, supported by increasing volumes and by higher
margins from our multi-class products. In Q2, life revenues were up 49%, supported by
both increasing volumes and higher proﬁtability. Multi-class products now represent 64%
of new production out of EUR4.4 billion gross written premiums. The life revenue line also
beneﬁted from a higher investment margin, taking advantage of favorable market
conditions and contributing in advance to the full-year target.
The non-life business is producing healthy volumes in terms of new production, although
revenues were impacted by cost related to COVID-19 employees policies and one-oﬀ
provisions on expired policies. The non-motor P&C oﬀer rollout is well on track with
higher than expected average tickets. Our focus on this area is also contributing to
reducing the historical level of under insurance in Italy. The roll lout in motor insurance
oﬀer is progressing well and is also -- and it is now available in almost 4,000 post oﬃces.
At EBIT level, the product progression continues to be a strong 49% in Q2,
notwithstanding increasing inter-segment costs for distribution due to higher inﬂows.
Let's move to Slide 14. Poste Vita Group Solvency II ratio stood at a robust 288%, above
our 200% managerial ambition through the cycle. The Solvency II ratio decreased in the
quarter with higher spreads more than oﬀsetting the beneﬁt from higher risk free rates.
Additionally, from the end of July, the solvency ratio is 7 percentage points higher,

Page 6 of 16



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-08-04

FINAL

strengthened by EUR300 million intercompany restricted tier 1 which is funded by
EUR800 million corporate hybrid bond issued in June by Poste Italiane. As a reminder,
some EUR350 million have already been allocated from the parent Poste Italiane to the
ring-fenced portfolio of BancoPosta to strengthen the Basel leverage ratio. Transitional
measures provide additional 28 percentage points to the Solvency II ratio to address
potential market volatility.
Moving to Slide 15, payments and mobile revenues continued to increase, up by a strong
20% in Q2, conﬁrming the steady progression of this business over time. Card payment
revenues were up by a material 25% in Q2. Supported by an increasing number of
Postepay evolution cards as well as the increase of transactions value year-on-year. Other
payments increased 42% in the quarter, mainly supported by the recovery of tax-related
payments.

Bloomberg Transcript

Telco revenues grew 9% in the quarter, beneﬁting from a lower churn rate on mobile and
strong increase in ﬁxed lines. EBIT was up 5% in Q2, impacted by higher telco cost related
to increased data usage. As Matteo already said, EBIT will improve as we are already
reaping eﬃciencies from the ongoing migration to Vodafone network to be completed by
year-end.
On Slide 16, here you can see how Poste Italiane's workforce evolution is progressing.
Over the course of last semester, our average headcount was down 2,400 FTEs from
almost 125,000 to around 122,000 FTEs, thanks to continued turnover and subsidized exit
more than oﬀsetting new hires. While hirings are expected to accelerate in the second
part of the year, we conﬁrm our ﬂexibility in eﬀectively managing our workforce. The cost
per FTE is slightly down year-on-year if we exclude one oﬀ savings booked in 2020, but
more importantly, the value-added per FTE continues to grow year-on-year, now reaching
EUR70,000 per FTE.
Moving to Group HR cost on Slide 17, the most signiﬁcant KPI here is the ordinary HR cost
on revenues. For the ﬁrst time below 50%, now reaching 48%. The HR cost increase was
mainly related to the one-oﬀ savings booked and disclosed in Q2 2020 related to non -to contingent management actions to react to revenue headwinds last year. In particular,
EUR55 million savings were achieved during the commercial incentives, in relation to
subdued business activities while additional EUR75 million were saved as we deployed
our own emergency funds to support employees at the peak of the pandemic.
A lower FTE base continues to positively contribute to the decrease of HR cost by EUR34
million year-on-year, while savings on salary and beneﬁts components fully oﬀset the
eﬀect of Nexive consolidation for EUR10 million. Overall, the ordinary HR cost base is fully
in line with 2021 projections embedded in 24SI.
On Page 18, let's review non-HR costs. The increase of non-HR cost is due to: ﬁrst, the
variable components of COGS to support growth in parcel, payments and telco
businesses; second, D&A, which were both -- which were up both due to EUR18 million
higher CapEx year-on-year and to a positive one-oﬀ booked in Q2 2020. Let me remind
you that last year in June, we completed the reassessment of the residual life and value of

Page 7 of 16



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-08-04

FINAL

certain real assets. The eﬀect of this review started in January, but the beneﬁt related to H1
was entirely booked in Q2. Third, the consolidation of Nexive, mostly related to COGS.
As a reminder, Q2 costs include EUR25 million of emergency related one-oﬀ costs since
we continue to provide all the necessary protective equipment and sanitization to ensure
highest health and safety standards for workplaces, employees, and customers. As a
tangible sign of eﬃciency gains, the ratio between variable cost and variable revenues
stood at 72% in line with 2021 full-year target while total ﬁxed costs and revenues are
down to 59%.
On Slide 19, we can see the detailed EBIT progressions at segment level. As you have
seen on the previous slides, the underlying operating proﬁtability was strong across all
divisions. In mail, parcel and distribution, we see a signiﬁcant improvement once the oneoﬀ cost savings realized in the second quarter of 2020 are excluded. The segment EBIT
for the ﬁrst half of 2021 is well within our full year target. Financial services proﬁtability has
been stable in the quarter, also considering the above mentioned reserve release
accounted last year and despite low interest rates. Insurance services show a solid growth,
increasing 49% year-on-year, supported by strong business dynamic in line with our plan.
Payments and mobile is also improving and we further beneﬁt from lower telco costs.
Let me now hand back to Matteo for some closing remarks. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Thank you, Camillo. Before taking your questions, let me reiterate some key messages on
Slide 20. Our focus on generating revenues prove to be the right strategy and in Q2 2021,
the revenue exceeded pre-pandemic levels across all business segments. Cost will
continue to support revenue growth while we will retain additional ﬂexibility as we have
demonstrated eﬀectively managing our FTEs. The key initiatives underline the successful
execution of 24SI already in place, which give us higher visibility on our ability to achieve
targets, signiﬁcantly reducing the execution risk attached to our plan. The company as a
whole is fully committed to succeed. Stay tuned.
And let's now move to the Q&A session. Over to you, Massi.

Questions And Answers
A - Massimiliano Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Thank you. We will now begin the Q&A session. (Operator Instructions) The ﬁrst question
is from Gian Luca Ferrari, Mediobanca. (Foreign Language)

Q - Gian Luca Ferrari
Yes. Hi, good afternoon. (Foreign Language) Three questions, if I may. The ﬁrst one is
related to the increase in the SCR. I was wondering if it is linked to an additional market
risk and linked to the fact that you are having much more exposure now -- much more -bit more exposure to illiquid equities high yield? Is it fair to say that this is the way to read
Page 8 of 16



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-08-04

FINAL

this increase in SCR? And is this going to last in the next quarters, i.e., you will use part of
the robust solvency you have to sustain more the ﬁnancial income of the life insurance
segment going forward? Point number two is, if you have any update for us on the
agreement with CDP? Third and ﬁnal question is, if it is fair to assume the revaluation of
SIA now could be a bit closer to EUR350 million than the previous comment I think you
made of evaluation in the region of EUR300 million? So can we plug in our model
something more than EUR300 million. Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Thank you, Gian Luca. Starting with the agreement with CDP, as is known, there is a new
CEO that has taken the full responsibility in May and since then, we have made signiﬁcant
progress. So we are even more comfortable than before to reach an agreement just after
the summer break.
In terms of the SIA capital gain, the answer is simple, it's yes.
And in terms of the reason for the SCR increase, I will let Camillo take this speciﬁc
question.

A - Camillo Greco

{BIO 21978163 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Matteo. Yes, it's fair that the SCR went up by circa EUR200 million from around
3.9 to 4.2. That is mainly driven by market risk due to higher spreads and underwriting risk
also going up.

Q - Gian Luca Ferrari
Thank you very much.

Operator
Thank you. And the next question is from Manuela Meroni from Banca IMI.

Q - Manuela Meroni

{BIO 1782610 <GO>}

Yes, good afternoon. Four questions. The ﬁrst one is on the parcel business. Revenues in
parcel business grew by 28% year-on-year in this quarter. Can we take this 28% as new
normal for the parcel business going forward? The second question is on cost. In the
closing remarks, you mentioned to have some levers available for the cost reduction. You
mentioned something in the telco business. Can you please elaborate little bit more on
that? The third question is on NII. Can we expect a reduction in the pace of decline in NII
considering your activity in -- with the tax credit. So any comment on that would be useful.
And last question is on your business plan and the guidance for 2021. We are clearly
ahead of plan in parcel business and life business. So I'm wondering if we can expect
some upward revision of your guidance for the full year 2021?

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Page 9 of 16



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-08-04

FINAL

Okay, thank you, Manuela. I'll take the last two and leave to Camillo the ﬁrst two
questions. And I would do it in reverse order. Yes, we are ahead of the plan in at least two
segments and we will take a few more weeks to monitor the evolvement of our business,
but for the quarterly result of November, we will certainly have an answer to your
question, a more clear answer, probably in the direction that you're suggesting.
In terms of the third question, the NII decline to be counterbalanced by the tax credit,
absolutely, yes. As I mentioned, we have now EUR2.2 billion that we bought at the end of
July. These are generating over the course of the plan EUR250 million of NII. And by the
way, it goes all the way down to proﬁt. So it's extremely accreting as a business. So
certainly, we've seen signiﬁcant demand for the product and it's good both in terms of
obviously economics and I think it's also very important for us in terms of building and
reinforcing our franchise, both at the individual and at the business level, because all new
-- all clients that want to sell tax credit to Poste had to open an account and today around
80% of the sellers are new client to Poste. So answer, yes. And I think this is probably one
of the most positive news that we will discuss over the course of the next few weeks.
In terms of revenue on parcel and cost ﬂexibility, please, Camillo?

A - Camillo Greco

{BIO 21978163 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Matteo. So starting with parcel evolution, we had in the plan which we shared
with you back in March, expected growth in B2C of around 20%. You guys have seen that
in the second quarter we reached a growth of 28%. We think that on a normalized basis
for 2021 a number closer to 28% is more appropriate.
With respect to our ability to cut down costs or rather manage costs, as I think we said in
the presentation, there are three business lines that are running at variable costs, which
are namely parcels, payments, and telco. So to the extent that those business don't grow,
the cost associated to those business will not materialize in the P&L and in the appendix
of the book, you have an example of that as we show that in the ﬁrst half rather than the
second quarter. In that ﬁrst half we had EUR208 million of additional cost related to
businesses that are running at a variable cost.
Let me also remind you that this level of variable cost on variable revenue ratio, which we
are in the same page is consistent with the level that we showed in the plan of 72%.
Additional, we will conclude with this. You can also see that the overall total ﬁxed cost
base is going down as a percentage of revenues and you have also a testament of that in
the evolution of HR FTEs that you guys have seen are below what we had in mind few
months ago. Thank you.

A - Massimiliano Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

We have one question from our webcast from Alberto Cordara. So you mentioned a
EUR0.2 billion restructuring charges to be taken in Q4. Can you also let us know how
much more capital gains are you expecting for the year after the EUR200 million booked
in Q1?

Page 10 of 16



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-08-04

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Yes, please, Camillo.

A - Camillo Greco

{BIO 21978163 <GO>}

FINAL

So we had a target for the year of active portfolio management of around EUR400 million
and that's the target we conﬁrm for the year. And I think that there is
A delta missing over on EUR180 million compared to what we booked in Q1 which was
EUR220 million.
With respect to the second question, yes, we conﬁrm provisions for every retirements of
EUR0.2 billion as per the plan.

A - Massimiliano Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

The next question is from Gianmarco Bonacinam Equita. Please, Gianmarco.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Gianmarco Bonacinam
Yes, good afternoon. A question on the performance of the insurance services division,
which was extremely stronger in particular on the progression of the percentage of the
multi-class, which is progressing very rapidly. Do you feel now we may see a pause in the
percentage of multi-class in the coming quarters or you expect these, let's say,
percentage to keep growing at similar pace we saw in the last two quarters? And also if
you can remind us what is the proﬁtability you get with the rest of the portfolio and if the
increase in margin -- in EBIT we saw in the quarter is mainly due just to the mix eﬀect or
also you beneﬁted from other factors? Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay, I'll take the ﬁrst question and I'll start the second. And then if, Camillo, you want to
jump in on the second as well. No, I think the pace of the multi-class is there to stay. I take
the opportunity to remind you that we sell a very light non-capital protected multi-class, in
the sense that the target asset allocation that you assume for a client could be 35 equity
and 65 Class 1 capital protected is achieved over 18 months. So the 35 non-capital
protected, which is actually not even equity is balance fund. It is not invested on day one
but is invested linearly over 18 months, so it's basically a 2% exposure to the market over
one year and a half. So the product is as close as we can be to a Class 1 and that's why our
network and our sales team has found it extremely safe and interesting and they sell it
extremely well and comfortably.
In terms of the margin, please, Camillo?

A - Camillo Greco

{BIO 21978163 <GO>}

Thank you, Matteo. So, yes, we conﬁrm that the investment margin in the ﬁrst half
beneﬁted from market opportunities related to some of our investment in the portfolio
that weighted for around EUR150 million on the margin and that explains part of the
Page 11 of 16



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-08-04

increase. In any event, part of this anticipated margin will be recognized to policyholders
in H2 2021. And in any event, it was accretive to our target for 2021 for Poste Vita and
there might be also some potential upside to that depending on how market moves
between now and the end of the year.

FINAL

Operator
Thank you. The next question is from Elena Perini, Banca IMI. Please, Elena.

Q - Elena Perini

{BIO 4202240 <GO>}

Yes, good afternoon. I've got some questions on the insurance business too. Well, you
were talking about the investment margin. I was wondering if you have an outlook or
some expectations on the second half. I know that it is not easy because it is market
related. But if you can share with us some thoughts. And then I would like to ask about the
non-life business and, in particular, I am referring to the fact that it seems that the new
business in non-life is going up, is in Slide 25 in the appendix. So I was wondering if this
trend marked in the second quarter is going on. And so if we can expect some recovery in
premiums and in business trends for the second half. Then I saw an increase in the
combined ratio ﬁrst half 2021 compared to ﬁrst half 2020 approximately 11 percentage
points. So I was wondering if this is related -- mainly related to COVID-19 protections as
you were mentioning in Slide 13 or if there are any other elements and if this increase was
mainly concentrated in the second quarter. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Okay, I'll take the beginning, the second and the third, then leave the ﬁrst one as a followup to Camillo. Starting with the last one -- Elena, thank you ﬁrst of all for your questions.
The increase is technical. So the 75 that becomes 86 would have been 77, so an increase
of 2 only. If one would delete the increase explained by, one, the employees COVID
protection that we gave for free to our employees. And two, the rule and the enforcement
that the regulator made on dormant -- on sleeping contract and the sum of the two
element was in the second quarter EUR13.6 million of provisions that translate into
basically 9 points of combined ratio.
Second question, non-life gross written premium, you see it -- the eﬀect on the -- again on
Page 13, the eﬀect of the COVID-related and the dormant life contract, you see it also on
the left hand side of the chart in the segment revenues. So we are more or less in line with
our plan on non-life. We have a production that is growing month by month. I think we
can do more, but the machine contrary to what we have seen in the last few quarters is
now working and is now basically endorse the product. So now it's just a matter of getting
all our salespeople on the case, but we are running at almost 1,500 contracts per day,
which is the target we have.
The ﬁrst question on the investment margin and the second half...

A - Camillo Greco

{BIO 21978163 <GO>}

Page 12 of 16



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-08-04

FINAL

So we had put out back in March an EBIT for Poste Vita of EUR1.2 billion, rounded up
EUR1.2 billion. I think that what we said earlier was that we felt that the evolution of the
margin, the investment margin, which, as I said, part of it will be recognized by our
policyholders will contribute towards the target. There might be some marginal upside
based on market conditions, but it's too early to say. We certainly conﬁrm forcefully at
least that target.

A - Massimiliano Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Thank you. Next question is from Ashik Musaddi from JPMorgan.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. Thank you, Massi, and good afternoon, Matteo, good afternoon Camillo. I just have
a couple of questions, if I may. I mean, ﬁrst of all, if I think about it, what you are saying
today is NII is better because of tax credit compared to your plan. Parcels is doing much
better compared to your plan. Mail is doing better than your plan, because you are
including Nexive other segment rather than in mail. We have higher gains, camp gains
from SIA. Insurance is growing faster than the plan that you have given. So, clearly, I
mean, majority of your business lines are doing much better compared to what you have
shared as your 2024 plan. And I agree it's very early to think about that plan again, but do
you expect to get -- when do we expect to get some color on what your 2021 earnings
could actually look like given that majority of the divisions are doing far better compared
to what you guided in March? So that's the one -- ﬁrst question.
Second thing is, congratulations on your Amazon partnership, but would be great to get
some color about how this -- what is this -- what is the partnership at this time? What is the
update on that? I mean, are you comfortable with your parcels plan or are there any
hiccups in terms of pricing, volume? Are they keeping more, are they giving you more?
Any thoughts on that would be very helpful. And just last question I would say is, when
you get your SIA money basically, I mean, what is your plan for your stake in Nexive once
the SIA (inaudible) merger is complete? Are you going to keep it, give it back to investors,
any thoughts on that? I agree it may be a bit early, but I will give it a shot. Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

I don't know why that I keep starting from the last question. The plan for the SIA money is
a bit early, but I believe that maybe some opportunities we keep looking at the logistic
space, we keep looking at potentially new activities that can accelerate our plan as we
have done with some marginal investments. So I think part of the money will be
reinvested.
In terms of the Amazon contract, we are -- now it's -- the ﬁrst contract we signed back in
'17, '18, so the partnership is up and running. We re-modulated the agreement in order to
get more value on the urban areas which is clearly where Amazon tends to do the job
their self. And so we have now diﬀerent agreement for those areas. The proﬁtability of the
contract is very solid and it's a fair relationship we have with them. And the good news
about this activity I think is in two lines.

Page 13 of 16



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-08-04

FINAL

The ﬁrst one is that is an important contract, but every day is less important than the day
before, because the volumes in the business from China, from all the other clients and
platform we are serving are growing much faster than Amazon. So our original plan
actually to use Amazon as a sort of springboard to build the conﬁdence in the space and
then slowly do less with them because naturally they are building, as they are doing all
over the world, their own network is actually proving the correct strategy.
The second good element which is linked to the ﬁrst one is the fact that they help us in a
way entering the quality of this business, because as everybody knows, Amazon has very
high quality standards and as a deliver company of Amazon if you don't give the quality,
this week, next week you don't get the parcels. So our people now use to deliver good
services, I don't want to say it, but very, very much in line with the best practices now. And
that I think it has changed also the culture on our delivery space. And I think this is
extremely important.
As far as the ﬁrst question, I think you're right. And I think it was mentioned before by
Manuela, yes, I mean, all elements are pointing into positive direction. We only feel that
having announced plan only 12 months ago is probably a bit premature to revisit those
assumptions, but all the optimism that the numbers are giving us is well grounded as far
as we can see today.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, that's very clear. Just if I may just one follow-up, I mean, yeah and maybe we will
take it later. Thank you.

A - Massimiliano Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

Please, Ashik. No, sorry, we lost you, Ashik.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah. I know, I mean, it was just related to that. I mean, your guidance for this year EBIT is
EUR1.7 billion, you have already hit EUR1,050 million, so that means, you need to do
EUR650 million for second half. I mean, yes, you have one negative of early retirement
scheme, but then that's oﬀset by capital gains. So I just don't see how do I get to EUR650
million, just looks very low. So but I guess it is to the same point that numbers are pointing
in the right direction, it's just that you -- it's a bit early to change the assumptions. Yeah.
Probably that is the thing, yeah.

A - Matteo Del Fante

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Yeah, I think you're right, there is no much more than I can add.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yeah. Okay, thank you.

Operator
Page 14 of 16



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-08-04

Thank you. And the next question is from Giovanni Razzoli, Deutsche Bank. (Foreign
Language)

FINAL

Q - Giovanni Razzoli

Good afternoon to everybody. One question, because if I look at the trends on the others
current accounts in this ﬁrst half, in the Q1 and in the Q2, this is one you might view one of
the most positive element of your trends in the ﬁrst half 2021. There has been an
acceleration, both on the corporate and retail trends since the beginning of the year. I was
wondering whether especially on the corporate side, you can give us some more color
about these trends. And I guess this also supports your -- is going to support your NII by
additional incremental acquisition of or physical credits or BTPs, right? So there is also
volume eﬀect behind this. Thank you.

A - Matteo Del Fante

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 22114144 <GO>}

{BIO 6237992 <GO>}

Yeah. I mean, I think we can be more speciﬁc in terms of what we have seen in 2021 in
terms of new clients. We're above 30,000 on the individual side and we are sort of 10,000
in the corporate side. And the current account, which is open in order to beneﬁt from the
tax credit transaction is free. So you don't make extra money on the current account, but
clearly it is a client that then can beneﬁt from our, for example, acquiring products if you
talk in the corporate side, or if you're talk in the individual, it is much more we can do in
terms of insurance or PLC products that we can sell. So I think the cross selling that will
come to this client. And then Giovanni, thank you for the question. The positive vibes that
new clients bring to the network I think is very important for us because these are clients
that are coming to us not by advertisement, not because we make special agreements,
but because we have good products, both in terms of process and pricing. And this is
really word of mouth that is creating this momentum for us.

Q - Giovanni Razzoli

{BIO 22114144 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Massimiliano Riggi

{BIO 20490987 <GO>}

And if there are no additional question, I just would like to specify that for the rest of this
week, ourselves we are here. IR speciﬁcally is available for any additional question. And
thank you again for participating in this call and allocating time to Poste Italiane. And
good holidays for those of you that have not already gone. Thank you.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining. The conference is now over. You may
disconnect your telephone. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
Page 15 of 16



personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2021-08-04

Page 16 of 16

