Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

Y 2020 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Costantino Moretti, Head of International Insurance
Cristina Nestares, UK Insurance CEO
Geraint Jones, Group Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Milena Mondini de Focatiis, Group Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Scott Cargill, Admiral Financial Services CEO
Unidentiﬁed Speaker

Other Participants
Alexander Evans, Analyst
Andreas van Embden, Analyst
Ben Cohen, Analyst
Freya Kong, Analyst
Ivan Bokhmat, Analyst
James Shuck, Analyst
Jonathan Denham, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Paul Walsh, Analyst
Phil Ross, Analyst
Thomas Bateman, Analyst
Unidentiﬁed Participant

Presentation
Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody, and welcome to this second and hopefully last year's to our
addition of our results presentation. A positive set of results as Geraint, our CFO, will
detail later, with continuing growth and strong performance across our business as
Cristina, Costantino, Scott will explain, respectively, for UK Insurance, International
Insurance, and Loans. And these results were achieved while focusing on doing the right
things for all our stakeholders and I will come back to this at the end of the presentation.
So many things have changed this year and to start with the way in which we
communicate, as you will see in some of the cover slides of this presentation, which show
pictures of some of the most typical Admiral event pre and post-COVID. For me,
personally, there was also a major change in growth. I am truly excited to walk in the
footstep of Henry and David and I'm particularly excited as I am inheriting an incredibly
strong team and a fantastic company and platform for continued future success.
Page 1 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

Let me remind why I think this is the case by taking a look back over the last decade
before talking about 2020 and the decade that is to come. So what are the drivers of
Admiral's success? First of all, there is a track record of delivering superior margin with the
combined ratio that is substantially better than our competitors. And this is a result of a
strong focus on the essential of insurance, claims, and pricing with an obsession for
continuous improvement, combined with eﬀective distribution, a cost conscious culture,
and a lean operating model.
Second, these competitive advantages and the resulting growth in proﬁts, give us the
conﬁdence to almost triple our customer base over the last 10 years, adding 5 million of
new customers without even accounting for price comparison platform, out of which,
more than half were in new geography or healthy new product and the investment to
develop these new venture was less than 5% of overall Group proﬁts.

Bloomberg Transcript

The secret sauce in this mix, it's our culture, possibly the most diﬃcult advantage to
replicable. In every country and throughout the whole organization, there are great teams
focused on providing great service to our customer, but also on being great colleague
one for each other. We have been the only business that has been named in the Sunday
Times and Great Place to Work list in UK since 2001. Why that's so important? Because
people who like what they do, do it better. Finally, an eﬃcient capital model as we can
leverage on very strong reinsurance agreement that are highly possible because of the
positive and long track record of underwriting results. This translates into higher return for
our shareholders with an average that is consistently over 50%, more than double than
comparison.
Now let's take a look at what happened in 2020. Last year, we delivered positive ﬁnancial
results and growth in UK and overseas as Cristina and Costantino will explain in more
depth later. But what we feel most proud are two things. First, despite all the operational
challenges and the many changes caused by COVID disruption, we also managed to
make substantial progress on our longer-term strategy as I will explain soon. And second,
in this diﬃcult context, we remain true to our values, which helps us to navigate the
unexpected and inﬂuence a lot of our choices, and we looked after all our stakeholders.
Starting with customers, ﬁrst of all, we provide continuity of service by moving the
majority of our staﬀ to work remotely in just a few weeks. Second, we gave a refund of
GBP25 per vehicle to 4.4 million customers in UK during the ﬁrst lock down in recognition
of less driving. And this was followed by substantial discounts thereafter. We supported
more than 9,000 key workers by waiving, for example, the access fees or providing free
courtesy vehicles and we allowed loan payment holidays for those who needed them.
And the feedback for these has been overwhelming.
Staﬀ safety was our top concern through the year. We provided ﬂexible working
arrangements and implemented many initiatives to support well-being at home of our
staﬀ such as additional holidays days. It has been incredible to see even stronger
employment engagement scores despite the context. And we were named 14 Great Place
to Work in the world.

Page 2 of 26



FINAL

Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

But in true, we are aware that we work in a sector that has not been as negatively
impacted by COVID as many others and we try to help the less fortunate through the
Admiral COVID Fund and many other charity initiatives such as providing school
equipment or donating tablet device to care homes. We also support our partners such as
repair network in UK or outsourcer in Italy without forgetting our commitment to the
environment and I'm pleased to report that we are now carbon-neutral drove setting [ph]
while also continuing to use 100% of renewable energy in our UK premises. Last but not
least, we deliver good outcomes for our shareholders with proﬁt exceeding GBP600
million, driven by prior year reserve releases and decrease in motor claims frequencies.
And achieved almost 10% of customer growth, mainly enabled by stronger retention rate
across all the businesses. And ﬁnally, I also believe that we are in a strong position to
continue to deliver in the long term.

Bloomberg Transcript

If we look ahead, we can envisage more demanding customers, the availability of more
data, and also material change in the way people will move around. In this context, our
aim is to further diversify our product oﬀering while delivering on customer expectations
faster. To ensure that, we will focus on three areas. First, accelerate the evolution of all our
core business toward what we call Admiral 2.0, Admiral that remains true to its historical
strengths, but it is even more agile, it's digital ﬁrst, embrace smart working and above all,
we aim at keeping improving customer experience, leveraging on data and advanced
analytics even more than before.
Second, we need to continue our product diversiﬁcation journey to develop stronger
proposition for our customers, but also to increase our engagement and reinforce our
relationship with them. How? First, by continuing to support successful or promising
businesses such as household or loans in the UK and then by continuing to explore new
opportunities that are adjacent to our core and where we think we can deploy our core
strength. Finally, in the longer terms, change in mobility will come with risks and
opportunities. It is very early stage now but we intend to serve, learn and prepare.
So why 2020 was such a strong year in that respect. It's fair to say that COVID played an
important role here putting additional pressure on our digital agenda, forcing us to move
remote working almost overnight and forcing customers to rethink their mobility and their
living habits as well as also accelerating other pre-existing trends. In 2020, we doubled
the number of machine learnings model pushed to production, moved a large part of the
business to scaled agile, transition the majority of our customer data to the cloud and
materially improve our NPS score in every country. And there is so much more to do.
On the product side, we not only improved household results substantially and
strengthened our -- the foundation loans as Cristina, Scott will explain later, but also
planted more seeds overseas with the launch of pet insurance in Italy and household
insurance and L'olivier brand in France. We also set up Admiral Pioneer, a team for the
exploration of new opportunity in the UK. To clarify, Pioneer is not an investment vehicle
or traditional incubator. Our aim is to continue to do what we have always done in the
past. Pass new ideas, support the promising ones and kill the others. But we will do so
with a more inference [ph] approach, which will give us speed from one side and limit the
destruction to the core, which remain our priority on the other side.

Page 3 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

And ﬁnally, just let me bring an example of the exploration within the new insurance
models. Veygo is a UK brand for short-term ﬂexible insurance. It was launched in 2017 and
counting 150,000 customer last year. It's small with a turnover of 14 million, but it is
growing and it is an interesting vehicle for us for further test and learn of new mobility
trends.
So, to conclude, despite the challenging (inaudible) of a terrible pandemic, we had a
good year with good results. We made strategic progress and we remain true to our value
and our culture.
And now to Geraint to share our results more in detail.

Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Thanks, Milena. Hello, everyone. I'll cover some of the main features of a positive set of
results, looking at the top line and of course proﬁt. I'll give a quick update on a few pieces
of ﬁnancial news and I'll ﬁnish by looking at our strong solvency position and increased
dividend.

Bloomberg Transcript

First up, these are some of the highlights. And in a year dominated by COVID, the story is
positive pretty much across the board. Considering the backdrop, customer growth was
especially pleasing at 10% and turnover was also higher. The proﬁt increase, as you saw
earlier, was signiﬁcant and our return on capital was in line with 2019 at over 50%.
Solvency ratio remains very strong, just under 190% after taking into account a healthy
12% increase in the full year dividend.
Let's get into some of the details, starting with turnover and customers. As I mentioned,
given the backdrop in 2020, which included some sharp decreases in demand for car
insurance at times, I think this is a positive set of numbers. The increased competitiveness
and very strong retention led to a very decent 9% growth in the UK Motor business.
Turnover was only marginally up due to the GBP100 million impact of the stay-at-home
refund and material discounting in the second half. Household business continued its
positive momentum closing in on GBP200 million of turnover and 1.2 million customers,
both up double-digits again.
Our markets outside the UK were more challenging in volume terms and so growth was
more muted in aggregates compared to recent years, but progress continues. 13% higher
customer numbers, 20% of the Group's insurance customers are now outside the UK.
French growth remained very strong. Positive top line results from the comparison
businesses and as previously ﬂagged, we saw a fall in the net loans balance due to the
prudent approach of Scott and team that we will hear about later.
Now to look at some of the detail behind the big increase in proﬁt and that tends to be
the case with our results. Loss ratios are a key driver of proﬁt movements and that's
especially the case with these 2020 results. Group proﬁt was GBP112 million or just over
20% higher that 2019 at GBP638 million. Remember that the 2019 was negatively
impacted by an Ogden discount rate change, which hit the result by nearly GBP35
Page 4 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

million. And so I think of the increase more in the order of GBP80 million or 15%, clearly
still a positive outcome.
The UK Insurance result nearly hit GBP700 million with the increase predominately down
to two factors. Firstly, higher investment income, and secondly, despite the stay-at-home
refund and the signiﬁcant discounting, there was a notably lower current year loss ratio,
which oﬀset reduced -- there is still high levels of prior year reserve releases. The
household business doubled its proﬁt to around GBP15 million, also seeing a better
current year loss ratio and associated proﬁt commission income, pleasing result.
A lower loss ratio also helped the International Insurance segment report its ﬁrst overall
proﬁt and a GBP10 million improvement from '19 to '20. All the European insurers
reported positive results and there was a lower loss in the US, too. We signaled at the half
year results that we expected a smaller loss from Admiral loans in the second half and
that's proven to be the case and we report a loss of just under GBP14 million for the year.
Scott will share the details shortly, but we end the year with what we believe to be
appropriate provision and we're well set for 2021 and beyond.

Bloomberg Transcript

Not too much to say on the other costs. There are some non-recurring items in there such
as costs related to the comparison disposal, as well as some of the big projects like IMAP
and IFRS 17. Share scheme cost is still a big majority though with a slight increase year-onyear notably due to the higher share price at the end of the year.
Moving now to look at the strong solvency position and higher ﬁnal dividend, this top
chart shows the capital position in terms of the requirement, surplus, and a solvency ratio.
As you see, the ratio is broadly consistent and strong, running at just under 190%. In 2020
versus 2019, higher proﬁtability has led to notably higher capital, but also a larger
increase in capital requirement that we usually see, reﬂecting higher proﬁt commission
risk from those higher proﬁts. In absolute terms, the surplus capital level is around
GBP100 million higher year-on-year even after deducting that ﬁnal dividend.
Speaking of which, as you can see on the bottom here, the proposed ﬁnal dividend is 86
pence per share. That's a touch under 90% of the H2 proﬁt and that's 12% higher than the
ﬁnal dividend from last year with the deferred part added back. That's consistent with H2
proﬁt increase. A 12% increase in the 2020 full year dividend follows a 11% increases for
the past three years.
I'll give quick update now on some other topics. Firstly, hopefully it didn't pass you by, but
we announced back in December that RVU will acquire most of our comparison
businesses with the exception of Compare.com. It remains subject to approvals and we
expected to complete in the next couple of months. The reasons are hopefully well
understood and we ﬁrmly believe it's a very good outcome for all parties. We will conﬁrm
the plans for the proceeds after completion, most likely with our interim results
announcement in August.
On reinsurance, I expect we will conclude extensions for the UK business by the end of
the ﬁrst half. No big changes expected there. And just a reminder that we'd expect
Page 5 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

investment income to come under a bit of pressure in 2021. No major changes to the mix
of assets over the last year or to be expected in 2021.

FINAL

And ﬁnally, a quick update on our internal model progress. Following discussions with the
regulator in the latter part of 2020 and earlier this year. We've taken some time to review
the design of the model and that will result in a further delay to application, which we now
hope to be next year and not in 2021. More news later in the year.
And to wrap up the key messages from my section. In a year totally dominated by COVID,
it was pleasing to see continued growth in almost all parts of the Group, along with some
reductions where we'd want to see them. Proﬁt was signiﬁcantly higher with various
factors contributing, including lower current year loss ratios in several businesses and a
familiar positive story on solvency and dividend.
Over now to Cristina to update us on the UK business. Cristina?

Bloomberg Transcript

Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Good morning. I'm going to talk in more detail about the results of the UK Insurance
operation. Starting with the highlights, we had good growth in our motor book of 9% as
we decreased prices more than the market. We also had good proﬁts due to reserve
releases and the impact of COVID on frequency, but also COVID had a negative impact in
our additional income and we decreased this income due to less claims and a shift to
digital. Beyond motor, in our household book, we had good growth, both in terms of
units and proﬁt and we experienced a limited loss in our small travel book. For 2021, we
expect a higher increase in frequency, which will translate in towards loss ratio.
Let's start looking in more detail at prices in the market. It's been dominated by COVID. In
the ﬁrst quarter, we saw some price increases, but then since COVID, we started to see
prices in the market decrease. In Admiral, we have done bigger decreases than the
market. As you can see in the graph on the top, this is a comparison of the Admiral time
stock indexed to 2019. As you can see in the graph, in the last part of 2020, we became
much more competitive and actually we were 20% more competitive than the previous
year.
In terms of retention, similar story. You can see in the graph on the bottom that the
Admiral retention has been traditionally higher than the market, but in the past few
months, this gap has increased. Two reasons for this. First, the decrease in our rates, which
we have done to pass the savings to the customers, but also an increase in the trust in our
brand following the refund. So, overall, strong increase in units of 9%. However, turnover
increased by 1%. Why these? Several reasons. First, the rate decreases, the rebate, but
also a change in the mix of business that we had in the market. We have less drivers, less
new cars, and ﬁnally a decrease in additional income.
Moving now to talk about loss ratio and proﬁts during 2020, we had a strong proﬁt. Like
in previous years we said releases are an important part of the proﬁt and we made a
release of 23% which is in line with our average. Also, we have kept a similar level of
Page 6 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

conservatism in our results. We also experienced a very good loss ratio in 2020. In the
graph on the bottom, you have the diﬀerence between the loss ratio in 2019 and the loss
ratio in 2020. As you can see, very strong reduction in frequency, which has been partially
oﬀset by an increase in severity and an increase in premium.
Now, let me explain you in more detail what has happened to claims in the market. We've
been talking about a reduction in frequency, which was especially strong during the ﬁrst
lock down, but we also have an increase in severity. Some of these have been caused by
pressure on our guarantees which has made the length of the repair longer, increasing
the cost to operate higher. Also, in the case of Admiral, we have provided ongoing
ﬁnancial support to garages and also to NHS and emergency workers.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the bottom, you have two graphs that compare Admiral performance to the rest of the
market. In the ﬁrst graph, you can see the average of our claims cost which are
signiﬁcantly better than the market and also on the graph on the right, you can see a
comparison in terms of complaints per claim. I think it's very important to highlight that
we managed to have very good claims cost while also delivering very good service.
Moving on to additional income, as you can see in the graph, we can see a reduction of
GBP5 when we compare the second half of 2020 to the year before. Two key reasons that
explain these. First, part of our additional income is made of income at non-fault claims.
So a reduction in frequency has impacted this. Secondly, there has been an acceleration
to the shift to digital, which has also impacted additional income. For the future, we
expect this revenue to stay ﬂat and not increase to previous levels. So even though we
expect an increase in frequency, which will increase this revenue, we also feel that the
whiplash reform will increase the cost of providing Motor Legal Protection by a few
pounds and also we expect to see a continuation in the shift to digital.
In terms of our household results, we have seen good or 2020 has been a good year for
proﬁts and growth. COVID has had an impact on the claims. We have seen an increase in
accidental damage, a decrease in the spend on escape of water and a reduction in theft
cases. In terms of growth, we have seen a good rate than to premium reduction that we
have made to pass savings to our customers and also to the continuation of a cross-sell
that we do with our multi-cover proposition. For the future, we expect to continue
growing size and proﬁt, but we also think we will return to more normal levels of growth in
proﬁts.
Now, before ﬁnishing, I would like to talk about our views for the future. For 2021, we
expect frequency to increase to more normal levels, which will impact the loss ratio,
making it higher than it was in 2020. We think that the market needs to unwind some of
the COVID-driven discounts that were made in the past 12 months and even though the
whiplash reform will impact prices, we think it's going to be a small impact. That is
because the market has already started taking these into account.
In the case of Admiral, we have already started unwinding some of the discounts and we
have recently done increases in our rates. Beyond this, what to expect from the FCA
pricing change? Well, it is still early to know exactly what is going to be the content and

Page 7 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

the timing of this reform. But in any case, we think that Admiral is in a good place,
because, ﬁrst, we have a customer base that is very used to comparing prices every year.
Secondly, we think that after the reform, being a good underwriter, it's going to be more
important than ever and that is basically handling claims well and being able to price
based on risk and this plays to Admiral's skills. And ﬁnally, we think that in Admiral we
have the capacity to adapt well to changes in the market. So overall, even though there is
a lot of uncertainty, we hope that we will be in a good position.
So, in summary, 2020 has been a good year for the UK Insurance business, good growth
and a strong growth.
And now I'm going to pass you to Costi who will talk more about International Insurance.

Costantino Moretti

{BIO 19792620 <GO>}

Thank you, Cristina. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the International
Insurance. If you had asked me a year ago, do you think it is possible for International
Insurance to achieve a strong result during a global pandemic, with everyone working
from home and no face-to-face meeting for over a year and guaranteeing an excellent
customer service, I probably would have said no. And I would have been wrong.

Bloomberg Transcript

I am pleased with what the team delivered in 2020. An overall strong performance,
proving that our business is resilient. We made good progress in the US and delivered
another year of sustainable growth in Europe.
Let me start with our US business. In the US, we consciously prioritize bottom line
improvement rather than aiming for top line growth. 2020 has been a year of good
progress in the US, in particular in two areas: risk selection and loss ratio improvements
and operational eﬃciencies. I know you might be asking how can you say that Elephant
has improved the loss ratio net of the positive COVID eﬀect. Well, if we take a look at the
graph on the bottom left of the slide, it represents the changes in the loss ratio indexed at
100 in Q3 2018.
You can see that Elephant, the blue line shows a larger improvement than the market, the
red ones. Hence, taking the market trend as a proxy of the positive COVID eﬀect on the
loss ratio, this implies that Elephant has also improved independently from the lower
frequency-related to the pandemic. The improvement of the combined ratio over the last
few years is a result of a combination of factors. We have focused on improving technical
fundamentals, as well as invested in digital enhancements to strengthen the business. We
expect this to continue in the future, not necessary at the same pace. In conclusion, good
progress in establishing a sustainable digital insurer in the US.
Let's now move to Europe. For the ﬁrst time, all the three European businesses are
proﬁtable and we achieved our record proﬁt on a combined basis, again driven by our
largest operation in Italy ConTe. The progress of the European insurance is evident also
net of COVID, although less strong. Indeed, whilst the pandemic has had an obvious
positive impact in lowering the claims frequency, it has at the same time signiﬁcantly
Page 8 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

pressured our volumes and premiums. We estimate that removing the COVID eﬀect, this
will still have been a year of growth and proﬁtability with Admiral Seguros and L'olivier
nearly breakeven and ConTe largely proﬁtable.
Digging deeper into the top line ﬁgures, there are a couple of additional points I would
like to make. L'olivier in France delivered a very strong growth for another year in a row
and we continue to experience a clear premium conditions in Italy and Spain, which
resulted in a modest growth in turnover whilst we achieved a notable growth in the
customer base. Finally, in Europe, we are progressing well in delivering more digital
services to our customers through agile operating models that help us in making our
customer happier and our businesses more eﬃcient.
In conclusion, International overall delivered a strong performance, proving that our
business is resilient. We made good progress in the US and delivered another year of
sustainable growth in Europe.
Thanks. Now over to Scott and our Loans business

Bloomberg Transcript

Scott Cargill

{BIO 20595803 <GO>}

Thank you, Costi. Good morning, everyone. Today, I would like to share with you how our
Admiral Loans business has also proved to be resilient in 2020 Yes, our growth was
impacted by COVID as we took a prudent decision to pause new loan originations for part
of the year. Having said that, our customer payment performance has been good and we
have made large provisions for the projected future increase in UK unemployment. We
ﬁnished the year optimistic of the near-term future and we will return to growth in 2021.
One of the things I'm proud of and that gives me conﬁdence for the future is in a true
Admiral way we deliver the right solutions for customers and they like what we deliver.
You see two pictures here. The ﬁrst pre lockdown and early 2020 (inaudible) us serving
over 100,000 loan customer and the oﬃce back in Cardiﬀ. The second is from just last
month, when Admiral Loans won best lender in both the personal loans and car ﬁnance
category at the Moneyfacts awards. These awards are exclusively voted for by customers,
a nice way to start the year.
As Geraint highlighted, we have built a GBP13.8 million loss for 2020 which you can see is
after a provision charge of GBP25.8 million. This is a 11.5 million higher than 2019 and it
was GBP15 million for loans which remain fully up-to-date reﬂecting the expected increase
in UK unemployment. We have a track record of consistently improving actual loss
performance as you see in the chart on the bottom left-hand side. This shows 12 month
customer payment default outcomes for each monthly cohort since our launch in 2017.
And it's pleasing to see from industry benchmarking data, we are among the best
performers over that period. You can see the actual loss performance has consistently
improved during that period and that 2020 has in fact been in line or better than prior
periods. Also worth highlighting that we ﬁnished the year with less than 1% of the book on
payment holidays.

Page 9 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

What this looks like in [ph] coverage ratios is an increase from 4.9% at end of 2019 to
10.4% at end of 2020 and unfortunately a 3.8 times increase on the provision for
performing loans from 1.5% to 5.8%. This reﬂects the uncertainty in the macro
environment. We started 2020 proving the growth capability of the business by getting
record volumes (inaudible)
As you can see from the chart on the bottom left-hand side, when the COVID crisis
emerged, we responded quickly and paused new business entirely in order to focus our
attention on existing customers. We reopened the new business in July where we chose
to take a cautious approach for the rest of H2 and having (inaudible) models and
underwriting approach have returned to cautious growth in 2021.

Bloomberg Transcript

Looking forward, we believe the evolution of the market plays to Admiral's strength where
we believe key diﬀerentiators will be risk selection, product innovation, and a low cost to
serve. Consumer behavior is also changing to be ever more digital and a wider range of
behavioral data is becoming more important to predict how loans will perform in the
future. We also welcome the regulatory direction and of the Board review of the
unsecured market which does suggest end time [ph] and with more transparent pricing
and products, which aligns with Admiral Loans' aim to provide aﬀordable lending
products for met range risks for a real rate pre-approved oﬀers. In terms of guidance, we
expect gross loan balances in the range of GBP500 million to GBP550 million by end
2021.
In conclusion, Admiral Loans has also proved to be resilient in 2020, validating the
strength of what we have built over the past three years and further convincing us of the
opportunity to build a scalable business, making a signiﬁcant contribution to the
Admirable online. We had a rapid response to COVID and paused new loan originations
for part of the year, resulting into fair growth and we are optimistic for the near-term
future of a return to growth in early 2021.
With that, I'll pass back to Milena to wrap up

Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Thanks, Scott. One of the collateral eﬀects of a crisis, it is to test what people and business
stand for, how their priorities and the balance between the year now and the long-term
change when under pressure. So what does Admiral stand for? This came out even more
clearly for us this year. We want to ensure that our products deliver a good value and are
fairly priced and therefore aﬀordable and inclusive for more people, even when this
meant giving back GBP110 million. We want to help and provide peace of mind for the
future particularly where the future is more of a certain as it was the case this year.
We want to look after more people, particularly when they needed the most and we are
trying to ﬁnd new ways to do things better every day, little by little, by using more data,
testing and learning, always striving for excellence and we do so together as a team that
is deeply ingrained in our culture. In summary, help more people to look after their future,
striving for better together. This is the revised purpose statement of Admiral and you can

Page 10 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

read through -- you can read this through diﬀerent lens. First, the customer as we protect
what's important to them. Second, our staﬀ, as we empower them to achieve their full
potential and third, the larger community. Not only as we provide great employment
opportunity in a company that is a great place to work, but also as we contribute to
address broader challenge as social mobility or climate change.
And we want to make a contribution, because we care. Is this alignment of diﬀerent
stakeholders has always been a distinctive feature for Admiral and it's well ingrained in
our model. We do have long lasting relationship with our partners in distribution, our
issuers, our customer who tend to stay longer with us and our staﬀ with an impressive
average tenure in the business, And we managed to do this, not only because we really
care, but also we take -- because we take a long-term perspective in our decision making
and something that underpin this is our reward system that is based on Admiral's shares
rather than short-term incentives. All Admiral employees are shareholders.
In conclusion, we continue to strengthen the company year-after-year. Our strong
foundation has supported positive results that we have delivered an outcome for all
shareholders. We made progress in product beyond our core business and beyond UK
and our unique focus on creating long-term sustainable business is preparing us for
tomorrow and beyond.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, before we close, I would like to take a moment to say a big thank you to David.
Thank you, David on behalf of Admiral team for your invaluable contribution to the
business and for being such a great reference and fantastic role model for all of us. Thank
you very much for your attention and we are now happy to take questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
The speakers will move into a live Q&A session with Milena, Geraint, Cristina, Costantino,
and Scott. (Operator Instructions) And the ﬁrst telephone question is from the line of
Jonathan Denham of Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

Q - Jonathan Denham

{BIO 19972914 <GO>}

Good morning. Thanks very much for taking my questions. Firstly, UK Insurance is going
to be impacted by an increase in their corporate tax rate. I was just wondering how much
you thought would be passed on to consumers via higher prices. And then second,
today's release said you had conﬁrmed your intentions to use the Penguins Portal
proceeds after completion. Just wondering if you still expect to return the majority of the
net proceeds to shareholders. Thanks.

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Thank you for your question, Jonathan. Geraint, do you want to take these two?

Page 11 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

FINAL

Can do. Hi, Jonathan. On the ﬁrst one, on the tax increase, I wouldn't expect us to pass
that to customers. I think our approach is to pay out most of our net proﬁts to
shareholders. And so I would imagine that the impact might be felt there rather than in
pricing.
I didn't catch the second part of the question. Sorry, could you repeat?

Q - Jonathan Denham

{BIO 19972914 <GO>}

Sure. It was just saying, today I think you said you had conﬁrmed the intentions for the use
the Penguin Portal proceeds. On the initial release you said you'd expect to return
majority of the net proceeds to shareholders. So I was checking if there was a change
there or is it still expected to return majority?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Yeah, no change in that. We will conﬁrm the plans after completion with the results in
August.

Q - Jonathan Denham

{BIO 19972914 <GO>}

Great. Thanks, Geraint.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

No probs.

Operator
The next question is from Freya Kong of Bank of America. Please go ahead.

Q - Freya Kong

{BIO 20097488 <GO>}

Hi, good morning. I've got two questions on UK motor. So ﬁrst question is, your reserves
are typically set quite prudently because of bodily injury and they tend to unwind in outer
years. Could you help us understand the composition of the 2020 accident year reserves
and whether we should expect to see a lower level of unwind in outer years. Second
question is, we've seen a lot of positive development on the 2019 book loss ratio from
92% down to 76%. What's driven this and will you continue to set loss picks this
conservatively in the future?

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Sorry, I was in mute. Thanks a lot for your question. Cristina, do you want to take the
second one and Geraint take the ﬁrst one?

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Page 12 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

Yes, thank you. So on the reduction of the loss ratio in 2019, several reasons. The ﬁrst one
is the normal releases that we expect, given our conservative approach. But secondly is
that when we look at the 2019, on an underwriting year basis, there was a reduction in
frequency that aﬀected some of the policies underwriting that year.

FINAL

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

On the ﬁrst part, the 2020 claims cost does have lower levels of large injury claims than in
the previous years. The mix is actually slightly diﬀerent and there is actually a slightly
bigger share of larger new claims in the total, but the absolute number is clearly smaller
with a lower loss ratio. So in absolute terms, it's probably fair to say that there is less
positive development that come out in future years on 2020 accident year. But the
approach remains the same with the numbers you see in the slide will be -- would be
cautious and the numbers that we book in the accounts will continue to be cautious and
the relative size of the buﬀer and the claims reserves is ﬂat year-on-year.

Q - Freya Kong

{BIO 20097488 <GO>}

Great. Thanks.

Operator
The next question is from the line of James Shuck of Citi. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Thanks. Good morning, everybody. My ﬁrst question is around new level of conservatism
on reserves. And so within that, if I just look at the 2020 margin over the assessment,
which I would look at on an underwriting year basis. So I look at the ultimate versus the
booked and it looks like you're booking the loss ratio then 9 points above the ultimate for
the 2020. In normal years, in 2018 and 2019, that margin or the best estimate for that
underwriting year looks like it's normally around 5 points as supposed to 9. So if you
could just comment on that. And linked to that, if I look at the booked loss ratio in the
accounts, which obviously is a slightly diﬀerent basis, but it improved by 20 points to 72%.
The accident year bridge that you show, which is on a diﬀerent basis, but that's improved
to 11 points. So if you could just help me square that movement as well that would be
helpful.
And my second question is around the FCA reform. So obviously there's going to be
changes to the pricing of new business and slightly this pricing will go up in order to
justify the same customer lifetime value. As those products are introduced into the
market, which look very much likely that's going to happen in 2022, would you expect
some one-oﬀ earnings impact as the new business price is through and how do you think
about the EPS impact as that happens? Thank you.

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Thank you very much for your question. Geraint, do you want to take the ﬁrst one and
Cristina take over the FCA pricing reform?

Page 13 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Yes, I do. Hi, James. I'll take the second part of the question ﬁrst, which is about the
movement in the booked loss ratio in the accounts versus the ultimate in the slides. What
you saw in the slide is the '19 accident year improved a few points. And so if you look at
the original 2019 estimate on an accident year basis, that was 79, actually it's higher than
that. It was in the low 80s and that improved something in the order of 15 points to the
ﬁrst projection of 2020. And I think the movement in the booked calendar year loss ratio
account was 14 points. So we'd consider that to be basically in line.
And the ﬁrst part was about the amount of conservatism as booked in the current
underwriting year. As you say it, it is 9 points on 2020 booked versus ultimate
underwriting. There is no particular reason for it being slightly bigger than in the previous
years and it's been in 9 points or actually higher before. We think of the margin as I think
we said before, in aggregate of course all the underwriting news, you usually see a
pattern where the level of conservatism i.e., the gap in booked versus ultimate loss ratio
will increase as the year becomes less developed and that's typically the case. But no
particular change. The level of conservatism, i.e., the book loss ratio overall divided by the
best estimate claim reserve overall is ﬂat year-on-year.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

(inaudible) because this is a quite complex topic. So just very quickly, it looks to me like
the 2020 book to loss ratio in accounts actually improved by 20 points from 92 down to
72. And obviously some of that is going to be frequency driven, but again I understand
that the opening (inaudible) the explanation gives us -- given that it still seems a very large
movement, but maybe we can take it oﬄine, but anything you can, add anything else?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Yeah. If you look at page -- if you got the accounts release in front of you, if you look at
Page 23, we've got a reconciliation there shows it's moved from 87 down to 72 which is 15
points and 1 point is explained by the impact of the Ogden discount rate change last year.
So it's net down to 14.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Okay. I was looking at the loss triangles on Page 71 of the results, but I'll circle back later
on that. That's ﬁne. Thank you.

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

In terms of the second question -- sorry apologies. Just to answer the second question
you ask about the impact of the FCA reform on market prices. So I would agree with what
you mentioned that we expect both for car and for household an increase in new business
prices, basically right after the FCA reform is implemented and then a decrease in
renewals. However, it's going to take some time until the markets adapt all these changes
and we fully understand the dynamics in the market. Just to point out that new business in
general tends to be more elastic and renewals more inelastic and therefore it will take
some time and it will take some changes until a proﬁtability in the market is the same.

Page 14 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

So you wouldn't expect any earnings impact in 2022, 2023 if the proposals are enacted?

FINAL

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

There could be -- yes, there could be an impact especially when the reforms becomes life
and we could see an erosion in margin, but I think that it should be temporary, and
companies will adjust prices accordingly. In the case of Admiral, we feel that because our
customers are very used to shopping and comparing prices every year and because we
tend to be very strong in underwriting, both claims handling and pricing, we should be
better equipped to take advantage of this reform.

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Yeah. Okay, thank you very much.

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
The next question is from Ben Cohen of Investec. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

Hi, there. I'd just like to ask on Slide 18 where you have the bridge on the accident year
and you discussed the improvement in frequency and the worsening in severity that you
saw '20 on '19. I just wonder if you'd make any sort of forward-looking comments in terms
of how you see frequency and severity developing this year and maybe a little bit more
detail around what the swing factors could be. And also related to that, if you'd be
prepared to say a little bit more about what you're seeing on motor pricing now in the
market, please.

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Cristina, I think these are all for you.

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yes. Well, ﬁrst, in terms of severity. We think that the impact or increase in severity of just
basically repairing cost is related to COVID and therefore is temporary. So ex-COVID, we
don't expect a signiﬁcant change in the severity trends that we have seen in the past.
However, with less reform, we'll start impacting claims from or after May 31. And therefore
that will start impacting severity and frequency of small BI claims.
In terms of frequency, it is a bit harder to predict. It will depend on what is the evolution of
COVID and how the lock down measures evolve. If we take the current estimations from
the English government, they are talking about frequency towards the end of -- sorry,
towards the end of June at a time where things could start going back to normal.
Page 15 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

However, the new normal will possibly have lower frequency that we have seen in the
past.
You also ask about where we are seeing prices in the market. As you saw on the graph, we
were mentioning that we have seen prices decrease even more in the last quarter of the
year. Also, the Confused index for the month of January said that prices during that
month had decreased 5 points versus December which is a very strong decrease for a
month. In this environment, in Admiral, we have started putting prices up. We think it's the
right thing to do because we expect frequency of the policy that we're selling today to be
higher than the policies we were selling before, basically because of the impact of the
measures of lockdown easing out. Hard to tell how the rest of the year will evolve, but we
think the market will need to unwind some of the discounts that were given in the past 12
months as frequency continues increasing.

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

Sorry, could I just ask a follow-up on that? Have you seen in pushing up prices -- with the
market reducing prices, have you seen a material impact to your retention in your new
business, please?

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

It's hard to mention. It's hard to see it, because the price increases that we put that are
recent.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
And the next question is from Thomas Bateman of Berenberg. Please go ahead.

Q - Thomas Bateman

{BIO 21707516 <GO>}

Hi, good morning and thank you very much for taking my question. Just the market is
clearly little bit concerned about the discounting that you put through in H2. I guess, what
can you say that gives you comfort on these actions? I mean, obviously we still required a
large amount of claims frequency beneﬁt to come through in the ﬁrst half of this year. But
what else could you point to sort of justify these price decreases? And secondly, Admiral
was quite well in governance and social aspect of ESG, but thinking bigger picture, what
are you doing to promote faster transition to electric vehicles? Can you talk about your EV
business or maybe and slightly radical thought here, but could you envisage a market
where you subsidize EV somewhat from the combustion engine that you write? Obviously
this subsidy by the market (inaudible) is that something that is being talked about at all?

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Thanks a lot, Tom. Cristina, do you want to answer the ﬁrst one and I will -- with the
second?

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Page 16 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

Yes. In regards to discounts in the second half of last year, we feel comfortable that that
was the right thing to do based on the frequency patterns that we were seeing at the
moment, but also the frequency we've seen now. So the policies we saw during the
second half of last year beneﬁted from the second and the third lockdown and they are
seen or basically these policies are experiencing less frequency than before.
The second point is, severity trends. As I mentioned, there was an increase in claims cost
inﬂation, but that was mainly related to lockdown and we're seeing those trends
unwinding, but you've seen that sort of really give you comfort is that Admiral has been in
the past very rational and the fact that we have already started increasing prices is the
best signal that we will continue to be rational and we could continue to price policies
adapting to what we see in the market, especially in terms of frequency and severity.

Q - Thomas Bateman

{BIO 21707516 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

On your second question, Tom, I think, yes, it's very important for us. We welcome the
intention of [ph] market on this and we are investing more resource and tuning our plans.
On the climate change, more speciﬁcally and the environment, the way we look at this is
threefold, the way we operate. So as I mentioned, very pleased to say that we are now
oﬀsetting our carbon emission or couple emission has been veriﬁed by the trust and
we're also looking at waste management and using the 100% renewable energies, and
many more things.
Also looking at investment and how we invest in a more sustainable portfolio over time
and growing in that regard, probably the biggest impact is, as you pointed out is
supporting this change and these trends of electriﬁcation that is going to be quite
massive expected to be 50% of new vehicles in UK being electric by in the next 10 years.
As we've done for telematic, we intend to embrace these trends and invest resources to
make sure that we become a great underwriter for electric vehicles. And I think that's
going to be the biggest impact and understanding the speciﬁcity in terms of claims,
understand how price --electric vehicle sector and try to help the customers deserve to
have a cheaper price. I mean in this way, support the electriﬁcation.
There are also other initiatives that may indirectly support the world with less carbon like
some initiative around products that provide more ﬂexible insurance terms. So some
people may be decided to not own a car, but rather use it on a temporary base and I
mentioned Veygo as an example earlier on. So, just to mention that also we do already
underwrite lot of electric vehicles. We have a good share of the market on electric
vehicles. And as I said, looking forward to increase this over time. We will have spoke
more and speak more about our target and our commitment at half year.

Operator
The next question is from (inaudible) Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.

Page 17 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant

FINAL

Thank you for taking my questions. Just two for me. So, ﬁrst, you talked about Admiral 2.0
and also product diversiﬁcation. Can you provide a bit more color around both of those
and any associated investment spend for them. And second, and you're keeping
Compare.com in the US, what's the long-term plan for this business and are there any
targets that you can give to us?

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

On your ﬁrst question, both Admiral 2.0 and product diversiﬁcation is not something new
for us. The main message from me today was that we are accelerating on those areas,
particular in Admiral 2.0, 2020 was a very strong year, partially because of some external
factor that were accelerated by COVID. It is a trend in the market and we are investing
more. If you look at our expenses, our expenses in tech in general has been growing in
the last few years. I think now at a higher level. We don't expect necessarily additional
growth in the future or substantial growth in the future. But what normally happen is that
you increase a bit the spend in tech and digital and you may have some other lower
expense that are driven by more eﬃciency as well. So not necessarily major expectation in
terms of the overall spend as a whole.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our priority in terms of Admiral 2.0 is not only the digital, but is also the data and
analytics. There is so much more data available and also tools in terms of advanced
analytics and methodologies. And we do believe there is potential to do more. And this is
going to be a continuing trend in the next two, three years. There is also an element of
how we operate. So we move to agile and smart working, remote working are also
important features of this evolution.
Diversiﬁcation is also something that David announced when he took over as the Group
CEO. He spoke about an ambition of diversify outside motor insurance and outside
insurance as well. If you look at the next ﬁve years, probably the existing business like
loans and households are the one that we're going to have an impact and we believe they
are going to contribute positively to our bottom line as well.
In the longer term, we hope to be able to prove our competence also aside those
business and Admiral Pioneer as I mentioned is just a vehicle that will help us to
accelerate this investment and this exploration. I don't necessarily want you to believe or
to take away that we're going to massively increase our investment because we will
continue to test and learn and use a relatively cautious way and approach as we always
done in the past.
Your second question was on Compare. The Compare is -- we always look at our strategic
option and we will evaluate them every year and regularly for all the business. Compare is
-- it was in early stage compared to the other price comparison platforms. It's also a
diﬀerent market US, that requires more investment and it is a learning curve because
acquisition costs are higher. So it takes a bit more time to mature. We reduced a lot of
investment in Compare and brought it to a level that we feel comfortable and improve a
lot of underwriting metrics. We're pleased with the progress this year. I would remain

Page 18 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

committed to continue to make a success of it. Having said that, of course, we always
revalue our options.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant

FINAL

Okay.

Operator
The next question is from Andreas van Embden of Peel Hunt. Please go ahead.

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Yes, thank you very much. I've got two questions. One on reserves and one on capital.
Starting with reserves, there is still signiﬁcant reserve releases coming through from the
2015 and prior years and was also impacting proﬁt commissions from that period, which is
still quite elevated. How much is left here and sort of in the tank on these older sort of
vintage years and what is driving these releases? And my second question is on capital.
I'm just curious, what are the key ﬁnal hurdles you have to sort of take in rolling out your
internal model? What is causing the delay and could you put your ﬁnger on the key issue?
Thanks.

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Geraint, do you want to jump on both?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Yes, will do. Hi, Andreas. On the latter point on the internal model, is a bit of a frustration
that we are seeing another delay. It's a very tough process. I know -- as you I'm sure you
know and everyone has gone through it. Well, it's -- I'm sure you experienced a diﬀerent
timeline to the one they originally set out in their plan. We are very keen to get the
application right and in a very good standard when it goes in rather than trying to rush in
and we think that will probably be counterproductive. There aren't huge major problems
and there is certainly no concerns from our side, at least, on the numbers that are coming
out of it and the regulators are not indicating that they have got any problems with the
numbers per se.
I think we will be taking a look at the way it's designed the -- particularly the approach to
modeling large claims. It's a very important risk for us. Reserve risk is our biggest risk and
the large claims are an important part of that. So we've taken some time to think about
that. Nothing to be concerned of from a numbers point of view. Like I say, we would
expect to get back into the pre-application process this year and then application next
year.
On releases, I think that is a fair point. It is slightly higher than usual I think on '15 and '16 at
this particular point. We would expect booked loss ratios to develop over that kind of
time. Four or ﬁve years is not unheard of, about loss ratios to go down towards the
ultimate level. What you see in the ultimate charts in the slides is that they stop moving

Page 19 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

FINAL

right about that time. So there are couple of years on the far left hand side of that chart
where there has been no development in the ultimate. And so once that starts happening,
we'd be expecting to approach the ultimate point and be surprised to see much
developments on '15 and '16. Also '15 certainly on the booked basis after 2020 if that
helps.

Q - Andreas van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you so much. I appreciate it.

Operator
The next question is from Alexander Evans of Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

Q - Alexander Evans

{BIO 19956412 <GO>}

Hi, thanks for taking my questions. First one, I'm just thinking about the risk, the higher
inﬂation in the market going forward. Does that change your potential view of claims
inﬂation or do you think current pricing actions are sort of capturing this and you've seen
a lot of them moving already? And then secondly, just on the outlook of loans, I was
wondering what your view on the UK employment was after yesterday's announcement
on the revised forecast there. Is there a risk that you are too conservative with this year's
provisioning?

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. And Cristina, do you want to take the ﬁrst one and Scott, the second?

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yes. In terms of claims inﬂation, in general, the market tends to be very quick to adapt.
And as you said, they translate this into pricing actions. The more worrying trend is when
you have a very unexpected increase in inﬂation, especially for the older claims, because
you might end up having to pay a claim on large claiming in a few years, and then have a
high level of inﬂation could aﬀect that, but in general and in terms of the more normal
inﬂation, the market prices.

A - Scott Cargill

{BIO 20595803 <GO>}

Hello and hi Alexander. The main assumption that we've taken, our provision was that the
weighted unemployment would be 9.2. I think that's a key ﬁgure. If you looked into the
North, I think we show some sensitivities. And the latest forecast given after yesterday's
budget would indicate that near to our upturn scenario. It depends on the timing. I think
the previous forecast is indicating a peak in the summer and a peak of around 7.8 from the
Bank of England, latest forecast indicating a peak of around 6.5 in Q4. So there may be
implications, but ought to wait and see how it plays out.

Operator
The next question is from Paul Walsh of Field Gibson Media. Please go ahead.
Page 20 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

Q - Paul Walsh

{BIO 3076077 <GO>}

FINAL

Good morning. Two questions from me, please. Firstly, just on a general basis, how are
the experiences you had in 2020, how that shaped your kind of outlook for the future?
And secondly, obviously it was mentioned during the presentation concerning the FCA's
proposals about general insurance pricing and price walking [ph] et cetera. I know that
was mentioned in the presentation, but can I just get your thoughts on that and what your
kind of general feeling is about those proposals, please? Thank you.

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Paul. Is your question on the outlook of the future of motor
insurance or more in general. Can you repeat the ﬁrst question? Sorry, I think I didn't get
it.

Q - Paul Walsh

{BIO 3076077 <GO>}

Sure. Yes, it's largely, in general, just about your sort of past experiences how they shift
your outlook on risk modeling et cetera.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Okay. So 2020 was deﬁnitely not like an ordinary year in terms of its inﬂuence, like COVID
impacts on results and COVID impact on motor frequency. I think in general, we expect a
bit of a return to normal in the future. 2021 still will have lot of impact from COVID and so
we will see a bit more of what's happened in 2020. But the big diﬀerence is that the
premiums that were collected towards the end of 2020 and beginning of 2021 will already
have embedded a lot of assumption for a reduction in frequency. So if you think about
2021, probably the underlying underwriting loss ratio is going to be higher and therefore
the margin lower. Of course, part of our model is also prior year reserve release, that's
also need to be taken into account.
In terms of the market, we expect that the other big impact outside COVID is going to be
the FCA pricing reform that Cristina spoke about before and that again is actually
something that may be material, but it's going to take time. It's going to be an evolution
after evolution, because lots of customer have these habits to shop around. So we'll see
some increase of new business price and renewal price times and extend is still there to
be seen. And after that, in the longer term, I would expect those two things to normalize a
bit more and so probably to come back to what we were experiencing before 2020.
In general, we also see like digital trend to keeping -- to keep extending and data
analytics and a lot of those things also to continue. But I think in general we'll see a bit of
a back to normal, that COVID and FCA, our investment to -- so things to take into account.
I think we are in strong position as I mentioned. We invested or we are not alone investing
navigating the year now, but a lot in the future and quite excited about the prospects for
us also outside UK Motor and International Insurance and Household and Loans in
particular. This was a bit of a high level view of the future. Happy to follow up if you have
more questions.

Page 21 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

And the second one was on -- gosh, remind me. (multiple speakers) Yeah, Cristina, do you
want to take this one?

FINAL

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yes. So I understood the question to be focused about our views on the reform. So I want
to start by saying that we welcome this reform, but we understand this is something that
wasn't working very well in the market. And we think it would lead to better practices in
the future. It's hard to comment exactly, because we don't know yet the content of the
reform fully and when it will be implemented. But overall, we think it's going to cause
important increases in new business which slightly will have as a consequence that some
customers that are very used to shopping and tend to beneﬁt year after year from
reduced prices are going to see a signiﬁcant increase in the prices. So that will be our
biggest concern.
In terms of Admiral, we have a very large renewal book. So of course, this could have a
signiﬁcant impact. We think our customers are very used to shopping around, compare
prices on a regular basis and are happy with our level of prices. So we hope to be in a
stronger position than some of our players. Also as the FCA has mentioned, the
household market is going to be particularly impacted because that's when you see a
much bigger diﬀerence between the older renewal books and the new business. So we
expect to see much more changes there, with very high increases in new business and
also high decreases at renewal. Overall, wait and see, but it could be an interesting time
for Admiral.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
The next question is from Phil Ross of Mediobanca. Please go ahead.

Q - Phil Ross

{BIO 20618440 <GO>}

Hi, good morning. Just one question for me on solvency, please, on the SCR increase
speciﬁcally. If you could just expand a little bit on the moving parts. I guess this is mainly
driven by the capital add-on. And obviously, you mentioned the increased -- expected
impact on proﬁt commissions that are perhaps within that -- you might have expected a
lower charge for PPOs if they remain less attractive given where rates are. So, yes, just
little bit of extra detail on that would be helpful, please, if you can.

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Thanks a lot for the question. Geraint?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

You're quite right to say that there is very little change in the elements of that capital
requirement, which is PPO related. The big increase is proﬁt commission risk. So that's the
amount of proﬁt commission risk that would be de-recognized from capital in the 100 and
200 scenario. In the past couple of years, proﬁtability has increased quite a lot as we've
talked about in 2020 and 2019 underwriting years particularly. When loss ratios improved
to that extent, there is a lot of proﬁt commission income that we would get and clearly
Page 22 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

early on in those years' development, that's still at risk. And so that's what's driven the
increase we see in the 2020 year end position versus '19. So, very limited change in PPOs.
Big increase in proﬁt risk at this particular point. We'd expect that to subside over the next
couple of years.

FINAL

Operator
The next question is from Ivan Bokhmat of Barclays. Please go ahead.

Q - Ivan Bokhmat

{BIO 15378004 <GO>}

Hi, good morning. Thank you very much. I have few questions. The ﬁrst one would be
regarding the reserve releases. Just wanted to make sure we're still talking about this midterm 15% to 20% release guidance, I think given some of the changes within that and
maybe also if you could talk a little bit of how should we think about the commutation
revenues given 2020 was so unusual and how will the commutation be booked in the
future?

Bloomberg Transcript

The second question I wanted to ask you about the reinsurance renewals that you
mentioned could be completed over the second quarter. I'm just wondering if you're
looking for any structural changes there that could aﬀect our levels of retention or the
proﬁt commissions you will get? And maybe the ﬁnal question, rather small one, if I may.
We did hear about the success of your refund that has boosted the retention levels. I'm
just wondering if you could give a little more color on that, at what level is your retention
at the moment in the motor market and whether that trend has persisted since May?
Thank you.

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Geraint, I guess the ﬁrst two are still for you.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Yeah, I think I might actually get three actually. I will try and do three and see what
happens. On reserve release outlook, I think it's fair point we've historically said the 15%
was the average. That's quite a long-term average. Over the past four or ﬁve years, it's
been in the low mid 20s and in the immediate future, I'd expect that sort of level to
repeat. We still got a conservative reserve which hasn't really changed year-on-year. So
this -- if things develop as we expect them to, there's quite a lot of release to come out, so
no real change in the outlook there.
On commutations, the impact this year has been less visible, less material than in previous
years because of where we are booking, the most recent underwriting years i.e., at a
proﬁtable level. So the impact of commutation on the accounting really depends on the
proﬁtability and the booking of individual years. Happy to spend a bit more time on this,
maybe a bit too detail for the call. And reinsurance renewals, we aren't, at this point,
expecting any structural changes or any fundamental I think and we're hoping to get that
done and probably roll forward in a pretty similar fashion. We'd expect to get that done
by the half year.
Page 23 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

And, Cristina, do you want to comment on the impact on retention of the COVID refund
and where we stand versus market?

FINAL

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Yes, well, it's hard to give concrete ﬁgures about what was the impact of the refund on
retention. What we have is two things. First clear improved results on our brand tracker.
So we -- on a regular basis, we survey customers in the UK and ask about several brands
and also their level of trust whether they will consider them for the future, whether they
will choose them. And there is a clear, clear impact of the refund.
Secondly, in terms of the impact on retention, what we have is a lot of anecdotal
feedback, on the website comments and also on the phone and customers saying, maybe
the price is higher than they would like it, but they are comfortable to stay with us
because of the refund. I'm not sure how long this will impact our results. But it's clear that
it will certainly stay there for some time, as we continue to hear some of these feedbacks.
In terms of actual data on the market, we don't disclose this, but I'm happy to share that in
general and despite our channel being price comparison and our average premium
being slightly higher than the market, we tend to have retention, but it is slightly higher
than the overall market and in the past six months, it's been almost mid single-digit up.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
We will now go to the webcast question. Please go ahead.

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker
Hi, there. There are two questions from the webcast. The ﬁrst one is related to customer
growth. The question is the volume of new customer growth is substantial. Are you
comfortable on the infrastructure in place to manage the new volume growth. Would you
be comfortable repeating this growth again in the near term, if opportunity arose or
would you be looking to consolidate this level of growth and ensure margin is suﬃcient?
That's the ﬁrst question. And then the second question related to a comment on more
insight into your household pricing, claims frequency, and claim severity patterns that
we've seen and expect to see in 2021?

A - Milena Mondini de Focatiis

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Cristian, I will start with the ﬁrst and then happy for you to chip in and add and talk and
move to the second. So, in general, we are happy with the growth. We tend to be very
rational in ﬂexing our growth depending on the market condition and also in this
particular case, on our expectation of our frequency is going to change depending on
COVID and what's going to be the impact of the reform to come, whiplash and FCA. So
we'll take a rational approach to the growth in the future and we will -- and as we've
always done, we tend to react relatively early to change in the market and in the external
factor and we'll try to continue to do so, so we will be seen -- we'll see what competitors
will do and what the market will move, but we tend to optimize our own decision based
Page 24 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

on our own data point. Our infrastructure is solid for growth and we have very solid
infrastructure and operation. And that's true for UK and overseas. And so we will take the
growth as it comes is what is best for the business.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Cristian, I don't know if you want to add anything on top or move to the second part of
the question?

A - Cristina Nestares

{BIO 18674745 <GO>}

Well, just to say Milena, as you mentioned, that we are comfortable to take growth
because we understand, we operate in a very cyclical business and if you look at our track
record, they have been years where we have grown at a similar level as in 2020 and there
have also been years where we have been happy not to grow. So, yes, we operate in that
sense. Also the next couple of years could be particularly interesting. We don't know yet,
but there might be an opportunity once the FCA reform is implemented and prices in the
market go up. So we might need to be ready to take volume very quickly. And also I think
the fact that we have done a very strong move to digital and we have very strong systems
and team makes it easier for us in the future to take more growth.
Moving on to the trends in household in terms of claims, well, in terms of frequency, we
saw a reduction in claims frequency in the early lockdown, but after the lockdown it was
recovered and it went back to much more normal levels. In terms of severity, what we
have seen is basically a change in trends mix. So more accidental damage, although
small, reduced theft claims clearly as people have stayed more at home and then severity
around escape of water has also been reduced and we think that might continue in the
future. So it's clear that as people are allowed to go out more and to travel, we might see
claims going back to previous patterns. But we think some of these changes that COVID
has brought in terms of spending more time at home will continue in the future. So our
expectation for 2021 is similar to 2020, but less strong COVID impact. In terms of weather,
2020 had a bit of a bad weather. Especially at the beginning of the year, we had a few
storms cost in Admiral actually 5 million, but this year so far the weather has been quite
benign. So that's also important to consider.

Operator
And this concludes the question-and-answer session. Ladies and gentlemen, the
conference has now concluded and you may disconnect your telephone. Thank you for
joining and have a pleasant day. Goodbye.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed

Page 25 of 26



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2021-03-04

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 26 of 26

