Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

Investor Day
Company Participants
FINAL

Antonio Bosque, MD of Europe & Executive Director
Christophe Boizard, CFO & Executive Director
Filip Coremans , MD of Asia & Executive Director
Hans De Cuyper, CEO & Executive Director

Other Participants
Ashik Musaddi, Analyst
Fulin Liang, Analyst
Michael Huttner, Analyst
Robin van den Broek, Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Dear investors and analysts. Welcome to the launch of Impact24, our new strategic cycle
for the coming two years. We have approximately two hours together tonight -- where in
the first hour, I would like to present you the highlights of our strategic focus for the
coming three years. In the second hour, the Executive Committee will join me on stage to
answer all your questions.
I would like to start with presenting to you what Impact24 is all about, how we will deliver
on the ambition that I will express to you in a minute. But also how we are investing in the
future even beyond 2024. Last year, we have celebrated 10 years of Ageas.
We have been looking forward for the following era of 10 years for our group, and we
have defined some additional pools to invest. And of course very important for you, what
are the commitments and the (inaudible) and the targets that we will give you for your
guidance on the following three years.
Impact24 is a new strategy, a strategy building on a sustained performance. We are a
group that over the last 10 years has shown an amazing track record in performance. This
was one of the starting points of designing this new strategy Impact24, which we started
approximately November last year. How can we sustain and where possible, maybe even
further improve our performance going forward.
Of course we cannot look at the following three years. While we are still in the midst of
the current strategic cycle, called Connect21, and I'm sure, by now, already very wellPage 1 of 27



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

FINAL

known to you. Remember the highlights three years ago. We have added society as one
of the key stakeholders in our pledge of Supporter of your life. For the first time, we have
launched four identical values for all our operations around the world to bring that unique
DNA to bring that unique culture alive for the group.
Then we have the strategic choices. The customer who is taking center stage in our
strategy. Looking beyond insurance, the possibilities of technology and how we can
further leverage our strength in managing partnerships and the partnership model.
Continue how we can help as a group, all the operations around the world, while still
respecting the local autonomy. And as you know, 20 years ago, we have started
expanding our operations from the home markets in Europe into Asia. So how are we
further building on that focus on Europe and Asia? And the financial targets, well, I'm very
much convinced that I do not need to repeat them for you. It is the way we deliver on our
performance already for the third year in a row.

Bloomberg Transcript

And we are committed to deliver on all financial targets by the end of the year. At the
closing of 2020, you have seen that we have actually already achieved the targets for five
out of the six. We were very close for the Life margin Unit-Linked with 29 basis points. The
First Quarter of this year, by the way the Unit-Linked Life margin was already within wins,
and we are definitely have the intention to deliver on all six of the financial targets by the
end of the year.
So let's have a look a little bit how we make some progress on those Connect21 choices.
We are really redesigning the customer journeys. Customer centricity is part of our
strategy, and we are really aiming for top five Net Promoter Score by our customers in
most of our operating entities. We have multiple beyond insurance initiatives, and I will
come back to that where we are today later in the presentation. We have quite some
large replatforming projects running in some of our core operating entities to make sure
that we have an infrastructure ready for the future. In areas where it was needed, we have
absolutely increased our spending intake.
Partnerships. I don't think I have to repeat that partnerships is truly part of our DNA and
cornerstone of our success. Of course the two latest M&A acquisitions, are proof of the
strength of that partnership. We have expanded our partnership with CTIH, the Taiping
Group in China for Life into reinsurance at the end of last year. Of course in February, we
have announced that our partnership with Sabanci is now in Life insurance next to
AKSigorta, the company we were already building together on the non-Life side. We
continue building these smart challenges. We have even already started with really group
projects where group is in the driver seat, I think for instance, about building the cloud
environment for our IT and data or the progression we have made in the area of
reinsurance. But local autonomy stays key because that's where the customer is, that's
where we feel and sense the market the best. So local autonomy is definitely something
that will stay and keep being part of the DNA of our group.
And as always, we have been disciplined in our expansion. We have not looked beyond
the two regions that we have highlighted, but I will show you in a minute how Asia is
becoming a bigger part and has a growing share of our total performance. So Impact24 is
building on those strong foundations of Connect21. We are a group which is in excellent
Page 2 of 27



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

FINAL

shape. We have a very strong foundation. The resolution of the legacy has given us the
strategic and the financial flexibility to build and to write our own future. That's what we
have done over the last eight months.
We have designed the house that we are going to build for the coming 3, but even for
the following 10 years on the foundations that I -- as new CEO have earned at the end of
last year. So the center team was how will we sustain that performance going further? And
are there areas where we can even go further and set our sights maybe a little bit harder?
And sustainability is not something in the performance of the investors. Sustainability is a
core team in the whole world around us. It's related to all the stakeholders. And at the
end, I will present you a separate chapter how sustainability will form or will be part will be
at the heart of our strategy going forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

So what does it mean a sustained performance? Well as you know, at the end of the First
Quarter, we have given a guidance. We have slightly raised our guidance for this year to a
net profit between EUR 900 million and EUR 950 million. Going forward, we would like to
raise our earnings per share ambition to 6% to 8%. Coming, as you will know, in the
current financial targets from 5% to 7% under the Connect21 plan. That should bring us in
a profit range between EUR 1.1 billion and EUR 1.2 billion minimally.
And how will we do that? Well we have three key areas where we believe we can develop
further growth of the group. The great news is that the biggest part of the growth
potential is already present in our current core. So we have identified where we will
further work on unlocking the growth potential that is already present in the footprint that
we have today the footprint, the combination in Europe and Asia. But secondly, we have
identified new engines, not only new engines for profit contribution in the short term, but
also future engines to make sure that Ageas stays relevant in a rapid changing world
around us that Ageas can be seen as a future-proof international insurance groups with
businesses in Europe and Asia.
And the third pillar of course we will continue exploring new markets. New markets with
the cash position of approximately EUR 1.2 billion that we have available today. I will zoom
in on that part also a bit later. A growth strategy to deliver sustained performance building
on three pillars. Strengthening and growing what we have in the core, developing new
engines for growth and continuously searching for new market opportunities.
Let me start with the first block, strengthening and growing the core. Well where do we
start from? Why is our core in excellent shape. What are the typical characteristics of the
core we are having today? Well first of all, and that makes Ageas atypical to many other
insurance groups, we have a great balance between the mature markets in Europe and
the growth markets in Asia. Something that we have seen in the 2020 performance with
the COVID pandemic, we have seen that the timing of the pandemic was different in Asia
and Europe. So we have seen that actually combined, we have been able to deliver on
our promise with EUR 870 million, which was within the guidance that we set even before
the pandemic block. That is a very attractive and quite unique footprint for our group.

Page 3 of 27



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

Secondly, we are happy with our world map. We have leadership positions in most of the
markets where we operate. Maybe to a lesser extent, in the U.K. and in France, but
overall, we have a very strong position around the world, being in leadership position or at
least have a road towards leadership position, and then I'm talking more about the
emerging countries where we operate. We have become an expert in multi distribution
management. Bank assurance is part of our DNA, but we have definitely developed
strong experience in agency force and, of course the broker market in our whole market
in Belgium.
Another strength is the well diverse portfolio in Life, non-Life and Health. Again testimony
in 2020 with the performance and the COVID where the Life performance was definitely
under pressure on the investment side, on the yield and on the capital gains, you
remember, but we have been able to compensate that quite nicely with the better claims
we can see in the non-Life side, again allowing us to deliver on sustained performance.
Then we have those partnerships. We have developed, I would say a nose to look for
local winners who can really help us to build market leadership positions in markets that
we might not be familiar with, but where our local partner is very well positioned, look for
instance, how we have expanded our business recently in Turkey, together with the
Sabanci Group or in China with CTIH.
So the footprint is strong. The group is healthy in its core. So where can we further tap
then in the growth from the core. But first of all, the market evolution itself. We are in
markets where we have still quite important or in the mature markets moderate, but
positive growth ambitions in the market outlook. We still have potential to further develop
our distribution and the commercial excellence. We have room to further improve
efficiency, not so much by cost cutting, but by truly transforming the customer journeys,
and we have integrated the low interest rate impact, and I would say the lower for longer
interest rate impact in the plans that we are presenting to you this afternoon.
Let me take the first topic. Here, you see our markets split in Life and non-Life, where on
the horizontal axis, you have the CAGR the market growth, and this is coming from the
industry associations in the different countries between the previous cycle 2016, 2019, the
vertical access is the outlook for the coming cycle, 2020, 2024. While you see some
countries still close to 0 or even below 0 over the past period, we are all in positive
territory for the new period. So we have a positive growth outlook on all the markets
where we operate. And look where Turkey is. Turkey is an outlook completely at the top,
where we are now present, both in non-Life as well as in Life. Not surprisingly, our core
Asian markets are in the middle with market outlook growth that hovers around 10%. Then
you have the more mature markets at the bottom left side, but still in positive territory.
With this, we have also, of course our plans in the contribution of the profit. Where you
see where Asia in 2018 was EUR 170 million of the total profit of the group or only one
quarter, it has actually moved estimate for the end of this year to EUR 350 million to EUR
400 million profit contribution approaching 40% of the total profit of the group. But of
course these are growth markets. In growth markets, not all the profit is readily available
of course for cash upstreaming and for dividend because capital need to be kept to keep
and to sustain the solvency margin in a growing market. So you see that the upstreaming

Page 4 of 27



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

FINAL

on Asia has grown from 92% -- EUR 92 million, sorry, in 2018 to EUR 170 million in 2021. But
there, again Asia is already approximately 25% of our overall cash upstreaming.
If we look forward, and I think this is the true evidence of our success story, we are
celebrating in 2024, 200 years of insurance in Europe, starting with the creation of Ageas
in Belgium in 1824. This year, we are 20 years in Asia, with the first joint ventures in China
as well as in Malaysia starting in February for Malaysia and December in 2001. Well by the
end, of this strategic cycle in 2024 we expect the profit contribution for the group to
become 50-50, 50% from Asia, 50% from the European markets.

Bloomberg Transcript

Distribution is one of our key strengths, distribution management, avoiding distribution
conflicts because in most of the markets, we work with multiple distribution channels.
Bancassurance is approximately 30% of the inflow for the group. Bancassurance has also
been one of the key triggers to be invited into the Asian region. Maybank in Malaysia, who
was looking for bancassurance partners 20 years ago. Also in China, actually, our business,
which is now, to a big extent, agency, but actually, it started predominantly with
bancassurance. KBANK in Thailand with MTL, same story. Very often, bancassurance was
one of the key triggers to invite Ageas into a partnership. Broker [ph] think we are leading
in the Belgian market already for many years. And agency [ph], we have absolutely
developed in the region, but we still have potential for growth and potential for expansion
of the agency force in the region.
Well so first pool of growth on the distribution is this penetration in bancassurance. And
here, we define the penetration as the number of banking customers also having an
insurance contract. What we have done, country-by-country is we have looked at the
current position that our operations is having in the banker penetration in that country. We
also know from international studies what the market best practice is and we have
identified Ageas' full potential where we want to go this strategic cycle in 2024. You know
that in Belgium, we are already market leader in banca [ph] penetration with 28%, so we
want to sustain that banca penetration going forward which is as such already a
challenging and attractive ambition.
In Portugal, as you can see, we want to move up more to the range of 16%. And actually, in
Thailand, India and the Philippines in the Life side, where the total market potential is only
single-digit and it's also, of course due to the composition and the type of the population
and distribution of wealth. Well we feel that we should aspire to go to that market best
practice in those countries. And here you will see the potential on agency development,
which is a second pillar in the distribution development. In China, agency was 27% of our
distribution in 2010. In 2020, we are working approximately between 380,000 and
400,000 agents in that vast country. And agency has taken 69% of the top line. Well that
is a position, and that is a part that we have not already fully exploited in the other Asian
countries. I think about Malaysia, where we are still highly bancassurance with Maybank or
in Thailand as well. So we see room for further development of that channel, and that is
both in recruitment expansion as well as in the efficiency of that channel.
And so with this, I can say that we continue to believe in the power of our distribution
models. Digital is very important. Direct is important. Platforms is a topic I will come back
to in a minute. But in the core, we are still very much convinced that our distribution
Page 5 of 27



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

FINAL

partners stay relevant in the distribution in the customer engagement, in the insurance
industry, and we are happy to keep on investing in those. Commercial excellence was the
third topic. These are the typical indicators for commercial excellence, can we cross-sell
and upsell. Can we work and improve to the maximum persistency? And can we raise the
productivity of our distribution force as well as of all the sales and marketing campaigns.
New in this during the study and the design of this strategy. We have studied a few very
interesting companies working with artificial intelligence working on data insights exactly
on those three topics in commercial excellence. So getting to know your customer better
and steering the right offer at the right moment to the right customer with your
distribution partner with the use of artificial intelligence is the use of technology and data.
In our processes that we will continue to embed to get some uplift in the output from the
distribution partners that we have, and that is a very important element both in
bancassurance as well as in the agency force in the Asian region.

Bloomberg Transcript

But of course in the world of today and in the post-COVID world, you cannot design a
strategy without clearly assessing how we deal with the lower for longer interest rate. Well
you know from previous Investors Relations presentations that we can be proud of the
ALM profile on which we have built the Life portfolios for more than 20 years. The asset
liability matching is part of our DNA. It is absolutely cut in stone when we further grow and
develop the Life portfolios. On the other hand, the customer need has not expired. Aging
population is still a very hot topic. The financing of social security by public debt is still a
very actual topic, protection gap is important.
So we keep on believing in the need and the potential of the private sector in the Life
savings market in the areas where we operate. We also keep on -- we are convinced that
the structure of the portfolios that we have today allow us to keep on further developing
these portfolios. Due to a very smart capital, but definitely also liability and asset liability
management, of course we will further diversify the product portfolio. Of course we will
also look how we can balance the guaranteed Life and savings market with the UnitLinked market and even with the Life protection products, and we can also further
improve on efficiency.
And efficiency should come from redesigning the customer journeys and also digitizing
internal processes in internal repetitive work and at the same time, improving the quality
of work for all our employees around the world. So the ambition that we have is that in the
markets where we have a leading market position in market share, we also would want to
make sure that we have leading expense ratios, which, by the way in some of our biggest
markets that is already the case if you look for instance at the expense ratios in the
Belgian market.
So for the lower for longer interest rates, we have taken the impact. We have all the
mitigating actions in place and the plans that we are showing today is taking into account
the impact of the interest rates up to 2024 and even beyond. This is the story about how
we can further deliver on the growth coming from our core. And actually, the core in itself
is capable to deliver approximately 80% of the upside of the growth story for the coming
three years. So let's have a look at the new opportunities for growth, which we would like
to launch or which we would like to further develop. You remember that in the Connect21
Page 6 of 27



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

FINAL

strategy, we have launched the think 2030 think tank. So I think it's a good moment now
to get an update from our futurists, how they look at 2030.
So this is how the future might look like in 2030. We have combined the insights of our
managers around the world. With artificial intelligence, where we check the trends that we
have identified, whether these are also the trends that come out of the worldwide web
with artificial intelligence. Then of course we have met them with the capabilities that we
are already having as a group, which is already part of our culture, our DNA and our
business footprint. With that in mind, we want to develop four group-wide teams to get
Ageas future-proof to keep Ageas relevant in the future, and we have provided in the
plan, EUR 200 million to EUR 320 million investments. It can vary in those initiatives to
future-proof our operations. The four are the world of digital platforms and how we can
connect with them, the worldwide protection player in everything related to your physical
integrity, the health ecosystems where we have very strong expertise in Portugal as well
as in Belgium. The further role of reinsurance in the group.

Bloomberg Transcript

So let me briefly tackle them one by one. First of all, the digital platforms. What we have
learned in this strategic exercise by looking at many, many companies and many platform
and tech players is that the digital platforms are not a competitor of your current business
model and your current distribution channel. No, it is a new market with new customers
with new type of covers, very often short-term covers, low premium but high-volume
covers and a market that is rapidly growing, specifically in Asia. In Asia, today it is still very,
very small. This direct and platform market. It is only 1%.
But as you can see, it is becoming more in high demand. In Europe, you have already 10%,
mostly, of course with the direct players. These are Ageas numbers. So for instance, the
U.K. and the employee benefits activities of AG in Belgium are part of this chart. But what
we do see is that in the Asian region, there are still many, many customers discovering
insurance for the first time. So of course they discovery insurance for the first time via the
current customer interactions with all their providers they are getting used to. These are
very often digital platforms, online retailers, online apps for chat and all kinds of services
that will come to you.
So it is a natural trend for new customers to get to know insurance via that new way to
interact with your customers. What we want to do as a group because partnership is at
the core of our DNA I think we have all the credentials to also be a partner in this new
world on this additional world on top of the existing distribution channels, which in Asia, of
course is predominantly bancassurance and agency. So that's what -- the first topic we
want to invest in. So that means we have to make some IT investments to make sure that
all our systems are API compliant and because you need an IT infrastructure that can
connect easily to those platform players, and you also have to design some new types of
products and covers [ph].
But what we see is that most of those platforms do seek underwriting experience and risk
capacity outside their own platform with the established incumbent insurance and
reinsurance players in the respective market. We have identified the markets with
potential but actually, over time, it is in almost all the markets we operate but probably
faster and more urgent in the Asian markets than the Belgian markets because there, all
Page 7 of 27



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

FINAL

customers in the European markets have already one way or another an insurance
intermediary.
Second, team protection. Protection in the area of the personal integrity. This is not a new
business for Ageas. We have approximately EUR 850 million premium in this market
already today and that is across different products going for mortality, term life over the
accident cover, critical illness disability. So we are already quite an established player in
protection, but you see that it is a product in very high demand, again in the Asian regions.
That's why we believe we can be a more global player in the protection area. This is a
value of new business type of business. Highly profitable, sometimes small premiums, but
again very big volumes. Of course you see a link between protection and the first team,
digital platforms because on the digital platforms, very often, it will also be exactly those
protection covers that are the first products to build a connection with the customer.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have already a great example in the group, our growth in Singapore, for instance, is to
a big extent, coming from the partnership that we have with Singtel, the main telecom
provider in the Singaporean market. So we will have an increased focus on protection. It's
also a mitigant, by the way for the low interest rate environment. I'm very adjacent to our
Life and savings activities. It can bring us a lot of synergies because for this, we develop
automated underwriting, which we are already developing for our core business as well.
Reinsurance plays an important role here because reinsurers are coming more and more
next to the direct insurance players are not always behind when we talk about platforms
and protection covers. We feel that we can really have already some impact in value in a
period of three years time. So accelerating the growth in value new business should be
one of the key indicators.
Here you see in the first place, the potential in the Asian and Turkish market. Number 3,
Health. We have two great examples of Health in our group. We have Medis in Portugal,
which is already truly an health ecosystem. This goes way beyond health insurance covers.
There are a whole list of services, which you can see here on the name card of Medis on
your slide. We have our position with AG in Belgium, where we are in health more in the
corporate area. So the relationship employer-employee where, for instance, in disability,
we have 43.5% market share already. We are more careful in Belgium in the retail market,
mainly also due to pricing regulation.
We want to be extra careful on the retail side. But we have already two great examples.
How the health insurance is evolving into the whole ecosystem around health. And here
again we see that it's high demand in the Asian markets.
Here we will go more carefully. We will look at maybe one or two additional countries in
the next strategic cycle where we can transfer the expertise and the ecosystem that we
have built up into those markets with rapid growth in the area of health care. Of course in
the post COVID world, I don't have to tell you that health care services are in extremely
high demand in that region.
So Portugal is setting the scene here because they have already the ecosystem in place.
Partnership is a part of this ecosystem, you need all these partners to provide these

Page 8 of 27



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

FINAL

services. The time line here is a bit longer. Yes, building an ecosystem will take time. So
here, we want to see real value contribution coming in a period of five to six years.
Then the fourth global initiative is the development of reinsurance. Let me take you back
in time a little bit. So we have started with Intreas in 2015, which was a captive reinsurance
part of the group, which finally achieved a core status and Standard & Poor's A rating in
2016 and started also to underwrite the protection covers with some noncontrolled
participation. But we actually really start embedding reinsurance as a full segment in 2017,
2019, when we brought reinsurance into the holding because we saw benefits in protect
from risk diversification and keeping more of the risk in-house and diversify first before
going to the reinsurance market. But of course we also have the second pillar of
reinsurance today which is related to the capital fungibility. Then we talk about the quota
share reinsurance from our core operations in Portugal, U.K. as well as Belgium.

Bloomberg Transcript

And that is, of course an enabler of the credit profile of the group. Then we have, of
course in December last year, announced the acquisition of the 25% stake in the
partnership with Taiping Re where for the first time we also look at outward reinsurance. In
2020, reinsurance is already giving us a gross inflow, if we take Taiping Re on a 100%
basis, approximately around EUR 2.3 billion and the profit coming out of that business last
year was approximately EUR 80 million. So there are a lot of benefits in the overall
footprint of Ageas around the world to further develop reinsurance. It gives us
diversification, it gives us earnings and capital fungibility. I don't have to explain to you that
we have done already multiple times.
It brings a sustainable operating cash flow at the holding, and that sustainable revenue
stream, of course again supports the rating of the group, and that rating has dramatically
increased our financial flexibility also on the debt markets. We have also -- and we should
not forget, reinsurance can also help us to have a skill and business model uplift. First of
all, on acquiring specific skills. I think for instance, about the whole developments of
automatic underwriting, but also into this new think 2030 world and for instance in
platforms, where you see that many of those platforms do get their risk capacity from
reinsurers directly. So reinsurers are coming more next to the insurance companies
instead of behind. So we want to make sure that our group is ready when these trends
would deepen or further accelerate.
And so on reinsurance, we have a road map. So on the one hand, we said, okay what we
should automatically do is even more centralized reinsurance purchases where we can
and optimize within the group first, maximize the sessions in capital management and
also see where our joint ventures can participating in that central reinsurance purchasing
and diversification. Of course we have a partnership in reinsurance as well, which we
should continue to develop, that can help us to scale up the reinsurers business together
with Taiping Re. It was also an interest for Taiping Re to also explore the development of
the European Re insurance platform so that we become more balanced also in
reinsurance between Asia and Europe. Then we can potentially further invest to make
sure that our group is really future-proof, that everything that is coming to reinsurance,
and I just spoke about the platforms to just name one example, reinsurance capabilities
can also help us to make sure that we are staying future-proof, but now I'm talking even
beyond 2024.
Page 9 of 27



FINAL

Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

Our fee business and everything related to prevent, prepare, protect and assist is now
creating some inflows, revenues, not profits of approximately EUR 64 million. We are not
forgetting in the strategy, the home ecosystems, the mobility ecosystems and also what
we do in Life and savings, for instance, the pension fund business, but we see that these
are local priorities. The four teams that I just gave you are group-wide priorities because
we see that there is a need and a potential in multiple countries at the same time in a
relatively similar way. The others are local priorities and could stay very relevant and
further develop in specific markets. And based on our current footprint, we expect the
inflows to grow from EUR 64 million to EUR 170 million by 2024. Of course with the central
team of health and protection, you will see that, that will take a bigger part of the pie of
the fee business going forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

This is a story about the growth markets. So four central teams, and then local priorities
where there is opportunity. So let's look at the third pillar. The new market opportunities
or how will we fine-tune our M&A guidance going forward? Well first of all, we are willing,
and we have shown that we can do that successfully, we are willing to strengthen and
diversify our positions in markets where we are with partners that we know. Think about
Taiping Re, think about AvivaSA in Turkey. If there is opportunity to take leadership
positions in markets where we are, even with the partners that we know, we will definitely
assess these opportunities.
We keep a fourth controlled entity on our Board. You will see -- you have seen that the
profit of the group becomes 50-50 between Europe and Asia. But of course with minority
participation, we also must make sure that we keep a good balance between the profits
where we have, I would say strong or full control versus the profit from the growth
markets where we might have less control. So that's why to keep that balance with the
growth of Asia, we are still interested to add a fourth entity that means controlled that
helps us to diversify earnings that gives us stable dividend upstream and naturally, in
these conditions, you come more in Europe and not in Asia. Our preference for non-Life
will be in line with our strategy. The preference will be in non-Life in health or protection.
We see that in the Life savings books and specifically the runoff players in the Life savings
books, this type of transactions we can not match with our disciplined return on equity
targets in M&A.
So what are our principles for future M&A? It must have a critical size, a strong local
presence so that we can effectively compete in the markets where we operate, and of
course it should be a group that fits very well in our culture and in our DNA, and is willing
to work and to comply with the Ageas quality standards. Should be able to bring a
meaningful contribution, maybe not immediately, if we look at Philippines, if we look at
Vietnam, these are startups but we are convinced with the growth potential in the
markets that they will grow into a meaningful contribution over time so that we can justify
management time.
We are not financial investors in those partnerships. No. These are strategic investments.
We work with our partners to develop those businesses, so it must be able to justify
management time, and we will remain disciplined on the return expectation. But on the
chart of return expectation, we add one new line and that is diversification benefits.

Page 10 of 27



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

FINAL

We see more and more when we value an opportunity that the diversification benefits,
and they could be in the area of reinsurance or they could be, of course in the area of
SCR under Solvency II. We have two important pools where we can create diversification
benefits, and that can help us to support on the return ambition of an M&A opportunity.
So we will, in our mature markets, continue to be a consolidator if there is an opportunity.
For the U.K., U.K. has a new strategic focus.
They will be implementing this strategy for the coming months and years. So for the time
being, we will definitely refrain from M&A until this restructuring is also showing us the
expected results. I have explained that we are still open and interested to consider a
fourth entity in the European region.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then we have our growth markets, and we have already not emerging, but developing
markets like in Malaysia, like in Thailand, like in China, where we have already a stable and
growing dividend coming up to the group. And also in those countries, we are open and
often together with our partner to be active in-market consolidation opportunities. Then
we have those early-stage markets. I think at Vietnam and the Philippines in the first place,
these are still markets of growth where we are building up our presence and our
footprint.
And we will add in the M&A also potential opportunities in transforming insurance. I've
spoken about this partnership with future winners like the platform players. So nextgeneration type of partnership or partnerships that can help to develop our ecosystems
that I spoke about a minute ago, also their M&A could occasionally be an opportunity. We
are open to consider if we see a great opportunity that fits within our strategic choices,
then we might be able to consider also M&A activity in transforming insurance.
Then, of course and it's a topic that have been raised by many of you at the introduction
or in running up to the presentation today it is society. It is everything related to
sustainability and ESG. We want to put ESG at the heart of our business. ESG is not only
anymore something that we will do for society next to our business. Now, it has to be
embedded in all our stakeholders. I will take a few for you today. But first of all, in 2021, we
have subscribed to the United Nations Sustainability Development Goals. We have taken
the 10 where we can have most impact. The 10 closest to our business, we keep on
prioritizing on those 10.
Secondly, at the end of last year, we have done a materiality survey with our employees
with the unions, with our partners, with customers to understand where they feel that
Ageas can truly have an impact when we talk about ESG. First conclusion we can take is
ESG is not conflicting with your other stakeholders and also not conflicting with investors.
At the first place, also on the ESG side, everything feels that an insurance company should
be financially resilient and should practice responsible governance. These are the two key
priorities.
In the second block, you see the investments. I will come back to that in a minute. You see
the employees. I'm not going to zoom into that one too much for you, but it's a very
important part for our managers and that is the are of products and services. So we have

Page 11 of 27



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

FINAL

designed a sustainability program at the heart of our business with four key cornerstones.
The first cornerstone is our people, and I'm not going to elaborate too much on this one,
I'll touch briefly upon it. The second one is our customers, and then I'm talking
predominantly about our products and services.
The third one is our investment portfolio. We are a sizable life player. So investments are
important. The fourth one is our planet and greenhouse gas emission. Now first of all, we
want to be a great place to grow for our 45,000 employees. That means delivering a top
quartile Net Promoter Score for our employees, and it will be mainly built about training,
development, but also in the KPIs, I will tell you something about diversity and fair and
equal treatment of all our employees. We have already developed a lot. I'm not going to
zoom in too much detail right now. I think the other topics are way more for interest for
you today.

Bloomberg Transcript

The second one is everything related to products. That's, I think where we can take the
biggest jump forward. That's where many insurance companies are not deeply
developed, and we are not the big corporate risk insurer. We are not doing the oil tankers
or the big industrial polluters of this world, they are not insured with our group. So that's
also not the area where we can make an impact. We are a lot on retail and SME type of
clients. So we thought what can we do to make sure that also we stimulate our customers
to help building a more sustainable world.
We have 40,000 employees. We can do so much with them. But what can we maybe do
with 40 million customers that we are having around the world. The commitment we take
is by 2024, 25% of our premium around the world are products which are directly
providing solutions for ESG-related topics, and I think about CatNat, for instance, I think
about social teams. Let's -- for instance, disability and psychological disability or have
some incentives that our customer has an opportunity to contribute to sustainable world if
he chooses Ageas. I name a few for instance, we have the green parts program for spare
parts in motor repair in the U.K.
So if you choose for AG, you know that we work with green spare parts. If you take your
pension and disability scheme and employee benefits with AG in Belgium, you get access
to the burn out programs that we offer to a company your employees facing this
psychological disease. We can continue and continue. We can develop in the area of
home together with our banking partners on the mortgage, together with the home
insurance we can add incentives for instance related to isolating your house. In motor,
more and more we give premium with reduction for less kilometers show which will help
us again stimulate you to go to a more sustainable work. We will actively work the 25% of
our premium around the world is having one or some of those features by 2024.
And the second one, you have seen that in the materiality survey is transparency. We will
fully review our portfolio for transparency and of course where we can improve. Then let's
look at the investments. Today we have EUR 6.5 billion directly invested in ESG-related
projects, wind mills, social housing, solar panels at tramway you name it. We have already
a portfolio of EUR 6.5 billion invested, but we are also facing challenges. Because
everybody is moving into this direction. We see that actually the margins and the
investment returns on those opportunities become less and less attractive, and we want
Page 12 of 27



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

FINAL

to be careful because we have this pension liabilities next to it. So that's why we found a
solution.
How can we further grow this portfolio? And how can we bring it to our ambition, and we
set our ambition at EUR 10 billion by 2024. We will do that by investing directly in ESG or by
stimulating all the companies or the activities or the projects we invest in, stimulating them
to move to a more sustainable world. That means we will do the ESG check when we
make an investment. We will be an active bondholder or shareholder in companies we
invest in or we focus on companies who want to raise funding and capital to finance their
own projects to make the transition in the industries where they are. So direct ESG-related
products or investments in companies who confirm and who can commit to the fact that
the investment will be used for their transition to a more sustainable world.

Bloomberg Transcript

And we are also fully committed to the 0 emission ambition of the European Green Deal
by 2050. You might say why only 2050? Is this not a bit late? But remember, that most of
our life insurance is linked to pension and that asset liability management and a buy-andhold philosophy in our fixed income portfolio is part of our DNA. It is part of our financial
resilience, and that's the first thing that our stakeholders want when we talk about ESG. So
we cannot divest this portfolio to rapidly migrate to a fully ESG compliant investments
because then we might work on the E, but we will lose on the S. Because we will put the
pensions of all the clients who trust in Ageas for their pension will we put that under
pressure. So we have to make that transition gradually but we are committed to do that in
line with the ambitions of the European Green Deal. We will go to a total portfolio of at
least EUR 10 billion.
We will be GEG neutral in our operations by 2024. Then we talk about Scope 1 and Scope
2. That so we put some ambitious targets in place. We have already taken some
initiatives. We want to reduce business travel by 50% compared to the pre-COVID year
2019. We are already revising our green -- our car fleet to make it more green, and we are
stimulating employees to look at smarter commuting solutions. And last but not least,
because it's often forgotten. There is also an important carbon footprint in our sector
related to IT and data centers.
At this moment, we are quantifying the impact, and we can see, and we are checking how
we can neutralize the impact going forward. So here are our KPIs, our ambitions that we
put regarding sustainability. 25% of premium will come from products that stimulate our
customers to go to a more sustainable world. We will do the check for transparency on
the full portfolio. We bring investments to EUR 10 billion, and the full -- all the investments
will integrate the ESG assessment by 2024. We will be following the European Green
Deal, but we make our own operations neutral by 2024, and we take two indicators
related to diversity. It is the ratio of women in senior management compared to the ratio
of women in the total company, where we are at 50% today. We want to bring it to 70%.
In all our succession planning, we want to guarantee that by 2024 we have equal lists of
names equally split between male and female. We also follow the Belgian women
onboard gender diversity index where relative to our peers, we want to achieve a top
quartile ranking.

Page 13 of 27



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

So what will success look like? This our Connect21 choices. I don't think I need to repeat
them now. I can leave them for your reading going forward. It is actually a continuum of
the trends that we have already set in Connect21, but we have met them with the
strategic choices I have just explained to you. Then maybe an important part for all of you,
that is which are the targets for our investors.
Let me start with operational targets. Well first of all, we will make the non-Life combined
ratio below 96%, we lower it with another percent and we will make it below 90%. We
have seen the strong quality of our non-Life portfolios around the world. We have also
seen the new strategic plan of the U.K., and we are confident that we can deliver a nonLife combined ratio below 95%. The strength of our Life guaranteed margin, we will
continue. So we commit that we lengthen the 85 to 95 basis points ambition. But here, I
want to make one footnote, at least for 2022. Because we don't know how this target and
how this KPI will look like in the IFRS 17 world. So we will have to potentially redefine,
recalibrate this in the IFRS 17 world in 2023, but for 2022 at least we continue with the
ambition to deliver a Life guaranteed margin between 85 and 95 basis points, and we
also keep the same ambition, 30 to 40 basis points for Unit-Linked.
Then we have, of course the other financial targets, and then I'm talking about
shareholder reward. Well we come with a new design, and we had four criteria to look at
this. First of all, the new design must be a proof of our sustained performance that I have
explained to you and have shown you the plans; secondly, it should take into account our
growth ambitions that we have expressed in the plans today; three, it should also take
into account our atypical profile with a 50-50 mix between the mature markets in Europe
and the growth markets in Asia; and fourth, it must be a metric that can guide you for the
following three years. So that means it should be IFRS 17 compatible.
And so let me present to you the new financial targets. On Solvency II, we keep the same
ambition of 175%, no change. We want to commit that we have a holding free cash flow
upstreaming between EUR 1.7 billion and EUR 2.1 billion cumulatively for the three years.
This is defined as the sum of all the dividends coming from the OPCOs around the world.
Minus the corporate center cost as well as minus the interest margin on our debt. So that
is the definition of holding free cash flow. Of that holding free cash flow, we commit on
the dividend two things. First of all, we will confirm a progressive dividend. So meaning
dividend can be only up, flat or up for the coming three years, year after year.
And secondly, we will distribute a total out of the free cash flow between EUR 1.5 billion to
EUR 1.8 billion cumulatively for the three years in dividend. To give you a reference, over
the previous cycle, Connect21, the number was close to EUR 1.4 billion. So we give a
range, which is above the deliverable that we have for the Connect 21 dividend. I've
already told you earlier, with the growth we reflected in the earnings per share ambition
and that is an earnings per share ambition between 6% and 8% coming from 5% to 7%.
So and this is how it looked like. We take the upstream from our OPCOs, including also
the profit of the reinsurance, which we also assume within the group being dividend that
had to the own funds. We deduct the holding cost, and we target a holding free cash flow
cumulatively between EUR 1.7 billion and EUR 2.1 billion, of which EUR 1.50 billion to EUR 1.8
billion will be distributed towards the shareholders.

Page 14 of 27



FINAL

Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

And if we look at the dividend, then you see that we're coming actually cumulatively from
the Connect21 period, EUR 1.4 billion to a range, which is even above. If we translate that
into the free cash flow, then we see that the free cash flow over the previous period will
be approximately EUR 1.7 billion, for the new period, we see it between that EUR 1.7 billion
and EUR 2.1 billion. Here, the -- sorry, there is one other thing I want to add here is the
operational free cash flow generation. On the operational free cash flow generation, we
continue with our annual guidance but we can confirm now that in the definition that
operational free cash flow generation is the metric that we know in Europe. And for Asia
and Turkey, we take the dividends, if we add the 2, the operational free cash flow
generation will be above the holding free cash flows. That means that the targets that we
are giving in holding free cash flows are truly generated by the value creation and the
dividends in Asia and therefore, are also sustainable in time. You will definitely ask what
about share buyback?

Bloomberg Transcript

Well share buyback remains possible. But has never been and will never be a guarantee,
we look at share buyback assessing year after year. What is the free cash flow being
upstreamed? What about our growth and that could be the growth organically in the plans
that I have shown you or inorganically through M&A. We will look at this combined and
consider whether a share buyback in a specific year is appropriate. So it remains a
possibility, but not an upfront guarantee. So this is the summary and an update of a slide
you know depending on the solvency because, of course solvency is a very important
part. And here, you also see that on the top level, share buyback is possible after an
assessment of free cash flow, organic and inorganic growth.
Okay. Welcome back thank you for staying with us during the presentation. And during
that little movie summarizing our strategy, I'm joined here in the room with our Executive
Committee, Emmanuel Van Grinberg, our Chief Risk Officer, Antonio Cano, Managing
Director of Europe; Filip Coremans, Managing Director, Asia; and Christophe Boizard, our
CFO. So that means we are ready and fully available for your questions. If you want to ask
a question, you can raise your hand, and the team behind the scenes will allocate a time
slot for you. And I will call upon your name when it is your turn to pose your question.
Weve got a first question from Ashik Musaddi.

Questions And Answers
Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

So just I have two -- three questions, actually. I think the last part of the presentation is
where all the numbers came. So I just want to cross check some of those numbers again.
So if I understand correctly, the first thing you said is free cash flow would be EUR 1.7 billion
to EUR 2.1 billion. That will lead to a dividend of EUR 1.5 billion to EUR 1.8 billion. This is just
dividend. This doesn't include the buyback. So that means you will still save EUR 200
million to EUR 300 million on top of the dividend. Plus, you would have some excess
capital at the moment in your balance sheet.
So you mentioned that buyback is not certain, but it could be there, it could not be there.
So how do we think about it could be there, it could not be their thing. Basically, what has
changed versus last year? Say because see, last year, we were in the same situation, you
Page 15 of 27



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

FINAL

always had this buyback guidance, but you had mentioned that if there is an M&A, you
won't do that. So what has changed on that commitment basically is what I'm trying to
understand.
The second question I have is, how do I think about this growth rate of 6% to 8%? Is this a
growth rate on EPS or net profit, basically, both are same because there is no buybacks?
So that's something I'm trying to understand because, clearly, I think in past, if I think about
5% to 7% growth, you were trying to do, say 3% to 5% of net profit growth, 2% of
buyback. So 3% to 5% is jumping to 6% to 8% is a big jump. So that's what I want to clarify.
Third one is on non-Asian earnings, if you're saying Asia would be 50-50 in 2024, that
kind of implies that non-Asian earnings is going down in 2024 versus 2020. Is my
interpretation correct? Or would you say it should be flattish or something like that? Sorry,
three questions here.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Thanks, Ashik. I think very relevant questions. But the first part on your numbers, it's
correct. So EUR 1.7 billion to EUR 2.1 billion cash flow, EUR 1.5 billion to EUR 1.8 billion, only
dividend. So that's the first thing I can confirm to you, that is only about the dividend. So
what remains is not EUR 200 million to EUR 300 million. It could be between EUR 300
million and EUR 600 million. If you deduct to. So then we have a range between EUR 300
million and EUR 600 million that remains available for other things. It could be including
share buyback. The change we make, Ashik, is that in Connect21, we have confirmed
upfront a share buyback if there is no material M&A. But now we have a wider growth
story, and we have also the free cash flow as the main reference so that's why we say a
share buyback is possible, but we will do the full assessment of what is the free cash flow,
what do we have in the pipeline for the organic growth story that we should probably
provide to as well as, as before, what is the M&A, the M&A realized and announced, but
also may be M&A that might be in the outlook.
So we take an overall consideration. If we feel that there is additional margin after that
analysis, then share buyback remains possible the following years. So that's what we
mean with a share buyback after assessment of growth, free cash flow generation and
with growth remain organically and inorganically. Second question about EPS. Yes. You're
right. We have given you a target 6% to 8% without an assumption upfront of share
buybacks. So you could link it to the net profit growth actually because we use the same
denominator in this 6% to 8%. So indeed, this is linked to the profit growth.
The last one I have to nuance. It is not that the profit in Europe is going down, we only say
that the growth of the profit will be faster in the Asian region than in Europe, and I will
pass it to Filip directly to shine some light on the Asian region in this respect, which will
further bring the balance from 40% to 50%. But Filip, maybe you can give some insights
on Asia.

A - Filip Coremans

{BIO 17614100 <GO>}

Page 16 of 27



FINAL

Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

Yes. Absolutely. So you have heard the word Asia quite a few times throughout the
presentation. If you look back at the whole pack, which will be available to you. You will see
that we project Asian earnings to become 50% of the group. Where at the same time,
with the 6% to 8% earnings growth. That means that we are landing between EUR 1.1
billion to EUR 1.2 billion. Let me be optimistic here just for the sake of simplicity, that
means that we feel that our agent profit, which we now gave a guidance of 350 to 400
during the last investor call, would grow from the 400 rather to 600 over the next period,
which is a CAGR between 15 -- about between 14% and 15%.
The majority of that is something and that relates to the story at on core is something that
we generally see come out of the growth in these markets, let's say 2/3 of that. The other
1/3 will have to come from distribution diversification, what Hans referred to, adding the
distribution in channel agency, where we have not fully deployed that, that really adds
growth in the India story, in the Vietnamese story, in the Philippines, where we are all
today solely in banca almost.

Bloomberg Transcript

The further penetration in protection lines, which should add (inaudible) accretive business
also helped distributed by these agency channels. We see there the main reasons for the
markup. Also, and that is in the final part, the additional growth in Asia earnings will also be
sustained by sheer volume, not all our businesses have already -- would I say cost -completely eroded the cost overruns. So efficiency gains are also still there. That means
that we're quite ambitious, yes, indeed, on the Asian earnings. But if you take that they go
from four to six, that still means that the rest of our book grows from 550 to 600 as well,
so 10% up.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Next question is for Michael Huttner.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

The -- I have two questions. One is on the buyback. Given the planned starts next year,
right? Can you say anything about buyback this year? And the second is on the fourth
country fourth leg. Can you explain it a bit more? I wasn't sure sorry, let me fix on [ph] -- I
wasn't sure whether you -- it was -- I couldn't make out whether you're going to go into a
developed market or non developed markets in Europe or less developed market. Maybe
you can give a little bit more insights on what you see as your fourth leg in Europe?

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you, Michael. Well on the first question, I think I mentioned it somewhere in
the presentation. For this year, we are still guided by the Connect21 KPIs. So that means
where we have stated we do a share buyback, unless we have significant M&A. But as you
know, these decisions are only taken after the Second Quarter results so probably in the
month of August. But our guidance is based on Connect21 KPIs. That being said and it's
may be a good opportunity for you to mention because we talk about free cash flow as
well as dividend. So that means that in 2022, our dividend commitment will also still be
based on the results of '21, which is the 50% of profit. So the free cash flow that we count

Page 17 of 27



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

FINAL

is about upstreaming and the dividend in '23, '24, '25, based on the results of '22, '23, 24.
So I don't want to leave any misunderstanding in that respect.
Secondly, on the fourth entity, this is not new. It was part of our M&A strategy already
under Connect21 where we have said we have actually three core markets with Belgium,
U.K. and Portugal, and it would be good to strengthen and diversify the dividend and the
profit contribution for the group, if we could add such a fourth market, a market where we
have an operation that is sizable, potentially leading in the market and with a very stable
profit and dividend contribution and also an entity that we control. So that's why almost
naturally we say that this market is supposed to be in Europe. We have not been
successful yet in the Connect21 strategy, but we still keep it as one of the potential M&A
action points. Okay. Next question is for Fulin Liang.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

I have just two questions. The first one is presumably all the -- like 6% to 8% EPS growth.
That is also depends on the IFRS 17 implementation, right? So all the metrics apart from
the cash which will be only applied to 2022. Is that right understanding?

Bloomberg Transcript

Then on the cash, if I do the math correctly, so you have EUR 1.7 billion on the lower end,
you have EUR 1.7 billion of free cash, and that is post the home office kind of cost of half
billion. So you add that up, you were expecting EUR 2.2 billion remittance from all your
operations. Then if I look at that, on the lower end 2.2 versus the actual remittance from
your kind of business in the last three years, in the last 3-year cycle, we were talking about
EUR 1.9 billion remittance, which is a sum of EUR 1.6 billion plus 0.3 from Asia, 1.6 Europe,
plus 0.3 from Asia. This 1.9 will be increased to 2.2 at least.
Presumably, the European remittance is actually growth is -- will be very limited. So does
that mean actually, you are effectively aiming for doubling your remittance from the Asian
business units. Is that right way to understand it? Is -- and then presumably, you have
actually communicated your business target with your Asia partners in different countries
and they have actually agreed on this kind of doubling the -- or kind of a very high-growth
of the cash remitters?

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Okay. Let me take the first question, for Christophe on EPS and IFRS 17, and the
remittance is highly Asia related so Filip will jump in.

A - Christophe Boizard

{BIO 15390084 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you. So on the IFRS 17, to make things very clear, you should consider that all
these targets should be understood as if IFRS 17 didn't exist. So consider a 3-year
homogeneous 3-year and IFRS 17 will come later. We are actively working on with the CFO
forum of what could be the right way to restate and to recalibrate different objectives. But
you should consider in this exercise as if IFRS 17 didn't exist.
Having said that, you will appreciate the fact that we are, except for the EPS, we are
moving from something based on a percentage of the IFRS result for the guidance, for
Page 18 of 27



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

FINAL

the dividend to something which is more linked to cash flow. This is I would say IFRS
proved. So it means that -- and you can see that among peers in the market, more and
more, you can see this kind of move to go to cash. I think it's a way to smoothly make the
transition to IFRS 17. So it is more to address the IFRS 17.
Then one last thing to justify why we are switching from the previous framework to this
one based on cash flow. It's a little bit like ALM, ALM where you try to match your liabilities
with corresponding assets here. Since we have this growth component, since we have the
payout ratio, which is quite different between Europe and Asia, we have -- we can see
things in parallel as the ALM. We have the remittance and then we give certainty about the
share that will be distributed. So in a nutshell, IFRS 17 consider that it doesn't exist for this
exercise. And later on, next year, you will have another session with updated figures and
target. But at this stage, we will try to put and to propose things which are homogeneous
to this target, no real change. It will be the calibration under IFRS 17. Then on the cash, it is
a market move and it partially address the IFRS 17 issue.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Okay. Maybe, Filip on the remittance.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Filip Coremans

{BIO 17614100 <GO>}

Yes. On the remittance out of Asia, to be very clear, it is not excessively going up in this
plan. Let me clarify what is -- at least for Asia region underlying. First and foremost, you
have heard that we expect a very hefty growth in the region. That's not only in the bottom
line, that's also in the top line. Indeed, distribution channel expense underpinning that will
require investment. So overall, on a gross basis, because you were grossing up the
remittance there for Asia region, we are in this plan with between EUR 500 million and
EUR 550 million only, yes, cumulative.
That is gradually going up. And by 2024, we expect that gross amount to be close to EUR
200 million a year. In fact, that is not very aggressively up if compared to where we are
today. We go, therefore, an average net payout ratio -- gross payout ratio of around 30%
throughout the region. But in the overall growth picture that you were talking about, we
should not forget that indeed, and I should pass it to Antonio Cano, but we have an
increasing result from reinsurance coming into play. But it's maybe better, Antonio, if you
give the overview on the European side.

A - Antonio Bosque
Yes. I'll check. If this works, you hear me? Yes. Okay. So indeed, as Filip was saying, you
should add up the increasing profit generated by the Reinsurance segment, which is
assumed to be upstreamed 100%. In fact, Reinsurance sits legally at the opco level. Then
we have also the latest acquisition from Turkey, AvivaSA, which is also a new contributor to
dividends.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Okay. Got you. Sorry, just to clarify with Filip. So because in the last three years, 3-year
cumulative is only EUR 300 million, and it is growing to EUR 500 million to EUR 550 million.
Page 19 of 27



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

That's quite impressive growth, right?

FINAL

A - Filip Coremans

{BIO 17614100 <GO>}

Yes. But just to be the EUR 300 million, I think that is net maybe true because we made
some investments. But if we look, for instance, at this year, what we expect this year
because we have more or less announced that we are close to EUR 170 million for the
year only. So -- but that is because China Taiping or Taiping Life better at an exceptionally
good year last year, certainly in comparison to our IFRS results because the strong
rebound in the Chinese equity markets that boosted the result there relative to ours.
They add for the year, a payout ratio of 35%. Not sure that, that will stay.
In any case, we do not count on an increase in the payout ratios for these three years in
Asia region. So we stick to, on average, 30 for our plan. If the reality would turn out to be
that these payout ratios can go up. It will depend on the local growth plans that we see
mature. Of course we will not be unhappy and probably nobody will be unhappy at that
moment. But in this plan, we stick to it.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Okay. Ashik, I understand you have another question.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Yes. I have a few follow-up questions, if I may. I mean how do we think about your share
buyback decision? So you made it very clear that there could be EUR 300 million to EUR
600 million left, and then you will assess the opportunities, et cetera. But is this an annual
assessment, 3-year period assessment? So how do we think about that? So let's say in
first year, you decided, no, the pipeline of potential M&A looks good. So we are not doing
a buyback. But next year also, you are not able to do that. So at the end of two years, do
you expect a double buyback? Or would you say not really? So any thoughts on that?
Sorry to come back on this question again.
Secondly, you mentioned that there is EUR 200 million to EUR 300 million of IT-related
spend you are planning to do. So will that be coming out of this EUR 1.7 billion to EUR 2.1
billion? Or will -- is that already deducted from this, i.e., this number is after those
expenses?
And just third question is, I mean how do we think about your balance sheet flexibility to
do M&A at the moment? I mean what sort -- I think you have EUR 1.2 billion cash at the
moment at the holding company. So if you don't do -- assume anything for buyback, that
means, I mean EUR 700 million, EUR 800 million of M&A flexibility, would you say there is
any leverage capacity left? So any clarity on that would be very helpful.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Okay. I pass it to Christophe. I think I'll come back on the second question for the
investments.

Page 20 of 27



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

FINAL

A - Christophe Boizard

{BIO 15390084 <GO>}

So on the share buyback, Ashik. So first, I'd like to remind you that this was already said.
But for this year, we are still with the Connect21 plan. So it means that in August, when the
Board meet, we still have this "commitment" on the EUR 150 million. So now we are
talking next year, in 2022. In 2022, we enter the new plan. Here, it will be an annual
assessment. We cannot say that it is on 3-year because it would mean that we have to
wait and so each and every year, we will assess if a share buyback can be done or not.
And at this stage, I'd like to remind you our very old policy around capital management.
You remember that we said, number one, M&A, we give priority to M&A, and you can see
that we have ambition on this.

Bloomberg Transcript

Second in the list was to be nice with shareholders. In this, we have a dividend story and
the share buyback. You will appreciate that in this version of the plan, more emphasis is
given on dividend because if you do the math, you can see that more or less, the
dividend will increase by 8% a year, if we follow the different figures that we have told
you. Then you remember that the third position, we had liability management. But this is
less of a concern since most of the legacy are already done. So again number one, M&A.
Number two, share buybacks. So we will have the same attitude vis-a-vis the share
buyback.
So first, M&A and nice acquisition come first. Then we have the share buyback. You have
the margin you mentioned, but nothing prevents us to take something out of the existing
cash. So it means that we have flexibility, a big difference between the previous version of
the plan is that there is not this commitment with a figure of EUR 150 million. But I think
that is not a change, except that, as I said, more emphasis is given to dividend with this
nice 8% increase on average.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Okay. On the investments, Ashik, so the EUR 200 million to EUR 320 million. First of all,
the major part of this will be in our opcos. This is not an additional cost that we have to
deduct in the corporate center cost compared to the corporate center cost today. That's
not what it is. These are IT budget, but not only IT, there is also product development.
There is also investments we need to make for the health care ecosystem or, for
instance, to build one of those platforms that we might be interested in or to connect to
one of those platforms we might be interested. So most of these amounts are integrated
in the local budgets when they design their plan. But the impact of it, the answer is yes, it
is taken into account in the overall plan. But don't see it as an additional deduction we
have to make from the corporate center cost.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

That's very clear. I mean it's -- just on the buyback, I think apart from that written
commitment from what you're saying, it looks like nothing has changed. Apart from that
one liner that you had in your previous presentation of like at least more than EUR 150
million. Apart from the written commitment, it feels like the way you are thinking, nothing
has changed?

Page 21 of 27



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

FINAL

Well we give, I think a strong commitment, Ashik, on dividend, yes. On the other hand, we
have this look at growth, free cash flow access that we have organically and inorganically.
So we look at the total growth of shareholders' return when we look at share buyback as
well as what we have available, as Christophe has just explained. What we will not give is
that if we don't have a sizable M&A, the share buyback is automatic. We're also not
committing that it will be automatically EUR 150 million.
So because of these growth plans, also inorganically, we do take a little bit more flexibility.
We also look by the way how we position with the dividend. So we link the two, but we
want to give, I think a very adequate positive shareholder return after all. But the
assessment, and I want to confirm that what Christophe says, we will make that
assessment year after year.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

That's very clear. Sorry, just one question I had was the balance sheet flexibility on M&A.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Yes. I know. Christophe, I don't know whether you can talk about the cash and the
leverage.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Christophe Boizard

{BIO 15390084 <GO>}

Yes. so on flexibility, what we indicate is that our "fighting power" is in the range of EUR
2.8 billion all in all. That -- so it means, obviously additional debt and the additional debt
will be a mix of sub debt, where we still have room for around EUR 500 million, but we
could take senior debt, and you know that prices are extremely convenient on senior
debt, less than 1%.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Okay. If I may give the floor to Robin van den Broek. Robin, please, what is your question?

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

Yes. Can you hear me?

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Yes. Absolutely.

Q - Robin van den Broek

{BIO 17002948 <GO>}

No. I think most of my questions have been answered already. I just wanted to make sure I
understand the free cash flow dynamics correctly. I think for this year, you're guiding for
more than EUR 700 million of remittances from the opcos and then your Reinsurance unit
basically sits at the holdco.

Page 22 of 27



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

FINAL

Last year, I think the profitability was around EUR 80 million. So should we see the
profitability of the Reinsurance basically as a reducing factor of your holdco cost also
throughout this plan. Then that EUR 700 million of remittances from your opcos is basically
a starting point also for the next three years. That's my first question.
The second question is on free capital generation. You've not really talked about that
today. Should we assume on the back of that, that the EUR 500 million to EUR 550 million
for European entities is still the right way to look at it? Or can we expect some maybe
positive impacts from the long-term equity holdings that you're already using as of today?

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Maybe, Antonio, on the reinsurance?

A - Antonio Bosque
Yes. So very, very short on the Reinsurance. No. We assume Reinsurance to be just an
operating company. So their dividends are part of the dividends coming from the
operations. Separately, there's reduction from holdco costs. At the end of the day it's -- it
doesn't make a hell of a difference, but it is assumed to be insurance result and dividend.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

On operational -- free cash capital generation, Robin, first of all, what we say is, and we
want to explain that the upstreaming and the free cash flow will be fully funded by the
capital generated in each and every entity. So that means your guidance for Europe is
right. But when we link free cash flow with fleet capital generation, we will also add here
the dividends coming from Asia. So you take the free cash flow in Europe, which you can
compare with the free capital generation on both of them, we add the dividends from
Asia. Then we say that we make sure that the free cash flow can be fully funded with the
free -- the cumulative free capital generation over the 3-year period, which means that
the new targets we are setting and the new KPIs are sustainable in the long run.
So we are not tapping into the existing capital of our operations with these targets. That
being said, we will continue on giving operational fee capital generation guidance yearafter-year. So what we have been doing in the past, we will keep on doing that into the
future. So I hope that explains your question. I think we have another question, and that is
coming also from Michael Huttner.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

Just a very quick follow-up question on the -- well, two. One on the EUR 1.2 billion, I think
you said at the beginning, you were going to talk more about it. And maybe you have
already, I don't know. The other one is on the tax on the -- sorry, I flipped the camera on,
sorry, apologies. On the tax, so the benefit of the Reinsurance, as I remember it, is the -you used up some of the tax losses, which have been created in the past. I just wondered
how much are they part of your thinking here? Maybe you can give us a figure because I
think the missing number we're kind of -- we're thinking about is that Reinsurance is
becoming a big profit earner here?

Page 23 of 27



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Well the EUR 1.2 billion. My -- question is related to earnings? Or is it related to the cash
position because we have twice the same numbers?

FINAL

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 1556863 <GO>}

It was -- I think -- I'm sorry, maybe I was a bit confused at the beginning. I think it was the
cash position.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

On the cash position. Well the EUR 1.2 billion on the cash, well, I did link it when I give the
revision of the M&A strategy. It was just meant to put the M&A capacity, and Christophe
has just answered if you include leverage on our total capacity. So no, my intention was
that I would come back to M&A. I think I have clarified where our focus would go to build
growth with this EUR 1.2 billion. Secondly, maybe you can talk about the Reinsurance?

A - Antonio Bosque

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. So you linked the Reinsurance result to the tax losses. Bear in mind that at the
operating -- at the holding level, we have the cost of the operations of the holding. Plus
the cost of the sub debt. Now the Reinsurance profits today don't yet compensate for
those to cost items. So yes, it is a kind of tax-free earnings and they helped to
compensate the costs and the interest rate at holding level and the rating. So we're not
eating up on the deferred tax losses.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

They are perpetual as well as they stay. Fulin, I understand you have a follow-up question.
Fulin, you are on mute maybe. We don't hear you.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Hello? Can you hear me now?

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Yes. Okay.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Yes. Okay. Sorry. So you might have touched upon, it, but I -- because I was switching
actually the devices. So I missed a little bit of the presentation in the middle. Two quick
ones. The first one is, did I miss the point that did you say actually the fourth European
countries you want to do is where you potentially could have a leading position. You had
operations before? Did I get that correct?
Then secondly is on the U.K. You said U.K., so you're refraining from the M&A and why
you're doing the operational kind of improvement. Are there any specific target for those
restructure like operation targets in the U.K.?
Page 24 of 27



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

FINAL

Well first of all, on the four types of operation, no. It is about entering a new market. That
we could declare as a core market likely today having Belgium, Portugal and the U.K. So it
will be a new market. But core means we have a controlled entity with a leading position
and stable profit and dividend upstream. That are roughly the criteria for a fourth core
market. I don't know you want to talk about U.K., Antonio?

A - Antonio Bosque
Yes. So in the U.K., we are still simplifying and reviewing the portfolio of activities. So
therefore, as long as we're busy with that, we will refrain from M&A. I think that was part
of your question. But the U.K. remains one of our core markets and our profit targets
remain what they were previously.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

And so you -- when -- or let's say what's trigger you think okay we've done with U.K. and
then probably is the time to consider M&A?

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Combined ratio below 95%.

A - Antonio Bosque

Bloomberg Transcript

It would be anyhow towards the end of this cycle or the next cycle. And allow me, I will not
be more specific than that. I think we still have one to two years of hard work.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

The plan by itself, Fulin, because there is also an IT component. The plan by itself will run
almost three years. So the plan will bring us to 2024. Okay. Ashik, you understand you
have one more question.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Just two small follow-ups. So just to be clear, the guidance for your growth, 6% to 8% is
on the EUR 950 million number for 2021, right? Is that understanding correct?

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Well it is on the number of 2021, but I'm not committing to EUR 950 million.

A - Antonio Bosque
Between EUR 900 million and EUR 950 million.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

We have said EUR 900 million to EUR 950 million is the guidance.

Page 25 of 27



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay. That's clear. Secondly is the Reinsurance earnings from Asia will be part of Asian
earnings and not Reinsurance earnings.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

FINAL

That's correct.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Okay. That's all I was looking to ask. I mean it's a very clear presentation, so thanks a lot.

A - Christophe Boizard

{BIO 15390084 <GO>}

Just to clarify, the Reinsurance from Asia. So Asia, that is the result from Taiping Re. There
is some reinsurance activity we do with our NCP partners in Asia. It's still minor. That is part
of the Reinsurance track just to be complete.

Q - Ashik Musaddi

{BIO 15847584 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Maybe if I can just ask one more question. I mean on Asia, we have been just
looking at China for quite two, three years. Basically, the focus has been just China, China,
China, that's it. I mean what about Thailand and Malaysia? I mean these two are good
businesses, but somehow, the growth is not coming through in these two businesses.
What's going on? When do we see a turnaround of those things? Is the product a
problem, a market problem?
Any thoughts on that would be very helpful because, clearly, China is coming through very
strongly, but if it is supported by Malaysia and Thailand, which is two of your best
businesses, I mean no doubt about it, Etiqa and Muang Thai, but it's just not coming
through in terms of earnings. So any thoughts on that would be helpful.

A - Filip Coremans

{BIO 17614100 <GO>}

Yes. First and foremost, I agree, in fact, I had expected this question, Ashik, for many
reasons. First and foremost and allow me to say that I'm working on trying to get more
granularity in the disclosures on Asia region, but that will take some time. But I think we
owe that to the investor community, given the big stake that it will become to give indeed
more insights in the business and profitability in the signature, not only of the region, but
indeed, a bit more granularity. This is something, of course that we have to do in tandem
with the partner. I'm very transparent. We have to have the dialogue but we are thinking
about how we can do that. It could be that it becomes part of the regular disclosures. It
could be that we do it in a separate investor meet maybe once or twice a year to give you
guys more insight.
Secondly, on Malaysia and Thailand, I think it would be doing them a little bit of injustice
saying that their earnings are not coming along only, indeed, China dwarfed the dialogues
and the stories, also because of the impact of valuation, interest rates, equity market
movements, which are materially and blur from my perspective, the nice developments

Page 26 of 27



Company N ame: Ageas SA/N V
Company Ticker: AGS BB Equity
Date: 2021-06-01

FINAL

we see in the other countries. Thailand has been historically one of our best investments
ever the return on investment made there beats everything. Only the last two years,
indeed, that has been more difficult. But of course last year was heavily impacted. The
Thai equity market was very heavily impacted by COVID. They are recovering nicely. We
will see how they come out of this year.
But indeed, we will try to give more insight on how these businesses are doing. But I don't
think it would be fair to say that they're not growing. In this plan, we do have -- and you
have seen the chart or at least you will get it when you have access to the documents.
You see the growth expectation CAGRs that we have on this market separately listed. So
this is a promise to work hard on that to get more information to you.

A - Hans De Cuyper

{BIO 17991990 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Thank you, all. Thank you, Ashik, for your questions and all the others on the line.
How much I think we would have lost now to go at the table and to have a dinner
together, like we used to have at the other launches of the previous strategic cycles. I'm
confident that next time, we will be able to do that again wherever it might be in the
world. But anyway I think -- thank you for staying with us the last two hours. I hope it was all
clear. If not, if you have further questions, of course you will find your way to our Investors
Relations team. So thank you again for joining us again today. Talk soon. Good-bye. Good
evening.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 27 of 27

