Company N ame: Fairfax Financial H oldings L td
Company Ticker: FFH CN Equity
Date: 2021-11-05

Q3 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Derek Bulas, Associate Vice President of Legal
Jennifer J. S. Allen, Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Peter S. Clarke , Vice President & Chief Operating Officer
V. Prem Watsa, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer

Other Participants
Analyst
Mark Dwell

Presentation
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning, and welcome to Fairfax's Third Quarter Results Conference Call. Your lines
have been placed in a listen-only mode. After the presentation, we will conduct a
question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) Today's conference is being
recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.
Your host for today's call is Prem Watsa, with opening remarks from Mr.Derek Bulas.
Mr.Bulas, please begin.

Derek Bulas
Good morning, and welcome to our call to discuss Fairfax's 2021 third quarter results. This
call may include forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ, perhaps materially
from those contained in such forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of
uncertainties and risk factors. The most foreseeable of which are set out under risk
factors in our Base Shelf Prospectus, which has been filed with Canadian Securities
Regulators and is available on SEDAR, and which now include the risk of adverse
consequences to Fairfax's business, investments and personnel, resulting from or related
to the COVID-19 pandemic. Fairfax disclaims any intention or obligation to update or
revise any forward-looking statements except as required by applicable securities law.
I'll now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, Prem Watsa.

V. Prem Watsa

{BIO 1433188 <GO>}

Thank you, Derek. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to Fairfax's 2021 third
quarter conference call. I plan to give you some of the highlights then pass the call to
Page 1 of 14



Company N ame: Fairfax Financial H oldings L td
Company Ticker: FFH CN Equity
Date: 2021-11-05

FINAL

Peter Clarke, our Chief Operating Officer to comment on our insurance and reinsurance
operations and Jen Allen, our Chief Financial Officer to provide some additional financial
details.
We have had record earnings of almost $2.5 billion in the first nine months of 2021. It
already exceeds our highest annual earnings ever of $2 billion. Book value per share grew
by almost 20%, including our $10 per share dividend. Our combined ratio for the nine
months was 97%. The third quarter was impacted by Hurricane Ida and the German
floods, European floods with a combined ratio a 101%. Peter will give you a more details
on that. Our gross premium for the nine months were up 23% and 25% in the third
quarter, with steady rate increases across all our major lines of business, with the
exception of workers compensation.

Bloomberg Transcript

Insurance and reinsurance business is growing rapidly all over the world and we expect to
write about $23.5 billion gross premiums in 2021, up about 24% from 2020. All through
2020 last year, at our conference calls, I had highlighted to you that as shown on Page 188
of our 2019 Annual Report that was all available then or now Page 2,001 of our 2020
Annual Report there were only four years out of 34 years when we had a negative
investment return. In each case, we rebounded significantly the next year. Just to highlight
that again, the four years were 1990, we were down 4.4%. 1991, up 14.6%. In 1999, we -the whole the whole investment portfolio was down 2.7%. In 2000, the next year was up
12.2%. In 2013, the whole investment portfolio was down 4.3%. 2014 the next year, up
8.6%.
And finally in 2016, the portfolio was down 2.2%. In '17, the following year up 6.8%. Only
four out of 34 years. And each time investors worried about our investments. Investments
results were much better than expected. In the first quarter of 2020, we had a negative
3.6% return on our investment portfolio, but by the end of the year our investment returns
more than reversed and we ended the year with a positive return of 2.4%. In the first nine
months of 2021, our investment return was 7%, which resulted in a total investment return
of $3.3 billion. You will of course note that half of the investment portfolio was earning
nothing because it is in cash and short-term securities.
Our history had shown that our returns are very lumpy. And this has worked for us over
the last 35 years. We have never focused on steady quarterly earnings quarter-by-quarter,
even though the stock market really loves it currently. Here's how our major common
stock positions that are mark-to-market in our financial statements did in the first nine
months of 2021. Blackberry was up 47%. Stelco was up 64%. Kennedy Wilson 17%. IIFL well
56%. To take the top 20 common stock positions which are mark-to-market in our financial
statements, they were up on average about 22%. Not included in the above are our
associates and consolidated investments, which are not mark-to-market. Here's how the
large positions did in the first nine months of 2021.
Eurobank up 38%. Atlas Corp up 40%. Quess up 68%. Resolute up 82%. Fairfax India up
36%. Recipe up 17% and Thomas Cook up 39%. On average for that group of names up
32%. Our book value per share as I said was up 20% in the first nine months of 2021.
However, this does not include the increase in our equity accounted investments and our
consolidated investments which are not mark-to-market. As we mentioned in our press
Page 2 of 14



Company N ame: Fairfax Financial H oldings L td
Company Ticker: FFH CN Equity
Date: 2021-11-05

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

release, if we did mark them to market, we would add $483 million on $19 per share on a
pre-tax basis, bringing the excess of fair value over carrying value as of September 30,
2021. Also as mentioned, Digit with closing up its share issuance and IRDA approval to
increase our ownership about 49%, would add approximately $1.1 billion or $37 per share.
If these are added to our book value, our book value would be in excess of $600 per
share.
As I have said previously, long-term value investing has gone through a very difficult
period for about a decade now. Valuations of value-oriented stocks versus good stocks
particularly technology have never been so extreme, exceeding even the extremes of the
dotcom era in 2000. As the economy continues to normalize, we expect to reverse into
the main with value-oriented stocks coming to the fall. We continue to believe our
common stock positions continue to be undervalued even though they've gone up
significantly as I just mentioned. I remind you that in the three years, 2000 to 2002 the
downturn for the three years 2000 to 2002, most stock market indices in the United
States, Canada and Europe were down about 50%. But our stock portfolio was up 100%.
On August 23, Fairfax completed the sale of RiverStone Barbados receiving total
consideration of $696 million. As part of that transaction we received a contingent value
instrument for potential proceeds for upto $235 million based on future performance of
RiverStone in the UK, which we have not recorded any value on. We wish Luke and the
entire RiverStone UK team all of us going forward, we expect them to do very well. We
continue to have approximately $1.5 billion at the holding company, predominantly in cash
and short-term securities. Please note our cash in the holding company is to meet any and
every contingency that Fairfax might face. We are not making any long-term investments
with this cash other than the support our insurance and reinsurance operations.
I'll now pass the call to Peter Clarke, our Chief Operating Officer to comment on our
insurance and reinsurance operations. Peter?

Peter S. Clarke

{BIO 15243793 <GO>}

Thank you, Prem. Our company has continued to produce outstanding underlying results.
The 25% growth in gross premium written over the third quarter of 2020 was once again
very strong, generating gross premiums of approximately $6 billion in the quarter. We
produced the combined ratio of 101 or an underwriting loss of $47 million in the quarter,
which included $605 million of catastrophe losses principally from Hurricane Ida and the
European floods.
Total catastrophe losses added 13.9 points to the combined ratio in the quarter. By
comparison in the third quarter of 2020, we produced an underwriting profit of $53 million
or a 98.5 combined ratio reflecting catastrophe losses of $219 million or 6 combined ratio
point. And COVID losses of a $143 million or 4 combined ratio points. In the third quarter
of 2021, we had no significant COVID related losses. Adjusting for the above-average
catastrophe losses, our underlying combined ratio is running at of 94 combined ratio for
the year-to-date and 92 for the quarter. On the underwriting front, Northbridge and
Zenith reported the lowest combined ratios being 90% and 92% respectively, while Allied
World also had a strong quarter at 94%.
Page 3 of 14



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Fairfax Financial H oldings L td
Company Ticker: FFH CN Equity
Date: 2021-11-05

Odyssey Group and Brit had elevated combined ratios driven principally by catastrophe
losses. As mentioned, our gross premium for the quarter was up 25%, an increase of
approximately $1.2 billion from the previous year. This growth has been made possible by
the favorable market conditions that prevail in many of our markets, particularly in North
America. Allied World grew its premiums by 24%, with growth especially strong and
directors and officers and excess casualty segments. Odyssey Groups gross premiums
were up 23% and continued expansion in both its insurance and reinsurance segments.
Brit's premium was up 38% in the quarter, including Ki. It's innovated -- innovative followon syndicate that started writing business in 2021.
It should be noted that under accounting standards, Brit must consolidate 100% of Ki's
results, as it has effective control of the company even though it only has a 20% economic
interest. Excluding Ki, Brit's gross premium was up 18% in the quarter. In Canada,
Northbridge's top-line expanded 21% in U.S. dollar terms as it continues to register
impressive rate increases, strong retention in new business. Crum and Forster increased
its premium 22%, driven by its accident and health division and includes the rebound of its
travel and student health business that was significantly affected by the COVID shutdown
in 2020.
Growth at Zenith was more modest as it continues to face the headwinds of the
competitive workers compensation market in the United States. Expansion was strong in
our international operations as well, with growth of approximately a $150 million yearover-year. Fairfax Asia's premium was up 29% this quarter and included a full quarter from
recently consolidated Singapore Re. Our companies in South America, Central and
Eastern Europe and in South Africa all registered strong growth in the quarter. Across all of
Fairfax, we expect these trends to continue as rate increases remain robust. Our
diversified portfolio, global footprint and exceptional management teams gives us the
ability to generate significant organic growth.
As previously mentioned, our combined ratio of 101.1% included, 13.9 points of catastrophe
losses. Hurricane Ida and the European floods were the main drivers of the catastrophe
losses, which resulted in losses of $340 million and $174 million, respectively. Hurricane Ida
estimated to be one of the top five costliest storms in history, made landfall in Louisiana
as a category for and went on to produce flooding as its remnant passed through
Northeastern United States. As mentioned previously, Ki is consolidated into Brit's results.
For the year-to-date September 30, excluding Ki Brit's combined ratio was 101. -- 103.1. As
Ki's earn premium catches up to its underwriting expenses and it's catastrophe losses, we
expect Ki will benefit for its combined ratio going forward beginning in 2022. Year-todate, aggregate catastrophe losses and COVID losses of over $1 billion have been
absorbed within our reported combined ratio of 97.3.
In the quarter, we recorded modest favorable reserve development of $70 million or 1.6
points on our combined ratio. There were no material changes in our COVID ultimate
losses in the quarter, and as of the end of the third quarter, we hold $431 million in net
unpaid claims for COVID-19, of which 73% is IBNR. We believe the reserved position in our
main operating companies continues to strengthen as we expand with today's well-priced
business, with price increases exceeding loss costs. The companies are currently in the

Page 4 of 14



Company N ame: Fairfax Financial H oldings L td
Company Ticker: FFH CN Equity
Date: 2021-11-05

FINAL

process of their annual actuarial reserve reviews, which will be reflected in our fourth
quarter results.
As has been the case in the recent quarter, our expense ratio has continued to benefit
from the sharp increase in premium volume. Our overall underwriting expense ratio is 1.5
points lower quarter-over-quarter help mainly by Allied World where the expense ratio in
the quarter drop 2.9 points in 2021 versus 2020. We expect market conditions to remain
strong throughout 2021 and well into 2022. The main drivers of the heart market continue
to be low interest rates, social inflation and in this industry participants re-evaluating their
risk appetite and capacity deployment. Our decentralized operating system continues to
serve as well, allowing our companies to respond quickly to opportunities in their markets.
I will now pass the call to Jen Allen, our Chief Financial Officer to comment on our
investment results, our non-insurance companies' performance and overall financial
position.

Bloomberg Transcript

Jennif er J. S. Allen

{BIO 20542595 <GO>}

Thank you, Peter. The results of the third quarter 2021 continue to be positive, building on
our momentum we achieved in the fourth quarter 2020 in the first half of 2021. We
reported net earnings attributive with the shareholders of Fairfax of $462 million in just
under $2.5 billion in the third quarter in first nine months of 2021, respectively. With book
value per basic share at September 30, 2021, of $5.62 which represented a year-to-date
growth in book value per share of 19.7% adjusted to include our $10 common share
dividend paid in the first quarter of 2021. Peter has already provided detailed commentary
on our insurance and reinsurance company. So, I'll focus on highlighting the results from
our non-insurance companies.
Excluding the impact of Fairfax India's $18.6 million of performance fees to Fairfax
recorded in the third quarter of 2021 and nil in the third quarter of 2020, the operating
income of our non-insurance companies improved by $43.7 million, which principally
reflected higher share of profit from Fairfax India's investment in their associate IIFL
Finance. Stronger results from our restaurant and retail segment, which reported an
operating income of $59 million compared to $47 million in the third quarter of 2020. With
the third quarter of 2020, benefiting from the government subsidies that reduced those
2020 expenses.
Revenue grew by 12.8%, reflecting easing of COVID-19 restrictions across Canada. That
drove the increased foot traffic at the bricks and mortar locations. The growth in those
revenues combined with expense management programs that were already in place
noted healthy gross margins across the key operating companies. And lastly, a lower
operating loss in our other segment, which primarily reflected the deconsolidation of
Fairfax Africa and its subsidiary CIG in our fourth quarter of 2020, which negatively
impacted the third quarter 2020 by $45 million. And it was also -- we saw the benefit in
2021 have increased business volumes at Boat Rocker and Dexterra Group.

Page 5 of 14



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Fairfax Financial H oldings L td
Company Ticker: FFH CN Equity
Date: 2021-11-05

If you exclude the impact of Fairfax India's a $118 million of performance fees to Fairfax in
the first nine months of 2021 and the reversal of a performance fee of $47 million in the
first nine months of 2020, the operating income of the non-insurance companies have
improved by about a $175 million, with $141 million attributable to our restaurant and retail
segment and improvement of about $29 million at Fairfax India. As noted in the first nine
months of 2021, Fairfax India recorded a performance fee accrual of $118 million with pretax earnings attributed to Fairfax shareholders benefiting by about $83 million, as Fairfax
India's non-controlling interest will be allocated 70% of India's expense.
At September 30, 2021 our pre-tax excess of our fair value over the adjusted value of our
non-insurance associates and certain consolidated non-insurance subsidiaries and the
company considers to be portfolio investments with $483 million, which compared to a
deficiency or our adjusted carrying value was higher than the fair value at December 31,
2020 of $663 million. That improvement in the first nine months of 2021 of over $1.1 billion
has not been reflected in our book value per share, but it's regularly reviewed by
manager -- management as an indicator of the investment performance. The noninsurance associates accounted for $912 million of that appreciation, principally attributed
to Atlas Corp at $422 million, Quess at $243 million, Eurobank of a $184 million and the
improvements in certain consolidated non-insurance subsidiaries of $234 million, which
were primarily Fairfax India of $128 and Thomas Cook at $78 million.
I'll refer you to Page 79 in our third quarter interim report for further details on the
underlying positions that drove that $1.1 billion improvement. As we mentioned before,
we're focused on organic growth, supported by smaller friendly acquisitions with a
commitment to growing long-term shareholder value. Focusing on growing long-term
shareholder value with -- and with our concerns on inflation, we continue to hold a
significant portion of our investment portfolio in cash, short-term investments and other
short-dated fixed income securities that represented about $21.2 billion or 44.1% of the
insurance and reinsurance company as investment portfolio. As we've said previously, this
position dampens interest income in the short-term, but will protect us from rising rates
and inflation.
Our interest in dividend income of $167 million in the third quarter of 2021 was down from
the $182 million in the third quarter of 2020 and primarily reflected lower interest income
earned, principally due to a general decrease in our sovereign bond yields. Sales of
maturities of our U.S. treasury bonds through 2020 and net sales of our U.S. corporate
bonds in 2021. That was partially offset by higher dividend income on common and
preferred stock. We added net purchases of $1.2 billion of Indian Government bonds, with
an average maturity of 4.0 years. And first mortgage loans at $501 million in the first nine
months of 2021 which are secured by high quality real estate in the U.S., Ireland, UK and
has terms of less than five years. These investments will provide some benefit to our
interest income in the remainder of 2021 in the coming years.
Looking at our consolidated share of profit of associates of $227 million in the third
quarter 2021, reflected strong results from our investments and associates and were
principally comprised of a share profit of $82 million from resolute $43 million from
Eurobank and $20 million from Atlas Corp. Looking to our net gains on investments in the
third quarter of $375 million just over $2.5 billion for our nine months 2021. The net gains
Page 6 of 14



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Fairfax Financial H oldings L td
Company Ticker: FFH CN Equity
Date: 2021-11-05

on investments in the third quarter of 2021 will comprised primarily of net gains of $397
million on our digit compulsory convertible preferred shares, which I'll provide further
details shortly. And net gains of $31 million on our long equity exposures, primarily
reflecting net gains of $157 million on our common stocks and a net gain of about $86
million on the sales of Toys"R"Us Canada. That was partially offset by net losses of a
$117[ph] million on our other equity derivatives that were mainly our long equity total return
swaps. And net losses of a $106 million on convertible bonds which primarily related to our
BlackBerry convertible debentures.
A few additional comments on the $397 million in realized gain recorded on our
investment in Digit. If you recall from our second quarter conference call, we hold a 49%
equity interest in an associate Go Digit Infoworks Services or we refer to it as Digit. Who
entered into agreements with third-party investors were its underlying insurance
subsidiary, Digit Insurance is going to raise $200 million in new equity shares that value
Digit Insurance at $3.5 billion. In addition to that 49% equity interest in Digit, Fairfax also
holds Digit compulsory convertible preferred shares, which are accounted for at a fair
value through profit and loss. At September 30, 2021, Fairfax estimated the fair value of
its investment in those Digit compulsory convertible preferred shares by updating the
probability weighted valuation model that we described last quarter.
We've now attributed a higher waiting of 65% to the risk-adjusted transaction fair value
and ascribe 35% waiting to the fair value that was determined through an internal
discounted cash flow analysis. With the change in that probability weighting reflecting
positive developments occurring in the third quarter of 2021, relating to the closing of the
underlying $200 million capital raise. The implied fair value of our investment in the Digit
compulsory convertible shares with approximately $1.3 billion, which resulted in that
unrealized gain of $397 million in the quarter and $822 million in the first nine months of
2021.
Upon closing of the Digit Insurance $200 million equity raise that's now anticipated to be
completed in the fourth quarter. And the company consolidating Digit upon attaining
specific regulatory approvals to increase our equity interest above 49% to be controlling
interest, we anticipate to record an additional gain of approximately $1.1 billion that will
increase our book value per share by about $37. Looking at a couple of key transactions
just to highlight that completed in the quarter with our insurance companies. We
mentioned earlier last quarter, on July 14, we increased our interest in Eurolife to 80%
from 50% by acquiring the joint venture interest of OMERS for cash consideration of
approximately $143 million and started consolidating the assets liabilities and results to
the Eurolife.
We re-measured our 50% joint venture interest in Eurolife to its fair value of $450 million
and recorded a net gain of a $131 million. On August 23rd, we completed the sale of our
60% joint venture interest in RiverStone Barbados to CVC and received consideration of
$696 million. And then on August 27, Brit issued its shares representing about a 13.9%
equity interest to OMERS for cash consideration of $375 million that was subsequently
paid by Brit as a dividend to Fairfax.

Page 7 of 14



FINAL

Company N ame: Fairfax Financial H oldings L td
Company Ticker: FFH CN Equity
Date: 2021-11-05

And lastly, looking at our non-insurance companies, we continue to look for opportunities
to monetize our investments and we completed the sale of Toys"R"Us Canada. On
August 19, 2021 we sold the operations. We still maintain the underlying real estate of
Toys"R"Us Canada for consideration of $90 million and we deconsolidated the Toys"R"Us
Canada from the non-insurance companies reporting segments and recorded a realized
gain of $86 million. The liquidity position of the company remain strong, with our cash and
investments at the holding company of over $1.5 billion at September 30, 2021. And our
credit facility borrowings have been fully repaid. The holding company cash as we have
mentioned before supports the decentralized structure and enables us to deploy capital
to our insurance companies efficiently.

Bloomberg Transcript

We continue to be prudent in terms of our capital deployment strategy and our total debt
to total cap ratio excluding the consolidated non-insurance companies decreased by 4%
to 25.7% at September 30, 2021 from 29.7% at December 31, 2020, which reflected
significant increase in our shareholders equity attribute to our net earnings of just under
$2.5 billion and a reduction in the debt both at the holding company and our insurance and
reinsurance operations. During the third quarter we repaid $500 million on the credit
facility leaving no amounts drawn at September 30th. And in addition, subsequent to the
quarter, on October 29, 2021, we redeemed $85 million principle of our unsecured notes
that were due in February 2024 at par.
In summary, after the first nine months of the year, the company is very well positioned to
continue to benefit from the strong insurance market, remaining focused on organic
growth, underwriting profitability and prudent reserving. And with the easing of the
COVID-19 restrictions, our non-insurance associates and certain consolidated noninsurance subsidiaries that we consider to be portfolio investments are now benefiting
the company's consolidated results, helping to drive the growth in our book value per
basic share.
Thank you. And I'll now turn it back over to Prem.

V. Prem Watsa

{BIO 1433188 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Jen. We look forward to answering your questions. Please give us
your name and your company name and try to limit your questions to only one so that it's
fair to all on the call. Okay, Cedric, we're ready for the questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Question And Answer
(Operator Instructions) First question comes from Junior Wong who is a private investor.
Your line is open.

Page 8 of 14



Company N ame: Fairfax Financial H oldings L td
Company Ticker: FFH CN Equity
Date: 2021-11-05

Q - Analyst

FINAL

Congratulations on the wonderful earning. A question for you, Fairfax India and Fairfax
Financial now the gap is over like 40%, 50% between book value and the actual share
price. What do you guys plan? Or how do you guys think we could get it narrow or closer
to the actual book value for Fairfax India and Fairfax Financial?

A - V. Prem Watsa

{BIO 1433188 <GO>}

Thank you, Junior for your question. First of all, we have focus on performance right, longterm performance. And stock we can't control. We can buyback our stock. When we
buyback our stock, we think it's very attractive. We've said that before. We look at financial
soundness first. We got to be financially sound, which we are. We've got $1.5 billion as Jen
said in cash and marketable securities, $2 billion of credit line undrawn five years. So we're
very, very strong and no maturities for a few years -- three years. So financially sound. We
have -- our insurance businesses are expanding significantly all over the world as Peter
said. And so the second point is to always have capital to take advantage of the
marketplace because you're getting paid to take risks today. And finally, if all of those are
met, then we'd look at buying back shares. So that's how we look at it, but we're focused
on performance.

Q - Analyst
Thanks, and congratulations again on a wonderful quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - V. Prem Watsa

{BIO 1433188 <GO>}

Thank you, Junior. Next question, Cedric.

Operator
Our next question comes from Mark Dwell with RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Q - Mark Dwell

{BIO 4211726 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. A couple of questions. First on -- maybe it's a question for Peter. The
catastrophe losses in the quarter were probably a bit higher than I would have thought
based on your historical performance. I appreciate the events this quarter were very large.
Britt in particular was one that kind of stood out to me as having a much higher
percentage of its equity exposed to cat losses. But can you just talk through how you kind
of manage the overall catastrophe exposure to risk aggregation from an overall company
standpoint and kind of how you fell the numbers came out relative to your expectations?

A - V. Prem Watsa

{BIO 1433188 <GO>}

Yes. I'll ask Peter to add to that. But overall, we -- look, cat exposures are very, very
important. They can destroy companies, Mark, as you know. So we're very focused on cat
losses and we take extreme events. We take like $100 billion, $150 billion in Miami, which
would be like a hurricane five, category 5 getting into Miami and or Houston or a large
earthquake. So we're looking at that at all times and we -- I have said this previously, but
we don't want to lose more than our investment income. So we don't want our capital
Page 9 of 14



Company N ame: Fairfax Financial H oldings L td
Company Ticker: FFH CN Equity
Date: 2021-11-05

shareholders equity to drop because of cat exposures. So given that Peter just your view
on cat exposures the fact that are previously going up and specifically on Brit.

FINAL

A - Peter S. Clarke

{BIO 15243793 <GO>}

Sure. Hi, Mark. Yes, cat exposure is something we look at quite closely at the Fairfax level.
So it's managed at the company level and then we aggregate it as well at the Fairfax level
and monitor that on a quarter-to-quarter basis. Generally speaking our premium which has
been growing like 25%, our cat exposure hasn't been going up -- has basically been flat.
So on a proportional basis, our cat exposure when we look at our overall book of business
is decreasing.

Bloomberg Transcript

As a risk exposure to overall Fairfax, it's coming down. It's specifically in the quarter. It was
a heavy cat quarter and Hurricane Ida was a big event. And when we -- typically when we
get bigger events, our reinsurance books get hit and that's what happened in the case of
Odyssey when there's big Hurricane losses. They're going to get a higher proportion of
the losses. If you go back to and look at Odyssey for the better part of 10 years, this is
only the second quarter that they've had a combined ratio above 100%, and the other
quarter was the third quarter again in 2017 where there was heavy hurricane activity with
Harvey and Irma and I think the other one was Maria. So outstanding results. But when
these events take place, Odyssey is going to have losses and half of their book is
reinsurance. So not an unexpected result.
At Brit's, Brit again gain 20% of their book is reinsurance business. So again, the same
applies to the Odyssey, but they also have a property binders book and an open market
property book. So they get catastrophe losses on the insurance side as well. And in this
quarter Ida which added about 33 points to their combined ratio, Ida was -- the region in - it hit in Louisiana and honest open market property book they have a lot more exposure
in that region. So that affected the results somewhat as well. And lastly at Britt, they didn't
get any benefit from their cat reinsurance program. So basically as of now, their
aggregate cat losses for the year are just coming up to the retention of their cover. So the
good news is any further development or losses in the fourth quarter will be minimal for
Brit.

A - V. Prem Watsa

{BIO 1433188 <GO>}

Yes. So just to add to that, Mark, the -- Peter has mentioned for the nine months we had
cat losses of approximately $1 billion. In the past if we had $1 billion, our combined ratio
would have been above a 100&. We've got our combined ratio of 97% for the nine
months. And remember, when you look at Britt, we're consolidating Ki and that's just on
the -- as Peter has said, it's just on the expansion mode. And if you take out KI and take
only a 20% interest as we've disclosed in the notes of the financial statements in our
press release, we're at 103% for nine months and they're very well reserved. And as Peter
was saying, we do our reserves in the fourth quarter and we expect with some good
fortune that the reserve redundancies will get that combined ratio below 100%. But
they're very well reserve. We don't look at reserves every quarter. We do it once a year as
Peter was saying in the fourth quarter. So yes, so that's how we look at catastrophe, but
your point is well-taken. Cat is a big risk in the insurance, reinsurance business and we're
very careful about it.
Page 10 of 14



Company N ame: Fairfax Financial H oldings L td
Company Ticker: FFH CN Equity
Date: 2021-11-05

Q - Mark Dwell

{BIO 4211726 <GO>}

FINAL

Appreciate the color on that. That's very helpful. If I could ask one other question? Going
through a number of points related to Digit and I appreciate the color there. The one
thing, I guess, I just wanted to talk to you again briefly is what are the remaining steps?
What needs to happen in order to see the recognition of that remaining $37 -- estimated
$37? And then you suggested fourth quarter is the timeframe, which is great. Just trying
to get some feedback in terms of what needs to happen and when it might happen.

A - V. Prem Watsa

{BIO 1433188 <GO>}

That's good question, Mark. Basically very simply they did a $200 million issue as Jen and
Peter have said that 3.5 billion. That 200 million stock issue from outside investors has to
be approved by the IRDA, which is the Indian Regulatory Body. So that's number one. That
should happen anytime. There's simple approval process and should happen anytime. We
don't see any problem about that. The second step is that the Indian Government has
passed this into law that the limit for foreign companies was 49%, it goes to 74%. That's
been passed in the parliament. Now the administrative stuff has to be done by the IRDA,
the regulatory body and it's waiting for that. And I think those are the only two things. So
Peter and Jen?

A - Jennif er J. S. Allen

{BIO 20542595 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

No, I think that's right. There is one other competition filing in relation to our step up to
the 74%. So there might be a little bit of timing on that second leg of the consolidation,
but do anticipate the larger piece of the Digit CCPS has to come through in the fourth
quarter as Prem indicated.

A - V. Prem Watsa

{BIO 1433188 <GO>}

So we don't, Mark, see any risk in it, but timing in India, the approvals and all of that. So if it
doesn't come in the fourth quarter, it will be at the first quarter. We're expecting it to
come. There's no -- it's not a big deal. The parliament has already passed the 74%. That
$200 million will get approved. But I just caution you that these approvals take time and in
a country like India and so they're trying to do it as quickly as possible, but all sorts of
approvals take time. But in our mind the reason we disclose that is because we think
there's very little risk in terms of it taking place. So it's going to happen and we didn't
want it not to be disclosed. So we disclosed it and everyone knows it and we don't think
there's any risk. It will only be accounting whether we account for it in the fourth quarter,
the first quarter. So we expect it to be as we said fourth quarter, but you know how these
things are. Any other question Mark?

Q - Mark Dwell

{BIO 4211726 <GO>}

No. That's it. Appreciate the insight. As we all know, governments are going to move at
the pace they're going to move. There's not much we can do. Thanks for the color.

A - V. Prem Watsa

{BIO 1433188 <GO>}

And that's all over the world I may add, but -- next question, Cedric.

Page 11 of 14



Company N ame: Fairfax Financial H oldings L td
Company Ticker: FFH CN Equity
Date: 2021-11-05

Operator
Sure. (Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from Craig (inaudible) with
Leucadia Investment. Your line is open.

FINAL

Q - Analyst
Hello. I'd like to applaud all the insurance subsidiaries that came in under 100%. So that's
great. I like to see those combined ratio stay low out here in California. I noticed Zenith
consistently comes in under 100%. So like to give kudos to Kari Van Gundy doing a great
job out here. And also Prem personally like to applaud your buyback last year of $150
million. So you're showing confidence. So, I guess, that gives us a little confidence too. As
far as that Fairfax actually doing the corporate buybacks, probably a good thing. I mean,
stock price is so low, you might as well do it. Normally, I don't like to see that. It just
rewards insiders and short-term traders. So my question is how can we reward the longterm investors. I know Wall Street doesn't have us on the radar. Fairfax is not on their
computer algorithms. But it seems like we have enough free cash flow to raise the payout
ratio for the dividend. So I'd like to see like a $20, just double the dividend, raise it to $20
this year. What's the chances of that, Prem?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - V. Prem Watsa

{BIO 1433188 <GO>}

So Craig, first of all, thank you for your compliments and Kari Van Gundy has done a
fantastic job. We think Zenith is perhaps the best workers' compensation business in the
United States. They're underwriting the services they provide the customers is second to
none. I have experienced it when I go there and visit them. And I must tell you it's a
special, special company and results. I mean, I think Peter it's like 15 -- their last ratio is
about 15 points below the curve. The industry -- the loss ratio for Zenith is about 15 points
below the industry and that reserving is they're so conservative year in, year out. So your
point is well-taken. Craig, on buybacks and dividends and stuff, we look at it all the time
and by the way on dividends, I've have never taken more than $600,000 salary. I have no
bonus and I don't get any shares and compared to all the people in our company, I'm the
among the lowest paid among the officers.
I'm not asking for a raise, but it makes it easier for the Board of Directors because when
I'm recommending something, it doesn't come back to me. So it's not like I'm saying Peter
I have to make more money and then I have to make more money than Peter. Peter
already makes more money than me. But I'm the largest shareholder and I like to one
Fairfax for 35 years as a shareholder. And so I prepared a dividend of $10, every
shareholder gets it and I get $10 also. I have a few more shares, but that's how it works.
Everyone gets the same the same amount. I like -- as a controlling shareholder, I think
that's the right way to do it. And now, in terms of -- we look at all the possibilities.
Our shareholder came to us and said, one of our large shareholders and said, do why
don't you increase the dividend on a regular basis? We think buying back our stock is a
good idea. We bought as much as we can. We think it's cheap, but I'll tell you over 35
years, Craig, our stock has been very expensive sometimes and sometimes like right now,
it's very cheap and it's incredibly cheap. I've said that. But this is a market where
cryptocurrencies are like ridiculously prized and you have a high tech. Everyone is looking

Page 12 of 14



Company N ame: Fairfax Financial H oldings L td
Company Ticker: FFH CN Equity
Date: 2021-11-05

FINAL

at high tech and they're growing like a weed making no money. And then you see what
happens. Peloton dismissed some estimates and the stock is down 30%. And there's no
underlying fundamental values. In the .com time period, these stocks dropped like 75%,
80%. Someday we think that will happen.
Our stock provides unbelievable value for our shareholders and we think it's only a
question of time. I've been in the market for a long time and the market will shift I say. In
2000, 2001, 2002, most markets cumulative dropped by about 45% to 50% Craig in
United States, Canada, and in Europe. And our stock portfolios went up a 100%. In fact, in
the following year, they went up another 50%, 60% and so value investing the names that
we have. Atlas is a container ship company and David -- they're run by David Sokol and
they showed their earnings. Their earnings are going to double in the next three years or
four years. It's all in the marketplace. Base stock has been moved. Everyone wants to buy
the cryptocurrencies of this world and so that's just how the stock market behaves. And -but it will change and when it changes, we'll be the beneficiary. That's how we look at it,
Craig. So thank you for your question. Thanks for the support.

Q - Analyst
Okay. Thanks. I think maybe we should give you a raise. Yes, hopefully we can raise the
dividend because I totally follow your philosophy and I personally own Atco [ph] and they
do pay out a good dividend. So maybe we can pass that along to the Fairfax people too.
Thanks a lot.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - V. Prem Watsa

{BIO 1433188 <GO>}

Thank you, Craig and you're from Leucadia, and we've always admired Leucadia. So thank
you very much. Cedric, next question.

Operator
I'm showing no further questions at this time.

A - V. Prem Watsa

{BIO 1433188 <GO>}

Okay. No more questions, so Cedric, thank you very much for hosting the call, and we look
forward to all of you joining us on our next call. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. And that concludes today's conference. You may all disconnect at this time.
Speakers you may standby for post conference.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
Page 13 of 14



Company N ame: Fairfax Financial H oldings L td
Company Ticker: FFH CN Equity
Date: 2021-11-05

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 14 of 14

