Q4 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Charles Brindamour, Chief Executive Officer
Darren Godfrey, Executive Vice President, Global Specialty Lines
Isabelle Girard, Senior Vice President of Personal Lines
Ken Norgrove , Chief Executive Officer, UK&I
Louis Marcotte , Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Patrick Barbeau, Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer
Shubha Khan, Vice President, Investor Relations

Other Participants
Doug Young, Analyst
Geoffrey Kwan, Analyst
Jaeme Gloyn, Analyst
Mario Mendonca, Analyst
Michael Phillips , Analyst
Paul Holden, analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Tom MacKinnon, Analyst

Presentation
Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Intact Financial Corp., Q4 2021 Results
Conference Call. At this time, all lines are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation we will
conduct a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) Also note that this call is being
recorded on Wednesday, February 9, 2022.
And I would like to turn the conference over to Shubha Khan, Vice President, Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.

Shubha Khan

{BIO 16255963 <GO>}

Thank you, Sylvie. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the call today. A link to our live
webcast and published information for this call is posted on our website at intactfc.com, under the
Investors tab.
As usual, before we start, please refer to Slide 2 for cautionary language regarding the use of
forward-looking statements, which form part of this morning's remarks and Slide 3 for a note on
the news of non-GAAP financial measures and important notes on adjustments, terms and
definitions used in this presentation.
With me today, we have our CEO, Charles Brindamour; our CFO, Louis Marcotte; Isabelle Girard,
our Senior Vice President of Personal Lines; Patrick Barbeau, Executive Vice President and Chief
Operating Officer; Darren Godfrey, Executive Vice President, Global Specialty Lines; and Ken
Anderson, Executive Vice President UK&I.



We will begin with prepared remarks, followed by Q&A. With that I will turn the call to Charles.

Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

FINAL

Thanks, Shubha. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today. As the world
contended with a new wave of the pandemic, we moved quickly in decisively to protect our
employees, stay open for business and support our customers during a period of uncertainty.
At the same time, our people showed tremendous commitment in getting our customers back on
track after a number of severe weather events. We capped off a milestone year with very strong
fourth quarter results and solid momentum across all segments. Yesterday evening we announced
fourth quarter net operating income per share of CAD3.78, a 19% increase over Q4 last year.
For the full year, net operating income per share was up 25%, driven by mid-teens organic
earnings growth and meaningful accretion from the RSA acquisition. Our business grew 75% in the
quarter in large part driven by RSA. For the full year premiums increased 45% with RSA contributing
39 points. Favorable conditions in commercial lines across all markets, as well as personal property
drove healthy organic growth of 5% in 2021.

Bloomberg Transcript

The overall combined ratio for the year was strong at 88.8%, driven by our Canadian operations
and despite four points of CATs. Our results drove operating ROE to 17.8% in 2021 and book value
per share grew by 40%. With a favorable earnings outlook and a robust balance sheet, we're
pleased to increase our quarterly dividend by another 10%, the 17th consecutive annual increase
since our IPO.
Let me now provide a bit of color on the results and outlook by line of business starting right here
in Canada. Performance in our personal auto business continues to be solid with a combined ratio
of 86.9%, which included four points of favorable prior year development, lower driving and the
impact of our actions over time. We've made significant investments in claims operations and
pricing over the years. These continue to pay off and put us on solid footing to continue to stay on
top of claims cost pressure. As a result, we expect to operate at the lower end of the mid-90s
range as driving activity normalizes.
Looking at the industry in auto, we expect muted premium growth in the near term until mobility
returns to pre-pandemic levels. We expect the rate momentum to pick up, claims inflation persists
or accelerates as was the case prior to the pandemic. Our personal property business continues to
perform very well, showing resilience in the face of severe weather events. The transformation
orchestrated in this segment over the last decade is paying off with our sub-90s average
combined ratio over the last five years.
However, we need to remain vigilant as recent CAT activity has shown the impact of climate
change is real for the industry. And while weather continues to support firm market conditions,
we're not relying only on rates to drive profitability. For examples, our On Side restoration business
continued to expand its footprint in Canada, increasing our ability to manage the supply chain. On
Side played a critical role in supporting customers during an active CAT year leading to record net
promoter scores for our claims service during catastrophes.
In commercial lines premiums grew 23% for the year, which included 9 points of organic growth.
The combined ratio is also really strong at 88.6% reflecting our robust profitability actions over
time. And looking at the industry we see hard market conditions continuing, given low industry
profitability in recent years inflation concerns and rising reinsurance costs. Our business is very wellpositioned to deliver a sustainable low-90s or better performance.
Moving now to our UK&I business, their combined ratio since the RSA transaction closed was solid
at 93.4% ahead of our expectations. In personal lines, the team has done a phenomenal job in



FINAL

delivering close to mid-90s performance during this period. We remain focused on improving
personal auto, which is only 10% of the UK&I premiums and 1% of IFC's. But it has weighed on the
UK profitability. And to complement our strong local expertise we are committing additional
resources, including a new data lab squad dedicated to pricing sophistication in this segment. And
we expect our continued pricing discipline to lead to improved performance, following regulatory
reforms that went into effect at the beginning of the year.
In commercial lines in the UK, performance continues to be strong with a combined ratio of 90.5%
year-to-date. This is a testament to the strength of the team, currently in place and the actions
they've taken in recent years. And we've nevertheless move to further optimize our footprint,
focusing more closely on the strong regions in London Market operations and refining segments
where the economics are not as compelling. Overall, the UK&I business is in a good position and
we're on our way to building sustainable out performance.
Looking at the industry, we see some volatility in personal lines on the back of recent reforms while
hard market conditions are expected to persist in commercial lines. Our US commercial business is
expanding at a rapid pace, thanks to hard market conditions, new products and strong growth in
well performing lines.

Bloomberg Transcript

The combined ratio improved two points to 92.9% for the full year, which included three points of
CAT, double our expectations. The fundamental of this business remained compelling, particularly
given the persistence of hard market conditions and sub-90s performance across a large portion
of the portfolio in 2021. We're well positioned to deliver sustainable low-90s performance in the
US, thanks to this momentum. And we see significant opportunity for growth in this market.
Turning to our RSA acquisition, which closed last June, the integration and transition it's fair to say
are on track. In Canada policy conversion in the broker channel is well underway. Close to 50% of
policies have converted to Intact systems and products so far. There is very good traction with our
brokers and affinity partners and the early indications are that retention is similar or better to RSA's
historical experience.
In the UK&I segment, I'm delighted that Ken Norgrove has joined the team as CEO. He previously
led the strong RSA Scandinavian business and engineered the turnaround of RSA's Irish operations.
And so with Ken at the helm, we will build on the hard work that has already been done to achieve
out performance in the UK and Ireland.
The RSA acquisition has also transformed our specialty lines' capabilities. With the addition of the
RSA Europe and London market businesses we've established a truly global platform. And we can
now reach 70% of the global specialty solutions' market with the expertise that we have on board.
So based on a full-year contribution from RSA, our specialty lines business generated nearly CAD5
billion of pro forma premiums in 2021 at a sub-90 combined ratio. So you understand the focus
we've put on that business. The economics of it are clearly very compelling and it's therefore a
cornerstone of our growth strategy for the next decade.
Alongside the RSA integration our teams are making significant progress on our key strategic
initiatives. We continued to expand our leadership position in Canada. In fact BrokerLink a banner
year competing more than 20 acquisitions. This business now generates over CAD2.5 billion in
annual premiums and ranks among the largest brokerages in Canada. Distribution income overall is
approaching CAD400 million annually and is one of the drivers of our ROE out performance.
We also continued to ramp up our digital engagement with customers, as usage of our self-service
tools increased another 20% in 2021. In fact, more than half our personal lines customers in
Canada connected with us digitally last year. As I said at the outset, 2021 was a milestone year for



IFC, one in which we completed our largest ever acquisition on-boarded 9,000 new colleagues
entered new markets and delivered very strong results.

FINAL

At the same time we responded quickly to customers impacted by severe weather events and
moved to protect employees during another wave of the pandemic. I thank all of our colleagues
for their passion and dedication in rising to these challenges. We remain committed to investing in
our people obviously.
And I'm proud that these efforts, actually have not gone unnoticed, as we were named a Best
Employer by Kincentric in the US and in Canada for the sixth year running. As we look ahead to
2022, we remain really focused on executing our strategic roadmap. Obviously number one
priority is completing the integration of RSA and capturing the economics that come with it.
Number two is expanding our leadership position in Canada through digital as well as distribution.
Number three is laying the foundations for out performance in the UK and Ireland. Fourth, building
a global specialty solutions leader with out performance everywhere we operate. Fifth,
transforming our competitive advantages by leveraging data and AI, our claims expertise and
supply chain network. And finally, investing in our people and in the communities where we
operate. And that includes capitalizing on society's transition to net zero.

Bloomberg Transcript

So momentum across the business is very strong and the RSA acquisition has significantly
expanded our market opportunity. As we now set our sights on 2022 and beyond, we are wellpositioned to grow net operating income per share by 10% annually over time, and to out perform
the industry ROE by 500 basis points every year.
And with that, I'll turn the call over to our CFO, Louis Marcotte.

Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

Thanks, Charles, and good morning everyone. 2021 was clearly a milestone year for Intact. With the
acquisition of RSA, we have materially grown our leadership position in Canada, both in premium
and in talent. We've established a solid platform to grow in specialty lines and we've entered new
markets at scale in the UK and Ireland.
All of this was achieved while caring for our customers and employees, who continue to face the
hardships of the pandemic and extreme weather events. In this context, we are very happy to
report solid results for Q4 and the full year 2021. Underwriting income grew by 45% in the fourth
quarter to CAD600 million, largely driven by the acquisition of RSA. The overall combined ratio for
Q4 was 87.8%, two points higher than last year due to heavy CAT losses.
On a full year basis, the combined ratio was strong at 89% unchanged compared to prior year, but
carrying one extra point of CAT losses. All our businesses are contributing to these strong results.
Favorable prior year development was strong at 3.3% in Q4, slightly above our annual guidance.
This was mainly driven by reduced uncertainty around the impact of COVID-19. We continue to
expect that prior year development will be favorable and in the 1% to 3% range annually though at
the upper end of the range in the short term.
Net investment income increased 54% in the quarter, largely driven by the addition of RSA's
investment portfolio and a non-recurring special dividend of CAD23 million. For 2022, we expect
investment income to grow approximately CAD60 million, reflecting the full year impact of the RSA
portfolio and the benefits of moving to our targeted asset mix.
Our guidance assumes largely stable reinvestment yields and no special dividend. Any increase in
interest rates would represent upside to our expectations, but the impact will be limited due to the



slow roll over pace in our portfolio. Distribution earnings grew 7% in the quarter, below our recent
guidance due to the timing of M&A and higher expenses.

FINAL

On a full year basis distribution income increased by an impressive 32%, driven by higher variable
commissions, solid organic growth and M&A. Looking ahead to 2022 we expect distribution income
to surpass the CAD400 million mark on the back of continued momentum in the business, a
robust acquisition pipeline and continued growth of our On Side restoration business.
Now let's turn to underwriting results in a little more detail. First, the Canadian segment. In
personal auto the underlying loss ratio of 66.5% remained strong, but was up nearly 8 points due
largely to increased driving activity, which remains well below pre-pandemic levels. Severity
increased 4 points in the quarter, mostly driven by a rise in vehicle theft. Inflation had a muted
impact on severity in the quarter, but we are monitoring closely to ensure we maintain our rate
adequacy.

Bloomberg Transcript

In personal property the 79.5% combined ratio was solid despite nearly 7 points of CAT. A mix of
seasonality benign non-CAT weather, solid results from RSA and earned rates drove the strong
performance. In commercial lines the combined ratio was very strong at 84.2%, thanks to our
profitability actions and robust prior year development. The overall expense ratio in Canada of
30.6% was largely in line with our expectations. The addition of RSA had a positive impact, mainly
due to its higher proportion of direct business and synergies. We expect the expense ratio in 2020
to be similar to the Q4 level.
In our US business a couple of points on the underlying performance. For 2021 and in aggregate 11
of the 14 lines that we consider healthy, representing 85% of premiums grew by 16% and delivered
a sub-90 combined ratio. Of the three lines that are under profitability improvement plans, two
have reduced their combined ratios by approximately 30 points in 2021, proof that our plans are
effective.
Finally, the one remaining line accounted for a 3 point drag on the entire US business for 2021.
While we are totally focused on improving profitability in those lines, we feel very good about our
momentum in the US.
Turning to the UK&I we delivered another solid quarter. In personal lines the home and pet
businesses are performing well despite adverse weather. Motor has been under performing in a
highly competitive and uncertain rate environment. We are combining our underwriting expertise to
take advantage of the dislocation in the market expected from the regulatory changes being
introduced right now in personal lines.
In commercial lines results are solid on the back of profitability actions taken by the team over
time. While it is still early innings I'm quite happy with the UK&I results thus far. We still expect to run
this business sub-95 in the near to mid-term.
The financial merits of the RSA acquisition remains very compelling. We've already delivered 12%
accretion since closing, which is ahead of schedule. We are on track for upper teens accretion
within 36 months. We delivered CAD85 million in run rate synergies at year-end. I'm confident we
can achieve our CAD250 million target inside our 36 months' timeline. We reduced risk with the
sale of Denmark, the acquisition of the adverse development cover and the renewal of the
reinsurance program.
With regards to the sale of our 50% stake in Codan Denmark, the transaction is still expected to
close in the first half of 2022, and most of the proceeds of CAD1.3 billion will go towards further
deleveraging. The IRR of the RSA transaction is tracking near 20% above our initial projections and
with upside from improved pricing and risk selection. With respect to reinsurance, we have



renewed our 2022 reinsurance program as of January 1, 2022 with solid protections against
extreme events.

FINAL

The program was optimized based on our new exposures and diversification opportunities with a
small reduction of the overall cost and slight increase in retention levels. We are modestly revising
our annual CAT loss expectations to CAD600 million reflecting the renewed program.
Moving to our balance sheet, our financial position continues to be strong. We closed the quarter
with approximately CAD2.9 billion in total capital margin with strong regulated capital ratios in all
jurisdictions. Our debt-to-total capital ratio was 23% at end of the quarter and we expect to reach
20% as soon as we receive the proceeds from the sale of Denmark.
The strength of our results over the past year has led to an operating ROE of 17.8% and book value
per share grew 4% quarter-over-quarter. With the acquisition of RSA and the progressive return to
normalcy, we expect our operating ROE to migrate towards a mid-teens level. Given the pace of
earnings growth and the strength of our balance sheet, we have increased our dividends by
another 10% to an annual rate of CAD4 per share, resuming our usual dividend increase patterns.

Bloomberg Transcript

But we are not stopping there. With the expected proceeds from the sale of Denmark, our strong
capital levels and our shares having recently traded at attractive price levels, we are launching a
share buyback program. This is not a signal that growth opportunities are not visible, to the
contrary. We are giving ourselves an envelope of 3% of float for the buyback. But the actual
quantity of shares purchased will depend on the price of the stock over time.
In conclusion, as society gradually emerges from the pandemic, we remain focused on executing
on our strategic priorities. With the RSA integration on track, strong momentum across our
businesses and a robust balance sheet, we can capture the opportunities ahead of us and meet
our financial objectives, while being well-positioned for out performance in 2022 and beyond.
Before giving it back to Shubha I would like to offer my most heartfelt thank yous to the finance
and actuarial teams in all our offices, including our auditors, who have worked incredibly hard to
deliver high quality information for you to read today. I feel very lucky and proud to work with such
a talented team of professionals. Thank you.
I take the opportunity as well to welcome Shubha to the team. I'm very happy to have you join the
IR team and wishing Mr. Ken Anderson good luck, in his new functions. He is joining the UK&I
management team and hopefully he will get to answer a few questions in today's call. Welcome to
both of you.
With that Shubha back to you.

Shubha Khan

{BIO 16255963 <GO>}

Thank you, Louis. In order to give everyone a chance to participate in the Q&A, we would ask you
to kindly limit yourselves to two questions. Of course if there's time at the end you can certainly
requeue for more questions. So Sylvie we are ready to take questions now.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) And your first question will be from Geoff Kwan at RBC Capital
Markets. Please go ahead.



FINAL

Q - Geoffrey Kwan

{BIO 7413168 <GO>}

Hi, good morning. My first question was, the company has been beating consensus consistently
since the start of the pandemic, but the last several quarters have each have actually been a bit
more outsized and generally driven by better underwriting. Now COVID has helped but in your
mind, does that still explain to you the better-than-usual combined ratio? Is there something else
like the increased scale that's kicking in that might suggest that the combined ratio today might be
structurally a bit better than what you thought a normalized combined ratio might have been, let's
say five or ten years ago?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Thanks, Geoff. I'll ask Louis to share his perspective.

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good question, Geoff. Of course I will say I think we're trying to provide guidance that is useful, but
we are beating expectations clearly, including our own guidance. I think the situation right now is
one where the actions we've taken over time on profitability, including rates and product changes
have kicked in really, and this is combined with lower driving activity, maybe a bit of milder weather
and other I would say, actual events that have enabled us to deliver really, really strong margins.
We keep repeating our guidance towards something a bit more long-term -- consistent with longterm expectations. I will say the combined ratios structurally should improve. And it depends on the
mix of business we acquire.
So in Canada, I think we are improving our performance, adding a big book and then applying our
analytics and risk segmentation to that book. So we would expect Canada to marginally improve its
combined ratio. When you mix it up with maybe a higher combined ratio in the UK, the overall mix
is maybe not changing all that much. You have to take into consideration the geographies we've
added and the combined ratios that have -- that we've mixed with it.
So I think we will improve the combined ratios. I don't know that it's structurally so different that we
would have it sustainable at the levels that we're seeing in the recent quarters.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yeah, I think that's right. The action plans that we're focused on inflation are really paying off. The
market is very supportive of the actions that we're taking, and we're trying to be opportunistic in
this environment. The driving activity now, again, a lot of relief, CAD650 million over the past two
years to reflect that. It's still a little bit below normal, but not a big driver. There has been -- we've
taken a fairly cautious stance in terms of the high volatility of the environment in which we operate
from a reserving point of view. This clearly contributes as well. And let's not forget the fact that
RSA 12% accretive in six months is better than what we had anticipated.
So when you put all these things together, I think you get very strong performance. We're not
prepared to call out any meaningful structural improvement in the combined ratio. But I'll tell you,
we're on top of the trends. The environment is playing to our strengths. And we're really focused
and looking forward to 2022.

Q - Geoffrey Kwan

{BIO 7413168 <GO>}

Okay, thanks. And just my second question was, I know it's only been a little over a month, but just
any comments that you can make on -- in the UK in the personal lines, the changes have happened
there in terms of your risk appetite, how you're going about business as well as the broader
competitive environment?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}



FINAL

Yeah, it's been six weeks indeed. The team in the UK under the leadership of Kay Martin has done
an outstanding job in preparing for it. We work very closely with the local team to make sure that
we put all our horsepower in pricing and risk selection. The team is playing the environment in a
fairly cautious fashion, I would say. But things are playing out largely as we anticipated. Our
perspective is that this change is a positive one for the marketplace, for the environment. It
essentially tries to align new business premiums with renewal premiums, high level there's other
things. That's good for the marketplace.
I think overall, it makes for a better environment for us to operate, gives us an opportunity to
leverage some of our pricing and sophistication. Six months in -- six weeks in largely in line with
what we anticipated. Renewals will start in the coming days -- have started in the coming days, that
will provide additional color Geoff and that's why we're cautious at this stage to make statements
or our perspective too clear because it's too early. But so far so good.
Ken, you've been on the ground last month, maybe you have additional color you want to provide.

A - Ken Norgrove

{BIO 18671736 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Not really. Charles. I think you've covered most of the key points there. Five weeks in, I would say
rational behavior by competitors in both home and motor. So evolving I would say broadly in line
with expectations and new business rates have risen as expected margins are being maintained.
And when it comes to renewals retention levels it will take a few more months to assess how they
will evolve given the lead time around renewals but broadly in line, if not a little bit ahead of our
expectations.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yeah, so thank you, Ken.

Q - Geoffrey Kwan

{BIO 7413168 <GO>}

Could you clarify when you say playing out as anticipated, does that mean you're maintaining your
market share or you may be taking a little bit more?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Broadly maintaining.

Q - Geoffrey Kwan

{BIO 7413168 <GO>}

Yeah. Great, thank you.

Operator
Thank you. Next question will be from Tom MacKinnon at BMO Capital. Please go ahead.

Q - Tom MacKinnon

{BIO 2430137 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks very much and good morning. You talked about commercial markets remaining hard,
maybe give us some color as to how rates are trending versus loss cost trends, especially as
inflation looms. And then I have a follow-up. Thanks.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yeah. I missed the last part of your question, Tom, you said, especially as what?

Q - Tom MacKinnon

{BIO 2430137 <GO>}

How are rate trending versus loss cost trends, especially as inflation looms?



A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Oh, as inflation looms okay. Yes. Darren, do you want to give your perspective on the commercial
lines markets where we operate.

FINAL

A - Darren Godf rey

{BIO 19791482 <GO>}

Yes, thanks for the question, Tom. I think when you look across all of our geographies, the market
conditions are very, very similar, and continue to be similar to what we're seeing for a number of
quarters now. We are in the upper single-digit range, pretty much across all of our markets.
Capacity continues to be tight as you would expect it and really no slowdown in terms of the
markets in the operating environment.
So it's very supportive in terms of our actions, the position we're taking. Retention continues to be
very, very strong in all of our markets. New business is up as well too as you can see with some of
the growth that we've shown across our various different markets. So it's a very encouraging
operating environment.
With respect to loss trends and the inflation question, I think Patrick could probably give some color
on that. But we continue to see with the rate levels continuing into 2022 to be in excess of those
trends. And as I said, the market is very much supporting the actions that we're taking at the
moment.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yeah. And bear in mind Tom that we've been moving the dial on rates for five, six years. That
certainly has picked up in the past three years. But I think Darren's description is accurate and
Patrick, I don't know if there is any color we need to add on commercial lines?

A - Patrick Barbeau

{BIO 18476397 <GO>}

Well, the property side of the commercial line, we see similar inflation as what we've seen in the
personal property book. So inflation in the cost of materials in the range of about 10%, but lower in
the contents than some of the other pieces overall, mid to high single-digit increase on the
property side.
And then the liability piece, there is some increase in the severity but a reduction in frequency in
the recent years. So overall not new pressure there.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yeah. So when you blend in liability, and property you're well within the sort of rates you're seeing
in the system at this stage. Darren?

A - Darren Godf rey

{BIO 19791482 <GO>}

Yeah, I think the other thing I would add, Tom, let's not forget too on the property line in particular,
we have automatic indexation of (inaudible) of insurance. So naturally, we are watching it very
closely. We're adjusting upwards the automatic indexation to reflect some of the inflationary
pressure we've seen.
So in a way that's a natural hedge against inflation environment as well, in addition to the rates that
you find through the system.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

I think that if you look at the industry level in aggregate Tom, and as you think about the trajectory
of the market, you got to keep in mind a number of things COVID has been really hard for the
industry globally in commercial lines. Second there is the reinsurance costs in commercial lines are



FINAL

applying a fair bit of pressure. Third, you need to go back 24 months to realize that commercial
lines was losing money across a number of markets, certainly Canada. So as far as we're
concerned while rates might be slightly above cost pressure right now, there is a fair bit of
digestion left to be done. Plus of course there is a certain degree of prudence that comes with the
whole talk about inflation at the moment. So we think that this market should play to our strength in
the coming period.

Q - Tom MacKinnon

{BIO 2430137 <GO>}

That's great. And as a follow-up, like we can all see how COVID has been favorably impacting
personal auto, and that gets a lot of discussion in your calls but like personal auto I don't -- that's
probably aggregate only about maybe 25%, 28% of your total business. And certainly as COVID
dissipates that favorable impact that COVID had on personal auto is going to dissipate as well.
But like, if we look at the other nearly 75% of your business, which is largely commercial lines and
then personal property, how has COVID really impacted that business? And how is it other than
perhaps some relief measures you gave for your commercial clients, like how has it impacted that
business and how would that change as COVID dissipates for personal property and commercial
lines? Thanks.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. Well, I think that you highlighted the fact that in personal prop as well as in commercial lines,
but commercial lines in particular, we provided relief to industries that were in lockdown in two
ways. We've limited rate increases, in fact didn't change conditions on about a quarter of the
portfolio and then we've provided actually onetime relief, CAD50 million worth of it.
So that's the direct impact at the top and bottom line point of view. Then you'll remember we've
put up 100 and -- I think it's a CAD106 million you guys, correct me of direct COVID provision
across North America pre RSA. That's a direct hit that is there. Beyond that you see frequency and
severity movements it's really hard to untangle what's COVID and what's something else here,
and therefore not huge impact, if any, on the performance of the other lines of business. And
Darren, what do you think?

A - Darren Godf rey

{BIO 19791482 <GO>}

No, I think, I think you're bang on there, Charles. I think obviously from a reserving standpoint,
we've taken a pretty prudent position in terms of -- especially on the casualty side in terms of the
run rate from a rate standpoint and potential inflationary environment. But structurally, Tom, I think
there is a lot of moving pieces there, but it's marginal at best. I would say in terms of sort of the
COVID impact impacting our results in 2021.

Q - Tom MacKinnon

{BIO 2430137 <GO>}

So as long as those markets remain relatively firm, there is nothing that as COVID kind of
dissipates through 2022, there's nothing in to -- we shouldn't anticipate that there is going to be
some sort of impact, negative impact on those lines like one might be led to believe would be the
case for personal, auto, am I correct in that?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yeah, if you isolate COVID in making that statement, I would kind of agree with that. There are lots
of moving pieces in the environment in which we operate. There is inflation in the system as we've
talked about for a number of years and as now most people talk about. We need to keep all of
that in mind as we look out the next 12 to 24 months and our guidance basically takes that in mind,
Tom.

Q - Tom MacKinnon

{BIO 2430137 <GO>}



Okay, thanks.

Operator

FINAL

Thank you. Next question will be from Michael Phillips at Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

Q - Michael Phillips

{BIO 21023048 <GO>}

Thanks, good morning, buddy. I guess a couple of questions. One question, first off on your auto
book. You talked about is still below pre-pandemic. How much of that changed since last quarter
and how close are you to kind of pre-pandemic driving levels that affect frequency? I mean, and -but let me stop there for now. So just first off where is driver level today versus where it was last
quarter?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yeah. Why don't we ask Isabelle to share her perspective on driving activity?

A - Isabelle Girard

{BIO 21256467 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Sure. Maybe to start a bit in Q4, I would say that in Q4, driving was slightly below historical, but very
close to pre-COVID levels. And it has been at its highest level since the beginning of the
pandemic. So that would be Q4 2021 and then of course Omicron wave came at the end of
December. I would say with the data we have so far the Omicron wave has a lower impact than
previous wave both on the magnitude and the duration of the change in the mobility matrix, we're
following and there is also a bit of winter events that is bringing some noise in the data in the
recent weeks.
But what we see is that with the data and the signals we have, we can say that we are already
beyond the lowest driving weeks of this wave and our mobility indicators are increasing steadily in
the last few weeks.

Q - Michael Phillips

{BIO 21023048 <GO>}

Okay, thank you. I guess, can we just stay with that theme, and maybe just switch over to severity
side, your severity still seems to be lower than what we're seeing down here in the US. And you
talked a bit about it last quarter, there were some moving parts that are kind of maybe helping
keep it down. Can you give some more details there? Is that still the -- it sounds like it's still the
case, you said muted severity. So it sounds like that's still the case, but maybe thoughts of if you
think that's going to continue into this year?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yes, I think that there is sort of three things to keep in mind when you try to draw a parallel
between Intact and what's happened in the US. I think one, we've chosen to give onetime relief in
the heart of the pandemic and as opposed to go all out on rates, because as you know we're
pricing 12 months out and there is always uncertainty as to the speed at which driving comes back.
So we found a good balance we think between onetime relief and reflecting some of the driving
activity in rates. That's the first point. The second point is that we've done this in a fairly flexible
fashion. So we can respond fairly quickly to changes in the environment. And thirdly -- and that's
the point Patrick will touch on is the severity equation appears to be fairly different based on our
own read. Now bear in mind, we don't do automobile insurance business in the US.
So we don't have a comparison but Patrick, why don't you share our read on inflation here and
where you think there are differences?



A - Patrick Barbeau

{BIO 18476397 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. Great. I'll start with maybe an update from the discussion in Q3 on what we've observed in
Q4. And in order to drive good picture of the inflation trends in auto it's useful to break down its
different components. So when we look at our Canadian book and also the claims cost is roughly
split 40% from injuries and liability, 30% from car repairs and 30% from total losses, which includes
just over 5% of death claims.
So in total in Q4, the severity has continued to be fairly tamed at about 4% year-over-year in total
for auto with 7% increase from physical damages and 0% on injuries. Here you'll recall injuries is
where we were prudent in reserving to reflect the uncertainty of the development patterns during
the pandemic. So zooming in on the 7% increase on physical damage, more than half of this
increase is caused by an increase in the number and severity of the death claims.
And the remaining 3% continues to be caused by the technology in cars that we talked about a
few times. But if I go further into the remaining two buckets, the repair costs so the 30% that
comes from repairing cars is split half and half between parts and labor. And what we see there is
about 5% inflation on parts and normal inflation, so between 2% and 3% on labor.

Bloomberg Transcript

With regards to total losses, the price of new and used cars have increased slightly above 10% in
average in Canada, so affecting both total collisions and -- tactical lines. However for the total loss
collision this has very limited impact on our severity because the recoveries we get from the
salvage cars continue to largely offset this impact.
So that's the global picture of what we've seen in Q4. When it comes to differences between
Canada and US, I would point to just a few key differences between the two markets that are
largely structural in my view. The first is that the injuries in the US represent a much lower portion of
the costs than what we have here in Canada. So the inflation on the short tail has a bigger impact
there.
The second one is the use of recycled parts in the US is much lower than here in Canada and this
has two main effects. The first one is, it increases the reliance on OEM in the US, which I think one
of the most significant pressure from inflation.
The second one is that this demand for recycled parts is the main driver of the higher recoveries
we get from salvage cars here in Canada, which is another important offsets we had. And the last
thing I would mention is, because we focus on supporting our customers through the repairs and
do very little cash settlements. Our supply chain strategy with close to 70% of our repairs being
handled within our preferred network is another mitigating factor for us, but also a competitive
advantage, given our relative size here in Canada.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yeah. And keep in mind that the supply chain advantages we didn't come up with because there's
inflation. We've been at it for 20 years.

Q - Michael Phillips

{BIO 21023048 <GO>}

Right, okay. Good, thank you for the detail. It's very helpful. Appreciate it.

Operator
Thank you. Next question will be from Jaeme Gloyn at National Bank. Please go ahead.

Q - Jaeme Gloyn

{BIO 19737597 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks, good morning.



A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Good morning.

FINAL

Q - Jaeme Gloyn

{BIO 19737597 <GO>}

First question was going to be on the specialty insurance platform. I believe you said that if you
included the RSA business, full year RSA business you'd be at CAD5 billion in premiums and if
memory serves, that was the target for the specialty lines a couple of years ago at an Investor Day.
So I guess the question now is where are we going from here? What can you maybe tell us about
the specialty insurance platforms, growth and opportunities over the next couple of years as they - I guess a preview into what you might describe as a -- at a future Investor Day?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yeah, well that's exactly right. I mean, we'll put out the bigger objective at the next Investor Day. So
stay tuned until there. We're really focused on connecting the platform, so that it's coherent and
cohesive and out performing at this stage. But we have a great starting point. Darren, maybe you
want to share your perspective on the opportunities in specialty lines?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Darren Godf rey

{BIO 19791482 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks for highlighting that Jaeme. I think as you said, nearly CAD5 billion of premium at a
sub-90s combined ratio. So just to remind of the objective we have today is CAD6 billion at 2025.
So we're getting close to that. But I think we'll provide more color at Investor Day. But clearly I think
when you look at adding London market, adding RSA's European business to our platform, clearly
broadened our distribution footprint we are really providing our existing specialty business units
with access to new regions and ensuring that customers and brokers can benefit from the full
breadth of our specialized expertise across the organization.
What I would also add from an RSA standpoint, adding the global network substantially increases
the value prop from a multinational customer viewpoint. So as Charles said we now have access to
70% of the specialty lines market globally. So really there is no need for us to plant flags. But for us
it continues to be the focus that being very deliberate in terms of where we play and how we play
and doing more of what we do best. So I think when we look at our GSL franchise now we really
see it as a really strong financial anchor for the organization moving forward, delivering sustainable
out performance together with significant growth upside.
I think when you look at our platform today and our capabilities, we see clear opportunity for us to
expand our out performance capabilities and we'll be bringing continued focus on that in the short
to medium term. So we're very bullish in terms of the path that we're on, from a GSL standpoint.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yeah, I think the thing that I like about the position we're in at this stage is we can grow in the
markets where we are. We don't need to expand from a geographic point of view because we
have all the tools in the toolbox, which means greater focus, greater depth, greater scale. And one
of the things we want to do in the next 24 months is to bring far more science in pricing and risk
selection across the platform, but we will put the spotlight on that Jaeme at the upcoming Investor
Day, both in terms of growth opportunities, but also performance and out performance
opportunities.
We're pretty bullish about the assets we have now in specialty lines.

Q - Jaeme Gloyn

{BIO 19737597 <GO>}

That's great. Thank you. I'll leave it there.



Operator
Thank you. Next question will be from Doug Young at Desjardins Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Doug Young

{BIO 5640851 <GO>}

Hi, good morning. Just wanted to go back and I think Louis, you mentioned this in your prepared
remarks about the RSA synergy guidance excludes the benefits from improved loss cost trend. So
as we think about the evolution of COVID coming off and people driving more and claims costs
going up, you also have the benefit of also pulling lead growth, putting science to work in better
targeting.
Have you put a finer point on what you think you can do, because I think you have done this in past
acquisitions, what do you think you can do in terms of driving loss cost down specifically in Canada
as a result of RSA?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah. So it's a good question, Doug. The CAD250 million does not include the upside from all the
analytics and data segmentation and so on. We've kept that for the future. One of the reasons, it
was hard to define the starting point. Typically when we buy -- when we've made acquisitions in the
past we had reliable, couple of years average combined ratios in the past and we could see how
we can improve the book.
Here given the COVID environment where the results were extremely strong, the results were
improving additionally, in the past few years, it was just harder to pinpoint the starting point and
the impact, we would have. So this is where we were cautious as to how much we would drive the
improvement in the combined ratios from the data analytics.
So we have not being that more precise yet. We still see it as upside, but distinguishing how much
improvement is driven by our data analytics versus the moves we're taking in each of the books
and what the teams have done already is it's not an exact science. So as soon as we can be more
precise, there we will be, but what we're tracking now is really the improvement of each of the
performances and making sure that they meet our targets as well as the synergies that we want to
develop.

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

Yeah and the thing with pricing risk selection, claims supply chain management this plays out over
24 to 36 months. Pricing risk selection first and then claims and supply chain management over
time. So it's harder, I guess, to put a black and white number out there, but rest assured, we're
totally focused on it.

Q - Doug Young

{BIO 5640851 <GO>}

And then my second question -- and this is more a bigger picture question for you, I guess,
Charles. I mean open banking is supposed to arrive in 2023 and I know this doesn't impact Intact
property and casualty industry. But my question really is, I mean has there been discussions like
they are going to do this in one financial institution area, will they go to other financial institution
area. So is this something that you've had discussions with the government or regulator about
moving in a similar direction? I mean the whole concept having clients turn their data and be able
to port their data, is that something that you consider to be a risk or is that just not a risk?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

It's certainly not in the -- in the state it is in other sectors of financial services. That's the first point I
would make. The second point I would make is that people consider their insure every year. And so



it is a business where you need to fight to retain your customers, day in, day out. And so it's very
different sort of competitive environment.

FINAL

So A, I don't expect a meaningful move in that direction, but B, if that was the nature of the
business is such that in practice there is a fair bit of churn and competition every year. I think Doug
for me along these lines though this notion of disrupting distribution through platforms is
something we've been focused on for over a decade.
And that's why we've invested so heavily in our brands, in Digital experience. That's why we are
bulking up distribution because you can see we do have distribution platforms ourselves. We're
hoping to make it some of the leading ones in the country, to fight off potential disruption in that
space. There hasn't been a ton quite frankly in the last decade, but it's always better to be to be
ready.
You look at the aggregator space in the UK maybe that gets a little bit closer to the look and feel
of what open banking might look like, the odds of that gaining traction here I think are small. The
market dynamics are not the same, the big players are certainly not keen on playing on these
platforms which makes it hard for these platforms to grow fast. And so I'd look to that to establish
parallels with open banking. But I wouldn't say it's not a risk, but I would say this is a risk that the
odds are relatively small and our mitigation plan is relatively strong and that's how we like to be
positioned from a strategic point of view.

Q - Doug Young

{BIO 5640851 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Makes sense. Thank you very much.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Thanks.

Operator
Thank you. Next question will be from Paul Holden at CIBC. Please go ahead.

Q - Paul Holden

{BIO 6328596 <GO>}

Great, thanks. I want to ask a question on cost inflation, but from a different angle. A lot of
evidence of wage inflation, both in terms of hiring new employees and employee retention. Just
wondering, from the perspective of your expense ratio and corporate expenses to what extent is
that wage inflation potentially going to have a significant impact on profitability over the next 12 to
24 months?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yeah, I think that's -- we will take the expense question head on there. I would say the strategic
level, if you look at the big objectives here and you look at employee engagement. For us this is
first and foremost, how you retain employee. Our comp is very competitive. It's performancebased and we'll adapt that with the marketplace.
But when I look at the talent pool. There are areas in the organization where there's a bit of
pressure in terms of turnover. But overall, we enjoy a fair -- a very high degree of loyalty at this
stage. Now, when it comes to the economics of the business, maybe Louis you can provide a bit of
perspective on how this can impact us?

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

Sure. So the way we look at it, if you take 10% roughly of GenX ratio, if you add to that the loss
adjustment cost, we like to think that about 16% of expenses would be potentially subject to



inflation. We would maybe take out--

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

FINAL

15% of premiums.

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

Premiums, yes, in total, would be subject to the inflation and then we already baked in inflation in
our expectations maybe at 2.5%, 3%. So if -- the easy calculation for us is doubling up, let's say,
inflation, actual inflation versus what we plan and our expectation is an impact of half a point of on
the expense ratio. So that's a scenario where we double the current what we've planned for and
the impact is fairly limited at half a point of combined ratio impact.

Q - Paul Holden

{BIO 6328596 <GO>}

Got it.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

We're not saying this is what we will do. I think this is a sensitivity test, to give you a sense that for
us, it's not really a needle mover quite frankly. We're far more focused on the claims equation and
the supply chain management and the pricing actions we're taking there.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

Yeah. And of course the other mitigating impacts has productivity for example, the technology will
help alleviate some of that. But just fundamentally to get the envelope sized up here, that's how
we would try to sensitize it.

Q - Paul Holden

{BIO 6328596 <GO>}

Yeah, understood. That sensitivity is useful. One additional question going back to when you were
asked at the beginning on potential structural improvement, in margins and the one I want to push
you a bit on is personal property because if I look at the underlying loss ratio over time and
including 2021, it would appear to me that there is structural improvement in the margins there. So
maybe drilling down on that line of business specifically are the reasons we should expect
normalization or is it structural improvement.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Well, look if you go back a decade Paul, we would have had a different conversation right. And at
the time the level of CAT losses had changed dramatically and so, we changed the structure of the
product to be better aligned with the emerging payrolls, we changed pricing, we changed data
collection, we changed prevention, we changed claims, the supply chain.
Obviously, when you stack all these things up, you have a product that has grown well and that is
performing really well. Our guidance in personal prop is sub-95 even in bad times. Okay. I'll ask
Isabelle to share her perspective. She is in charge of that product. She's pricing for it so why don't
you share your perspective Isabelle.

A - Isabelle Girard

{BIO 21256467 <GO>}

Sure. So bit that you said Charles, maybe to start with, I think in the past, there is two things we've
made in that line of business that makes the underlying performance very strong is first building a
strong and resilient product, face climate change and different perils we cover.
And the second one is make sure our rate strategy is aligned with the sustain pressure in cost
inflation basically in that line of business. So I think that's why in past, we have shown a strong



FINAL

performance. And as you were mentioning I think over the last five years our combined ratio
average is slightly below 90%. However, we also need to remember though that personal
property is the line of business that is the most exposed to weather events and CAT and that will
bring volatility in the results.
So while our performance has been very strong in the recent years, we also need to make sure
that we look at the CAT risk over a longer period of time and that will bring volatility in result from
one year to the other.
As an example, the CAT ratios has been at about 5% of earned premium in the last two years, but
if we look at it over a 10 year period then it represent 9% of the earned premium. So we can see
that from one year to the other. That could also bring volatility. So that's why we say that the 95
combined ratio with severe weather is a better reflection of the volatility for that line of business.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It can swing Paul more than the other lines. I think it's the point, it's a structurally better product.
There is no doubt about it. You see it in the results. I think we're well protected for natural
disasters. I think the issue in personal prop that one needs to anticipate is the fact that you can
have multiple CAT, think of CAD30 million to CAD70 million that are not caught by reinsurance,
because they're below the retention. And that can swing the results meaningfully.
That's why we're looking at this product we're saying all right. This is a great product. It's
performing really well. We're making the most of the environment in which we operate, but keep in
mind that in bad times, it can hit 95. Now the standard deviation around the results we think is
wider than the other and that's why we framed the guidance along these lines.
It's everybody's call in terms of where you want to put the pin in the sand for the expected
combined. But we're saying, look, this thing is built to do well even in bad times.

Q - Paul Holden

{BIO 6328596 <GO>}

Understood, thanks for that.

Operator
Thank you. Next question will be from Mario Mendonca at TD Securities. Please go ahead.

Q - Mario Mendonca

{BIO 2450557 <GO>}

Good. Charles, there have been a lot of detailed questions. And as I listen to this I'm -- it gets me
thinking about how many things are sort of going right for the company right now. Which sort of
takes me down the path of your ROE guidance when you take into account the potential buybacks
reducing your leverage, the synergies associated with RSA and possibly potential improvements in
the claims ratio as you go through your segmentation efforts it really does strike me that the 15%
or maybe mid-teens ROE guidance implies something else is deteriorating abruptly and the only
thing I can think of is personal auto.
So when you think about the 15% or say mid-teens ROE, what are you sort of implicitly telling about
personal auto and how rapidly it can deteriorate in the near term?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Yeah, so I mean the objective here is 500 basis points ROE out performance every year. That's
where it starts. The industry's performance has improved in the past few years. We're still holding
that guidance. I think there is a degree of prudence obviously because when many things go right,
you need to anticipate a few bumps here and there. Inflation potentially being one of those



bumps. But we're trying to stay on top. Louis, do you want to provide a bit of perspective on
Mario's question and trajectory from an ROE point of view because the RSA acquisition has
changed the balance sheet. Book value per share is up 40%. So we need just to keep that in mind
as we look out over the next 24-36 months.

FINAL

A - Louis Marcotte

{BIO 18040440 <GO>}

Yeah, I don't I think it's signaling an abrupt change at least up of our intention. I think the mid-teens
is well aligned with what we are guiding to from our lines of business. I think what's been probably
surprising is the pace at which we actually return to normalcy or we actually don't return to
normalcy, which gave us a bit of a tailwind, but I think the mid-teens ROE is really based on the
long-term expectations for combined ratios.
So you know where we stand on the auto, we're talking about the low end of the mid-90s. I don't
think that's going to be an abrupt change. To the contrary I think it's going to glide towards there,
unless something major happens, but our expectation is a glide. But at the end of that process, the
outcome here is a mid-teens ROE, consistent with the overall combined ratio we will deliver for the
group.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

We were focused on beating that. Obviously when the opportunity in which we operate or the
environment in which we operate, provides the opportunity to beat that, obviously we're on it. No
need to worry about that. You get in a zone where growth north of mid-teens from an ROE point
of view is a very good value creation opportunity and I think that you need to strike that balance.
But we're not signaling any major hits actually. We're prudent in our guidance Mario but we remain
focused on ROE no doubt.

Q - Mario Mendonca

{BIO 2450557 <GO>}

And as you sit there today do you think that we could see that claims ratio, underlying claims ratios
in personal auto start to match what we saw in 2019? Do you think the adjustment will be a little
more gradual but over a couple of years?

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

I think that in 2019, Mario we were still trying to improve that line of business, keep that in mind
right. I mean we had done since 2016, 2017 we slammed the brakes, turned our attention to the
emerging trends we were seeing in accident benefit in particular in Ontario and bodily injury across
the lines. In 2018 we saw inflation pick-up and physical damage. We started to signal to the Street
that technology was putting a lot of pressure. We jumped on that and I would say coming in to
2019 we were not at our trajectory just yet. So no, I wouldn't see the performance of that line of
business in the next 12 to 24 months be in the 2019 range.
I think we are seeing it at the lower end of the mid-90s certainly in 2022 because the full weight of
our actions was not reflected in 2019. Isabelle, would you agree with that perspective?

A - Isabelle Girard

{BIO 21256467 <GO>}

Yes. And I would add that also we have been cautious in the way we're managing to provide relief
to our customers and in the way we're adjusting our rates. And I would see the other thing is that
we're really quick to react and identify any new trends and then we adjust our plan that you
mentioned, we already had put in place pre-COVID to react if things are changing. So I think that's
also preventing us to be back where we were at that time.

A - Charles Brindamour
Yeah.

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}



Q - Mario Mendonca

{BIO 2450557 <GO>}

Thank you.

FINAL

Operator
Thank you. Next question is a follow-up from Geoff Kwan with RBC Capital Markets. Please go
ahead.

Q - Geoffrey Kwan

{BIO 7413168 <GO>}

Thanks. Just I was wondering how you would describe how close you are in assessing the plans to
do, if you're going to do anything with RSA UK&I portfolio or do you feel you've gotten enough
data to kind of execute on the long-term plan? I'm not asking for any details around what exactly
you're doing, but just want to understand how comfortable you are with the assets, you've got in
place and whether not you plan to keep them or pursue other alternatives with them.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, we're deep into strategy work in the areas where the odds of success are lower, I would say
we closed, make it seven months ago. On day one, after closing we had profitability improvement
plans across the board. On day seven, we sold Denmark and we've engaged with the teams
across the region to make sure that we knew how to win, where to win and that would generate
enough return to justify being there, even if we win. We're well advanced in this process.
When it comes to Europe, we're saying it needs to fit in specialty lines. That was our perspective.
When it comes to London market we found a lot of strength. We're saying this will be part of the
global specialty lines platform like the Irish business. In the UK you've heard in our message that
we're de-emphasizing areas where we're operating today where the economics are not good and
that we're deep into strategy with the team but feeling good about the results that we're seeing
there.
So every part is looked at for a roadmap to win and if we don't think we can win, then we don't
play.

Q - Geoffrey Kwan

{BIO 7413168 <GO>}

Okay. Just my second question was just on, Charles when you were talking earlier on US
Commercial, you sounded maybe a little bit more emphatic about significant opportunities for
growth and just wondering if you could maybe provide a little bit more color on why they're not
that's you're looking at it from an organic standpoint or if there's maybe from an acquisition
standpoint term that might drive some of these opportunities.

A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

Darren, do you want to share a bit of color on that?

A - Darren Godf rey

{BIO 19791482 <GO>}

I think, Geoff, I think there is multiple opportunities. Clearly the market conditions themselves today
and you see that in our results today in terms of an organic standpoint, it's a very favorable
operating environment and we don't see that changing materially moving forward. I think on the
inorganic side, I think our strategy continues in terms of our MGA/MGU new strategy so I think
there's opportunities there for us to look at potential tuck-in opportunities.
And then there is obviously potential broader opportunities beyond that. But again, as you know
right opportunity, right price etc. So I think that we have a fair bit of runway here and we're very
obviously selective in terms of the inorganic side but organically today very happy with the market
and we're taking advantage of that.



A - Charles Brindamour

{BIO 7012323 <GO>}

FINAL

Yeah, I think big focus on organic, Geoff. There is the global capabilities, which contribute to that as
well. We were adding a couple of product lines, but when I look at the footprint in the UK I mean
the vast majority of the portfolio that is not under performance improvement, ran at 89% in 2021.
And has grown at 16%. You know what we want more of that. And not expensive to get and that's
focus number one, I would say. Then you add additional lines you add global capabilities, you add
distribution with MGA, you can grow.
The point I'll make about inorganic though is that we feel that the out performance has been
created by the US team. Mike and the team in the US have created what I think are clear
capabilities to out perform. We're therefore at a point where putting capital inorganically is
something we would consider. 18 months ago, maybe not, today yes. But I think the big upside is
definitely organic.

Q - Geoffrey Kwan

{BIO 7413168 <GO>}

Okay, great. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. And at this time, I would like to turn the call back to Shubha Khan for closing comments.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Shubha Khan

{BIO 16255963 <GO>}

Thanks everyone for joining us today. Following the call, a telephone replay will be available for one
week and the webcast will be archived on our website over a year. Transcript will also be available
on our website in the Financial Reports Filings section. Lastly, our first quarter 2022 results are
scheduled to be released after market close on Tuesday, May 10. Thank you again and this
concludes our call for today.

Operator
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this does indeed conclude your conference call for today. Once
again, thank you for attending. And at this time, we do ask that you please disconnect your lines.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

