Y 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Alban de Mailly Nesle , Group Chief Financial Officer and Chief Risk & Investment Officer
Andrew Wallace-Barnett, Senior Vice President & Head of Investor Relations
Antimo Perretta, Chief Executive Officer Europe and Latin America
Frederic de Courtois , Group Deputy Chief Executive Officer
Scott Gunter, Chief Executive Officer of AXA XL
Thomas Buberl, Chief Executive Officer & Director

Other Participants
Andrew Crean
Andrew Sinclair
Dominic O'Mahony
Farooq Hanif
James Shuck
Michael Huttner
Will Hardcastle

Bloomberg Transcript

William Hawkins

Presentation
Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

Hello, everyone and welcome to AXA's Full Year '21 Results. It's great to be back back here live in
London. A big welcome to all of you in the room. I think we have all of the London sales side here
with us today in-person. So thank you all for coming. It's great to have you and it's great to be on
the same room together. So thanks for that and a big welcome also to those of you joining on the
webcast, and it's great to have you with us as well today. Here, with us in London this afternoon,
we have our CEO, Thomas Buberl; we have our Deputy CEO, Frederic de Courtois; we have our
CFO, Alban de Mailly Nesle; we have also our CEO for France, Patrick Cohen; and we have our
CEO for Europe and LATAM, Antimo Perretta. So thank you all for being here as well.
There will be a Q&A session. Obviously, at the end of the presentation, we'll give preference to
those of you here in the room with us, but we're also very happy to take questions from the
webcast. So just send your questions in writing and we'll make sure they're read out.
And now for the eighth year, it's my great pleasure to hand over to AXA's CEO, Thomas for his
introductory remarks.

Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Andrew and a good afternoon to all of you. I'm very happy to be with you
again here in London. It seems like a long time ago ago since COVID was a very intense time and
so very glad to be with you and to exchange in-person, but most importantly to present very
strong results of AXA in 2021 and 2021 for us was a very decisive and pivotal year. Decisive
because it determined for us how would we come out of this very difficult crisis and you've seen in
the numbers that we came out in a very strong way. Pivotal because we come to the end of a



FINAL

transformation phase in which we have shifted the company significantly and it looks very different
from what we've seen in 2016.
What are the highlights? EUR100 billion in revenue, a very symbolic number. It's a level of revenue
that is higher than what we've seen pre-COVID and certainly having grown 6% versus last year is a
very good performance, and what makes me even more confident is when you look into a detail,
all of the engines have contributed to it. There is not one single one that is lagging behind. We
have achieved all of this on a very strong balance sheet, 217% solvency II ratio, 17 points up from
last year is a tremendous achievement and is one of the elements that I mentioned earlier when
we talked about the question of how did we come out of this crisis in a reinforced way.

Bloomberg Transcript

Certainly, when I look at the underlying earnings, I'm very happy to see that based on a normalized
2020, we have progressed 9% and we certainly again see that all the markets are contributing to
this very good result and one particular area I would like to focus on since we have been focusing
on over the last years is AXA XL. We have achieved the EUR1.2 billion, which was the target that
was not easy to achieve over the last couple years, and I'm going into detail afterwards, but with
the very clear and determined underwriting actions that Scott and his team have undertaken, we
have now achieved the target. So very strong results across all dimensions.
When we now look at what is going to -- what does it mean in terms of underlying earnings per
share and certainly also what does it mean in terms of dividend? On the underlying earnings per
share, we see there is also a progression of 7%. And as you remember, we had a range between
3% and 7% for our current plan ambition 2023, which means that we are in 2021 at the upper end,
which is the good news. It is also on that basis that the Board of Directors has met yesterday and is
proposing a dividend per share of EUR1.54, which is an increase of 8%. And when you look at the
payout ratio very well settled in the corridor that we have given ourselves. So I'm very pleased with
these one of these results and also would like to use this opportunity to thank our teams for this
great result and for the excellent performance, because everybody contributed to it and without
the help of anybody, this would have not been possible.
Where are we today? Because I said earlier that we see 2021 as well as a pivotal change. We are
now in a place where we have a new AXA that is very different to the AXA that you've known 10
years ago, you've known 6 years ago. Why is it different? Because it's now simplified and it's
focused. Why is it focused? It's focused because we are in less geographies, but it's also focused
on very attractive business. 90% of our earnings come today from technical earnings and feebased business, which was very different or which is very different to what we have seen after the
financial crisis of 2008 where 80% of our earnings came from financial market results.
We've also risked these shift of business mix and the simplification, created a very strong leader in
Europe and France, and I'm happy to be here with Anitmo and Patrick. We've secondly created the
number one platform globally for corporate risks. Scott Gunter will be with us digitally later on and
we also created one of the strongest health franchise across the world. Those areas give us a very
good basis to capitalize on it and make that platform grow even more.
When you look at where are we with this new platform in the current ambition 2023 driving
progress? We set ourselves at the time five goals. Number one was we want to grow our health
business 5% or more. We've achieved this in 2021 where the health and protection business has
grown 5%. We secondly set we want to work on our efficiency. We want to reduce our cost base by
EUR500 million between end of 2020 and '23. By the end of 2021, we have achieved EUR300
million of this reduction of the cost base. We thirdly set we want to improve technical performance
and again, everywhere be it in France, be it in Europe and certainly at XL, we've worked on this
topic and we've achieved to be better. And in particular what I said earlier what is outstanding for
me is the technical improvement at AXA XL and achieving those EUR1.2 billion.
The fourth topic and the aim was for us to be even more of a leader on the climate transition side.
Two elements I would highlight. One is the lead that we have taken in the net zero insurance



FINAL

alliance, which is an association of global insurers in order to also focus our underwriting decisions
on how can we accompany the climate transition in a positive way, but we've also taken new
commitments when it comes to oil and gas. And lastly, we want to increase the cash remittance
when you've seen what we have done. We are clearly also on a very good journey. So I'm very
happy with the process. We have made excellent progress on our ambition 2023, which set us up
for a great way of achieving the plan the way we wanted to.
Let me go a bit into detail on AXA XL because as I said, it was not easy to get to the EUR1.2 billion.
We've done it and the one reason why we've done it was was very hard work of Scott and his
team over the past two years in really reunderwriting this portfolio. They've taken every contract
and in-depth view, increased prices, resized the lines so that we have less net risk and also were
very courageous in exiting unprofitable lines. This has led us to a combined ratio improvement of
5.1 points in 2021 which to my mind is a really great achievement, and this sets us up now for the
next step, which is a more balanced development between keeping the absolute priority on
underwriting profitability, but making sure that in some areas in which we believe it's attractive to
grow, we also seize more opportunities to grow.

Bloomberg Transcript

2021 has also been a year in which we have experienced severe natural catastrophes. It was the
first worst year since 1970. That is also why we have decided that the reinsurance results at AXA XL
given the experience we had were too volatile and we've taken a very courageous decision to cut
the property cut exposure by 40%. We have started to implement this at the 1 January, so this is
already done. And obviously as you can imagine for the other renewals that are coming this year,
we will apply exactly the same level of reduction, because we want to make sure that we continue
to reduce the volatility after having done it every year by minus 10%, but we wanted to really grow
further with the minus 40%..
Where are we on this journey to the plan driving progress 2023? We have as you've seen a very
strong growth momentum around the revenues. P&C health and protection, our preferred
segments grew 5% versus 2020 and on the unit-linked and asset management site, I'm very
pleased to see a growth that is even double-digit 24%. The technical performance as I said earlier
has been strengthened and we managed to reduce the current year combined ratio and loss ratio
loss ratio by 1.6 points making sure that we don't only look at how do we optimize the technically
result in terms of claims results, but also making sure that we are delivering on our commitments
to reduce our cost base I mentioned it earlier. We have achieved EUR300 million of reduction of
cost base. So this sets us up very nicely to deliver within the target range of 3% to 7% underlying
earnings per share. And certainly if you look where we are today, we are more delivering towards
the higher end of this target range, which is obviously a very good position to be in.
When we look then at the question of cash, one of the aims of the transformation of AXA was how
do we get to much more business that is driving and generating a much higher cash and you've
seen that this has worked having 90% of our profits from technical risks and from fee-based risks
means that the cash generation has increased and we could end the year with a cash at holding of
EUR4.5 billion, which is well above the aim that we have between EUR1 billion and EUR3 billion.
We've also concluded one of the two share buybacks that we have announced in November last
year. One was the EUR1.7 billion in order to compensate for the dividend in 2020 that we could not
payout due to COVID restrictions, the 50%. This is completed by February by February of this year,
and we have also now closed the necessary disposals in order to confirm today the second share
buyback of EUR500 million, which concerns three disposals and you've seen recently that the
largest one of those three Singapore was also successfully closed. So this will now start as well.
What does it mean for the overall cash trajectory? We gave you an indication on the 1 December,
2020 in terms of our cash projection that we said look cash upstream will be around EUR14 billion.
We can say today with good confidence that we will be exceeding those EUR14 billion. Why?
Because we've focused even more than we thought in 2020 on those lines of business that are
highly cash generated. And secondly, despite the fact that we've already gone a very large journey
in reducing our in-force on the life side, think about what has happened with IPO equitable with
Anitmo working very hard in Switzerland on the GL 2020 transformation, those were big moves.



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Nevertheless, we have identified some more in-force actions and you've seen some of them
already that have come into place, be it a reinsurance transaction in Hong Kong, be it another
transaction in Switzerland and another one in Belgium. So this will be a continuous journey.
Another element that I would highlight for you in the topic of cash generation is also the
transformation of AXA SA, so our holding company into a reinsurance company. This is something
that is very common in our industry and most of our peers have already done it. We can do it now
because we've got the right business mix to do it and it gives us an ability of enhanced
functionality in P&C and certainly as Alban and Frederick will point out later an additional lever of
cash generation between 2022 and '26. We've also been very clear at the December IR Day in
2020 on how do we deploy cash and what we clearly said that we have now a very focused at
AXA, a very focused footprint. We will look at M&A in a very disciplined manner, but only in places
where it adds to the existing footprint and where it has highest synergies. And we've also been
very clear that the use of cash is always benchmarked against share buybacks, which means that
share buybacks remain and are an ongoing part of our toolkit.
When we look at where we are positioned today and what is the setup for the future, we've got
today a very strong growth momentum and this is also represented in a great bench strength of
talents that we have at the group in the local entities. And I'm very confident that the growth
momentum we have achieved certainly in the preferred lines can be kept up because we have an
inherent demand of our customers for these risks. Health has become a very large interest of
people post COVID. We've got on company's site many, many more risks certainly another one as
of this morning and so there is a high demand for insurance solution, a high demand for advice in
order to make sure that the risk management of the company is well managed. So growing in
those very attractive cash generative businesses is what we are going to pursue as of now on this
transformed newly structured platform AXA. All of this happens on the excellent balance sheet,
217% of solvency without by the way any equivalence is something that we have probably hardly
ever seen it AXA.
The target range that we have set for ourselves, the 3% to 7% underlying earnings per share is
from today's perspective very feasible. We've done -- we've delivered earnings growth per share
already at the higher end of that range and I will expect as well if we continue that journey that we
will remain at the higher end. And what I said to you earlier, I'm of the firm belief that the guidance
we've given you around the EUR14 billion cash on the 1 December, 2020 is something that we will
be exceeding due to the fact that we focus our growth on highly cash generative business and that
we also continue our work even further on in-force transactions. So across all the dimensions of our
setup of our plan, we are well positioned. The group is in great shape and our outlook is excellent
to succeed even more.
I would like to end here and hand over to Fredrick who will now go into more detail and I'm looking
forward to the discussion with you. Thank you.

Frederic de Courtois

{BIO 16976110 <GO>}

Good afternoon. It's good to be with you in London, and I would like now to discuss with you about
three operational priorities. The group is really in a very good shape and I would like to tell you
more about capital and cash management. I would like to tell you more about net cash exposure
reduction especially in AXA XL and I would like to tell you more about business performance which
has been excellent in 2021 in all our four business lines.
Let's move to capital management. We had already discussed in the past about in-force actions.
We started to implement it. You see that we've signed three small transactions in 2021, Hong
Kong, Switzerland and Belgium. You see what they represent, so EUR8 billion of general account
reserves (Technical Difficulty) closed in 2022, but I'm confident that you will see a lot closed by the
end of 2023. So why do we do it? I mean, this is you know is well. We do it to reduce our exposure



FINAL

to financial risks. We do it to release locked up capital and upstream cash to the holding company.
So on this front, things are going well.
Our surge on initiative which is new is the initiative we have on the P&C side. You see that we are
going to transform our holding company AXA SA into group internal reinsurer. We are going to
merge our internal captive reinsurance company with AXA SA and we are going to reinsure
through quota share treaties most of our P&C companies to this holding company with the quota
share at 25 %, which is not set in stone, but we start with 25%. So of course everything is subject to
regulatory approvement with and we are confident that we will obtain these regulatory of
approvements over the coming weeks and everything will be implemented for the operation at
the end of June and the reinsurance treaties will start from January 1, 2022.

Bloomberg Transcript

So again, this is -- it seems to be a complex operation. It is not. This is only an internal restructuring.
So everything is in our hands, and we are extremely confident to be able to implement with
everything by the end of June. It has a significant impact on cash. You see here that it has EUR2
billion -- around EUR2 billion cash impact by the end of 2026. We are saying that it has EUR1 billion
cash impact by the end of 2023. Out of this EUR1 billion, EUR0.7 billion is due to the cash that we
had in the internal captive reinsurance company and EUR0.3 billion is due to the upstreaming of
the beginning or the upstreaming of the positive capital impact of fixed reinsurance transactions.
And again, we will have the other EUR1 billion upstreaming in the following years.
So in a nutshell, we have an ambitious plan on the life side. We have an ambitious new plan from
the P&C side on cash generation and upstreaming of cash and this is one of the reasons we are
confident to overshoot on our EUR14 billion target on remittance. Second topic of the day cats
exposure and cat volatility. So we are taking decisive actions to reduce our cat exposure for two
reasons and the first one is to reduce volatility. The second one because we believe that in many
areas cat pricing is still not adequate especially in the context of climate change, so we are very
selective on our cat exposure.
You see here on the left side and this is important that you understand it. At the end, our main cat
volatility is coming from AXA XL Re. We've exceeded our budget on AXA XL Re on cat by almost 8
points, which is a significant deviation. But on the contrary, you see that despite the fact that as
Thomas said, we had a very bad cat year. AXA XL insurance and our general insurance business in
Europe and again has been heavy year on cat in Europe has exceeded -- have exceeded their cat
budget, but not so much. So again the volatility mainly comes from AXA XL Re and it explains why
we've taken decisive action at the end of 2021 before the renewal.
So what have we done? We've been extremely selective on the renewal on cats. We have reduced
our cat exposure by 40% and we have the plan to reduce it to continue to reduce it during the
year for the further renewals during the year. So that at the end of the year, we have reduced our
global cat exposure for the whole portfolio by 40%. You will see that it reduces our cat exposure at
the group level by 10% and it is important to say that it preserves the AXA XL Re expected
earnings. Why so? Because of course on one hand, we've reduced our exposures, which has a
negative impact, but we've increased pricing and we reduced the read-through prices. And I will
say more or less, the two are compositing and we believe that we've entirely preserved the AXA
XL Re expected earnings for 2022.
Moving to our four business lines and again, we've performed well on our four business lines this
year. So I'll start with the first one, which is P&C. So solid growth on the P&C business, so 3%
growth last year. If you look at the commercial business, 5% growth. And here, I'd like to make
comment first on France and then on AXA XL. So excellent performance in France in the context of
good pricing. So we've grown the French business by 11% on commercial lines last year. And we've
achieved and we've even over achieved our objective on AXA XL insurance and AXA XL Re on
pricing. You see that last year pricing have increased by 15% on AXA XL insurance on 9% on AXA
Re which by the way leads to an average commercial increase for the pricing by 7% last year. And
the renewals at the end of 2022 also went well. So we had price increases for AXA XL insurance of



FINAL

11% on January 1 and we had pricing increases for AXA XL Re by 8% on January 1 and we are happy
with this.
If you look at the personal lines activities, so the personal lines business increased by 1% with the
pricing which is stable of role, which is I would say good performance in the context of very much
reduced frequency last year and the year before. Looking now at the P&C profitability. So the P&C
profitability for the P&C business excluding COVID increased by 29% compared to last year.
Obviously, the main impact is much better underwriting impact AXA XL has really delivered on their
underwriting performance. So we are extremely happy with the underwriting performance of AXA
XL see here. And again the price increases that we've achieved last year and on January 1 which
you do not fully see in the results will be seen over the coming years as you can imagine. We have
a stable investment income on the P&C side, which is also a good performance in the context of
lower yield on our assets.

Bloomberg Transcript

If I look more precisely at the combined ratio, so the combined ratio is significantly increasing and
this is the consequence what I've said. Then they are a lot of moving pieces and quite a lot of
exceptional items in the combined ratio. So I'll try to make a list of this exceptional items. I have a
list of four. We had excess cats. Thomas said it that was the fourth worst cat year since 1970. So
this is obviously a negative impact. We had some frequency benefit linked to the lockdown
situation is especially in Europe and this is obviously a positive impact. We had the claim the deal
we've made with French restaurants last year and it has a negative impact and we have PYDs
somewhat above guidance. This is a positive impact.
I would say by chance all these exceptional impacts are compensating each other and this is
globally U.S. and UK. To make it simple, you can consider that the 94.6% is a clean 94.6% with no
negative impact. In reality, the sum of all the four is the minus EUR50 million in negative impact, but
globally again, the 94.6% is clean and it makes us confident that we will achieve the 93% combined
ratio in 2023, and we believe we are on the right track to achieve the 93%.
Let's move to the -- I don't have the screen anymore. I don't know why, but I'll make it. Anyway, the.
No. Okay. So it will come back. So volumes on the life business, volumes increased by 9%, which is
a strong performance. I would highlight very much the business mix, which is exactly the business
mix we want to have with strong growth on protection business, strong growth in unit-lined
business and strong growth in capital light general account business. I'd like to highlight here a few
points. First, the excellent performance in France. So France business has increased last year by
17% very much driven by the savings business.
Why so? We had strong sales of unit-linked business. We had strong sales of retirement business,
and we had strong sales of the Eurocroissance business. You know that the Eurocroissance
business are capital guaranteed business at maturity only. So these are capitalized business and
this is a business, which we have strongly developing in France. And by the way, this is the type of
business we are also strongly developing in other European countries. If you look at the ratio of
unit length and Eurocroissance on ratio divided by our total business, they represent 56% of our
total business, which is 15 points above the market. So why did we have back? Why did we have a
strong growth last year in France? We had excellent performance from our proprietary workforce,
salesforce, agents and salaried networks.
The second point that I would like to highlight is the strong performance in Asia. We had a strong
performance in Asia in Japan and in Hong Kong with the protection business and capital light
general account business. And some unit-lined business in Japan. Screen is -- yes, screen is back.
So we're happy with this performance in Asia. You see that the net inflow is exactly the one we
want. So positive net inflow globally, very positive on our preferred lines of business and negative
on the traditional general account business.
Moving to new business and NBV. So this is the consequence of what I've said. So new business
increases a lot, so 13% acceleration during the second half of the year on the new business. This is



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

again what I've said and I insist on the quality of the mix. You see that the highest growth comes
from protection and health, unit-linked and capital light business. All of this translates in a good
NBV margins, so with 8% growth of the NBV margin. A slight decrease -- I would say an immaterial
decrease of the NBV margin, which is mostly due to higher mix of group business on the health
business line especially in Hong Kong, which slightly decreases the individual margin globally, but
the NBV margin on protection and unit-linked is increasing.
Life and savings profitability, so the life and savings profitability is increasing by 3%. It is increasing
by 5% at constant scope. Constant scope means if you restate for the companies we've sourced,
so Central and Eastern Europe, Greece and the reinsurance transaction in Hong Kong. So again 5%
growth at constant scope. At the end, why did it increase? It's a mix of various impacts. So increase
of the technical margin with good performance, claims performance on the protection products
and extremely resilient investment margin, which is I would say good news because you see on the
right side that the investment margin in 2021 was slightly above our guidance for the plan. So 66
basis point compared to 55 to 65 range that we had given in our plan. And we are confident that
this investment margin will stay resilient and close to the high end of the range for the investment
margin. Last but not least, the third impact is revenues and unit-linked products, so fees and unitlinked products and here it increases because of good inflows and because of good performance
of the markets. So again a very solid result on the life side.
On the health business, on the following slide, you see that we continue with our strategy of
profitable growth. So growth revenues have increased by 5%, which is our objective of this
business but especially -- we especially had strong growth on group business, especially in France
with performance up by 12% because we expand our employees benefit offering in France and
also good performance in Hong Kong as I've said. We have a very slight deterioration of the
combined ratio on the health side. We have two impacts here. We had a lower frequency last year
on the hedge business, because of the lockdown, which of course has an impact on fees. And we
had a negative impact this year on the frequency in Mexico, which is a big hedge market for us
linked to COVID. So all of these linked to a 0.4 point increase of combined ratio, which we believe
is immaterial and again is linked to this two specific impacts, which I have mentioned. So underlying
earnings at the end increased by 2% and you see that represent about 10% of our global earnings.
Fourth and last business lines, which has gone extremely well, asset management. I'd like to spend
some more time on asset management. So you see that the average assets under management
increased by 5%, which is a mix of market impact and net inflows. You see that our net inflow have
increased by EUR12 billion -- we had EUR12 billion positive net inflows last year, especially on the
alternative business, especially in the JVs in Asia and especially in Korea. And we had a negative
net inflow on the core -- in the core business unit, negative net inflow which is the consequence of
what I said before, because we have negative inflows on our general account products and we had
the Hong Kong reinsurance transaction. So at the end nothing unexpected.The mix has improved
because we had strong positive inflows on third-party clients with higher margins and we had again
positive net inflow both on the alternative business and the core business. We had also strong
inflows on the core business and the third-party business.
Moving to margins. So all of this is the consequence of what I said before. So 20% increase of the
gross revenues, which is a mix of higher assets under management and better mix of third-party
business and strong growth of the alternative business. So you see here that our management fee
on average increased by 0.7 basis point, which is good news. So the cost income ratio also
mechanically increases because our revenues have increased, but also because we had good
discipline on the cost in AXA M and which leads to close to 4 points improvement of the cost
income ratio and which leads to a 25% increase of our underlying earnings very much driven again
by our excellent performance of alternative franchise.
So last word on our alternative franchise, which I think we -- you know well. I would like to repeat
that we are the first European franchise on the alternative business. So this is an important subject.
So we are the first real estate franchise in Europe. This is my first message. My second message is
that the strong performance last year is not one year performance. If you look at the performance



FINAL

over the past five years, you see constant high performance for this alternative franchise. We had
EUR54 billion net inflow in our alternative franchise over the past five years, which is an excellent
performance and our plan is to continue to develop this high margin business. And I would like to
highlight that we have a strong pipeline of client commitments in 2021. So we are confident that
again the net inflows will be strong in 2022.
So again, to conclude on this strong performance so far four business lines. And now I give the
word to Alban on the financial performance. Thank you.

Alban de Mailly Nesle

{BIO 20387796 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Frederic. Good afternoon all. So I will take you through the main elements of our P&L
and our balance sheet. Starting with the underlying earnings. So underlying earnings grew by 61%
between '20 and '21. As you see, '20 was affected by COVID losses and excess cat. If you adjust
for those two elements, the underlying earnings increase was 9% between those two years. And
so to take the various elements of the P&L that Frederic just gave you, on the P&C side, again
adjusted for COVID and COVID only, we grew earnings by 29% between '20 and '21. We had
regular growth in life and savings and health respectively 3% and 2 %, excellent performance in
asset management and holdings is slightly lower that's because of slightly lower amount of
dividends coming from our non-consolidated subsidiaries. So overall, an excellent performance at
61%.
If we move now to the net income, so net income is increasing by 135%. Obviously, this is
supported by the strong growth in underlying earnings, but also by the very favorable market
conditions that we had last year that allowed us to realize EUR400 million of capital gains and also
led to a mark-to-market through P&L of certain financial assets, namely private equity funds and
hedge funds for EUR1.1 billion. We had limited impact from integration and restructuring costs and
from intangibles and the amount of exceptional items reflect the transactions that we had last
year, so be that enforce transactions with Belgium and Hong Kong or disposals like Singapore and
Malaysia. So overall, a net income of EUR7.3 billion.
Now moving to the balance sheet and I'll start with the shareholders' equity. So shareholders'
equity was roughly stable slightly decreasing between full year '20 and full year '21. The main
reason for the decrease is obviously the OCI with less unrealized capital gains on loans because of
the increase in interest rates but that was to some extent compensated by the very strong net
income that I've just described EUR7.3 billion. There was also positive impact of interest rates on
our pension fund deficits and for us was also positive for EUR2 billion. On the negative side,
obviously, the dividend of EUR3.4 billion and the share buyback that's the EUR1.7 billion program
that we had realized up to EUR900 million at 31, 12 and if you see, we did the rest as you saw in
the first weeks of January and February. So then the underlying earnings and the shareholders'
equity that leads us to an excellent ROE of 14.7%, which is at the very top end of our target range
of 13% to 15%. So we see that really excellent performance.
Moving on to solvency II. So solvency II ratio stands at 217%, up 17 points compared to 2020 and I'll
comment a bit more in detail in the following slide, and you see here also the sensitivities that you
know well on our solvency. So on this Slide 29, this is a new slide gives you more information on our
solvency and I think there are several interesting elements in this slide. The first one is that our
capital generation was EUR6.4 billion that's 23 points of solvency, so slightly above the guidance
that we re gave of 18 to 22 points, but very interestingly as well you see that we can grow and we
did grow our business without needing more capital. The amount of additional SCR needed for
growth is nil.
Then you had operating variances that's surplus funds that increased notably in France and
Germany, economic variances that's obviously the result of the equity markets up and also higher
interest rates. You see the impact of dividend EUR3.6 billion and for buyback, although we had only
completed EUD900 million. We took at full year the full impact of the EUR1.7 billion buyback and we



FINAL

will take the EUR500 million that we confirm today at the end of Q1. And we had EUR1.7 billion of
EUF creation coming from capital management generally. So M&A in-force and that's the
transactions that either the sales or the Hong Kong transaction.
One word about one item that will come in Q1 on our solvency that you may not have in our radar.
You know that there is a reform from the EU upon the use of swap rate because of the changing
eyeball. So in Switzerland and Japan, we will move to government bond rates that will have zero
impact on Switzerland, but a positive 5 points impact coming from Japan on our group solvency
ratio in Q1. We see that as transitory, because at some point, we should get back probably in '23 to
spot rates and (inaudible), but in the meantime, we will enjoy those 5 points. But again, as we see
that as transitory, we wouldn't use that excess amount.

Bloomberg Transcript

On cash at AXA SA, so we ended the year at EUR4.5 billion that's above our target range of EUR1
billion to EUR3 billion. So that's also good performance that comes mainly from the strong cash
remittance from our entities and despite the fact that 2020 was not an excellent year in terms of
earnings that there is also debt issuance of EUR900 million. You know that in our plan that we
disclosed at the end of '20, we said that we could increase now debt by roughly EUR1 billion and I'll
come back to that in the next slides. And there is obviously the proceeds of EUR1.4 billion coming
from the disposals. Conversely, again, the share buyback at EUR0.9 billion and EUR3.4 billion of
dividend and you will note at the bottom of the table the fact that we finalized -- finished the
rebuilding of the cash buffers locally with minus EUR1.1 billion. So we have strong cash flexibility at
the holding and Frederic described prospects on that front are good given the in-force transaction
that we want to do and given the transformation of AXA SA in to reinsurer.
If you we look at financial debt, it grew by EUR1.5 billion and of the EUR900 million that we saw on
the previous slide plus FX movement for the remainder. So that's the 18.1 that you see and with
this, our gearing ratio is slightly decreasing at 26.4% well within the guidance of 25% to 28 %. And
since the beginning of the year, we've done two transactions. We have redeemed a Tier 1 debt of
EUR850 million and we have issued EUR1.25 billion of Tier 2 debt for a net amount of EUR500
million of debt issuance for the time being this year. You will note that the Tier 1 debt had a coupon
or 5.5%, so quite an expensive one.
On the investment side, so the yield that we had on new investments in '21 stood at 1.4% on fixed
income instruments. That's the mix of 1% on core liquid instruments such as government and
corporate bonds, and 2.4% on alternative debt. And we use what Frederic described as the
strength in alternative asset management and you see that along the previous years within that
keeping a very strong rating for the investment that we do, AA for government bonds, A for
corporate bonds and alternative assets, alternative debt. So that led us to have a P&C yield, which
was extremely stable between '20 and '21 to 0.6%. So precisely, it's down by 2 bps. So it's better
than the 10 to 20 bps dilution that we had given you. And as Frederic said, we have also a very
resilient investment margin that stood 66 basis points, and we expect it to remain resilient in '22.
Up until yesterday, with the current market environment, I would have told you that we plan to
invest in '22 in fixed income at 2%, so better than the 1.4% that you see for '21. But markets are bit
uncertain uncertain to say the least.
And then the last slide, I want to comment is non-commission expenses. So you will remember that
we have a target reduction of EUR500 million of our non-commissioned expenses between 2019
and 2023. And we're glad to show that we achieved EUR300 million reduction at the end of '21.
But I want to highlight also the fact that we want to keep investing and notably in technology. So
don't expect this amount of EUR300 million to improve in '22. But we are still extremely confident
that it will improve to EUR500 million in '23. Just want to signal the fact that we'll probably have a
plateau in '22. And we are also on track to reduce our expense ratio from 10.4% to 9.4% because
we stand at 9.8 at the FY '21. So as you see, an excellent performance, but also a robust balance
sheet, be it on solvency, cash or gearing.



FINAL

So I will leave the floor in a second to Thomas for conclusion, but I don't want to do that without
first thanking in front of you Andrew for the eight years that he has spent in Investor Relations. He
was extremely helpful to me when I took the job eight months ago. I believe he created the
relationship of confidence and transparency with you. So again, Andrew, thank you very much I
hope on behalf of everyone.

Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you, Alban. And certainly, I would echo what Alban said on Andrew because it was a long
and intense 8 years with ups and down and it's led to see that this phase is ending at a very high
level of results where you go into a next journey at AXA. Coming to the conclusion, I hope you've
seen from all three of us that AXA is successful, AXA is well positioned to continue a very strong
delivery. We have a great platform that is dynamic in terms of growth. We have a strong balance
sheet, a strong balance sheet we've never had at that level. We have shown in 2021 that we can
deliver at the top range of the range we have published 3% to 7%. We want to continue this
journey exactly on that way and we've become obsessive around cash over the last couple years
and want to continue that obsession making sure that we are growing in the areas where we can
generate the most cash and certainly make sure that we upstream as much cash as possible to the
holding and the transformation of AXA SA into reinsurance company is a very important step in
that.
Thank you very much for being here today. And with no further ado, we move to your questions,
and we'll start with Michael.

Bloomberg Transcript

Questions And Answers
A - Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

(Question And Answer)

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Thanks so much. And it's lovely to see you here. I have three questions. Why -- One, why didn't you
raise the dividend?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Sorry, you need to get the mic closer.

Q - Michael Huttner

{BIO 21454754 <GO>}

Sorry. Why didn't you raised the dividend more as we got all this cash and solvency. The second,
can you give us the cash figure this year. Presumably, you must know it because it's all dividends
from subsidiaries. And the third is really stupid, but what about Russia and Ukraine?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

What I suggest Michael. I'll take the first and the third question. And Alban will try and see how he
answers the second question, because we normally don't really talk about the cash of this year,
that's for next year. So why didn't we raise the dividend more. Our policy has always been very
clear, we want to have a dividend policy that is in line with the underlying earnings growth and that
is attractive relative to the sector and other industries. So when you look the dividend increase has
been higher than the underlying earnings per share increase, which I think it's also a very confident
note on the fact that we are in a great position. And certainly, we believe that this is a very
attractive dividend and yesterday, when we had the discussion and decision in the board. It was
very unanimous that the 154 is the number, we considered to be a very attractive dividend.



FINAL

When we look at Russia and Ukraine and Alban in his answer on the cash question can maybe go
also into a bit more detail. There is two effects that we have to differentiate. First one, which is
direct exposure and to make a long story short, our exposure in Ukraine and Russia is not material
on a group level. So the Ukrainian operations have been sold a couple years ago in the focus and
simplification exercise that we've done. In Russia, we are a minority partner in a joint venture, but
the profit contribution is not material on a total level of the group. We have some investment
exposure, but more indirect ones. Alban will go more into detail, which again not material.
There is a second effect, which is obviously an indirect effects. What does it mean for market
volatility? What does it mean for energy price increases and inflation increases? But this is
something certainly when you look at deflation, that we've been seeing coming over the last
couple months already and we are well prepared for it. Alban, on cash and details on Russia and
Ukraine.

A - Alban de Mailly Nesle

{BIO 20387796 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So I start with Russia and Ukraine. So to be extremely precise. On the asset side, we have the
direct exposure to Russian asset is 50 million, five zero and we have also 144 million exposure to
Nord Stream 1. So the one that is not subject to a sanction and provides the 55 million of cubic
meters of gas to Europe every year. So that's -- so that's it -- that exposure. And that's all we have
on Russia and we have nothing on the Ukraine. On the insurance side, we have -- we sell political
risk insurance, and we have an exposure of 180 million to Russia and 130 million to Ukraine. That
business is reinsured 50%. So the net exposure is half the amounts that I gave you. So as Thomas
said, extremely negligible overall.
On the cash figure, so we don't give cash figures, but I will help you. I would just say, we have
guidance of, as we said in 2020, a 5 billion to 6 billion cash remittance from our subsidiaries, and
we should be well within that guidance for this year. And you should have in mind notably that XL
didn't pay a dividend last year, will pay a dividend this year. Thanks to its earnings. We will -- what
you saw that we showed 500 million of debt net and we have a program of 1 billion net a year.
Then we have the holding cost and that's supposed to vary. And we have the dividend and
buybacks. And on the buyback you saw that we had done 900 million, so that was 800 million to
be done on the 1.7 program plus the 500 million that we are launching today. With this, I think you
have many elements to see where we should lend everything else being equal.

A - Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

Farooq?

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Thanks for having us back. And thank you so much, Andrew. So just a few questions please. On the
subject of the risk -- the Nat Cat -- Property Cat reduction of risk and reassurance. Could you
explain again the dynamics? Because retro prizes we all know in lot affected areas are up high
double-digit, capacity is constraining et cetera, et cetera. And could you also explain what it does
to your volatility of the Nat Cat budget or the Nat Cat budget itself in XL or at the group level?
That's question one.
So question two is, can you give us some idea about the potential cash impact from the 20 billion
to 40 billion of reserves that you still have to do in-force management on or some idea of kind of - because clearly the timing is near from what you told us over 2022 and 2023. And the last
question is the operating variances and the capital generation. I mean, you've generated positive
variances for the last three years as far as I remember. Is that something that we should be baking
in going forward? Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}



Thank you, Farooq for your three questions. I propose that Frederic will take the first question and I
don't know if Scott is on, he can maybe compliment because we've also talked about the question,
how did it look at the market? Frederic, it would also be good, if you took the second one around
the in-force? And then Alban on the operating variance, cash generation that's for you.

FINAL

A - Frederic de Courtois

{BIO 16976110 <GO>}

Sure. Thank you, Farooq. So I'll talk -- I'll with the Cat question. So first, I come back to what I said,
which is that we have reduced the Cat exposure at AXA XL Re for two reasons. The first one is, we
are not comfortable with the high volatility that we have seen. And second, we are not fully
comfortable with the level of prices for Cat around the world despite the fact that prices have
increased again at this renewal. So this is the reasoning that is behind 40% reduction of our Cat a
cap exposure at AXA XL Re. So where does it lead us to? Compared to the 6% Cat budget we
had for AXA XL Re -- for AXA XL, sorry, last year, we have moved to 5%. And as it was shown on
the slide, globally for the group, we have reduced by 10% the Cat exposure. So coming from 4%
minus 10%, we are -- we'll be around the 3.6%, 3.7% for the group.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Frederic. Maybe at this point, if possible, we can try and get Scott in to hear a little bit, what were
the price increases that were achieved on the market? And also Scott, that you talk a little bit about
how the nature of tariffs has changed and particularly on the secondary perils.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Scott Gunter

{BIO 20129741 <GO>}

Yeah. Thank you, Thomas. I hope you can all hear me and I wish I was there in person, so next time.
But yes, when we looked at the reinsurance pricing of the Cat, to complement what Frederic said
was, we just -- when we looked at it, we just weren't seeing the price increases that we needed to
see to justify the ongoing exposure. In particular, the increasing exposure due to climate change,
due to increase -- value increases. So while the retrosessional marketplace has gone up and the
insurance side has gone up significantly. The reinsurance piece of it just wasn't delivering the
pricing increases that we needed.
We still have achieved close to a 10% price increase on the business we elected to renew, which
obviously we selected from and when we reduced it by 40%, we were very selective of what we
did renew. And as prices -- look at that through the rest of the year and continue to make that
decision about what we renew and what we don't renew based on the exposure and the pricing.
In terms of the secondary perils with the model Cats pretty sophisticated, but what we're seeing is
an increase in a secondary peril such as the European flooding, the tornado wind exposure in the
United States and all of that needs to get priced into the Cat reinsurance treaty. So to compliment
a little bit what Frederic said, it is while we reduced our overall Cat budget for AXA XL by a little bit,
we actually increased it a little on the insurance side and then reduced on the reinsurance side, just
because we reduced our Cat exposure. But from an insurance standpoint we are leaning in the
little bit more into the more recent years particularly on the non-model Cat.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

On the in-force questions.

A - Alban de Mailly Nesle

{BIO 20387796 <GO>}

On the in-force. This is a tricky one because knowing first project is similar to the other one, but I
will help you. And I will give you a benchmark of the impact that we had on our three small
operations, and I'm not telling you that it will be exactly the same in the future. But I think this is
already a good indication. So I'll give you a benchmark on the Hong Kong, Switzerland and Belgium
operations. So in Hong Kong, we made an operation on 3.7 billion reserves. We had a 2.3 points
positive impact on our solvency margin in 2021, and it will lead to 75 million of additional remittance
in 2023.



FINAL

In Switzerland, we've made an operation on 1.5 billion -- EUR1.9 billion reserves. We had an impact - we will have an impact in 2022 of 1.3 points positive impact on the solvency margin and we will
have a remittance of 118 million in 2023. And in Belgium, we've made a deal on 2.6 billion reserves.
We will have a positive impact on the solvency margin of the group of 1.7 points in 2022. And we
will have remittance impact -- positive remittance impact in 2022 by 300 million. So does it give
you a fair indication of what will happen on the 20 billion to 40 billion, no, but it gives you some
indication of what the range is.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

On the operating variances.

A - Antimo Perretta

{BIO 18246589 <GO>}

You're right that we have regularly a small amount of positive operating variance. I would say, we
are probably slightly prudent in our assumptions. And therefore, we probably have a small amount
of positive operating variance, but you shouldn't bet on large amounts of such variances going
forward.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you, Antimo. Andy.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Thanks. So Andy Sinclair from BOA. Three for me as usual, please. Firstly, was just to understand on
the hold co with the changes that you're making for the hold co to become an internal reinsurer,
does that change your hold co cash targets at all? I believe, it still be 1 billion to 3 billion after those
changes. Secondly, we just on the XL COVID provisions that were released, I realize of still a good
chunk of IBNR there, but I think 25% was mentioned and I think that's a bit less than some of the
peers. So really what's giving you the confidence to be releasing the COVID provisions at this
stage? And finally, was just on the reduction in Nat Cat exposure, just really want to understand
how much that's already be completed (inaudible) renewables, plus, is how much will still take
place over the year just to understand how much risk is already off the books? Thanks.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Very good. So I suggest the whole chord changes. Frederick, you talk about it. Alban will take the
question on the XL COVID provisions. And then Scott, if you could be brought in again, around the
question of the Nat Cat reduction by first pertaining to 2021 and how much is left for the year?
Frederic?

A - Frederic de Courtois

{BIO 16976110 <GO>}

Yes. On the first one if I understood correctly your question. So your question is after the merger
with the internal reinsurance company will we still have the same range of 1 billion to 3 billion on the
cash? And the answer is yes. We see it as a fair range for the future.

A - Alban de Mailly Nesle

{BIO 20387796 <GO>}

So you need to look at the nature of the lines on which we have those IBNRs. On the short tail lines
when we -- notably on business interruptions, even cancellation and so on, claims came fast and
were paid. But we had also reserved for potential long tail lines claims, and for the time being, we
don't see much coming in terms of claims.

A - Scott Gunter

{BIO 20129741 <GO>}

And for the question around sort of reinsurance Nat Cat reductions. As Thomas noted, we
reduced 40% in January and we would expect to maintain that kind of level throughout the rest of
the year. We're going to take a look at that obviously, the April 1 ones, the June ones and we may



vary that a little bit, but overall, the annual goal is to be around that 40% Cat reduction for the
entire year.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

FINAL

And Scott, am I correct in saying that first of January was also about 40% of the exposure that had
been renewed.

A - Scott Gunter

{BIO 20129741 <GO>}

Yeah. It was predominately Europe. But yes, it was a big chunk of the portfolio was January 1.

Q - Andrew Sinclair

{BIO 17749036 <GO>}

Perfect.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Let's go to Will here and then we move over to the other Will.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - William Hawkins

{BIO 17918548 <GO>}

Hi. Thank you. William Hawkins from KBW. Thanks for giving just now the expected new Cat budget.
I'm wondering, if you simply just rerun the loss of events that happened last year. What would
happen to your Cat losses? Would they be lower or higher or about the same? And then secondly
please, again in the Solvency II roll forward, 6.4 of normalized capital generation. Should we also be
thinking that that's growing at the upper end of 3% to 7% per year? Or is there any kind of material
variance relative to underlying earnings, please. And then lastly, that zero of the SCR change.
Should we be assuming that there's zeros in the future? Or are you growing without straining your
SCR sustainably? Or could it be even releasing over time? Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you, Will. So Alban, these are three questions for you. Number one, was the -- what would
happen if the Nat Cat of 2021 happened in in the conditions of 2022. Number two was the
question around normalized cap generation. And number three, the zero VSSR of change. Okay.

A - Alban de Mailly Nesle

{BIO 20387796 <GO>}

So on the Cat losses, fundamentally, what we did with our reinsurance program NI [ph] exposures.
So as was explained by Frederic, we reduced by 40% our exposures. We'll continue to do that this
year with the renewables XL Re. And we didn't renew the aggregate protection that we had. This
aggregate protection gave us absolutely no benefit last year because we didn't reached the
attachment point. So all in all we would have had the same losses in our European entities and we
would have had 400 million less of lost at XL Re. And therefore the whole group.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Gross and net?

A - Alban de Mailly Nesle

{BIO 20387796 <GO>}

Gross and net. Absolutely. On the 0% SCR growth, I think it might not be exactly 0% every year, but
we are moving as you know from a business of general account, which is capital heavy to a
business of unit-linked and (inaudible) like or capital light products and therefore, net-net we -- I
think we really don't need much capital to grow our business.
And on the 6.4 billion, does it grow at 3% to 7%? I have to think a little bit about it. I'm not sure, I
have an answer immediately, but I think fundamentally on the life side, it's linked to our ability to
generate earnings and to NBV. And you see the pace at which our NBV grows. And then on the



P&C side, it's extremely correlated in health, correlated to our earnings. So I think it's a probably a
fair assumption. Yes.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

FINAL

Will?

Q - Will Hardcastle

{BIO 22230376 <GO>}

Thanks. A couple of questions just all around PYD really. Seeing a level here for the best in about a
decade. Just wondering, how much of that was some of the COVID coming out? And just on that
point, I think you mentioned earlier, some of the long tail lines is now being released. Could you try
and give us some quantification of what really was left on those long tail lines? And then also just
on the 0.8 billion of increased prudence in the best estimate. Just trying to understand what that
related to, is there anything there relating to inflation at all somewhere around that. Thanks.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you, Will. Alban, three questions for you.

A - Alban de Mailly Nesle

{BIO 20387796 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So on the PYD's. As you -- so I'll start first at XL. I guess your question is both for XL and for the
group, right? So at XL the PYD's come from -- on the net basis from COVID. But you will remember
also that at the beginning of the year that has not changed. We increased the reserves on the long
tail lines to reach the attachment point and we released some positive prior year developments on
the short tail lines and at beyond Cat. So those lines too upset other and it's net COVID.
At group level if aside the XL one, it's the excess reserves that's been used for the Bernie's [ph]
that's 1.4 billion. So it's identified as excess reserves on all lines and not a particular line that was
used. On the 800 million that we used from that excess reserves to increase our best estimate
reserves, but you know those best estimate reserves will be the basis of the IFRS 17 reserves. And
we've always been on the prudent side when we set our reserves and we want IFRS 17 reserves to
be also on the prudent side and that prudent will emerge under IFRS 17, as it has emerged in the
current framework in the past.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Andrew Crean? And by the way Andrew, you should be pleased with the picture we put up. It's
about bird spotting.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Okay, a couple of questions. Firstly, as you come out with 2023, your -- the cash remittances you
get out of your business. Are they in line with what sort of maximum best efforts or do you think
there's still businesses at that point which -- where you could get greater levels of remittance yearafter-year. And then the second question is a general question around the lower volatility of your
business. It's not just you're doing stuff on Nat Cat, clearly the life reserves which are coming off
the books, the 48 billion order it might be, I assume is more volatile, more macro sensitive. Could
you give us some idea as to if you did get that off the books, what it would do to your ROE? What
the underlying ROE of the ongoing business is? And whether you might consider the 190% target
coverage in a world where you've got less macro volatility on the life side and less Nat Cat volatility
on the P&C side?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you Andrew. Fredrick, two questions for you. Cash remittance is it the best efforts. And then
the 190 in a scenario where we have lower volatility and potentially higher return on equity.



FINAL

A - Frederic de Courtois

{BIO 16976110 <GO>}

So first on cash remittance. We said we are confident to exceed the 14 billion remittance that we
have in our plans. And there are three factors why we are confident to exceed these cash
remittance. The first one is that we believe that our companies have good results as we see here
and we said that we would be at the high end of the range on the result. So we believe we will
have some more remittance compared to what we have planned. So I would say, business as usual
remittance. The second reason is about the in-force transactions. We didn't have much in-force
transactions in our plan. We now have a plan, which is ambitious and enforced and we will have
additional remittance also coming from the in-force transactions.
And the third impact is coming from the P& C projects that I have described. So the 2 billion
coming up. So technically this is a set of difference, we are saying that the 0.7 that comes from the
cash of the reinsurance company is not strictly speaking remittance, but its cash, but it's not
remittance. So there is question of definition. So strictly speaking we will include 1.3 in our
remittance and 0.7 in cash, but not remittance. On your second question. I'm asking -

A - Alban de Mailly Nesle

{BIO 20387796 <GO>}

On the improved ROE.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

And 190 was the in-force transactions, look we shouldn't need to make that a simple answer, let's
cross that bridge when we get to it. I think we first need to deliver on this transaction. I fully agree
Andrew that our aim is clearly to reduce volatility even further. I think on the Nat Cat side we've
done a massive shift, if you look which other reinsurer has cut his or her exposure in Nat Cat by
40% you won't find many. So we've been clear on this one. We want to achieve the last bit of the
in-force transactions. When we are done with it, let's chat again about your question. And I think on
the first one, as I said earlier, we have become cash obsessed, which also means that the cash
remittance is in the individual targets of all of these people in the room and the level below. So
everybody has got a vested interest in doing their best effort in upstreaming cash. We have time
for two more questions, that's it.

A - Frederic de Courtois

{BIO 16976110 <GO>}

I'll just add -- just to on your question on light in-force. For sure, all our in-force transactions will be
ROE accretive, then what we cannot -- what we don't know yet is how much and so on, but let's
say, a general idea is that it will be ROE accretive.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Dominic?

Q - Dominic O'Mahony
Dom O'Mahony, BNP Paribas Exane. So three questions if that's all right. So I'm very pleased about
the cash obsession. Just on the central reinsurance set up. This is going to sound a bit greedy. But
is there anything to stop you from a technical perspective going beyond the 25% on the existing
plan with European P&C going into the other P&C entities? Or (when you're) [ph] going into life
where presumably you'd get even greater diversification. Is there anything complicated about that
that we might not be thinking about when we're being greedy about cash.
Second question, the guidance that you'll be towards the top end of the 3% to 7% is very
welcome. Can you do that without doing any more buybacks beyond what you've already
announced? And then third question, this is sort of a very loose question, but I'd be interested in
your thoughts on higher rates. The market seems to think that higher rates (matter a full-out) [ph].
Clearly has some mechanical effects on reinvestment yields in life and P&C, you might expect
higher rates to weigh on the pricing you achieve. How important do you think a higher rate



environment is when it comes to actually (inaudible) to the earnings and capital generation for your
business? Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

FINAL

Alban, why don't you take the first question? The reinsurance set up and I'll take the few other
ones, Dominic.

A - Alban de Mailly Nesle

{BIO 20387796 <GO>}

So on the insurance, that's what Frederic said. The 25% is not setting stone. And the perimeter that
we will reinsure in terms of subsidiaries is it can also vary and can also increase. We're starting with
this and then we'll see.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Dominic, on your other two questions. On the 3% to 7%, as I indicated, we want to try and repeat
the same trajectory in '22 and '23 that we have experienced in '21, which gets us to the higher
range. When it comes to the question around share buybacks, and can we achieve it with or
without share buybacks? We hopefully have been very clear in our Investor Day on the 1st of
December 2020, where we set out the plan. And in this plan, we spoke about two things.
One was around what we do around disposals? And there we've been very clear. Earnings dilution
from disposals will be compensated through share buybacks and I think you've just at the very
beginning of my presentation, seen the proof of it. The 0.5 billion that are now confirmed and that
have been put in action. And the second thing we said that there is a very strict discipline on the
use of cash, which means that any acquisitions and investments we do will be evaluated against
share buyback. So I repeat again, share buybacks are an ongoing part of our toolkit and if the
board decide to use them, they will be part of this earnings trajectory that you described.
On rates. We clearly expect that rates are increasing both in the US, more in the near-term, but
also in Europe. Rate increases are in general positive for our business, because they do increase
our investment income as an investor that is largely invested into fixed income. The question is
very much what is the speed of these increases? And we believe that the US will certainly start
before Europe, but certainly that Europe will catch up more in 2023. So we see the rate increases
as a positive sign for our business, which will obviously enhance the ability to increase our
investment income.
We'll go to one last question. James?

Q - James Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Thank you. It's James Shuck from Citi. My first question first question is, the guidance 3 to 7 that
you're coming out and that at the top end of that range. What has actually changed around that
number? Because the cost savings target are same, the combined ratio target in P&C XL is the
same. So what are the moving parts that gives you more confidence to come in at the top end of
that number?
Secondly, on the margin of the best estimate. That 1.4 billion release that we've seen there. Maybe
I'm not thinking about this right -- correctly, but if you have 1.4 billion, that's about 2.8 points of total
PYD at the group level. So you normally you have positive runoff. So ex that release of margin over
best estimate that hasn't actually been any normal run off as I would say, it's probably just
explaining what's happening there ex that release.
And then finally just on restructuring charges which kicked up quite a lot in the second half of the
year that seemed to be quite connected with France. So I thought France had been through the



big restructuring program already. If you're right just give us any guidance that restructuring charge
outlook going forward. That'd be helpful. Thank you.

FINAL

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you, James. So Frederic, I suggest on the first question with the 3 to 7 and the moving parts,
you should give the answer. And then Alban, if you can take James -- the last two questions on the
1.4 billion release and the question around the restructuring charges. And does it concern France,
yes or no. Frederic?

A - Frederic de Courtois

{BIO 16976110 <GO>}

Yes. On the 3.7 -- on 3 to 7, what has changed? What has changed is that on all parameters of our
result we believe to be -- we believe we will be towards the high end of what we had in the plan.
So first, on the cost, I mean, you're right to say that we will be at the 500 million. We will be at the
500 million cost reduction despite inflation pressure, which is important to say. So which means
that we are confident that we will be able to compensate for the additional inflation pressure on
cost.

Bloomberg Transcript

On technical margins we also believe that we will be towards the high end, be it on the life side or
the P&C side. What you see -- what we have achieved on price increase especially on commercial
lines is on the high end of what we had planned in the -- in our plan and this is something which has
not yet materialized in our earnings by definition. So what has been done last year is especially
materialized, but only partially and what we're doing at the beginning of the year has not at all
materialized yet. So here again, on price increases, this is towards the high end of what we had in
mind.
I've talked also about the investment margin, especially on the life side and on the investment
margin, we had said that we would be at 55 to 65. We are -- basis point, we are at 66. Why are we
towards the high end? They are two factors. The first one is that we've been able to compensate
for the decrease of the yield or the interest rates through good performance on our alternative
assets and we have again a lot of unrealized gain with these alternative assets.
But even more important, we've been able to decrease the policyholder profit sharing exactly in a
parallel way compared to the investment return. So at the end, the corridor has remained
absolutely stable and this is especially what we've achieved in France. You may have seen what
we've announced in France. So -- and we believe we are going to be able to continue to do this. So
I would say that on all the technical elements of our plan, we are on the good side of what we have
planned and with this experience we believe also that we will be on the good side of the 3% to 7%.

A - Alban de Mailly Nesle

{BIO 20387796 <GO>}

And so on your two other questions. On the PYDs, the -- apart from XL, where you saw that there
was the COVID reserve that came out of the best estimate liabilities. Everywhere else, it came
from the excess reserves and we didn't have any positive or negative PYDs from the best
estimate liabilities. And I will come back to the earlier comment I made on the fact that that best
estimate liability is the basis of IFRS 17 reserves and that we want to be on the prudent side for
that.
On the restructuring costs, we indeed have a bit more than 100 million for XL France, and then we
have around 60 million for Europe and 80 million for AXA XL and that's all restructuring cost to
carry on with our efficiency program to drive costs down. Does that answer your question? Well,
look. I think fundamentally you can bet on that kind of amount this year as well because we will
carry on having a restructuring and cost reduction in a number of entities.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}



FINAL

Thank you very much to all of you. In summary, three points maybe for you to take home. Number
one, these good results and strong results 2021 mark also the end of our first transformation
phase, which has brought AXA to be significantly simplified, less countries, less complexity, very
much focused on technical risk. 90% of our result comes now from technical risk and fee business.
And certainly a company that is far more focused on their customers. In 97% of all markets and
lines of business we are at or above customer satisfaction of the market, first point.
Second point, this platform from is now and the team's behind the platform are now fully focused
to grow in the preferred segments, commercial line, health and protection and making sure that
we are fulfilling the view, how can we create and grow in areas that generate cash.

Bloomberg Transcript

Going forward, we want to continue this journey. How can we reduce volatility through macro risk
[ph], through natural catastrophes? How can we bring our cash and how can we be stable in an
environment that changes, be it geopolitical crisis, but also be it accounting changes. I am
personally extremely confident and with the team that you have seen here and also the team that
is not present here today, we will achieve a very successful 2022 as well, and certainly a very
successful fulfillment of our plan driving progress. Thank you for being here. Thank you for your
questions. And I hope to see you soon again. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

