Y 2021 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Daniel Sundahl, Head of Investor Relations and Rating
Lars Aasulv Loddesol, Group Chief Financial Officer
Odd Arild Grefstad, Group Chief Executive Officer

Other Participants
Analyst
Blair Stewart
Hakon Astrup
Jan Erik Gjerland
Peter Eliot
Ulrik Ardal Zurcher
Vegard Toverud

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to Storebrand's Fourth Quarter Result
Presentation, which we today are broadcasting here from our new studio.
As always, CEO, Odd Arild Grefstad will start today by giving you the key highlights of the quarter.
Afterwards, CFO, Lars Loddesol will take you deeper into the numbers.
At the end of the presentation, we will open up for Q&A. To ask a question, you will need to
participate in the Teams webinar. You will find the details on the IR website or you can use the QR
code you see on the screen now. To ask a question, please use the 'raise hand' function in Teams,
and you will be placed in the queue.
Without further ado, please go ahead Odd Arild. The floors is yours.

Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Thank you, Daniel, and good morning, everyone.
The Storebrand Group delivers a record strong group profit of NOK1,367 million in the fourth
quarter and NOK4.5 billion for the full year. This is an increase of 12% for the quarterly results and
66% increase for the full year's result. The operating profit of NOK1,038 million benefits from
strong performance related fees booked in the fourth quarter. All business units contributed to the
solid group profit for the year. SPP, asset management, and occupational pension Norway all
delivered above NOK1 billion in reserves each. And our retail business in Norway saw a 42% profit
growth in 2021.
Storebrand is for the third consecutive year recognized as the most sustainable insurance
company in the world, in the Corporate Knights Global 100 ranking. This recognition adds to other
awards and demonstrates our Storebrand continues to push the sustainability agenda. Unit Linked
had another strong year growing 15% in 2021. Total assets under management increased by 14%



FINAL

from last year to NOK1,097 billion. We strengthened our position as Norway's largest private asset
manager and the fifth largest in the Nordics.
Within Insurance, the overall insurance portfolio premiums grew by 22% compared to last year. The
growth within retail insurance was a record high 54% in 2021. Storebrand's solvency ratio came in at
175%. This is at the upper range of the targeted level of 150% to 180%. The Board proposes an
ordinary dividend of NOK3.5 per share for 2021 to the Annual General Meeting, which is an
increase of 8% compared to last year.
The Board intense to apply for a share buyback program when the solvency ratio is sustainably
above 180%. Storebrand aims to give customers the best possible pension in a more sustainable
world. In 2021, our investment portfolios delivered the highest customer returns in the Norwegian
defined contribution market. I'm also very pleased to see that the returns we deliver are the
highest among competitors also over the last three years and five years. This is a result of our
strategic asset allocation and strong performance in our asset management mutual funds that
meet our high ESG standards. We give our customers a unique allocation to what's important
alternative asset classes for pension savings, including private equity, and real estate.

Bloomberg Transcript

This year, some 200,000 individual customers in Storebrand will benefit from increased pensions
savings. New regulation makes pension contribution mandatory for all employees, regardless of
income level, age, and hours worked. This is an important step towards a more equal pension
system, which will especially benefit lower income groups. This is expected to add roughly
NOK800 million in annual Unit Linked premiums to Storebrand, equivalent to a 6% increase.
As you are well familiar with, Storebrand follows a two-fold strategy that gives a compelling
combination of self-funded growth in the front book and capital return from a maturing back book
of guaranteed pensions. Storebrand aims to be the leading provider of occupational pension in
both Norway and Sweden and to build a Nordic Powerhouse in asset management and continue
fast growth as a challenger in the Norwegian retail market for financial services.
The combined synergies stemming from capital, customer base, cost and data across the group,
provide a solid platform for profitable growth and value creation. Storebrand also continues to
manage capital and a back book with guaranteed products for capital release. This leads to a
dividend policy, a growing ordinary dividends from earnings, as well as an estimated capital release
of NOK10 billion towards 2030.
We are making progress a growth across the whole organization within our growth areas of future
Storebrand. And we see that volume growth is translating into profit growth. Starting with
occupational pension area, reserves in Unit Linked grew by 15% year-on-year. Occupational
pension Norway contributed NOK1,035 million to the group result in 2021, and SPP contributed
NOK1,286 million. Public pension are gaining momentum; and in the fourth quarter, we won new
municipality mandates. Altogether, NOK5.5 billion of reserves will be transferred to Storebrand.
In 2018, we set ourselves high growth ambitions for Storebrand asset management towards 2021.
We now deliver on these ambitions and are number one Norwegian asset manager with European
footprint and we have grown the result by more than NOK250 million, delivering a profit of
NOK1,078 million in asset management. In the retail market, we deliver a profit of NOK824 million,
which represents a profit growth of 42% in 2021.
Storebrand has demonstrated strong organic growth in our core markets. Since 2017, Storebrand
has successfully completed 6 M&A bolt-ons. These acquisitions accelerate our growth and build
additional capabilities. We use both the life platform and the asset management platform to build
scale and realize synergies. Pension is becoming interlaced and add-ons within insurance further
build our retail position in Norway based on Storebrand and capital synergies.



FINAL

In the fourth quarter, we announced the acquisition of Danica Pension. Danica Pension is an exciting
opportunity for us to strengthen our position in the SME market for Norwegian occupational
pension. It also expands our insurance offering in personal risk products with a customer base of
around 250,000 individuals. This acquisition has a great potential for accessing new customer
segments that we aim to grow in. Danica has NOK29 billion in assets under management and a
gross written premium of NOK2.1 billion. This is an acquisition where we expect to realize significant
cost and capital synergies. We are looking forward to combining Storebrand's strong expertise and
digital services with Danica's partners and Danske Banks professional distribution channels. The
partnership with Danske Bank further opens new opportunities for sales of insurance through the
Danske Bank distribution network in Norway. The compelling combination will give existing and new
customers leading products and services, and we are looking forward to welcoming Danica's
customers to Storebrand.

Bloomberg Transcript

Another highlight from the past year is that our Swedish Branch SPP continues to deliver strong
profitable growth. Strong results and higher return on equity is the foundation for solids
shareholder returns. But on top of that, the guaranteed products have been in runoff over the last
years. From 2015, and until now, SPP has been able to payout SEK5 billion on top of the SEK3.7
billion resolved after-tax. At the same time, returns on equity in SPP has more than doubled to
17.9% this year.
The strong dividend capacity in SPP since 2015 shows the powerful mechanism or guaranteed
products going through the runoff phase. The same mechanism will now play out for the
Norwegian business and make the Storebrand Group able to return excess capital to shareholders
over the coming years. We reaffirm our commitment to deliver growing ordinary dividends to
shareholders with a dividend of NOK3.5 per share for 2021. This is an 8% increase and in line with
the dividend policy or returning minimum 50% of the result after tax with nominal growth. We are
fully committed to return excess capital to shareholders when the solvency level reaches 180%. My
ambition is to start our share buyback program this year.
And with that, I give the word back to Daniel.

Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

Thank you, Odd Arild. A record strong year behind us and another exciting year ahead of us
indeed. Let's take a closer look at the numbers. Please go ahead, Lars.

Lars Aasulv Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

Thank you, Daniel.
The IFRS results in the Storebrand Group are close to cash and can be lifted in the group through
dividends. For 2021, the holding company receives net cash transfers of -- in excess of NOK3.3
billion and the board proposes to pay a dividend to shareholders of NOK1,646 million,
strengthening the holding company cash position by more than NOK1.7 billion.
The group result in the fourth quarter was at an all time high of NOK367 million higher even than
the second quarter, when we booked NOK546 million gain on the sale of the forest estate,
Vaerdalsbruket. This follows strong performance results and good financial results. The operating
result of NOK609 million was relatively weak in the quarter caused by higher costs and a weaker
insurance results. Parts of the cost increase was a catch-up effect of higher activity as the pandemic
close down is coming to an end as well as some smaller write-offs. The write-offs were primarily
related to old systems rendered worthless as more and more of our systems are moved up in the
cloud. Also, seasonal insurance effects and some periodization between quarters had a negative
contribution.



FINAL

Furthermore, we've taken expenses relating to the to the rebuilding of offices in Norway and
Sweden to what we have named future Storebrand workplace, including the studio in which we are
now setting. Whilst we normally do not give guiding on results, it's reasonable to look at the
average of the operating result for the two last quarters to indicate the expected level going
forward.
The solvency position ended last year at 175%. Earnings per share came in as expected by analysts.
Good financial results throughout 2021 have continued to strengthen buffers in Norway and
Sweden. The buffer capital strengthened to 11.2% of customers reserves in Norway and 17.8% in
Sweden. This protects the guaranteed return to our customers, protects shareholders from
financial market corrections, and enables us to increase the risk in the collective portfolios, which
going forward gives higher expected return to our clients.

Bloomberg Transcript

At the Capital Markets Day in December 2020, we announced an ambition to achieve a profit
before amortization and tax of about NOK4 billion in 2023. The profit ambition was reached in
2021, helped by gains from the sale of AS Vaerdalsbruket and strong performance in active funds
with performance fees. The full effect of introduction of individual pension accounts in 2021 will
give a negative contribution in 2022 of around NOK100 million as per previous guiding.
The full effect of the Danica acquisition, given regulatory approvals will come in 2023. Strong
growth in all business units will continue -- contribute to additional profit growth in the coming
years. Adjusted for acquisitions, currency, and performance related cost to the group has reported
flat nominal cost from 2012 to 2020. In 2021, we delivered on the ambition to keep cost at NOK
4.4 billion. The underlying cost base is expected to grow to approximately NOK 4.9 billion in 2022.
This is mostly explained by investments in profitable growth, including public occupational pensions
and our P&C offering in the market for small and medium-sized enterprises as well as other
initiatives and acquired businesses, including Capital Investment. Together, these growth initiatives
are expected to increase costs by approximately NOK400 million. Should the growth not
materialize, management has a contingency plans in place to cut costs. High inflation rates
particularly, wage inflation is also expected to lead to higher cost of around NOK100 million
despite continuous efficiency initiatives in the group.
Acquired business, such as Danica pending regulatory approval and performance related
expenses will add to the total cost based. We will revert with more precise guiding on cost,
synergies, and value creation related to Danica after having received the necessary approvals.
Importantly, the planned development in cost is related to ambitious growth plans and contingency
plans are in place should the profitable growth not materialize.
The solvency at the end of 2021 was 175%. There is no transitional capital in the reported solvency.
This is -- since the third quarter, the following has happened. One several minor model and
assumption changes given negative contribution of 1 percentage point. With good equity markets
comes higher symmetric stress factor now at 45.9%/55.9% of listed and unlisted shares
respectively.
In addition, the volatility adjustment is down by 1 basis points to 32 basis points in Norway. The
combined effect is a negative 3 percentage points. Twists in the interest rate curve with higher
short-term rates and marginally lower long-term rates than in the third quarter give a negative
effect of one percentage point. Good asset returns and strong results contribute 4.5 percentage
points before dividends or two percentage points. We did -- sorry, we deduct expected dividends
from the solvency every quarter. We have set aside a total of six percentage points of dividends
through the year. Implying that the Solvency before the dividend allocation was 180% -- sorry 181%,
up from 165% at the end of 2020, a strong 16 percentage points improvement for the year as a
whole.
With higher rates and stronger buffers, the sensitivity to financial market movements is reduced.
Furthermore, the solvency the Solvency II framework includes volatility reducing features like



symmetric equity adjustment, and volatility adjustment on the discount curve.

FINAL

In fact, these sometimes overcompensate market movements as can be seen in the equity market
sensitivity. All those sensitivities for sudden changes in interest rates are reduced, the group still
great the benefits from higher interest rates in both the long and short-term end of the curve
through higher returns on company and customer portfolios when assets are reinvested.
The quarterly and full year results are strong. Fee and administration income is up by 16% for the
full year and by 26% for the quarter over last year. This is partly because of the strong
performance fees booked in the fourth quarter, but it's generally a result of the growth across the
group. The full year group profit is up 66% from last year at NOK4,503 million. The taxes in the
quarter were calculated to 25% and 21% for the full year. This is a normalized tax charge for
Storebrand with a business mix we currently have. The tax charge in our Swedish subsidiary, SPP
substantially lower than in Norway.

Bloomberg Transcript

Here are the same figures as in the previous slide, but broken into the three segments, savings,
insurance, and guaranteed. Savings results are up 36% from 2020. Insurance has more than
doubled after weak 2020, and guaranteed is up 77% with improved risk results, strong financial
results, and profit sharing in both Norway and Sweden.
Moving over to savings. We can see strong momentum in all business areas year-to-date. Unit
Linked Norway is down in the quarter, following the introduction of individual pension account. This
is as expected and as previously guided. All the other areas are up 40% or more over 2020. This
follows more assets under management and good performance in active funds with performance
fees. For those, who have followed us for some time, it's also satisfactory to see that the asset
management results for 2021 deliver ahead of the NOK1 billion target announced at the Capital
Markets Day back in 2018.
Here is an illustration of the development within the savings segment. Let me point out two things.
The IPA market transfers in 2021 lead to an to an NOK8 billion outflow from Unit Linked Norway.
The majority of this is a one off effect due to the imbalance between market shares in pension
certificates versus active funds. The IPA transfers have now been finalized. I'm glad to register that
so far this year, we've won some new large clients and laps remains at low levels. Despite the
negative flow in 2021, assets under management was still up 15% year-on-year.
The bank has stable margins and good growth. The bank is primarily a low-risk mortgage bank with
average loan to value at 57% and expects lower margins than banks with a higher -- with higher risk
profiles. The bank now makes a standalone 9% return on equity despite low interest rates and
strong growth. The positive cross sales effect from the bank brings to the total value creation
higher. We continue to aim for 10% return on equity for the bank.
The asset management company, assets under management grew by 14% or NOK135 billion last
year coming from positive net flow, good returns, and the acquisition of the real estate company
Capital Investments in Denmark. The insurance results were weak in the fourth quarter. Across the
different product groups, we see the following pattern. Reactivation, i.e., people returning to work
from disability is picking up with more jobs available as the economic activity is improving.
Secondly, disability continues at the round pandemic levels and are relatively stable. This is as
expected as there is a 12-month lag from people registered disability until it's approved by the
Social Security Authorities. We expect gradual improvements through 2020 into next year. And
thirdly, mortality has increased somewhat in Norway in the fourth quarter. Mortality was low in the
first 18 months of the pandemic as fewer people were infected by the flu and similar regular
diseases. In Sweden, we see the opposite effect as more people passed away early in the
epidemic and fewer now.



FINAL

The weak results in the quarter were related to some large claims, a higher reinsurance cost due
to growth, and seasonal swings. The full year results for 2021 were up by more than 100% over
2020 and should improve further in 2022. In fact, we have implemented significant price increases
for '22 renewals, most of which have already been accepted by clients.
Due to the factors commented on -- in the previous picture, we did not reach the targeted 90% to
92% combined ratio last year, but ended up at 94%. We reiterate the 90% to 92% target for 2022.
We have had phenomenal growth in 2021 partly due to the acquisition of the insurer portfolio, but
also through distribution partners and external agents. We maintain a double-digit growth ambition
for P&C for 2022.
Guaranteed shows strong results for 2021. Results are up in all product segments, especially,
strong results come from paid-up policies in Norway and the and the guaranteed products in
Sweden. This can be attributed to the strong financial results and profit sharing in addition to
efficient operations and scale.

Bloomberg Transcript

This time, we have slightly altered the upper left-hand graph to better visualize the underlying
development in the guaranteed reserves. As you can see, the run-off business is in decline while
slow guaranteed Swedish products and public sector pensions are increasing. Importantly, the
strongest growth comes from customer buffers, improving the solidity and risk manageability of
the portfolios.
Guaranteed reserves as a percentage of pension reserves continued to decline. Once again, we
strengthened the buffers in the quarter. We have included this additional picture to improve
transparency on the guaranteed portfolio. This picture is the same as on the previous page, but
broken into the Norwegian and Swedish reserves. Smart guarantees are actively sold guaranteed
products that gives protection to the customers and acceptable capital requirements and returns
to us. The other segments results include transaction costs from the Danica Pension acquisition
and higher earnouts relating to the excellent performance results in Skagen.
And with that, I finalize my presentation and give the word back to you, Daniel.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

Thank you, Lars. We will now move on to Q&A and are happy to take your questions. Please use
the raise hand function in the Teams Webinar to be placed in line to ask a question. And first off
today is Peter Eliot from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead, Peter. Sorry, Peter, we cannot hear
you. We will just use the second --

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Sorry, hopefully, now you can.

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

Thank you. Now, we hear you Peter.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Yeah. Thanks a lot. Three questions for me, please. First of all, I mean, you've flagged that you're
expecting costs to increase this year by NOK400 million due to the growth initiatives. Are you able



FINAL

to give us some feeling as to what you expect payback period to be on that investment? Secondly,
I mean staying on costs, I mean, I guess this year you've flagged quite a few things related to
M&A, IT write-downs, I get the feeling it's inflated slightly. But your slide seems to take NOK4.4
billion, as a base going forward
So I was just wondering if you could simply explain to what extent you consider there are sort of
one-off costs in this year's numbers? And then finally on the profit sharing paid up business was
very strong, I just wonder if you could take us through how you achieved such a high return, and
whether we might expect that sort of feedback in the future as well? Thank you very much.

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

Thank you, Peter.

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Peter. And let's start on the cost and the growth of the cost as Lars very well said, we
are now seeing very strong growth in our business. We expect strong growth in our business also
into '22 and '23, and we are fueling that growth. And that's why you also see the increased costs.
So it's like Lars said, if we are not seeing the growth coming through with also combined result, we
are not going to see this cost increase either. So it's very much a one to one effect where we
expect to see result coming as we are taking this cost on.
When it comes to the cost base, we guided on NOK4.4 billion for this year, we deliver on NOK4.4
billion for this year. Yes, there is some timing issues between quarters and there is also, as we see
it elements in this quarter that is somewhat above expectation. But then again, of course, this has
been a year with the pandemic, we are opening up now. So there will be some more use of cost
during 2022 compared to what we have seen in the pandemic world in 2021.
But you're absolutely right, that in the fourth quarter, we see some extra cost we have cost of the
acquisition of Danica. We have also some smaller write downs, due to the fact that we are now
lifting a lot of our business up in the sky. So, altogether this sums up to between NOK80 million
and NOK100 million in extra cost, I would say in this the fourth quarter.
Then, on the profit sharing. I think it's fair to say that we are very well capitalized. We have very
strong buffers in our guaranteed book of business now. And also, we have had a high look to
return in the fourth quarter, some write up of the real estate portfolio increased the book to return
in the fourth quarter and that led to also profit sharing.
Going forward of forward, of course, we need to have the book return, to have profit sharing, but
there is also some changes in regulation, makes it more possible for us to take profit sharing in
individual accounts, and not doing the same reservation on all accounts that we use to do now in
2021. So, the opportunity to take profit sharing will be better in '22 compared to '21, but we need,
of course, to see the book return come true.

A - Lars Aasulv Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

And I guess also like to add that with the higher interest rate we see now the expected return here
will go up over time in the period of policy book, making profit sharing over time more likely.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

That's great. Thank you very much. Could I just come back very quickly on the first point? And I'm
probably being very slow. So sorry if I missed it, but just to understand are you basically saying that
you don't expect any P&L impact from the investments you're making because you expect that the
income side to offset that.



FINAL

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Well, it's a lot of element of cost in our results increased the interest rates is helpful also, when you
look at the return on our capital -- company capital, we have increases in prices as Lars said. We
have, of course, the effect -- the full effect of the pension account coming into full effect in '22, as
we have said have a negative effect of NOK100 million. But most of these investments we are
doing, is investments in solution to watch our customers, that we will see also direct effects on the
results on. So we have strong growth and we are seeing that the growth also comes into the P&L
directly as we go.

A - Lars Aasulv Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

Peter, if I may add a couple of comments. In the public sector, we went from almost nothing to
winning all the contracts that were finalized, both in 2020 and 2021. In order to service those
clients, we need people and systems et cetera. So this goes very much hand in hand. The same
thing on SME Corporate Insurance, we need people, both in the public department, service
department and claims department to deal with that. So this -- it really goes hand in hand with the
income that we generate from these areas.

Bloomberg Transcript

Similarly, Capital Investment, when we acquired Capital Investment, we got the people and
systems that they have in place. But it comes with an income stream as well, a positive income
stream. So these things go very much very much hand in hand and just to take an example, if we
were not to succeed with SME P&C insurance, then obviously, we would scale down that initiative,
and we would reduce the cost. Similarly, we've paid a fair amount of money for in provisions for
external agents for our sales both in P&C Norway and pensions in Sweden, et cetera. And if the
sale doesn't come through, then the provisions to agents doesn't come through either. So these
things go very much hand-in-hand and they should have a positive impact on the bottom-line.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thank you very much.

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

Great. The next speakers -- the next question comes from Blair Stewart of Bank of America. Please
go ahead there.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Thank you very much indeed. I've got a couple of questions. One -- first was just a clarification on
the profit sharing in Q4, how much of that was from one-off aspects, such as the real estate write
up, please?
Second question. is just -- just sort of trying to get a solvency roadmap from here. The sensitivities
are quite low to financial market moves. That's -- are we really just talking about organic build
through retained earnings and if so, can you remind us what that should be seem to remember
five or six points what's the guidance before?
The third question I had was, just on the unit linked business in Norway. I think the margin was 65
basis points in Q4, a bit lower than it had been during the year. Is that a good run rate for margins
and unit like Norway?
And lastly, you've touched on some of this, but we've clearly had a big move in bond yields since
the start of the year. I guess there's an initial negative mark-to-market impact and solvency doesn't
seem to be much. But as you alluded to, there is reinvestment benefits, as we move forward, but
presumably that's quite slow given the fairly long duration of your portfolio. So just clearly looking
for some commentary around the impacts of these higher bond yields that we've seen year-todate on your thinking. Thank you so much.



A - Lars Aasulv Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Blair. If we start on the profit sharing as Odd Arild already said, it was very much related
to the actual book to return. The book return comes from a lot of different sources. Real estate
returns were good in Norway and Sweden last year. So that's part of the explanation, equity
markets were good that's part of the explanation and as you know, a lot of our golden investments
are in hold to maturity bonds or bonds at amortized cost. So that's a stable contributor to the book
to return.
I think it's fair to say in the fourth quarter that towards the end of the year, we did have some
write-ups of real estate values, due to -- I could give you some concrete examples, but that
contributed positively towards the end of the year. It's impossible to take one asset class out of
the total here, but we continue to invest to generate returns above the guaranteed rate of return
and we succeeded with that last year.
Okay. Should I try on the solvency? I think the guiding the gave on our capital markets, was a 10%
solvency increase based on regular results and generation in the business. Then maybe around 3%
on top of that, due to the fact that we see that the back book is not rising and being reduced.

Bloomberg Transcript

And of course, that will increase as we seen stronger and stronger run off of the back book, that's
been very strong in Sweden for so for a while as I said, we also see reeled run off now from the
Norwegian back book. And that should add on at least 3% points a year. Then, around half of this is
normally used to normal dividend, and the rest should be for organic growth of solvency. Then
again, of course, we are looking at different tools, as I have talked about before. And as I said in
my introduction, we are very eager to start doing our share buyback program during 2022.
And some of the tools, there is opportunity to do some more subordinated debt in the business,
absolutely very good room to do that. And we also after now the reform of the pension market in
2021, we can enter into a reinsurance agreement again for really the risk that we see in the
solvency equation.
And also, of course, in the asset allocation in the FX hedging and so on, we see opportunities for
looking at that. And if you look at the sensitivities, of course, what you have seen so far with
increased interest rates and actually somewhat falling equities is both very helpful for the solvency
ratio development this year. And on top of that, we also see that the volatility adjustments seem to
be positive development so far. But of course, there is a lot of market movements here, but we
strongly believe there is both tools and markets available to create the necessary solvency to
come back and start our share buyback program during 2022.

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

On the unit linked Norway margins, you are correct that they are down very much according to the
guiding that we've given in the markets along the way, and within the guided level that we
mentioned on Capital Markets Day back in December 2020. So we said that the unit linked
margins would go down to 60 to 80 basis points and unit linked Norway would be in the lower end
of that range.
When it comes to bond yields, I guess that we have the largest buffers we've ever had. So even
with some rising bond yields, we can take that with the customer buffers we have. And for in
solvency sense, the higher bond yields gives us also a higher capital generation going forward.
From an IFRS perspective, higher bond yields will increase the return on the company portfolios,
roughly a percentage points higher, short-term interest rates gives somewhere in the area of
NOK200 million higher result for Storebrand from the company portfolios, but then, of course also
somewhat higher cost of debt. But positive IFRS effects for sure.

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}



Good. Moving on, we'll take the next question from Vegard Toverud at Pareto. Please go ahead,
Vegard.

FINAL

Q - Vegard Toverud

{BIO 17129809 <GO>}

Thank you. I have five questions if I can have them all. There seem to be certain cost increase in
different areas in the DC products, retail bank, P&C, et cetera in Q4 Q-on-Q. Is there any specifics
driving this quarterly development? And why are you so eager to do buybacks versus extraordinary
dividend? That's the second question.
The impact of the pension account. It seems that all transfers are now down. But is it also so that
we've seen the full impact on margins. You have gained some momentum in the public sector and
you mentioned the NOK8 billion of transfers, what do you expect in growth for 2022?
And lastly, for the other segment, you mentioned, there's some earn-out the element. How much
is the earn-out element in the quarter? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Thank you, Vegard. Let me start trying to cover the four first, and get some help with the fifth. Well,
if you look at the cost increase in Q4, of course, Norway has gradually opened up in the fourth
quarter that it gives more activity. We have also done more on marketing, brand marketing and
such in the fourth quarter. So there is so seasonal. So you need to look at the full year cost base,
when you are guiding on this and not quarter-by-quarter. So, I think that is the most important
moment, and I also mentioned, of course, some write downs, some increased cost for acquisitions
and so on that adds on to the total cost base. But it's within what we guided on the NOK4.4 billion
for the full year.
Then, when it comes to buybacks and dividends, we have had that discussion with our
shareholders and we are open for that discussion with our shareholders. We have -- we'd like to do
what is most effective for our shareholders and we got that message when you take all the input
that a combination of ordinary dividends and share buybacks to take on our capitalization is a very
good combination. But that, of course is open for debate if we got other signals from our
shareholders.
Then, when it comes to the transfer of the market, yes, there was a large transfer market for D&C
with a new reform in 2021. And we have had also a gradual impact in the fourth quarter of these
transfers. So as Lars said, we have guided on the 60 to 80 basis point in margins, and with the
Norwegian business at the lower end of this 60 to 80 basis points. So I think that is the best
guidance we can give also now.
On the public sector growth, what we already mentioned that we won about NOK5.5 billion in new
contracts at the end of last year. So this will be transferred in January this year. So they will be
booked in the accounts, in the beginning of this year.
Then, whatever we win this year of, like NGOs and semi-public companies may add up during the
year, it's difficult to give you an exact number. The largest part of this market is the municipality
market and that is typically decided in the fourth quarter every year, with an actual transfer in
January, the following year. So, what you will see now this year in terms of what is booked is what
we won last year.
Yes, and just to add on that, we are very satisfied with the development within the public sector,
we are now close to NOK20 billion in assets under management within this public sector. We have
put forward a NOK5 billion target annually for growth and meeting that target also this year with
NOK5.5 billion is, as we have planned for. And so far we have higher growth rate in this area,
compared to what we expected when we started our emphasize into the public sector again.



A - Lars Aasulv Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

And for the final question, the adjustment in earnouts in the quarter, its net effect of minus NOK23
million on the financial result line in the other segment.

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

FINAL

Next.

Q - Vegard Toverud

{BIO 17129809 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. I just have one quick follow-up on question three there. The question is really if
the full effect during the quarter is already in the margins. Since you're -- at the margins that you
have guided. Are a lot of the transfer coming towards the end of Q4 so that the there's still a
margin pressure on DC going into Q1 or is the level that we see in Q4 representative for the level
that we could expect also in 2022. Thank you.

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

I think you can expect that the margin will continue to go down somewhat this year, but for the
overall unit linked within the parameters set by or the guiding that we've given earlier.

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

Next up is Hakon Astrup from DNB Markets. Please go ahead, Hakon.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Hakon Astrup

{BIO 18861149 <GO>}

Hi. Thank you for taking the questions. Three questions from me. One on solvency, and M&A and
other on Danica and the last one on insurance. Start one with solvency and M&A. You have a
strategy of bolt-on acquisitions then you have been quite active over the last six months with
Capital and Danica. So my question is, if the management and Board have any view on how much
of the NOK10 billion in expected capital release, that will be used for M&A, and how much will be
paid back to shareholders? That was the first question.
Second question on Donica. Can you shed some light on potential synergies here on the revenue
side, cost and also capital? And if you can add some numbers, that will be very helpful. And on
insurance, so given that we are seeing wage inflation coming up a bit in Norway. How will that
impact health and group life and also disability given that wage growth is coming up? Thank you.

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Thank you. Let's start with the solvency and M&A. Yes, we have done some bolt-on acquisition, and
we have done that because we of course see that this is really value creative for our shareholders,
using some solvency now, to create even higher results and dividend streams going forward.
When we put forward this number of NOK10 billion, of course, that was a number that we said was
limited to 2030. We see even higher opportunities for capital release when we prolong this period
also for 2030 going forward.
So, I feel very confident that we will be able to do the dividends and share buybacks to really give
this our capitalization back to the shareholders, and I feel very confident about the NOK10 billion
that we have put forward, as an estimate for this capital release to shareholders.
When it comes to Danica and synergies, I think it's -- we added a page in the back of the
presentation with the cost base and income stream from Danica it stands today. When we look at
the cost base roughly, NOK70 million is from IT costs. And of course, we can take over this on our
IT platform with very low marginal cost. So that, that is a very clear synergy. And of course, in
addition, there is some overlap also within functions, that we will need to look at, but there will be
some further synergies between the two company.



FINAL

When it comes to the solvency side of things, we take over a company portfolio of roughly NON 1
billion, when we take over the company. It's roughly, we take it in on without really having to add
any more capital at 150% solvency level, and we also see the potential to do, both subordinated
debt do reinsurance and other measures to improve the capital position further in Danica, when
you take it into Storebrand, as this is a leveraged company today, and also, with the -- without any
use of reinsurance on that.
In addition, there are some diversification synergies on the capital side that will give maybe a
couple of hundred millions in diversification effect from day one. So there's our significant
synergies also in the case.
And on top of that, of course, we are very good to also develop the relationship with Danske Bank
and the partners, and I will stress that for us this is a good, of course, business case as it's put
forward. But also, on top of that, it gives us a broader distribution network in Norway for important
parts of our business, and we are very eager to invest and find a good solution together with our
partners going forward to maximize the effect of that.

A - Lars Aasulv Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

And the final question was on the insurance segment, could you repeat the question, please,
Hakon?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Analyst
Yes, I can. Teeing up our at least we are expecting high wage inflation in Norway this year. And how
will that impact that segment with higher wages and even Norway, you see some of the disability
coming down you have to pay maybe a higher amount out to customers? That was the question.

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

Yes. Well, we are pricing our premiums as linked to the development in GE. And when GE increases
then we increase premiums automatically. In addition to the GE increase, then we also have taken
additional price increases and all the disability products that we sell through last year. And as I
mentioned previously, that has been accepted by customers, so we do expect a higher premium
income in this sector, that should have a positive impact on both group life, and disability insurance
in Norway in 2022.

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

We will take three final questions. We will start with Ulrik Ardal Zurcher from Nordea. Please go
ahead.

Q - Ulrik Ardal Zurcher

{BIO 19208986 <GO>}

Thank you for taking the questions, and I'm sorry, maybe I'm very slow here. But how has the
solvency margin been impacted by the significantly higher rates since year end so it seems end of
Q4? That's first one. And the second one, I think I ask this one every time, but the negative unit
linked premium transfer balance is Sweden it just keeps on like accelerating, when can we expect
that trend to stop? Thank you.

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

Thank you. The rate effect in 2021?

Q - Ulrik Ardal Zurcher
In 2022 since year end.

{BIO 19208986 <GO>}



A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

So yes, do you want to start Lars?

FINAL

A - Lars Aasulv Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

Basically, you can read it off the sensitivities that we've given if rates go up by 50 basis points,
which is illustrated in the sensitivity that we show and now we've had a rate increase of 40 basis
points. So it's basically, you can read it off there. Then there will be some deviations due to twists in
the curve and so on that are difficult to give an exact guidance on, but it will obviously have a
positive impact.
But as I mentioned earlier as well, even more than the positive solvency impact immediately, is the
positive impact on reinvestments going forward. So this really enables us to invest above with a
good margin above the guaranteed rate of return for all the reinvestments we do, which reduces
the duration gap and reduces the risk in the portfolio role, and therefore, strengthen solvency as
those investments happen.

Q - Ulrik Ardal Zurcher

{BIO 19208986 <GO>}

So is that last part, not a part of the sensitivity?

A - Lars Aasulv Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Well, it's a second-order effect, that doesn't come through in the sensitivity table.

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

So, I think if you use the sensitivity table, you should be close to a 3% when you look at the
development in the interest rate level so far this year.
When it comes to Sweden, of course, you have seen a very special situation in Sweden during 2021
with the transfer balance, you will also have some impact in the first quarter due to the sales that
you saw in 2021, and the transfers. But I will say that the market has normalized in 2022, where you
see some of the elements with the provisions to clients to move, has been taken off in the market
with some of the competitors -- all of the competitors actually. So we expect not to see these
kinds of transfers out of the SPP continue during 2022. And the whole organization is very eager to
turn this around to a positive transfer balance, again during 2022.

Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from Jan Erik Gjerland from ABG Sundal Collier. Please go
ahead, Jan Erik.

Q - Jan Erik Gjerland

{BIO 5346031 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you for taking my questions. Shorter on the solvency situation, the Danica transaction, if
I remember correctly, it's said to be 5 percentage points negative when it was done. Is that still the
case? When we look at the growth on the unit linked basis is this level as I said Lars, the EPK [ph]
impact is this sort of a starting point for any changes for a competition going forward now at year
end or is it more to come? And finally, on the IFRS 17, how does that affect you during 2023? How
should we read your solvency situation from 1st of January next year when it comes to the solvency
or the IFRS 17? Thank you.

A - Lars Aasulv Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

Yes. On the solvency impact of Danica, we still have the guiding on 5 percentage points. But as
Odd Arild said a few minutes ago, we will -- when it has been approved and integrated, we will be



able to do both some subordinated loans and lapse and take out also some synergies between
the companies in the capital calculation. So the impact will be much less after full integration.

Q - Ulrik Ardal Zurcher

{BIO 19208986 <GO>}

FINAL

So more 2-ish or is that optimistic?

A - Lars Aasulv Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

More likely half of that, the topped impact of the 5%.

Q - Ulrik Ardal Zurcher

{BIO 19208986 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Lars Aasulv Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

I missed the second question so --

Q - Ulrik Ardal Zurcher

{BIO 19208986 <GO>}

The -- you had linked (inaudible) and base now is this the real starting point for any more
competition or from here or is this sort of still seeing margin and volume impact also in January
from (inaudible)

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Odd Arild Gref stad

{BIO 5483351 <GO>}

No, I think you have now seen that the full transfer being, coming into the market through 2021. We
are now at the point where down -- our pension account is established. And we still have our
portfolio of (inaudible) Pension Capital Certificates that will increase from this level on. And of
course, as Lars said we are doing price elements now, especially for our risk products. So, we are
now in a stable situation, so to say and expect of course to be competing in the market, and look
at positive transfer balances going from here.

A - Lars Aasulv Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

On the last question on IFRS.

Q - Ulrik Ardal Zurcher

{BIO 19208986 <GO>}

Maybe follow up on the risk one, if I can. Is the risk pricing then ending up in the insurance
operation and not in the unit linked business the repricing of disability?

A - Lars Aasulv Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

That's correct.

Q - Ulrik Ardal Zurcher

{BIO 19208986 <GO>}

For the repricing either? Thank you.

A - Lars Aasulv Loddesol

{BIO 3969188 <GO>}

On the IFRS question, the IFRS 17 there is a change in the accounting standards, which will come
through and reported for the first time in the first quarter 2023. It does not impact the solvency at
all, but it's a new way to look at the value creation within P&C insurance, and life insurance.
It does not apply to the subsidiaries or the dividend capacity, and it should not impact the cash
creation in the group. So overall the IFRS 17 will be a new way to report results, but it should not
impact the solvency position or the dividend capacity.



Q - Ulrik Ardal Zurcher

{BIO 19208986 <GO>}

Thank you. Very clear clarification.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Daniel Sundahl

{BIO 20548519 <GO>}

And the final question is coming from Thomas Svendsen in SEB. Please Thomas go ahead and
happy if you can try to keep it to one question, sorry. We are running out of time. So we need to
unmute you I believe or you need to unmute yourself.
Unfortunately, we're unable to hear you still. Here we go, perhaps. Sorry, Thomas, we cannot hear
you. So I think we'll give you a call later afterwards, and take your question then. Ladies and
gentlemen, thank you all for your questions. We have reached the end of the today's presentation.
Our next quarterly results are due on the 4th of May and we look forward to seeing you then.
Thank you for tuning in. Have a nice day. Goodbye.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

