Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

Y 2010 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Corporate Participant
Paul Norton, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Philipp Gmür, Chief Executive Oﬃcer of Helvetia Switzerland
Ralph-Thomas Honegger , Chief Investment Oﬃcer
Stefan Loacker, Chief Executive Oﬃcer

Other Participants
Analyst
Chris Hitchings
Michael Klien
Peter Eliot

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Good morning. I am Dino, the Chorus Call operator for this conference. Welcome to the
Helvetia Full Year Results 2010 Conference Call and Live Webcast. Please note that for the
duration of the presentation, all participants will be in listen-only mode. And the
conference is being recorded. After the presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask
questions. [Operator Instructions]. This call must not be recorded for publication or
broadcast.
At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Stefan Loacker, CEO. He'll now
be joined into the conference room. Thank you.

Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to welcome all of you this morning to the
presentation of our annual results 2010. Especially those who are basically in the room
and also those who are participating via the telephone. Please be warned that this time is
really a public session because we have a live broadcast. So, if you ask questions in the
end you will be on the public sector. The 2010 ﬁnancial year for Helvetia was
characterised by the good development of proﬁts and business volumes. Growth
continued to be pleasing and the proﬁt for the period increased in comparison to the
previous year.

Page 1 of 30



FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

This was facilitated by our solid technical results and also a successful investment policy
especially the eﬀective hedging almost fully oﬀset the signiﬁcant losses in the underlying
values which were suﬀered on foreign currency position is one of the predominant issues
this year. You will hear more about this later. But these are the ﬁrst outlined program
being introduced the other speakers. As usual Paul Norton, our Group CFO will give you
more details on the results in the ﬁrst part of the program. Our Chief Investment Oﬃcer
Ralph Honegger, will then present the investment result. You will hear more about the
highlights of our very successful Swiss business from the CEO of Switzerland Philipp
Gmür. And I will end the presentation with an update on our strategy after which as usual
the speakers will be happy to answer your questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

With this I am turning to slide four, to the highlights or the overview of the 2010 ﬁnancial
year. As I mentioned, at the beginning, the proﬁt for the period of CHF 341 million
exceeds the previous year's adjusted result by 4.5%. The proﬁt achieved was underpinned
by solid results both from life and non-life business. Consistent cost management and the
specially the cautious investment policy contributed to this pleasing result. The return on
equity of 10.7% is in the target range. The important aspect of the last year was the
acquisition of the insurance companies Alba and Phenix. This has signiﬁcantly expanded
our position in the Swiss home market and will boost the business volumes in the non-life
by more than 25% approximately from the current year onwards.
The integration of both companies is proceeding according to plan. Philipp Gmür will
give you more information in this regard later. We continue to be satisﬁed with the growth
momentum in our country markets with a total increase of 5.3% in original currency. The
premiums and performance of the newly acquired companies in Switzerland not only
consolidated for two months which shows that we are capable of good growth even
without the impact of those acquisitions. Both business areas of life and non-life
contributed more or less equally in the area of 5% to this growth. And it was also they all
be supportive in terms of geographical markets. The technical result is pleasingly robust.
In total, Helvetia achieved a good combined ratio net of 94%.
The gross combined ratio even is again below 90, which indicates that we continue to be
highly proﬁtable in the non-life business. Also the margins achieved in the life business
were stable despite the market-wide decline in bond yields. Direct investment return was
3% at the end of last year, only 0.2 percent points lower than in the previous year. Our
cautious investment policy and especially the eﬀective hedging of the foreign currency
positions allowed us to oﬀset the losses on our underlying currency exposures, against
the proﬁt of those hedging positions. Performance overall was 2.9%. Ralph Honegger will
report on this later. The solvency margin remains strong at 220% and the equity base was
increased by almost 8%, following the issue of a subordinated bond in the fourth quarter.
Standard and Poor's once again conﬁrmed the A minus rating with a stable outlook. In
future we will also report on the Swiss Solvency Test SST here on a regular basis. As you all
well know, the calculations for the SST 2011 will be processed and check by FINMA after
they have been submitted at the end of April. But I can already assure you today that
Helvetia is well positioned to comfortably meet the new solvency requirements. Our
current capital positions continues to be very solid even under the terms of the Swiss
Solvency Test. So to summarize on 2010 Helvetia Group was able to further increase its
Page 2 of 30



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

proﬁts and sales in a challenging environment. Once again we could gain additional
market share, cut our costs and maintain the strength of our balance sheet at the high
level.

FINAL

This once more should demonstrate that our group is a reliable insurance partner for our
customers as well as a good investment for our shareholders. Paul Norton will now discuss
the core elements of our ﬁnancial statements review.

Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Stefan. Ladies and gentlemen, pleasure for me to present more details you
have the ﬁgures. We'll start with the slide six, with the performance of the individual
business areas. The performance of the life and non-life business was once again
satisfactory. In the life business we achieved a solid result of 108 million, whereas the the
previous year by 6.4%, thanks to robust investment results, as part of low interest rate
environment and strength for Swiss franc and a sustained excellent technical result. We
also achieved results, a very solid results of 177 million in the non-life business, declined to
the prior year is largely a result of changes in plan structure, with fewer large plans we
could see it to reinsurance as a result of nature disasters, nature catastrophes. So report
from massively the half year.
The net combined ratio of 94% and the gross combined ratio, which remains below 90%
for the Group reﬂect the ongoing excellent company performance. With the fair of
acquisition cost which we reported for non-life in the half year has any a slight impact on
result of the end of the year as the prior year ﬁgures have been adjusted for the new
accounting policy. With increase of CHF 47 million the result of other activities was
signiﬁcantly above the ﬁgure in the previous year, primarily because of currency eﬀects
and higher investment income. These currency eﬀects however were partly oﬀset in those
segments primary as a result of lower income from year end due to the weak euro. I'd like
to add a few more comments because I think from seeing the earliest analyst comment
that it's certainly a question of topic here.
We have a clear hedging policy, which you will see from these ﬁgures and Ralph
Honegger will tell you has been extremists such several years. And our hedging policies
to hedge positions in investments in foreign currencies, which is predominantly euro
based investments in our Swiss balance sheet. What we do not hedge of the results, all
the net positions in our foreign subsidiaries. And we do not hedge the individual cash
streams or proﬁt streams from our foreign subsidiaries. So and that is a ultimate case in
most companies, it's not worth during that, which means that our results are somewhat
lower this year, because when you take the European subsidiaries translate into Swiss
francs because of the weakness and average weakness of 10% of we obviously have less
operating income. There is also an accounting mismatch here, which we have reported on
in prior years. The other segment shows in the hedges that we have. So the positive
beneﬁt we got from the hedges is reported in the other segment, which is why you see
the other segment increases so much. Because we don't have what is called hedge
accounting, the underlying losses or declines which were compensated by these hedges,
actually total equity which you will see in the other compounded income.

Page 3 of 30



FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

So economically even this is so high the mismatch is shown in the other, which has a
positively net income and negative in equity. The second comparison is that also
oﬀsetting that the positive rather are currency losses from lower investment income from
the euro in our life and non-life segments. So dividends we earn, investment income in
euros simply due to the translation of those into Swiss francs, they are lower. So to some
extent that positive you see in the other is oﬀset by lower results in the life and non-life
segments. Now we are happy to go into that into more details a bit later. If we move
across then to slide seven, which is also by geography, which is all insurance units positive
result an important year, and contribute to good group results. As we said, the weak euro
had a comp results in important year, and it also signiﬁcantly need to grow reported in
Swiss francs.

Bloomberg Transcript

And it reduce to comp results with foreign units by about 10%, and these are converted
into Swiss francs. The whole market in Switzerland as the biggest contribution resulted 191
million and its slightly below the excellent ﬁgures for the previous year. And the second
result remains at outstanding level over the net combined ratio of under 83% for non-life
business, strong technical results for the life business; further eﬃciency gains, solid
investment income. One important factor, aﬀecting results of the low interest rate
environment which results in a strengthening of our life technical provisions. we'll go
through the results for Switzerland in more detail later. The 26 million, the second result
for Germany is below the level of previous year, not least but has exchanged the
diﬀerences have additional cost reductions had a positive impact. The counter of the net
claims ratio increased by 5 percentage points year-on-year. The increase was due to
several which was only covered to a small extent by the insurance.
The growth translation was a good 61%. So it's slightly higher than the prior period. At
CHF 8 million, Italy's contribution to the proﬁt was down on the previous year. In
particular, this is again due to an unfavorable exchange rates, reduced investment income
in the life business and a net burden of claims in the non-life business that was 1.4%
higher. By contrast, the development of the gross claims ratio was very positive in Italy. In
spite the ongoing diﬃcult market environments, the segment result for Spain was only
slightly lower year-on-year, and in original currency it was even slightly higher. The nonlife business aﬀected the gain by long periods of bad weather, while the life business was
unable to achieve the gains on investments seen in previous years due to the under
performance of the Spanish stock market.
Positive factors for the segment included additional eﬃciency improvements and the
market-wide annual adjustment to interest rates for reserves prescribed by the local
regulator in non-life business. The other insurance units segment, the results for Austria
and France were at approximately the same level as in previous year on a currency
adjusted basis. In contrast the contribution to proﬁt by reinsurance in lower due to
reduced investment income and exchange rate eﬀects. Despite an extraordinary claims
year for the industry the reinsurance business was able to achieve a combined ratio of
well below 100% again to the stable poorly diversiﬁed portfolio and eﬀective . The
signiﬁcant improvement in the corporate segment, I will explain is due to the currency
impacts taking the hedges and improved investment income.

Page 4 of 30



FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

Moving to slide eight on volume growth. Volume growth of 5.3% on a currency adjusted
basis is very pleasing and once again conﬁrms our strategic growth of growing
sustainably. The life and non-life business both generates strong dynamic growth of 5.6%
each, and thus we have a broad-based growth in our life business. The reinsurance
business which is also the majority of its premium in the foreign currencies reported a
decline in volume, due to these currency eﬀects. The results for currency level are
generally also very pleasing that we'll be able to discuss the very strong growth of 4.2% in
Switzerland. In Germany we achieved satisfactory premium growth of over 7% on a
currency adjusted basis. And more than 22% the life business did mostly better than
general market average and emerging from the ﬁnancial crisis the German market is
showing strong growth and maintaining the unit linked business growth of more than
20% from Helvetia service area.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the non-life business well a growth of 1.1% outside the market. Plans to expansion in
our sales network, we were able to achieve especially strong growth of more than 9% in
Italy. About 19% of this is derived from the non-life business, although the life business
also reported positive growth of 3.7%. In this area the growth was underpinned
particularly about those ﬁgure, in the corporation bank of - which grew about 5%. 2010
Spain continues to impacted by the diﬃcult economic situation there. Despite some
favorable environment, responsible for our business unit to maintain the business
volumes at a stable level. The life business posted a growth of more than 5% and here the
strategic distribution agreement with Bancaja at the end of 2009 and other strategic
initiatives had a positive impact on the growth rate. The non-life business was unable to
escape the general market trend and a positive modest decline.
In Austria growth of 4.6% there was strategic positive growth trend in the last three years.
The actual growth achieve is well above the market forecast. In France 34% which explain
other volumes of Helvetia Schweizerischeof of the previous company which we acquired
in the previous year. This now position us to number one transport sectors in France. As
you can see in slide nine, the technical performance in non-life business is once again
satisfactory. The net combined ratio of 94% is in our strategic target range, is also a very
good comparison. The net claims ratio 64.4% is generally good, that was 3.6 percent
points higher an exceptional ratio in the prior year. I would like to point out however that
the gross claims ratio of 61% is only 1 percentage point higher than the ratio in the
previous year. This is a result of few losses, it could be seen into reinsurance as we
explained at the half year.
The growth combined ratio remain below 90% inline with the exceptional level to
previous year. I'll come back with some more detail in the next slide. We were able to
reduce the cost ratio further by 0.8 percentage points below the levels of previous year to
29.7, which is now on the 37 level that we set for our strategy. Move to slide 10, we can see
that we were able to seed 60 million or less in claims to re-insurers in the previous year.
As I explained this is the reason for this to struck the major claims mainly the which
resulted in more claims being retained by Helvetia Group. Although, in fact the actual
premiums received to re-insurers were slightly lower than of the prior year. The ratios of
the country's markets clearly reﬂects this eﬀect and the gross combined ratio in some
cases are signiﬁcantly below that of net combined results.

Page 5 of 30



FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

If you move to slide 11, embedded value, our life business is doing very well in spite of this
rather diﬃcult economic environment. The embedded value in the Phenix life rose by
1.5% during the year. This increase is due to positive contribution by new business on
satisfactory operating results. The low interest rate environment apparent to the economic
balances and eﬃciency increased to solvency cost in the life introduction to Swiss
Solvency Test and the conversions to Group currency again the translation impact have a
negative eﬀect on embedded value. Turning to slide 12, value of new business. The
positive trend in new business volume growth continued, volumes remain stable in
comparison to the previous year, despite the economic environment. The value of new
business and business proﬁtability declined slightly compared with the previous year,
primarily due to two one-oﬀ parameter adjustments.
The most relevant is to increase the solvency cost assumptions against the background of
the developments in the solvency capital regime, SST and also Solvency 2. And we
already reported on the adjustment of the risk discount rate in Switzerland which was
carried out in the ﬁrst half. Both assumption changes aﬀect the value of new business by
around 9 million and also new business margin by 0.3 percentage points. If we exclude
this speciﬁc, we'll see as one-oﬀ adjustments, these ﬁgures remain stable compared to
the previous year as shown on slide 12. If you move to slide 13, if you see the gross
margins that beneﬁt the customers and shareholders have remained stable in Switzerland
and the EU countries despite the economic situation in lower interest rates.

Bloomberg Transcript

The decline in the direct yield on investments due to low interest rates is compensated by
lower average guaranteed interest rates. Overall, we are therefore clearly still in a position
to comfortably meet the guarantees to our customers.
On slide 14, we can look at the group solvency. Again a strong capital base was conﬁrmed
again in 2010, measured by Solvency 1 of group solvency is 220%, in line with the level of
the previous year.
The subordinated bond we issued earlier in the 2010 meets all solvency requirements and
the amounts 300 million is included in available equity. The sensitivities analysis shows
that under Solvency 1 we can easily handle stress scenarios such as an increase in the riskfree interest rate, increase in spreads or a sharp drop in equity markets.
Now turning to slide 15, I'd like to look at the Swiss Solvency Test. Obviously we are all
aware the Swiss Solvency Test is still under development. However, Helvetia is very well
prepared for the SST and FINMA has provisionally approved the applicable internal
models for our SST 2011.
As you know, the calculations for SST 2011 will be processed and checked by FINMA after
they are submitted at the end of April.
Nevertheless, we are able to give the following indications today. Helvetia is currently
comfortably in a position to meet the quantitative requirements of the SST. Our current
capital position continues to be extremely solid, even under the terms of this new regime.

Page 6 of 30



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

Based on current information, we believe that Helvetia will be able to continue its
successful growth strategy and attractive dividend policy also under the new solvency
regime of SST.

FINAL

I would like to mention here that the SST results per se can be volatile and can ﬂuctuate
signiﬁcantly due to the way the model is designed as well as ﬂuctuations in market prices.
Furthermore, the ﬁnalisation of the issues that have only been provisionally approved by
FINMA could still have a signiﬁcant eﬀects on the results. We will submit the individual
SST calculations to FINMA as required by the end of April 2011.
We expect the results that have been reviewed and we'll have feedback by the time of the
2011 interim report at the start of September. And on that occasion, we will provide further
information.
We are also preparing the group for our European subsidiaries for Solvency II. This new
measure, which will be applicable throughout Europe, is expected to enter into force by
2013.

Bloomberg Transcript

we take these issues very seriously by Helvetia Group and spend a lot of time and eﬀort
and resources into the new solvency regimes. We are well positioned for future
requirements, thanks to our traditionally conservative balance sheet and well established
risk management, see business structures.
I'd like to end my presentation by looking at the proposed dividend on slide 16.
The good annual result and sustained strength of the balance sheet, we can request the
Annual General Meeting to approve a dividend increase of 10% compared with the prior
year to CHF 16 per share, it's a payout of 41% within our target range and the dividend
yield comes out at 4.5% based on year end prices.
Naturally we'll use the opportunity for the beneﬁt of our Swiss based private shareholders
to pay part of the dividend from the capital contribution reserves without the deduction of
withholding and income tax, in line with the new tax rules announced recently.
We have tax-free distributable capital contribution reserves of approximately CHF 260
million available. And we plan to distribute these reserves over the next 3 to 4 years as
part of the payments of regular dividends. This year, the amount of CHF 8 per share will
apply, i.e., half of the total dividend we're paying out.
I'd now like to turn to my colleague, Ralph Honegger, Chief Investment Oﬃcer, will give
you more information on our investment result.

Ralph-Thomas Honegger

{BIO 4932832 <GO>}

Page 7 of 30



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

Thank you, Paul. Ladies and gentlemen, 2010 was a very challenging year again from the
perspective of asset management.

FINAL

Although the global economy emerged from the recession faster than anticipated,
underpinned by the strong recovery in the emerging countries and some industrial
nations, the after-eﬀects of the ﬁnancial and credit crisis meant the markets remained on
tenterhooks.
In particular, the debt crisis in Europe and the high level of unemployment in the USA
weighed heavily on the market activity.
To support the economic recovery, the central banks maintained their expansive
monetary policies and underpinned markets, especially in the government bond
segment, through open market transactions.
In the third quarter, interest rates fell to historically low levels, with the yield on 10 year
Swiss government bonds as low as 1% for a while. At the same time, the government
bonds spreads in the EU widened sharply.

Bloomberg Transcript

In this environment, the Swiss franc once again played the role of the safe haven and it
experienced an accelerated appreciation as a result.
The equity markets performed positively, but with signiﬁcant ﬂuctuations during the year.
They were therefore, able to beneﬁt selectively from the economic recovery. Despite
falling interest rates, the strong Swiss franc and modest investment income compared to
the previous year, our investments generated an eﬀective return of signiﬁcantly more than
CHF 1 billion, making a solid contribution to the overall result of Helvetia.
As you can see in slide 18, the investment structure is unchanged in comparison to the
previous year. Fixed interest securities make up 57% of the portfolio and are the most
important asset class followed by real estate at 13% and mortgages at 10%. The structure
of the portfolio according to IFRS categories is also stable, with a slight increase of the
bonds classiﬁed as held-to-maturity.
Helvetia's investment portfolio increased by CHF 0.5 billion over the course of the year.
This increase was partly the result of the pleasing growth in business, which resulted in an
inﬂux of more than CHF 1 billion of new money.
It was also due to the addition of the new companies, Alba and Phenix, which increased
the investment volume by a total of CHF 600 million. However, the strong appreciation of
the Swiss franc meant that the value of the assets of the euro business units was reduced
by about CHF 1 billion when reﬂected on the Group balance sheet in Swiss francs.
Against this background, the hedging policy developed and implemented over the last
few years for equity and foreign currency exposures was continued. The policy was
particularly eﬀective for currency hedging in 2011, as illustrated on slide 19.
Page 8 of 30



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

Helvetia holds investments in foreign currencies to cover the corresponding liabilities and
for diversiﬁcation of the investment base. This is particular relevant for the Swiss
portfolios, which have a net foreign currency exposure of about CHF 2 billion.

FINAL

This exposure is highly hedged on a permanent basis. The hedging level is in general
signiﬁcantly higher than 80%, as illustrated in the detailed slide in the appendix. Currency
risks are generally reduced using futures and sometimes also options.
In the past ﬁnancial year, the currency losses on capital investments amounted to some
CHF 350 million. This was oﬀset by the proﬁt on currency derivatives of 304 million.
Excluding the exchange rate eﬀects of provisions in foreign currency amounting to CHF
32 million, the loss including the costs of hedging transactions was only CHF 15 million.
This is the equivalent of only 0.8% of the foreign currency exposure and illustrates the
high eﬃciency of our hedging approach.
I'll turn now to slide 20 to the bond credit ratings. In addition to currencies, the credit
quality of the bond portfolio also received a high level of attention in the 2010 reporting
year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our portfolio continues to show its excellent creditworthiness. Once again, no
impairments were required. A very large proportion 97% of the bond portfolio has a
rating of at least A, while 88% of the portfolio has a rating of AA or higher.
The sector allocation shown on slide 21, also demonstrates a high degree of stability.
Measured as a percentage of the total bond portfolio, the ﬁnancial sector makes up 50%,
while corporate bonds make up almost 10% of the portfolio and governments and
supranational organisations make up the remaining 40%.
Within the ﬁnancials, the rating quality remained high and even improved modestly
against the previous year. Furthermore, almost one-third of the bonds have a government
guarantee while an additional 38% mostly Pfandbriefe have additional security.
The exposure in Italian government bonds amounts to CHF 740 million and in Spanish
government bonds to 300 million. This exposure is intended to cover insurance liabilities
in these country markets. Our exposure to Greek, Portuguese and Irish bonds is 26
million, 34 million and 32 million respectively. In total, this makes up a minimal
component of the overall portfolio of CHF 33.6 billion.
The appendix to the presentation contains a detailed list of our exposure to government
bonds. I will close my presentation with a summary of the overall performance on slide 22.
Current investment income amounted to CHF 932 million, which was 37 million lower than
in the previous year. The reduction was due to the market-wide decline in interest rates on
new investments as well as lower investment income from the individual euro business
units after conversion to Swiss francs.
Page 9 of 30



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

FINAL

These currency losses from the consolidation process are not covered by our hedging
policy. The decline of the euro against the Swiss francs resulted in a reduction in income
of some 40 million after conversion to the Group currency compared to the previous year.
Realised and book gains amounted to 126 million stem predominantly from tactical sales
of equities and the partial replacement of short duration bonds with long duration bonds,
in line with the stepwise extension of the asset duration in the life business which we have
been working on for several years now.
The currency losses have been hedged successfully as mentioned before. The investment
income generated for our own account therefore amounted to CHF 1,051 million. This was
slightly above the ﬁgure for last year.
The reduction in unrealised gains in equity of 128 million reﬂects the above mentioned
sales. The resulting performance is 2.9%, which represents a decline of 1.9% in
comparison to the previous year.
However, the drop in performance is also due to the equity markets, which generated
lower price gains than in the previous year, as well as the strength of the Swiss franc.
Overall, investment income was very solid and satisfactory, achieving a direct yield of 3%
and a stable contribution to proﬁt.

Bloomberg Transcript

With this I would like to pass you over to my colleague, Philipp Gmür, who will inform you
about developments in the Swiss business.

Philipp Gmür
Thank you, Ralph. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with the following
statement: Helvetia Switzerland is in excellent shape.
Our growth is above average and our portfolio is very healthy. A special highlight of the
last ﬁnancial year was the acquisition of the Alba and Phenix insurance companies, which I
will discuss in detail in a moment.
I will start with an overview of business operations on slide 24.
In the 2010 ﬁnancial year, we generated a proﬁt after tax of 191 million in the Swiss market,
thus posting a good result and generating a proﬁt that is almost on a par with the
excellent result of the previous year. The premium volume was expanded once again by
more than 4% to around CHF 3.5 billion.
This pleasing growth was achieved in both the life and non-life business. We are able to
report growth of almost 5% in the life business and 1.5% in the non-life business. The
outstanding technical result is reﬂected in the once more excellent net combined ratio of
82.9% in the non-life business.

Page 10 of 30



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

As is shown on slide 25, the individual life business was practically in line with its
performance in the previous year. We launched two extremely successful single premium
tranche products, Helvetia Kapital Plus and Helvetia Trendmarket.

FINAL

Growth of 1.3% in the regular premium business was especially pleasing. Growth in the
group life business remains dynamic with a growth rate of almost 7% indicated that we
have once again won market share and have further strengthened our position.
The technical results are also strong, thanks to the good portfolio quality and riskappropriate pricing. The low level of interest rates remains a big challenge for the life
business. The lower interest rates led to an appropriate strengthening of the life actuarial
reserves.
As usual, I now will brieﬂy review the group life business on slide 26.

Bloomberg Transcript

As in the past, we will inform you separately of the statutory result for the Swiss BVG
business. For today, I would only like to say that for the business that is subject to the legal
quota, a total of more than 92% of our gross income was credited to our clients in the
form of beneﬁts. We therefore, once again exceeded the required legal quota of 90%.
Let's go to the non-life. As I mentioned before, our non-life business is still in a good
shape. In a ﬁercely competitive environment and a saturated market, we managed to
achieve further growth. This growth was generated across virtually all segments with the
exception of the marine insurance business, which declined in view of the weak economy
and still shows the impact of the ﬁnancial markets and economic crisis.
Health and accident insurance feature on the ﬁnancial statements for the ﬁrst time in 2010
as a result of the acquisition of Alba and Phenix last November. The premiums and
beneﬁts of the new entities are consolidated on a pro-rata basis only.
The net combined ratio of 82.9% is in line with the excellent result in the previous year
and once again shows a strong operating result. The low loss ratio of 54% was one
contributing factor. The excellent ratio is the result of careful risk selection and
appropriate pricing as well as the proﬁtable portfolio composition. Other contributing
factors includes the general absence of major claims in 2010, and additional savings on
the cost front which resulted in a 0.3 percentage point reduction in the cost ratio to 28.9%.
Next, let us turn to the acquisitions in the home market. As already mentioned Helvetia
acquired the insurance companies Alba and Phenix on the November 01, 2010. The Swiss
market is highly consolidated and therefore rarely present the opportunity to purchase
portfolios or even entire companies. These acquisitions allow us to expand our non-life
portfolio by about one quarter to increase our distribution reach and to boost our
presence in the French speaking region of Switzerland.
As you can see on slide 28, the Helvetia sales force is now made up of approximately 770
well-qualiﬁed advisors, at approximately 60 branch oﬃces.
Page 11 of 30



FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

The tangible increase in sales force, employees, customers and portfolios make it
possible for us to clearly expand our distribution network. We are beneﬁting from the
growth opportunities of the Alba and Phenix locations, which now also give us better
representation throughout the country. For the 2010 ﬁnance statement, the premiums of
the new companies are only consolidated for the months of November and December,
which is why the impact on the book is marginal for the full year results. Overall, the
acquisition is expected to generate growth of roughly 25% in the non-life business from
2011. The growth in the life business is less signiﬁcant due to the size of the Helvetia life
portfolio. In the medium-term, the portfolio's customer relationships and employees oﬀer
an enormous development potential that takes a major step forward into Swiss market.

Bloomberg Transcript

The integration of the insurance companies into Helvetia is progressing very well. We
have decided to fully integrate Alba and Phenix into Helvetia Switzerland and to merge
them with our legal entities in 2011. A partial transfer of the operations will be completed
by May 01, 2011. And the sales force employees from Alba and Phenix will then
immediately start selling Helvetia products. The sales force will receive Helvetia
employment contract and the necessary sales training and instruction. The vast majority of
employees in the sales force have accepted the oﬀer from Helvetia and signed a contracts
with Helvetia. This means that around 140 sales force employees from Alba and Phoenix
will be starting their employment contracts with our company on May 1st.
Helvetia will continue to maintain its consistent single-brand strategy into domestic
markets, what means that Alba and Phenix brands will be gradually replaced by Helvetia
on the market. Of course nothing will change for the customers in both. Their customer
advisors will remain the same and the policies concluded will remain valid without any
changes. The legal merger of Alba and Phenix with Helvetia is planned for the November
01, 2011. The insurance portfolios will largely be migrated to the system landscape in 2012.
In conjunction with this there will be changes for the internal staﬀ in the general agencies
and as a headquarters in . Although we are still in the planning stage. We already seem to
have ﬁnd the solution for most of those aﬀected. The wast majority will receive a job oﬀer
from Helvetia or the oﬀer of early retirements. If this is not possible we will support those
employees aﬀected in ﬁnding a new job.
Today the integration has proceeded very well and fairly fast and we assume that it will be
completed according to schedule. With this I would like to pass back to Stefan Loacker.

Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Thank you. I'm now turning to slide 30 onwards. I am trying to capture more mid term
view and just analyzing the business development of the last 12 months. As you might
know that 2010 was the last year for so call strategy period 2007 to 2010 which we found
came to a successful close with those results. Our primary objective have been achieved.
Helvetia grew dynamically in the last couple of years through organic growth and
targeted acquisitions in the country markets of Italy, France, Austria and Switzerland. At
the same time we have enhanced our operating eﬃciency. So the cost ratios in both lines
of business and optimized our ﬁnancial structure especially to be prepared for SST and
Solvency 2.

Page 12 of 30



FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

Helvetia will use the positive momentum for continued further development inline with
our moto to excel in growth, proﬁtability and customer loyalty. During our presentation of
the half year results last September, we announced in the core elements of our new
strategy which we call Helvetia 2015 plus. So, today I would not like to repeat everything
but just summarize some highlights and then especially elaborate on our priorities for this
year 2011. Now, turning to slide 31 to illustrate our overall long-term ambition which is
simply to signiﬁcantly expand our business portfolio in the current markets. In doing so,
we place great value on meaningful geographic diversiﬁcation as well as a sound balance
between the proﬁtable non-life business, the faster growing life insurance, and the cyclical
reinsurance business. The linear expansion of our successful course creates a
opportunities in the years ahead to add value for customers and shareholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our most important objective in summary. First of all, our growth strategy which is based
on the sustained further development of sales reach, sales channel and productivity. In
addition, we aim for targeted acquisitions and strategic cooperation agreement in our 15
country markets. To improve our earnings power, we will continue to give the highest
priority on technical discipline. Further improvements in the cost eﬃciency and also a
sustainable liability driven investment strategy. We believe that we can further increase
our productivity especially through Group wide processes and systems. And satisﬁed,
loyal customers are at the centre of our strategic ambition. We have already reached a
very good level as we can see in many surveys that we do, but aim to improve our service
further. For this reason, we place great importance on stable long-term distribution
structures, as it relationship quality depending there, ﬂexible product concepts and a
customer centric IT.
As you all know, strategic planning is one thing but the strategy implementation is
another story. We think that Helvetia has demonstrated a great deal of discipline and
execution around the last couple of years. And of course, our ambition is to stay on this
track also in future. With this, I'm now referring to page 32 to go a bit deeper into our
growth initiatives for 2011. Let me start by looking into the last four years, which indicate
that Helvetia has increased its business volume by around 37%, of which more than half
mainly 20% was through organic growth. Part of this development was also an increase in
our historically very low proportion of life business in our foreign units which started from
a really low 22%, which indicates that we have been traditionally more or less in non-life
insurer abroad to now 32% approaching to a better balance.
Of course, we aim to continue on this path also in the years ahead, where we see a lot of
opportunities. We worked on our concrete priorities for 2011. I would like to highlight
some speciﬁc topics from one country to another, starting with Germany, I just want to
underpin that we have reached an agreement with the legal protection insurer IR at the
end of last year for an exclusively referral of their motor insurance to Helvetia in Germany
over the next couple of years. This will be of course another momentum for our growth.
So the successful development of this agreement is one of our focus points for 2011. And
again we have a lot of expectations for the life insurance in Germany, which has taken up
good pace in the last couple of month and we have also plans for this year. In Italy, where
we have been growing very strongly through the new and dynamic channels that we have
the road side marketing concept and the lot of new agencies following the .

Page 13 of 30



FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

In Italy of course we want to keep our pace, but more and more also a component by a
very consistent technical controlling, because actually our results are below our
expectations and we want to earn more in the Italy market in the medium-term. In Spain,
this year of course we have a speciﬁc situation because the economic environment is still
challenging, as you could see also through the market ﬁgures especially in non-life. Our
plans are still oﬀensive once, so what we have plan is to increase our eﬀorts in the
previously under represented areas for our business, as the bask region Catalunya, also
the Greater Madrid area by our focused broker initiative. Our exclusive network is quiet
weakened there and so we have an opportunity to tackle this. But, of course clearly the
top priority for the whole group will be given to the home market and Switzerland where
the successful integration of the two new companies Alba and Phenix are at the top of our
list.

Bloomberg Transcript

And as Philipp Gmür has explained here very well in France underway in this regard. As a
Group, we also remain on the look out for suitable acquisitions that could supplement our
business in order to expand the customer access or to better absorb our cost structures in
the given markets. As to the recent acquisitions of Alba and Phenix, the ﬁnancial ability to
act immediately in the right situation is again ensured by following the issue of the
subordinated bond last year. Please now turn to slide 33. It will life insurance, which in the
current environment especially in the market, where we are present oﬀers enormous
opportunities, but is also on the other hand challenging. In particular for us with a
relatively small life portfolios outside Switzerland, for historical reasons we have not
signiﬁcant proﬁt contribution still after those operations.
We continue to see signiﬁcant growth potentials in our markets of growth and we believe
that we can still reach a lot in the medium and long term, so for the next ﬁve to 10 years
we have lot of ambitions, because we think it's the well capitalized company and a good
Swiss franc where there is a lot to earn. However, at the current the low interest rate
environment on one hand and the income in new regulatory regime on the other hand
provides a challenging environment. To give support for our country units, which so far
had more or less acted on their own autonomous and also in the life insurance. We have
decided for the future to develop and manage the life insurance business much stronger
than previously to a corporate approach, which is supported to a new competent center
to call the life center under the management of .
The life center will primarily be responsible for managing the product portfolio in order to
ensure the proﬁtability of our new business chain, as well as the exploitation of synergies
in product development, for example, guarantee concepts, investment strategies and also
cost eﬃciency. We have feasible shifts always will be deployed and process is more
standardized in future. For 2011, in particular, we are now focusing on the launch already
in the ﬁrst year of our ﬁrst innovative product solution on our cross border platform. The
sales launch of this which is intended to be an individual guarantee product concept is
planned for this year already in our home markets for Switzerland. Please now turn to
slide 34, which indicates on the left hand side of the chart that we did a lot to improve our
cost ratios in the last couple of years.
In the life and in the non-life business, we are carrying a lot more business on smaller or
equally sized cost infrastructure. But we want to go further here, it's not the point to
Page 14 of 30



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

stopping this ambition. We will continue to push the industrialization of the processes in
the country markets and also accelerate our Group wide IT bundling. Resupply in
particular, to one of our focus areas of 2011 which is CRM trans-relationship management
which is something that we are seeing as an opportunity both to keep our clients close to
us and force customer attention in order to steer distribution even more closely to the
opportunities. But not only IT, but also in general operations are an area of concentration
this year. In Germany in particular, we have decided to reorganize our geographic
operational structure in this year.
We have traditionally being an extremely decentralized companies for more or less all
processes, We have been decentralized and now we have decided to centralize what we
call for the ﬁrst level support because those processes probably are not really the key for
us to be recognized as close to the distributors and this will help us in our cost ratios. In
Switzerland, we also anticipate signiﬁcant synergy eﬀects from the integration of Alba and
Phenix. So these and also other measures will result in further improvements of our cost
ratios this year and in the medium-term. And of course, we will continue to have a close
look on the capital eﬃciency of our company. Helvetia as you have seen has a sustainable
and comfortable capital base in terms of Solvency 1 and is also well positioned to meet
the new solvency requirements and also to do in this in a capital eﬃcient manner.
But given the ongoing evolution, the moving target of the SST requirements and for
Solvency 2 setup, the capital base and capital eﬃciency will surely remain as one of the
top issues on our agenda for 2011. Let me now brieﬂy turn to slide 35 which treats our
winning strategy. Many of you are aware that in the year 2006, as not that long ago, we
have applied a semi brand strategy across our group which allowed us to systematically
exploit also opportunities to better position our Group especially through our
sponsorship of scheme. Over the last few years we have been able to raise brand
reorganization signiﬁcantly. In the Swiss home market now even 94% of the people
surveyed know Helvetia. Of course outside our home market our brand are still
considerably potential to make up ground because we have much lower market share
there.
Helvetia is sponsoring the Swiss key applications since 2005. On the last year 2010 we
have renewed those contracts until the 2013-2014 season. This winter we have been for
the ﬁrst time presenting sponsor of the Four Hill tournament which is very well positioned
for our German speaking markets and we have plans to do more to international as
sponsorship commitments in the coming years. We will also develop a Group-wide
branding concept more consistent now a days and throughout our market and country
units. So, before I go to slide 36, I just brieﬂy wrap up our priorities for 2011 growth
projects. We have a lot of them especially the integration of Alba and Phenix. The focus
on the proﬁtability of the life insurance through the new life centre, cost eﬃciency,
regulation and capital in the light of SST and Solvency 2 and the internationalisation of the
brand, those topics which are on the top of our list as a corporate. Of course,
supplemented by a lot of speciﬁc issues which vary from one market to another.
With this, I can on slide 36 conﬁrm our ﬁnancial objectives for the period, medium term
period up to 2013, which are growth above market, as we did again. Good technical
results, as we have delivered again.
Page 15 of 30



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

A solid balance sheet, as is our staﬃng position, and the double-digit return on equity
with an attractive dividend policy, which we wants to highlights again this year.

FINAL

So, seeing overall, we are satisfy with the 2010 results. We have clear priorities for the new
year 2011, and of course we are all committed to make Helvetia even more successful in
this year.
With this, I want to thank you for your concentrate in listening to our presentations. And
we are now turning to the Q&A session. As usual, I would proposed that we start with the
people in the room and then turn to the many colleagues that are attending on the
phone.
I would like to ask you, if you start with your questions, also to give your name. And those
who are in the room have to use a microphone, so that also the people on the telephone
can hear your questions.

Questions And Answers
Operator
[Operator Instructions].

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

And I'm giving the word to the ﬁrst one raising the hand, it's right in front of me.

Q - Analyst
Its Patrick from Bank --. I have just a quick one Paul, regarding the tax rate, which was
down to I think 15%.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

There are couple of one-oﬀ eﬀect there. One is a tax rate dreduction in Switzerland by
about 1 percentage point. But that impact obviously be deferred taxes. Secondly, the
German tax authorities ﬁnally close their audits of the years that for 2004, now the light
with us -- and the result, we had a favorable result. And clearly certain tax provisions there,
you had since then. And thirdly, we have a very favorable tax net one-oﬀ ones, a third one
which is will be ongoing some years, we had a very tax ruling regard to the acquisition of
Phenix and Alva which will ﬂoat through into our Swiss results.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Next question.

Q - Analyst
Very quickly follow-up on this proﬁt detail -- in Germany, can you specify this little low or is
just a number?
Page 16 of 30



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

A - Corporate Participant
A higher one digit number in million euro.

FINAL

Q - Analyst
-- So I have three questions. The ﬁrst one is that swing in other activities, I have seen that
realized capital gains in other activities something from minus 10 to plus 15, I think it's
something to be slide number 40, but if you could just quickly run me through that.
And then the second one is -- real estate looks very, very interesting from return on
investment point of view, you have now a 13% exposure investment property, 10% in
mortgages, still perhaps, can you just quickly let us know how you see right from the
Swiss market or will rating is still good quality out there?
And then the last question is for Mr. Gmür. Mr. Gmür is talking about seriously
comparative market in Switzerland and you come out with the combined ratio of 82.9%.
So, I would say in a pretax level that something like 35% ROE. So, I mean, it's not the one
of you have now this excellent performance for years and years. So, perhaps you can
explain a little bit, or let us know how the market behaves especially in household and the
motive business? Thanks.

A - Corporate Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Starting...if you want to talk to stand at the beginning, the other segment is where
we have the hedges from hedges box. And the majority of that movement is showing a
positive swing is due to the gains on the foreign currency hedges.
And if you like the losses on the underlying that were hedged are reﬂected in the equity.
So, it's a positive inﬂuence in the other in net income, and a negative inﬂuence in equity
which could lead you to the question well, that's just the one-oﬀ positive in your income.
On the other hand, if you take the overall impact of the weaker Swiss obviously the
weaker euro against the Swiss francs this year. When you look at the other impacts, the
other segments due to lower investment income, lower net income from the -- such as
and so on, those eﬀects broadly can -- other out.
You got a slightly positive impact from this accounting as such, but basically if you were to
say we have an exchange rate from segment last year and that's income, we would be
roughly the same. To our positive mark, 10 million is not easy to say, that's the impossible.
Is that clear enough -- because I think it was a topic that many of you wanted to address.

Q - Analyst
Yeah.
HELN:} Just once you have a ﬁve times now. We have also gave more explanations --.
Page 17 of 30



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

So this is FX accounting even more.

A - Corporate Participant

FINAL

Okay. So, let's leave it for the time being and go through the real estate question, is the
market --.
First of all, I would like to say you have mentioned that more than 85% of our real estate
property actually is -- 70% of it is in residential buildings. I would say in a good average
price segment, widely spread all over the countries. In this market, we certainly don't see
any -- at all. I mean on -- is a stable cash ﬂow for many many years. And we don't have any
sites looking at licensee rates for -- that you shouldn't hold on.
And again, if I look to the mortgaged portfolio here again, it's always interest mainly the
vast majority itself used property actually. Like the spread again in all the Nordic country
and here again, we don't see any --. We stick to our investment criteria in both these of
investments and if you can read the criteria, it will be translate in the --.
From a market, the overall endeavor we don't see an overheating I mean there might be
some places like I don't know -- here at the Gulf Coast -- areas of the platform. That's not
the place where we have our exposure.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Analyst
And what about, I mean I'm thinking about 2% guarantees in the second business, I mean
we can see that bond yields are now down from 2.9 to 2.6, so I mean I believe it's very
interesting to be invested in real estate but I guess do you still ﬁnd good quality so...

A - Corporate Participant
We're still doing, we still -- we'll be looking for. But it's getting --.

Q - Analyst
A non-life business, how clear is this possibility?

A - Corporate Participant
It is actually...In fact this is very ﬁerce but I was mentioning that with regard to our growth
opportunities in the domestic market, and thus we are glad to realize a fairly nice growth
ratio in a saturated markets.
With regard to our combined ratio, I mean you all know that our combined ratio is not
only the result of the absence of major claims but also one major reason is our portfolio
composition. We have a good portfolio which is healthy especially with regard to our
property portfolio in the household business.
And nevertheless, we have the big price pressure. You were mentioning motor business.
We did see a price pressure in the motor business as well as in the SME business. And not
Page 18 of 30



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

FINAL

so much in the household business so far. And it has to do probably with the premium
volume decline have to pay which is fairly higher in the motor business than in the
household.
But actually that the proof of putting is, are you well priced in the period when you
encounter major claim? And right now we do not, but we are pretty sure that our pricing
is still fair. And then good enough. But in the absence of claims, you don't really see the
proof of putting. But with our track record, we are pretty positive that, we are not only
promising but also actually realizing a good combined ratio in the long-term.
I'm not underwriting 85% in the long run but say...as we usually say in a corridor between
1995 for the domestic markets unless then if I have to probably also take some words on
the other markets. Of course, those who are present in the Swiss market, the ﬁve years
sales in the competition, in a ﬁerce competition compared to the years before, compared
to the other markets, I think it also quite clear that the Swiss one is what I think is at the
moment the most proﬁtable market in Europe.

Bloomberg Transcript

And therefore, France of course is not a disadvantage to have our whole market here.
And also it is important to see the trends on the other geographies where especially in
Italy, in Germany market wide, the results have deteriorated substantially in the last few
years, which is now giving the opportunity for, I would say turning the things on the
positive side again. We see there is a mid-term expectation for Italy and Germany that
especially in the car insurance business margins are going to be better in the next couple
of years. And also our own expectation is in the same direction.
For the Spanish market is still a diﬃcult set up, because there is a volume loss in the
overall market. So, especially normalized has loss some 2% opinions and market wide last
year. It has done a bit better, but also we were not able to grow. And of course, there is
also a price pressure to a certain degree because keeping the volume and therefore to
avoid the cost ratio drop is in place. And what we are all looking for is of course, the
refueling of the economic situation in the Spanish market.
So we have a certain mix perspective which is also indicating that for us, this
diversiﬁcation is a good issue. Don't forget that for non-life, we are not as buyers to the
Swiss market as we are in the life insurance. It's not more than 25% on that business that
we are earning in Switzerland. So there is really a good chain of diversiﬁcation also for
markets which are in diﬀerent circumstances. But nevertheless, actually now the
Switzerland is of course our favorite, which was also one of the reasons why we thought
investing into this non-life market through Alba especially easier thing to do.
Okay. And with this, I think we are prepared for the next question over there.

Q - Analyst
--. I have three questions. First one on your ROE targets 10 to 12%. And should we apply
that to the equity including the hybrid or excluding? The second one is basically on
acquisition of Alba, Phenix. Did you book any integration cost in 2010? And may be on
the non-life side going forward and historically, both of these units have the higher
Page 19 of 30



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

combined ratios than Helvetia had. So should we have an expectation of basically an
increasing combined ratio due to the acquisition in 2011-'12? And then the third question
on Swiss Solvency Test. Can we expect that you might published a ﬁgure or a ratio
number this year from today's point of view?

FINAL

A - Corporate Participant
Okay. Thank you for those questions. I'll just start with commenting of the ROE targets.
And then we'll pass to Paul to technically explain how the hybrid is being shown in our
balance sheet.
The overall target is net of the hybrid. and what we have also made clear is that we want
to avoid to have the distortion, a distorted impact, a diluted one or a helping one through
this hybrid. So it's more or less a neutral ﬁgure which has been the same before and after.
And the technical answer is certainly is Paul's domain.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

We've followed the zero connect to model. They've got us a separate line item and they
show equity fully access to the shareholder of the group. Then they call it preferred type
and then it's a total equity when they calculate the ROE just as we do on the basis of the
need. But they could follow the -- therefore the dividend, book to the dividend.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Corporate Participant
So, it's included in our solvency numbers but it's certainly be neutralized in our ROE
statements in order to show the real, this is the shareholders results, not diluted with this -of the bonds.
We think after the perspective of our non-life combined ratios in Switzerland, I will also
start it with the general answer. But I'll feeling good like then to go further in this. As you
have heard, those leading companies will be merged into the existing leading companies
that elevates by the end of this year. So, we will not see case-by-case before and after
situation of Alba and Phenix in 2012-2013, what to really compare the situation before and
after.
Of course, our portfolio mix to certain degree will change a little bit. We have always been
under represented in the car insurance business, where we had a market-share of less
than 3% now, compared to some 9 in the property. This will slightly increased. But we will
still be not a car insurance company predominantly.
And of course, car insurance might be less proﬁtable from a combined ratios point of
view, against the proﬁtability. And of course with the extra volumes that we are generating
what we at least expect is that we have more proﬁt, is the combined ratio is little bit better
or a bit worse is probably is not the point because the top-line and especially the bottomline that is what counts. And of course, we are looking for substantially cost synergies.

Page 20 of 30



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

So compared with the situation now, the performance standalone cost ratios will surely be
much more eﬃcient than they have been. And we think that the technical qualities of the
companies is very encouraging, also if you look at the closing ﬁgures of 2010, they have
both produced combined ratios below 9 on a statutory level. So, we have a very good
starting point.

FINAL

Philipp is there anything that you would like...

A - Philipp Gmür
No, I mean they had especially Alba only a slightly higher combined ratio because of their
claims ratios. Whereas the cost ratio was below --. And since they are selling Helvetia
product as of May 1st, we will have a combined portfolio. And we are calculating with
ﬁnally in the mid and long-term with the Helvetia loss ratios, if you will. And as Stefan
mentioned, with the lower cost ratio because of a bigger portfolio.

A - Corporate Participant
Okay. the question is restructuring costs included in the ﬁgures '10 Paul? And then yes, to
the disclosure.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. We have booked some integration cost and integration provision. We're not
disclosing the number. But it's...

A - Philipp Gmür
It should on the safe side.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

It's on the safe side but in accordance to the IFRS. And the SST, as I said in the
presentation, the SST is subject to ﬂuctuation. And the model is still not ﬁnalized. We
would like to publish the number, when we come to September, a lot will depend on -- as
well. They have certain views about publication as well and so it will depend, A --, we have
a ﬁnalized number we can published and two, we have terms and -- to what we can say.

A - Corporate Participant
Okay. The next question here in the room.

Q - Analyst
--. I would be interested to know about your hedging policy of -- risk. We learned that
Spain has been downgraded by Moody's, may be other countries could follow up. So
could you give us your standpoint?

A - Corporate Participant
Well so far, we don't have trade business of our risk at all.
Page 21 of 30



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

Q - Analyst
Why not?

FINAL

A - Corporate Participant
Well, as I said where we have liabilities in the countries, we just have the opposite the
assets. And overall, we try to really concentrate not to have more than our -- liabilities
that's why we really please -- we shouldn't do it. It depends on the country, it depends on
the product.
And in Spain, there is no legal court or anything, it will probably going to large extent like
shareholder. But on the other hand, I don't think we're expecting the total loss out of
Spain. Now our view is also I would say supported by the technical question on how is it
booked, and we have especially the long-term liabilities are of course also invested in
long-term assets which mainly are classiﬁed as all to majority or loans in receivables in our
balance sheet, which is a good thing to stabilize the overall picture and as long as you
have no defaults.

Bloomberg Transcript

It's nothing at all is happening especially also spread wideing or no problems on the
spread side is ﬂowing through the equity statement of our balance sheet which is
absolutely in position to carry those volatilities.
only in the case of impairments or default, there will be a P&L exposure. And our view is
not to expect defaults from Italy or Spain. And therefore for us, a hedging would mean to
increase the P&L volatility drastically because the derivatives of course they will be
booked under the P&L.
And the impacts will be suﬃcient I would say, even it could be if you are on the wrong
side, it could also be quite heavy impacts. So therefore for us, looking at those
investments as being linked to natural liabilities and not down as a carry trade investment
to hedge those would really be something very typically in the long-term.
But one of the things we mentioned earlier and mentioned brieﬂy on Spanish results is
the life reserve that regulates the eﬀects, a discount rate every year for those life reserves
and that is impacted by the local spread on the Spanish government bonds.
So if you have a higher spread because of the downgrade, yes, on the asset side it goes
down but on the liability side, it also goes down as well compensating it. And as Stefan
said in the meantime, until you get a default, most of it doesn't ﬂow through in the P&L
because it's help the maturity or it's valuable the same ﬂows through the equity. And as I
said we don't expect that that loss in Spain and we don't expect default in Spain.

Q - Analyst
The other question is regarding your dividend policy, will you pay also less dividend until
--?

Page 22 of 30



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

A - Corporate Participant

FINAL

potentially, it's roughly...it's not been setting stone, but that's...we have the capacity three
to four years was based on a half-for-half basis.
More questions in the room? If it's not the case, I think we have colleagues on the line,
who is also want to come up with their questions. We are handing over to the operator
onto our colleagues in London. Who is the ﬁrst one?

Operator
The ﬁrst question on the phone is from Mr. Michael Klien, Nomura. Please go ahead, sir.

Q - Michael Klien

{BIO 4262408 <GO>}

Yes, good morning all. My ﬁrst question would be on the tax rate again. So you
highlighted the one-oﬀs and the eﬀect that we have seen in 2010 on tax rate and the tax
rate. You mentioned here that you have for Switzerland, you have got a 1 percentage point
improvement on the deferred tax and also ongoing the tax ruling on the Phenix and Alba
acquisition. So what in tax overall do you expect for the tax rate going forward, or what
kind of tax rate should we be assuming for the short medium-term in our models?

Bloomberg Transcript

And number two, would be on the reserve ﬂoating over reserving. And in the past, you
have provided numbers on this. Could you just update us on where we stand in 2010, I
think 2009, it was something like 175 million.
And thirdly, we have seen some of your peers cutting again, credit being raised on
annuities. Have you done anything in 2010 or are you considering making some similar
movements in 2011? Thank you.

A - Corporate Participant
Okay. Thank you, Mike. I think the question of the tax ratio to be apply is on your side,
Paul.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Yeah. Michael, I can't give you on top of my head a tax rate going forward for Switzerland.
This is not that easy. The impact of the rate reduction, impacts by the current tax rate and
the deferred tax rate. The reason why you got a deferred tax, the reason why you got a
big one-oﬀ this year is because when you revalue the deferred tax from liabilities, you get
one-oﬀ eﬀect.
So 1% or so rate reduction in Switzerland should not have a major impact going forward in
Switzerland. I think the rate now varies between -- is something like 20% roughly, as
opposed to 21%, so that's why you can apply.
Additionally, we will have for the next ﬁve years roughly I think 4 million beneﬁt per
annum from the Alba and Phenix ruling on the tax line.
Page 23 of 30



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

FINAL

Reserved lending, we haven't changed at the moment and I think I reported to you at the
half year, this question came up. We have a process in place to review the reserve lending
concept. Unfortunately, the IFRS came out with a new standard or new exposure drop for
IFRS 4 which is not yet been ﬁnalized and of course the -- is a questions about how -- we
treated. And so at the moment we have brought whole -- while we understand the
implications of that and the ﬁnal dropped about say down a little come out in the summer.

A - Corporate Participant
With regard to the credit the annuities we have not made any cuts in 2010. And there are
also no immediate plans to do so in 2011. Of course, if you would see the low interest rate
environment also in the next couple of years with the action to be take that is not
something that we see as annuity management.
Is there another question?

Operator
The next question is from Mr. Chris Hitchings, KBW. Please go ahead, sir.

Q - Chris Hitchings

{BIO 2034501 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning, gentlemen. A couple of issues. Just some little technical things. One is I
can't ﬁnd any geographic split of the new business and D&B. Is that which is disclosed
anymore or just been an indulgent ﬁnding it?
Secondly, I noticed from the solvency sensitivity, the SST sensitivity has gone up quite a lot
since the half year. And it's not massive but it's obviously gone out. Is it going to any
corresponding increase in the exposure?
And thirdly, yes, you've said a Solvency I, a sort of target for 2015 and Solvency I ratio of
greater than 175%. I'm wondering will you re-pass back in the following SST I? And what is
a 175 suppose to be equivalent to an SST term?
The ﬁnal one, my biggest question is on Italy, I'm going to question who's Paul faster the
top-line goes up, the faster the bottom-line goes down. I don't entirely by this idea that
it's all those horrible claims. Can you just try and take me through what you think has
gone wrong and what you're doing about it? Thanks.

A - Corporate Participant
Thank you for those questions. In order to give my colleague a bit time, I'm starting with
your last question on Italy, and then probably Paul will answer the questions about the
new business margins split and especially sensitivity also the SST targets.
With regard to Italy, we have a situation which makes us partially satisﬁed with regard of
the dynamics that we have been reaching, also according to the usage that we have. But

Page 24 of 30



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

on the other hand, we are very well aware that this needs to be also accompanied by a
very technically controlling approach in order not to be left with business without proﬁts.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

But we have to see this in the dynamics in which things are happening. Growth has been
strong last year in the non-life area with a 90% growth, within those numbers is a
predominant proportion of car insurance which might look as if you're putting in the ﬁrst
glance.
I think the topic behind it is that we have been going through a number of new agencies
which are now producing for Helvetia. It's almost 100 new agencies that we have been
attracting in the last 18 months, especially following that new distribution law that they
have in Italy, the so-called the salary law, that every agent which formally was an exclusive
agent, which is now force to use the second or the third insurance to provide products to
his customer.
Since we have always been positioned as a company for multi-type agent, that was our
historical idea already. We have of course gained a lot of new agencies in that situation.
And what is happening when they have a portfolio they bring in ﬁrst of all the products
that have the faster turnover rate and that is traditionally is the car business. And therefore
we have in the ﬁrst hand, you have been growing in the car business and now of course
our emphasis is also to receive the property business and the accident business and the
other lines which are more proﬁtable. Obviously the car business itself is in a diﬃculty
situation in Italy. As I have been mentioning before, much bigger peers than ours have
suﬀered combined ratios of much more than 100%. We have still 99 on a gross level we
are somewhere in the region of 96-97. So we are really doing much better than the
market, also we have allowed for that number of increase in most policies.
And now we have of course the idea that ﬁrst of all the market will react or has started to
react, so we are able to sell higher prices. And secondly, we have may be, some of those
100 agencies are not good one and we have to clean them out again. But what we want to
avoid is to have a self control policy, it's really the idea of keeping the good momentum
we are in a favorable situation to pick and choose, we don't have to search urgently for
growth. So we can really now incorporate the back balance between top and bottom-line
development. So, that is more or less for the non-life business. We are not happy with the
99% combined ratio, given the actual opportunities that we have, we ﬁnd there is a good
investment because if you look at 100 agencies is more or less like acquiring a company,
which would have cost money anyhow. But here we have the possibility to react.
The other thing is life insurance, and life insurance is of course the one that you see most
predominantly on the volume side especially the life insurance that comes through the
bank which is still producing according to plan. And nevertheless we have had a slightly
lower result on the life insurance operation. Also according to the investment result which
has not been so favorable in view of in Italy and also the equity market was not so great.
So all those ingredients together brought our results down to a net 8 million which you
have seen in the segments report which is clearly below our medium-term expectation.
And therefore we don't have any problems in growing but now the emphasize is of
course to make this as proﬁtable as we wanted it to have.

Page 25 of 30



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

Q - Analyst
Can I comeback actually on that, is that possible?

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes.

Q - Analyst
Because I mean that actually what worries me because you've clearly taken lot's of new
agents. And some of them as you say and I am aware of this are forced to use as a
provider to qualify as agents. And so they are giving you the business they don't want to
give to the main provider. And so you have taken lot's and lot's in your business that's
producing worst claims because that's what it is, read this out but you probably hadn't the
so much volume. You may not have seen yet how bad it is. I mean how comfortable are
you that you've reserved for this as properly.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Yeah, I think we have a lot of experience in also making those kind of mistakes. And it
really the top point in the agenda of our Italian CEO to make sure that these businesses
are proﬁtable and they are suﬃciently reserved. In particular we have a very close look in
the ingredients of those results, for example we analyze the frequency of the claims.
Frequency of the claims of the new agents is on par with the frequency of the claims that
we have in our old books so to say which indicates is not the problem of the quality, of
that new client deal which is probably the most important point. The pricing is another
story because if you allow for a certain period, let's say for a year or two to really oﬀer at
the given price level, you do of course being in a discount and that's something that you
can calculate. And as far as I can see from now we have completely within our calculation
and we did not buy business which is bad in terms of frequency or quality but which is to
a certain degree discounted to the market level which is of course oﬀering the
opportunity to enter into those agencies in a broader sense. And we do a lot of let me say
every agency that is coming to us you see if it's big enough, its portfolio quality is
suﬃcient. And also the composition of its business is alright. And with that I think is really
something that we don't see as a major point of worry but it's a point of attention in any
case. And of course we want to see the results of these new business in the bottom-line in
the next two or three years.
Just to answer that question in talking about process we are fully aware of the risks here.
We have developed our non-life group function considerably over the last year. And we
are now monitoring on a quarterly basis for example line of business by market unit, the
price policy frequency on the average claim size. So, we are aware of this potential and
units so Italy for example we can break it down by motor, motor liability and so on and
we're merging that and taking actions accordingly.

Q - Analyst
Okay, ﬁne. That's yeah thanks.

Page 26 of 30



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

New business margin. The EBITDA margin we have no signs of disclosure. I think we got
the annual report for the relevant internet now we still have the as before Switzerland and
EU.

FINAL

Q - Analyst
Thanks so much.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Sensitivities; we -- as you said it's not a great deal. I think it's probably to do with the fact
that you got the slide package, slide 53 you will see there is a slight increase in the equity
exposure and also in the way the hedging is concerned, it's probably at that point in time.
At the end of December, there is a slight increase in and that was adjusted in hedging.
And therefore, sorry and that was just therefore on the sensitivity, but as you say it's not a
massive amount. It's still well and aﬀordable.

Q - Analyst
And the SST and target?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Yeah. That is a very good question. I'm not sure I can give you an easy answer to that,
because as also you are aware the trans relating solvency into SST is incredibly diﬃcult
and there just two very diﬃcult measures with diﬀerent volatilities. At the point in time it's
clear I think we will need to do that, we want to do that. But the moment until we have
some kind of certainty and where the SST is going to turnout and how volatile its going to
be, it's very diﬃcult to do that.

Q - Analyst
But I appreciate it's a diﬃcult question so I asked it. On more of the due that are you
comfortable with if you were down at a 175% than your minimum target, you would still
pass the SST?

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Analyst
Thank you.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

For the time being there's also lack of visibility there somewhere the market is and of
course until we are also seeing what is a unusual point of reference and something that
we feel comfortable with. And also incorporating the volatility that measure is going to
produce it must be pretty mature to say at what percentage points that will be. But of
Page 27 of 30



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

course we are all in the all Solvency 1 target maybe outdated in a year two but for the time
being its really the best that we have.

FINAL

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

I would say, it's diﬃcult to tell because how do you look at it do I reduce Solvency 1 by
leasing the liability side or the charge all available equity. You cannot translate it. But I
think generally, if you get that it would down below where we are at the moment
somewhere above 175 I think we should be okay on the SST at good level.

Q - Analyst
Thank you very much. And that's all for me.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Thank you. Another question in the line and there should be one more.

Operator
And ﬁnal for today is from Mr. Peter Eliot, Berenberg Bank. Please go ahead, sir.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Hi, thanks a lot. Just a couple actually on margins. First of all on the non-life margin I know
the spread net in the gross ratio was the feature of the ﬁrst half results. But I know just the
second half which was basically in line with the ﬁrst half. I just want clariﬁcation whether
we should consider that's an ongoing level? And secondly on the life margin, I appreciate
what you said for the life was touched on rates just generally given the competitor actions
recently could you talk very brieﬂy about the sort of outlook and for most potential
interest rate and et cetra but ﬁrst just give what you're saying in capacity --? Thanks.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you for those questions. I would like to start with a non-life spread between
the gross and the net result which is very much in favor of reinsurers this year, because the
spread is almost 5% which has started already in the ﬁrst half and our reaction was well
that is really very unusual. And we had expecting the net result at least to a certain degree
in the next six months. But it didn't happen which is as we said before is a very unusual. If
you look at the in the long-term in 10 or 20 years perspective a 5% result loss in only favor
of the reinsurer is really a rare event. We do not see that we did something wrong here
because it's really the catching of the claims. We had several for example in Germany the
is would have had reinsurance protection above €8 million was something like 7.5 or so.
So it's really exactly at the bottom and we have had also obviously in other market plus an
excellent gross combined ratio in Switzerland well of course through the proportion of
treaties, there is always something to earn.
So, that combination was the reason behind this result. Personally we are more happy, if
we have an excellent underlying combined ratio of less than 90, and passing something
away instead of the other way around and even bringing rubbish reason for someone else
Page 28 of 30



Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

FINAL

should take. So, that is not an immediate point of worry. As, we go ahead in the future, we
do not expect this 5% side or to be repeated in this year. So, our longer-term experience
is somewhere between 2%, 2.5 maybe 3, to the favor of the reinsurer but not 5. So, we are
not budgeting this number internally for this new year. With regard to life crediting, I'm
not sure if I got really all the details of your answer maybe was my lack of native speaking,
Paul if you?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Yeah.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

The aspect to that question.

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

Pete your question is what is the margin line to be given the pressures on crediting and
insurers higher interest rates given the low interest rate environment, is that it?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Yes essentially I mean I guess I was just looking for a sort of guidance or your view where
March to go and particularly describe the assumption change of the one-oﬀ but I am not
expecting that to be reversed out next year. And yes secondly, I was coming from the
competitive angle, in terms of current trading ratios is one action that we've seen. And
we've seen margins go up to some of your peers, and I just really was wondering your
views on the outlook for margins in general?

A - Paul Norton

{BIO 16145125 <GO>}

I think on just on the new business volumes, clearly it's one-oﬀ. The margins from the
interest rate result have not really changed, but that's not an issue in the new business
margin. So, major issue this decision to increase the solvency costs. And so on like-for-like
basis, the margins were not a problem. So going forward, I guess that's a commercial
issue maybe Philipp you considering that just pressures on margins, crediting to policy
holders.

A - Philipp Gmür
Finally we have to compare with the market and there is not . The reason why we
highlighted there on page 13 in your presentation, it's really also to make clear that the
new business that we are writing is coming in of course at much lower and guaranteed
interest rates which are 175 in Switzerland they are going to be lower. And they're also
going to be 175 for many European markets like the German one by the end of this year.
So the overall guarantee note that we have to carry is diluting down and it's more or less
in the same pace as our direct yield is developing. And I think it's really important to see
this, the recent eﬀect of an ongoing portfolio which is unwinding is listing guarantees
against existing bonds on the asset side and replacing them with new business which is of
course made to ﬁt into the low interest rate environment that we have. And that the same
situation is also happening in our European subsidiaries. So in the end the proﬁt margin
Page 29 of 30



FINAL

Company Name: Helvetia Holding AG
Company Ticker: HELN SW Equity
Date: 2011-03-10

in between which is left to allocation decisions between policy and shareholders is more
or less stable. And for this which we are not worried at all, the margin on the new business
is a problem, and we are also not worrying that even in a sustained, low interest rate
environment. We could come into any problem in serving our back foot guarantees,
because we are fairly matched on this topic. For the new business mix in any case, we are
enhancing the less capital intensive products. So the unit link, or individual guarantee
product and the oﬀ balance products in our second business in Switzerland. So we do
actively also mange of course our new business trend. But it's not necessary to do this on
the back of our existing customers. We think there are other majors to take.

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Okay. Well thanks a lot.

A - Stefan Loacker

{BIO 15157193 <GO>}

Alright. Thank you very much. And with this we could answer all the questions that came
through the telephone and there are also seem to be at least no public questions in the
room. We are of course available for individual discussions from now on. Please let me
say thank you very much for your interest and hope to see you in six months when we
have update on our semester results. Thank you very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, the conference is now over. Thank you for choosing the Chorus
Call facility. And thank you for participating in the conference. You may now disconnect
your lines. Good bye.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 30 of 30

