Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

Annual General Meeting
Company Participants
FINAL

Belinda Hutchinson AM, Chairman
Charles Irby, Independent Non-Executive Director
Corporate Participant
Frank O'Halloran, Chief Executive Officer

Other Participants
Analyst

Presentation
Belinda Hutchinson AM
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to QBE's 2011 AGM.

Bloomberg Transcript

For those of you I haven't met, I am Belinda Hutchinson. And I am pleased to welcome you
in this my first year as Chairman. It is indeed an honour to chair your company, especially in
this our 125th year. Yes, it is 125 years since QBE began business in North Queensland.
I confirm that the initial part of this meeting is being webcast live. There being a quorum
present, I declare the meeting open.
I would like to start by offering a special welcome to many of our QBE friends, past
employees and particularly the former Chairman, Mr. Cloney and Mr. Burns.
I would also like to welcome a number of our previous directors, Chris Abbott, Charles
Copeman, Charles Curran, Graham Ireland and Colin Millard.
Let me introduce my fellow Directors who are here on the podium with me. Starting on
my right, I have Duncan Boyle, Isabel Hudson, John Green, Len Bleasel, Frank O'Halloran,
Irene Lee and Charles Irby. Frank O'Halloran is, of course, our Group Chief Executive
Officer. And we have with us today our Group Corporate Counsel and Company
Secretary, Duncan Ramsay.
I would also like to take the opportunity to welcome our Group Executive, and we have
our divisional CEOs from around the world and our Group Head Office management
team and they are down in the front row. After the meeting, I invite you to ask them any
questions that you may have.

Page 1 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

Before we go on, I would like to share with you our 125th anniversary video.

FINAL

[Audio Video Presentation].
I think some of you might have recognized some faces in that video; may be a little bit
younger than they maybe are today. But I will talk more about our history later in my
address.
I would now like to start with the formal part of the meeting, and if there is no objection
the notice of meeting which has been sent for shareholders will be taken as read. The
minutes of the 2010 Annual General Meeting, being in order, were signed by me and are
tabled for the information of shareholders.
I will now move to my address, which will be followed by Frank's address, and then we will
move to the resolutions and questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

This morning my address is in two parts. In the first part, I will talk about the corporate
issues, three corporate issues, which we believe are important to shareholders. These are
an overview of the 2010 results, QBE's strong financial position and outlook and an
overview of QBE's remuneration report and executive remuneration.
In the second part of my address, I will discuss the key initiatives we believe should be
undertaken by the insurance industry and the government to address the impact of floods
on the Australian community. In conclusion, I will talk about our 125th anniversary and I have
a special announcement.
I wanted to note to shareholders that we are starting this year with a number of different
ways of doing things and, in fact, particular one I wanted to point out that we sent out as
part of the notice of meeting, the opportunity for shareholders to raise questions.
We did this because we think it's important that our shareholders are able to express their
views. Your views are important to us. We received questions from around 50
shareholders. Most of the questions related to the 2010 profit and share price
performance, remuneration issues and the impact of the floods and catastrophes on our
reinsurance and our outlook.
The Chief Executive and I have sought to respond to these questions in our addresses.
However, we are of course happy to take further questions and provide further
responses, when we put the resolutions to shareholders today.
Let me turn now to the first part of my remarks. The three corporate issues I mentioned
earlier, an overview of the 2010 results, QBE's financial position, an outlook and our
remuneration report and practices. I'll start by reviewing the 2010 results.

Page 2 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

FINAL

Before doing so, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are now reporting
in U.S. Dollars, and that's throughout the Chief Executive's address and my address, we
will be referring to U.S. dollars unless we specifically advise otherwise.
Let me explain why. We adopted to U.S. currency as our presentation currency to provide
a more meaningful picture of the Group's reported earnings. With QBE's operations
spanning 49 countries around the world, 75% of gross written premium is derived in
currencies other than the Australian dollar and around 55% is derived in U.S. dollars.
Over the past two years, there has been substantial volatility in the foreign exchange
markets, especially in the movement of the Australian dollar against the U.S. Dollar, the UK
Pound and the Euro. These movements have highlighted the difficulty of assessing QBE's
financial results, when they are presented in Australian dollars. This reporting currency
change has been well received generally, having removed much of the confusion around
the Group's result and outlook due to foreign country translation issues.
It is important to note that QBE's shares continue to be priced in Australian dollars on the
Australian Securities Exchange and all dividends are paid in Australian dollars.

Bloomberg Transcript

2010 was, without doubt, a challenging year for the entire insurance industry globally. We
faced soft pricing conditions in most markets; a high frequency of catastrophes, and
continued low interest yields on most of our cash and fixed interest investments due to
the difficult economic conditions in the USA and in Europe.
In February, QBE reported its 2010 results with an increase in underlying... underwriting
profit, up 19% to $1.7 billion... $1.17 billion, up from $981 million the year before.
The Group's diversified global portfolios, strict underwriting discipline and focus on
profitability enabled delivery of a strong combined operating ratio of 89.7%,
outperforming the vast majority of our global competitors.
QBE's net profit after tax was $1.28 billion, which was down 17% on the previous year. The
reduced profit mainly reflects the lower investment yields, an unusually high number of
catastrophes in 2010 and the one-off gains in 2009.
And I think the slide 14 shows some of those issues quite clearly in a numerical sense.
One of the key reasons for the decrease in net profit was due to lower investment
income.
And I'd like now to talk about our investment income. QBE manages around $26 billion in
investment assets. We maintain a conservative strategy of investing in high quality
securities, mostly cash and fixed interest, with an average duration of around six months.

Page 3 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

FINAL

One of the questions which was raised by shareholders is why does QBE not hold
investments in Australian dollars to take advantage of the comparatively high interest rate
yields here.
We would like to. However, with significant operations in the U.S., the UK and Europe,
regulators in these jurisdictions require QBE to match its policyholder obligations in each
country with assets in those currencies. As a result, 33% of our investments must be held
in U.S. dollars, 15% in sterling, and 35% in Australian dollars.
Unlike the AAA cash yield in Australia which was an average of 4.4% in 2010, the cash yield
in the U.S. was around 0.3% and in the UK 0.5%. Overall, the 2010 gross yield on QBE's
investments was just 2.9%, which was 1.6 percentage points lower than in 2009. This, of
course, had a negative impact on QBE's profitability.
As I mentioned, the investment portfolio is held in highly-rated liquid securities, and it is
pleasing to note that our conservative strategy has been rewarded with no write-offs in
any of our fixed interest securities. And this was during the turbulent period of the global
financial crisis, and this record stands to this day.

Bloomberg Transcript

The lower investment income has in turn reduced the overall return on average
shareholders' funds, which was 13.1%, compared with 18% last year, while basic earnings
per share reduced from 152 cents per share last year to 123 cents this year, as a result,
again, of the lower net profit after tax.
In light of the strong underlying performance of the Group and the directors' confidence
in the future, the directors declared a final dividend of A$0.66 per share. The total
dividend for the year was unchanged from last year at A$0.128 per share, with a total
dividend payout for the year of A$1.34 billion, up 2%.
I note that QBE is one of the few companies in the global financial sector which has
maintained or increased its dividend payout ratio and its dividend over the last three
years.
QBE's financial position and outlook is the second matter I would like to... I'm sorry, I just
moved on just too quickly. Let me move back to the dividend.
The dividend will be franked at the rate of 10%. This lower franking rate is expected to
continue for 2011 given the substantial income from our offshore operations. Our dividend
reinvestment plan was well supported with an average 43% reinvestment rate for 2010,
and that includes the interim and final dividend.
Despite the Group's underwriting... strong growth in revenue and underwriting profit, it
has been a disappointing year in terms of QBE's share price performance. In 2010,
including reinvestment of dividends, the return on QBE shares fell by 24% and
underperformed the Australian equity markets. While disappointing, this is consistent with
the lower investment income and increased catastrophes. It is in the context of a halving
Page 4 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

of average interest rates since 2008 and an appreciation of the Australian dollar against
the U.S. dollar of 14% in 2010 and 28% in 2009.

FINAL

While these external factors did not work in our favour recently, I want to emphasise that
QBE is well positioned to benefit when conditions, particularly the interest rate cycle,
return to more normal levels.
During this difficult period, we have outperformed most of our global competitors, and
we see no reason why our strong relative performance will not continue. Importantly, over
the longer term, QBE shares have outperformed the Australian All Ordinaries
Accumulation Index with a compound annual average growth rate of 11% over 10 years
and 16% over 20 years. And I think the graph above me shows this well.
I would like to assure all shareholders, both large and small, that your directors and
management are strongly focused on the issue of share price performance. We want
what you want, and we have a talented and committed management team who are
keenly focused on delivering strong and consistent results.
QBE's financial position and outlook is the second matter that I propose to address today.

Bloomberg Transcript

QBE's capital management strategy is carefully designed to maintain optimum levels of
capital to meet the requirements of policyholders, business counterparties, regulatory
authorities and rating agencies while at the same time ensuring that returns to
shareholders are maximised.
At year end, QBE had more than $2.2 billion of capital in excess of the regulatory minimum
requirement. QBE's regulatory capital is above the corporate target of at least 1.5 times
the minimum amount of capital we are required by our Australian regulator, APRA. QBE's
capital is also more than adequate to maintain our ratings at their current levels.
The current dividend is being underwritten, and once this is completed, our capital
multiple is expected to exceed 1.6 times the minimum APRA requirement.
Our total borrowings at the end of 2010 were $3.2 billion, up from $2.7 billion at the
beginning of the year. The ratio of borrowings to shareholders' equity was 32% compared
with 29% last year. The increase in borrowings was due to new debt raised to repay
maturing hybrid debt and eurobonds and to fund acquisitions. This refinancing has,
pleasingly, also enabled the Group to lock into more favourable terms with a lower
weighted average annual cost of borrowings of 5.3% compared with 6.8% previously.
Around 74% of our borrowings are repayable between 1 and 5 years. The mix of
borrowings provides us with flexibility for future funding options.
In particular, we estimate we can raise up to $1.2 billion in additional debt to support future
growth and acquisitions without impacting our ratings.

Page 5 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

In summary, the quality and extent of QBE's financial strength is such that the Group is well
placed to pursue opportunities likely to emerge from the current global economic
conditions, as investment markets improve.

FINAL

Let me turn now to the outlook for 2011.
We have completed the first quarter and I am pleased to report that despite the increase
in catastrophe claims to date, our targeted full year insurance margin remains in the range
of 15 to 18%. Our targeted growth in premium income from acquisitions announced to
date should see insurance profit, before tax, grow by at least 30% in 2011.
Our targets are, of course, subject to the usual caveats, for example, large individual at
risk and catastrophe claims not exceeding the significant allowance already in our
business plans, no material adverse change movement in our exchange rates, no major
fall in equity markets or changes in interest rates and no material changes to the key
inflation and economic growth forecasts we have.

Bloomberg Transcript

Based on our outlook, we anticipate at least maintaining our dividend in 2011. We also
remain confident about our medium and long-term outlook, particularly from the
expected rise in interest rates.
As I mentioned at the start of this address, the third corporate issue I would like to discuss
is QBE's remuneration report and executive remuneration. This is important because a
number of the resolutions before shareholders today relate to these issues. And, of
course, we have received several questions from our shareholders about these matters.
We responded to shareholders' feedback on our previous Remuneration Reports and
have restructured the format and content of the 2010 report to explain more simply
QBE's philosophy, strategy and structure of remuneration. And we've had some very
positive feedback about this restructured report.
The Group operates in a competitive global environment and, it was one of the top 20
general insurers in the world, we need to pay competitively in order to be able to attract,
motivate and retain the quality employees we have in each of the locations in which we
operate.
We recognise that with the decrease in QBE's share price last year, some shareholders
are concerned about QBE's executive remuneration in 2010. The Remuneration
Committee is very focused on the alignment of annual incentive awards with the creation
of shareholder wealth, both in the short and the long term.
Using the seven-year spread basis of accounting, the return on opening allocated capital,
or ROE, for remuneration was down from 20.2% to 15.9%. This substantially reduced the
short-term and long-term incentives payable to our Group employees. And let me give
you an example.

Page 6 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

FINAL

In 2010, as I mentioned, QBE's shareholders' wealth fell by 24% after reflecting dividends.
By contrast, there was a 60% decrease in the short-term cash incentive paid to the Chief
Executive and a 21% decrease in his total remuneration. We believe this shows good
alignment of executive and shareholder interests and appropriate remuneration policy
and practices.
It is important to note our minimum return on equity criteria for remuneration purposes
are far more stringent than most of our peers, who commence payment of incentives at
much lower targets, with many achieving maximum incentives at our starting point.
To give some context, shareholders may be interested to know that the weighted
average return on shareholders' funds over the past five years for the top 50 global
insurers and reinsurers which have reported to date was around 8% compared with QBE's
average over the five years of 20%.
The success of our strategy, we believe, is best demonstrated by the extremely low
turnover of our senior people.

Bloomberg Transcript

I will now move on to an important matter for all of us.
A number of catastrophic events have occurred in the first few months of 2011. These
include the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, the earthquake in Christchurch and the
various Australian storms and floods, all resulting in a tragic loss of life and significant
damage to property. We acknowledge the enormous suffering and hardship of our
policyholders and all those affected by these events. Frank O'Halloran will discuss the
impact of these events on QBE.
Acknowledging the hardship suffered by so many, I would also like to raise with
shareholders our concerns about issues that flooding presents to the insurance industry,
to government and indeed to all of us. There is action required, action we believe is well
overdue. The insurance industry has responded quickly to the floods in Queensland, New
South Wales and Victoria, as it did with the bushfires in Victoria and the Perth storms and
Melbourne storms last year.
Shareholders may be interested to know that the insurance industry as a whole has
approved payment of A$2.3 billion to date in relation to these recent weather events in
Australia. QBE has received claims of A$350 million and we have accepted over 93% of
these claims for payments. Nevertheless, the industry has faced criticisms about claims
assessments.
These floods have highlighted a large and longer-standing issue with claims relating to
storm and flood damage. Over many years and long before the recent weather events,
the insurance industry in Australia had made consistent requests to all levels of
government to develop proper flood mapping as is common practice in most developed
countries around the world.

Page 7 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

FINAL

Without proper flood mapping, property development has been allowed in flood-prone
areas. It means that many people are unable to obtain flood insurance. For some, the cost
of their insurance is unnecessarily high because of the uncertainty of their flood exposure.
For others, the existence of different definitions relating to storm and flood cover has
caused confusion and distress. For insurers and reinsurers, this uncertainty affects their
ability and appetite to accept the risk of providing flood coverage in Australia.
QBE and the industry would like to see governments in Australia follow the UK lead,
where the British Government has invested heavily in the development of sophisticated
flood mapping and flood mitigation. The issues highlighted by the floods will not be
resolved unless proper flood mapping is completed, and until governments consider
flood mitigation and impose stricter controls around the building and rebuilding of homes
and businesses in flood prone areas. As I said before, this is in everyone's interest.
QBE supports the Insurance Council of Australia 10-point plan and the National Disaster
Insurance Review in relation to recent Australian floods. A key recommendation relates to
standard wording regarding flood insurance policies.
The industry in the past had approached relevant government agencies to allow a
standard definition for all industry participants. However, this was determined to be
anticompetitive. We are hopeful that governments will now legislate the requirement for a
simple and standard definition of flood in all policies.

Bloomberg Transcript

Having reviewed this important issue facing your company, I will now turn to QBE's 125th
anniversary which marks a major milestone in QBE's history.
This is a substantial achievement because insurance is about managing risk, and this
longevity demonstrates that QBE has managed its risks well when many of its competitors
along the way have not and have not survived.
In October, QBE will celebrate 125 years since its founding in North Queensland by James
Burns and Robert Philp, two young Scotsmen who started out insuring trade between
Australia and the Pacific Islands. QBE has certainly come a long way as I said before, and
now operating in 49 countries around the world.
We are delighted to have with us today David Burns, a previous Chairman and the great,
great grandson of James Burns, one of the founders. I would also like to recognise our
former Chairman and Chief Executive, John Cloney, who is now a part of this history of
QBE having played such an important role in the growth of this company over the past 29
years.
I encourage you to review the 2010 annual report, which sets out some of the key
milestones in QBE's rich history.
To mark our 125th anniversary, I am very pleased to announce the launch of the QBE
Foundation, a corporate social responsibility, which we believe will formalise QBE's long
Page 8 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

and strong record of corporate giving into a structured, Group-wide approach.

FINAL

The Foundation will be the avenue to share QBE's culture and values externally, by
supporting not-for profit organisations to achieve their goals.
I am so impressed and heartened by the involvement of many QBE employees around
the world in supporting various charities in their communities. Their support is provided
not just through personal funding and fund raising, but also in volunteering their own time.
The Foundation will enable them to achieve much more in support of such organisations.
From a shareholder perspective, this initiative is important because it enables us to better
connect with our employees in the service of communities in which we do business,
thereby strengthening our licence to operate.
The initial company contribution to the QBE Foundation will be $5 million, and going
forward the contribution will be targeted at around 0.2% of pretax profit annually. We are
delighted by the excited response from our staff around the world who see this as a
worthy opportunity to make a positive difference to those in need while supporting QBE's
future.

Bloomberg Transcript

Before I conclude, I would like to congratulate the Chief Executive Officer, Frank
O'Halloran, and his senior executive team and the QBE team around the world for their
dedication and support in producing a most commendable result for 2010 despite
depressed economic conditions in our key overseas markets.
In addition, I would like to thank my fellow directors for their continued support and
commitment to their supervisory tasks and to their personal support to me in my first year
as your Chairman.
Following the formal proceedings, I look forward to sharing with you the birthday cake we
have arranged to celebrate our 125th anniversary and also to talk to you about QBE.
I would now like to hand over to Frank O'Halloran to present his report on the Group
operations and outlook for 2011.

Frank O'Halloran
Ladies and gentlemen, as the Chairman has already mentioned, 2010 was another strong
year for growth in premium income and underwriting profits, but disappointing in terms of
lower yields on our investments and our net profit after tax.
The technical underwriting results were again excellent and 2010 was the sixth year in
succession that we produced a combined operating ratio of less than 90%. We again
outperformed the substantial majority of our peers in terms of underwriting profitability
and return on equity.

Page 9 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

We are now in the top 20 largest general insurance companies in the world as measured
by net earned premium but, most importantly, in the top five in terms of profitability.

FINAL

The lower investment yields prevailing during 2010, together with the one-off gains in
2009 from cessation of hedging our shareholders' funds and the repurchase of debt,
resulted in net investment income being down by 43% and this meant that net profit after
tax was also down by 17%.
We are in the business of insurance. It is therefore appropriate that I highlight the quality
of our insurance results.
Gross written premium was up 21% to $13.6 billion. Net earned premium was up 20% to
$11.4 billion. The combined operating ratio, that is the ratio of claims, commissions and
expenses to net earned premium, was an excellent 89.7% given the market conditions,
and a $269 million increase in large individual risk and catastrophe claims.

Bloomberg Transcript

Underwriting profit was up 19% to $1.17 billion. Insurance profit was up 6% to $1.70 billion.
The ratio of insurance profit to net earned premium fell from 17.0% to 15.0% from the
lower investment yields. And the majority of countries in which we operate and the
products that we write, produced underwriting profits that exceeded our minimum return
on equity requirements of 15%. Direct property and homeowners insurance were the
notable exceptions.
Gross written premium and net earned premium were slightly ahead of our targets. The
combined operating ratio was higher than our target due to the increase in large
individual risk and catastrophe claims and the insurance profit margin was below our
target range due to the lower interest yields.
QBE's gross written premium income has grown by 90% or a compound average 14% per
annum in the past five years. At the same time, underwriting profit has grown by 90%.
The large majority of our growth in premium income and profit has come from some 48
acquisitions in those five years, including seven in 2010.
Organic growth continues to be low due to inadequate pricing for new business in many
of the markets in which we operate, particularly in the U.S. and Europe. Our detailed
analysis shows that organic growth in times when new business pricing is less than
renewal pricing is a recipe for poor profitability.
In the past three years, we have acquired a number of specialist underwriting agencies in
Australia, the U.S. and Europe to secure distribution channels and to improve our
diversification. The acquisition of the cost of these underwriting agencies was $1.6 billion
and pretax return on investment was 16% in 2010. This return does not include the
significant insurance profit that we made on the $2 billion of premium income generated
by these wholly-owned agencies.
2010 was a busy year for acquisitions, including the following.
Page 10 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

FINAL

NAU Country, the third largest multi peril crop insurer in the US. CNA Argentina, a workers'
comp insurer to complement our existing profitable business. Secura NV, a Belgian based
specialist reinsurer concentrating on small to medium insurers throughout Europe. The
U.S. operations of Renaissance Re, a multi peril crop insurer and specialist programme
business.
Colonial Seguros, the number one insurer in Ecuador. Seattle Speciality, to complement
our successful Sterling National acquisition in late 2008 in the U.S. And RGM Agency, to
lock in our significant market share in motor personal accident insurance in Colombia and
Ecuador.
I am pleased to say that the 2009 and 2010 acquisitions have all produced insurance
profits before tax better than expected.
The 2010 acquisitions, together with the two acquisitions announced in 2011 to date, are
expected to add close to $3.4 billion of additional annualised gross written premium. In
addition to the acquisitions, we have also announced a unique worldwide reinsurance
programme and several transformational projects in the UK and the U.S.
We expect that the recent acquisitions and the new initiatives will add close to $600
million in after tax profit in a full year.

Bloomberg Transcript

QBE's balance sheet continues to be extremely well positioned for the future as
demonstrated by the following.
Our quality investment portfolio was 98% liquid with cash and fixed interest securities at
around six months duration. QBE's physical exposure to equities was 1.1% of total
investments and cash at year end, and is now around 2%. Our over 90 days receivables
continue to be low. Our reinsurance recoveries on outstanding claims have reduced and
are primarily with highly rated reinsurers. Our total insurance liabilities are at a probability
of adequacy in excess of 95%.
Our overall claims development over the past 10 years has shown a positive release of
prior-year claims for each of these years and this is expected to continue. Our ratio of
borrowings, as mentioned by the Chairman, is a relatively low 31.5% of shareholders'
funds. And our regulatory capital adequacy is strong and this, together with our capacity
for new Tier 2 debt and expected retained profits, means that we have an ability to
further increase gross written premium in 2011 by at least $1 billion without raising
additional equity.
I will now briefly comment on the results of the major divisions and introduce you to the
heads of these substantial businesses.
Our Americas operations, which includes the business in the U.S. and five countries in Latin
America, is led by John Rumpler, President and CEO.

Page 11 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

The Americas' team completed 2010 with an excellent combined operating ratio of
89.7%. Gross written premium was up 29% to $5.17 billion and underwriting profit was up
19% to $309 million.

FINAL

For 2010, our after tax return on allocated capital using management results was 17.7%.
We have come a long way since we set up our office in New York in 1991. After years of
learning the U.S. market, we have completed a number of large acquisitions in the past
few years. Since year end, we have announced the initial 10-year distribution agreement
with the Bank of America and a portfolio transfer of liabilities with matching tangible
assets from the affiliated Balboa Insurance Group of Companies. This agreement is
subject to regulatory approval which is expected in the second quarter of this year.
We have also announced the completion of the acquisition of the U.S. crop and program
insurance business of Renaissance Re.
Our strategy for the Americas is to focus on specialist lines of business. A large
proportion of the business in the Americas is now preferred business segments with
sizable market shares, such as crop insurance, lender placed homeowners' insurance,
specialist programs and selected products in Latin America.

Bloomberg Transcript

We will continue to reduce or cancel some business in segments which do not meet our
minimum return on equity hurdles.
We are targeting to further improve efficiencies to reduce the cost of claims and other
operating expenses by 3% of net earned premium by 2014.
The acquisitions made in 2009 and 2010 will assist premium growth in 2011. These,
together with the very recent increases in crop premium prices, means we are expecting
gross written premium to increase by 51% to around $7.8 billion in 2011, excluding the
$900 million portfolio transfer from Balboa Insurance.
Approximately, 10% of the Americas' gross written premium comes from our Latin
American operations which continue to produce a return on allocated capital well above
20% per annum.
Our European operations in 22 countries are led by Steven Burns, Chief Executive Officer.
The combined operating ratio was 90.5% and the return on allocated capital based on
management results was an excellent 22.4%. Our London based operations continue to
outperform the majority of our peers. Gross written premium was up 5% to $4.16 billion,
reflecting overall premium rate increases of 2% and higher customer retention.
The competition for new business and aggressive pricing means that organic growth is
difficult to achieve. The improvement in the combined operating ratio and underwriting

Page 12 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

profitability was mainly due to the actions taken on the problem portfolios of property,
aviation and trade credit. Our reinsurance, marine, energy and casualty portfolios had
another superb year.

FINAL

The recent catastrophes mean we are likely to see increases in premium rates,
particularly in marine, energy and reinsurance. We are now projecting overall premium
rate increases of 3% in Europe in 2011.
We are on track with our major transformational project in the UK to consolidate systems
and improve efficiencies. We expect to see a 2% improvement in the combined operating
ratio in 2012 from the reduction in costs of handling claims and expenses. We continue to
make further changes on some of our property portfolios to improve underwriting
profitability.
The acquisition of Secura in late 2010 will benefit premium income in 2011. We expect
gross written premium to grow by a modest 4% to £2.8 billion and profit margins to
remain strong, subject, of course, to large individual risk and catastrophe claims not
exceeding the significant allowances in our business plans.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our Australia Asia Pacific operations is led by Vince McLenaghan, Chief Executive Officer.
Australian operations had another strong performance despite the higher frequency of
catastrophes. The division completed 2010 with another superb combined operating ratio
of 89.2%, and a return on allocated capital based on management results of 19.3%. No
other major insurer in Australia has had a more consistent performance over the past
seven years.
Gross written premium in Australian operations was up 36% to $3.71 billion, and up 15% in
Australian dollars. The growth was assisted by the Elders acquisition, new distribution
channels and overall premium rate increases of around 5%.
Our claims staff have worked long hours to handle the significant increase in claim
numbers from the various catastrophes. Our analysis shows that our response to
promptly handling valid claims from the many disasters has exceeded that of our peers.
The recent events in Queensland and Victoria have placed further pressure on our staff. It
has been made more difficult due to the need to enforce our exclusions in areas where
successive governments have allowed properties to be developed in known flood prone
areas.
The acquisition of the Australian operations of CUNA Mutual on 1st April 2011 and
expected premium rate increases of 5% are likely to result in 9% growth in gross written
premium to around A$4.4 billion in 2011.
Asia Pacific operations has businesses in 17 countries under the leadership of Michael
Goodwin, Chief Executive Officer.
Page 13 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

FINAL

The Asia Pacific operations produced an outstanding combined operating ratio of 86%...
86.7% despite the devastating Christchurch earthquake in September 2010. The return on
allocated capital based on management results was 25.2%.
Gross written premium was up 9% to $600 million, with most countries achieving
increases over last year in local currency. The substantial majority of our businesses
produced excellent underwriting results. Vietnam and Thailand were impacted by large
individual risk claims.
Gross written premium is expected to increase by 11% to $700 million in 2011. Growth will
mainly come from our successful initiatives to build strong relationships with large
international brokers.
Many of our overseas managers from the Asia Pacific are here today. So I encourage you
to meet with them afterwards, and they can tell you the story about our success in that
part of the world.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our captive reinsurer, Equator Reinsurances, is led by Des Fogarty, President. Des turns
50 today.
Equator Re provides reinsurance protections for QBE subsidiaries around the world to
assist in the management of the Group's capital, balance sheet and net exposure to large
individual risk and catastrophe claims. It provides reinsurance protections to the divisions
below the retentions deemed appropriate for the Group. Equator Re's aggregate
exposures are managed within the Group's tolerance for risk.
Gross written premium was 2.84... $2.48 billion in 2010 and the combined operating ratio
increased to 90.1% due to the higher frequency of catastrophe claims. The unique
worldwide reinsurance protections announced in early February 2011 and recent
acquisitions will mean that the amount of business written by Equator Re will increase in
2011.
Our Investment division is led by Gary Brader, Group Chief Investment officer. Gary and his
team are responsible for the management of the Group's investment portfolio which is
currently around $26 billion held in over 250 portfolios in 49 countries and in numerous
currencies.
As mentioned by the Chairman, we need to match our currency liabilities with investments
in the same currency to avoid significant exposures to foreign exchange and to comply
with local regulations. This means that over 60% of our investments are held in
comparatively low yielding U.S. dollar, sterling and euro investments.
2010 was an extremely challenging year for the Group investment team. In order to
manage our exposure to unrealised losses in the profit and loss account and balance
sheet, we maintained a short duration strategy and a focus on quality cash and fixed

Page 14 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

interest investments. This strategy enabled us to avoid impairment on any one of our
securities on a mark-to-market basis during the global financial crisis.

FINAL

Unlike the position in 2009, we were not able to obtain any material pick up on credit
spreads during the year, and this resulted in the gross yield on cash and fixed interest
securities reducing from 3.8% to 2.5%.
Net investment income, before the one-off gains achieved in 2009, was 28% lower than
last year. We increased our exposure to quality corporate paper from 35% of total
investments and cash to close to 60% with extended maturity, however, retaining our
short duration strategy. The increased exposure is mainly floating rate notes in AA rated
banks. We expect this and other initiatives will improve the gross investment yield in 2011
to between 3.3% and 3.5%.
The substantial increase in capital charges to around 40% for holding equities imposed by
rating agencies and proposed by APRA means that it is not realistic to hold significant
equity exposures going forward. The equity portfolio is currently 2% of total investments
and cash and this is not likely to increase to more than 2.5% in 2011.

Bloomberg Transcript

I will now briefly summarise our expectations for the current year.
QBE's businesses and balance sheet are in great shape with excess capital and expected
retained profits to enable premium income to grow by more than 10% per annum going
forward. The majority of products and businesses around the world are exceeding our
15% minimum return on allocated capital.
Action plans, including cancellation of some business, are in place for portfolios that did
not meet this requirement in 2010. This includes direct property and homeowners'
insurance in some areas where the risk for reward is not viable. After reviewing recent
acquisitions and foreign exchange rates, our revised target for 2011 is for a minimum 30%
growth in net earned premium. Our target is based on a cumulative average foreign
exchange rate of A$1 equals US$0.98 and regulatory approvals for recent acquisitions.
Our projections do not include any allowance for any further acquisitions that may be
made in the remainder of this year and any increase in overall premium rates above the
2% included in our annual report, as a result of recent catastrophes particularly for our
inwards reinsurance, property, marine and energy products.
Our growth in net earned premium has been assisted by the unique worldwide
reinsurance protections that we negotiated late last year. These protections have
reduced the overall spend on reinsurance by around $300 million but, most importantly, it
has provided greater protection for a frequency of catastrophes and large individual risk
claims, as well as comprehensive clash and contagion cover from an event or a large
individual risk loss impacting various classes of business.

Page 15 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

FINAL

Approximately 80% of the worldwide protections and the pricing have been locked in for
the next three years. Our target for the full year 2011 is a combined operating ratio of 87%
to 90%. The upper range includes an allowance of 9% of net earned premium or $1.35
billion for large individual risk and catastrophe claims which are defined as claims of $2.5
million or above.
We also have aggregate reinsurance protections in place for $350 million above this
significant allowance. Our target combined operating ratio is subject to large individual risk
and catastrophe claims not exceeding these substantial allowances. Large individual risk
and catastrophe claims to date are approximately $650 million or 4.3% of targeted fullyear net earned premium compared with $390 million or 3.4% of full-year net earned
premium for the same period last year.
Our target for 2011 insurance profit margin is 15 to 18% of net earned premium. This
target assumes that gross investment yields will be around 3.3 to 3.5% on policyholders'
funds and that $1.40 of investments are held for each dollar of net earned premium.
Our target of 3.3% to 3.5% yield compares with an average 2010 yield of 1.9% on our total
investment portfolio if invested in AAA cash. We are currently on target to achieve the
higher yield which is an important driver of the insurance profit margin.

Bloomberg Transcript

As the significant growth in net earned premium has already been locked in for this year,
we expect insurance profit to increase by more than 30% when compared with 2010. This
increase is subject to the usual caveats mentioned by the Chairman.
The recent acquisitions will mean a greater weighting of premium income and profit to
the second half of 2011 compared with the first half.
Longer term, shareholders should be aware of the strong positive effect of the inevitable
interest rate rises on our profitability and the probability of adequacy of insurance
liabilities. To put this into perspective, based on the currency mix of our investment
portfolio, the weighted average AAA cash rate at 31 December 2010 was 1.9% compared
with 4.8% at the end of 2007.
A 1% increase in interest rates for a full year would increase our insurance profit margin by
around 2.8%, our profit after tax by around $280 million and our probability of adequacy
of outstanding claims by around 3.6%. This assumes that approximately 40% of the
increase in discount rates is booked to profits and 60% to risk margins in outstanding
claims, consistent with our past practice.
QBE is now in the top 20 of insurance and reinsurance businesses around the world as
measured by net earned premium. However, our prime objective remains to stay in the
top five in terms of underwriting profitability and return on equity.
We have a strong culture of leadership, business acumen and integrity supported by our
successful in-house development programme, OPENUP QBE, which we introduced in 1995
Page 16 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

FINAL

and which is regularly updated.
We continue to have a low turnover of senior management and technical staff. Our
incentive rewards are directly related to return on allocated capital and our incentives, as
the Chairman mentioned, commence at a much higher starting point than the majority of
our peers. Our minimum return on equity requirement of 15% for our insurance portfolios
has not changed, even with the lower interest yields making them more difficult to
achieve.
We indicated to the market last year that 2010 was going to be a difficult year, primarily
because of the low interest yields and the rising Australian dollar. We have achieved
significant growth in underwriting profitability but of course not bottom line profitability,
which, we appreciate, means the most to management and to our shareholders.
QBE has built a worldwide business with a strong reputation for focus on outperformance.
We would not have achieved where we are today without the professional approach of
our over 14,500 staff in 49 countries. I acknowledge and thank them for their loyalty and
contribution to the success of QBE.

Bloomberg Transcript

I appreciate the enormous support I have received from the non-executive directors
during the past year. The annual report details the number of meetings they attend each
year but it does not disclose the significant amount of time that they make for the QBE
team and me in particular to deal with the many requests.
We have a very small but efficient Group head office team. I would like to acknowledge
the enormous contribution of this team, namely, John Neal, CEO Global Underwriting
Operations; Neil Drabsch, Chief Financial Officer; Duncan Ramsay, General Counsel and
Company Secretary; George Thwaites, Group Chief Risk Officer; Blair Nicholls, Group
Chief Actuarial Officer; Jenni Smith, Group General Manager and Human Resources -Group General Manager, Human Resources, sorry Jenni; and Terry Ibbotson, Global Head
of Distribution.
It is with great pride that I stand here in front of you today as we approach the 125th year
of QBE's history. Our history is remarkable. It has been one of strong leadership, business
acumen, utmost integrity and continuous growth in premium income and insurance profits
through increased product diversification and geographic spread.
I look forward to working with the current QBE team and the Board to continue this great
history going forward.
Thank you.

Belinda Hutchinson AM
Thank you, Frank, for your remarks. I will now move to the resolutions of the meeting and I
would like to start by telling you what proxies we have received.
Page 17 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

FINAL

I wish to advise the meeting that 6,390 valid proxy forms for more than 581 million
ordinary shares have been received; that's after over a billion shares that we have on
issue. Details of how the proxy votes have been cast in relation to the proposed
resolutions are set out on the screen above me now.
We now have five items of business to deal with. I need to advise you that the live
segment of the webcast will cease shortly. The remainder of the meeting will be recorded
and the audio file should be available on QBE's website later today.
Shareholders are entitled to ask questions and vote. And those who have the yellow card
that are able to do so. In order to assist me, I request that you clearly display this card
when either speaking or voting on a resolution.

Bloomberg Transcript

Other attendees have a blue, green or red card. A blue card means you are a visitor and
unfortunately you cannot ask a question or vote on a resolution. A green card means you
are from the media and again you cannot vote on a resolution or ask a question at this
point. There will be time afterwards. And we have a red card which means you are a joint
shareholder who has already lodged your proxy, that is, you have already voted and you
can speak to a resolution, however you cannot vote again.
During the question time, I would ask shareholders to kindly use the microphones that are
strategically placed throughout the auditorium. We have one, two, three and four. In terms
of your -- when you want to ask a question, please show your yellow or red voting card
and give your name and any organization that you represent. And we have a microphone
attendant who will then introduce you to the meeting. I'll nominate the microphone from
which I will next take a question.
So let's move to the first item on the agenda and that is the resolution to receive and
consider the financial statements. I propose that the meeting received the financial
reports and the reports of the directors and auditors for the year ended 31 December
2010.
All those in favour, please raise your yellow voting card. Thank you. Any against? Thank
you ladies and gentlemen, I declare that resolution carried.
In accordance with the Corporation Act, I will allow reasonable opportunity for
shareholders, as a whole, to ask questions about or comment on the management of the
company. In accordance with the Corporations Act, I will also allow a reasonable
opportunity for shareholders to ask questions of the auditors who are present at the
meeting.
We have Kim Smith, our audit partner here with us today. And we can ask him any
questions on the conduct of the audit, the preparation and the content of the Auditor's
Report, the accounting practices adopted in the financial statements and the
independence of the auditor. I invite any questions from shareholders on the accounts
and reports only.

Page 18 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

In fairness to all shareholders, could I ask that you restrict yourselves to one or two
questions at any one time. Today is an opportunity for every shareholder to have their say.
I would now like to open the meeting for questions. Mr. Cook, I think...

FINAL

Questions And Answers
A - Corporate Participant
I would like to introduce Mr. Cook.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Thank you and welcome Mr. Cook.

Q - Analyst
[Question Inaudible].

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Is that your question Mr. Cook?

Q - Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes asking for your comment, are you prepared to investigate and get the metric on that
--.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Mr. Cook, what we're doing there is we're reporting on the key executives as we're
required to do under the statutory reporting and as set out by the government. And if you
look at those numbers, the 1% increase is what the increase is for those key management
personnel.
I've been through the numbers in terms of the Group Executive and all of them have
reflected the decrease in the return on equity that was achieved this year. So I think the 1%
is actually correct. And we will be prepared to talk to you about the 3%. However, in terms
of statutory reporting, we think 1% is correct.

Q - Analyst
[Question Inaudible].

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Are you talking about our holding on with equities, Mr. Cook or...

Q - Analyst
[Question Inaudible].

Page 19 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM

FINAL

Yes. Yes. I need to explain to shareholders that we have capital charges in terms of our
investment portfolio. With regard to our cash and fixed income, we have a capital charge
of around 2%. However, APRA has announced that they would be imposing a capital
charge of something between 35 and 40% on equities. As a result of that, we think that
charge is way too high and we have therefore, reduced our equity holdings. Because we
just think that capital charge is beyond what we can sustain.

Q - Analyst
[Question Inaudible].

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Mr. Cook, I don't think we're in any corner at all. We have made a number of acquisitions
and yet we have goodwill and intangible on our balance sheet. That is the statutory
reporting form of accounting.

Bloomberg Transcript

What we do every year when we review the accounts is that we look at those -- that
goodwill and those intangibles for impairment, and we do a lot of careful analysis and we
have an external review of that. If you look at the cash generating capacity of the
businesses that we've acquired, there is no impairment in those intangibles. And we feel
very, very confident that those intangibles are no problem at all to the business and in fact
generate very strong cash.
When I think one of the things that Neil Drabsch says to us regularly, if you look at the
market capitalization of the company which is $18 billion and you look at our shareholders'
funds at $10 billion, I don't think you will think there is any impairment there.

Q - Analyst
I have a few more questions. [Question Inaudible].

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Yeah, that would be a good idea and we can take some another questions. Thank you. Mr.
Cook.

A - Corporate Participant
Gentlemen, I would like to introduce Mr. David Jackson, shareholder.

Q - Analyst
Good Morning, Mr. Chairman. My question is really on the broad looking at -- a broad look
at the results for QBE. Columns of the 10 year history, on page 174, I noted that in -- about
page six or seven to page 174 and 101, the shares are -- to the core operating ratio from
2007 or 2006, if you wish, has gone from 85.9 to 89.7.

Page 20 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

FINAL

So that's not a very good trend. And the other ratio which other shareholders would be
interested is in the return of shareholders' fund has gone from 26% down to 13.1%. My
question is, can we expect this trend to continue because it seems to be reflected over a
long period of time? And also I think the share market seems to be predicting not a huge
increases in the share prices going back to -- over number of years? Thank you.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Mr. Jackson first of all, just in terms of our 10 year history, it is in the back of the Annual
Report because the 2010 Annual Report is about the 2010 results. The 10 year history is
just some comparative numbers, which we provide for our shareholders. But in terms of
our results, I think Frank and I spent some considerable time explaining our performance.
And yes, our combined operating ratio has gone from 85 to 89.7% over that period of
time. But I think that reflects, as Frank and I discussed, the increase in large risks and
catastrophes, we experienced both last year and this year.

Bloomberg Transcript

And in terms of the return on average shareholders funds, I did spent quite some
considerable time talking about the investment income on our $26 billion of share and
bond investments. And I think if you look during the global financial crisis, what's
happened to interest rates, you will understand very clearly why we have had that
significant drop in investment income. We've decided to maintain a very conservative
investment strategy, we think that's appropriate for this company.
In terms of the outlook, again I think we did address that in terms of both Frank and I
pointing to the fact that as a result of the acquisitions, we're looking for strong growth in
our underwriting profit this year. Also year-to-date -- and we have seen improvement in
our investment returns. So, we are relatively confident subject to the usual caveats that
this year's performance will be better.

Q - Analyst
So we can expect the returns to improve from 2011 is what you're saying?

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
We would certainly hope so.

Q - Analyst
The question is on the global segments. It's the European segment and I'll refer to page
39, which is the historic level given in sterling. Here again, the results are very slow, they
show decline of insurance profit margin from 26% down to 14.5% and a very small
increase in net premium earned and the insurance profit declined from £398 million to
£243 million. Can we expect an improvement in this in the future, a substantial
improvement?

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Page 21 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

FINAL

We actually think our European business has actually done very well considering the
environment in which it's been operating. I think again, we need to look at the increased
catastrophes we faced last year and the year before and the interest rate environment in
which the European operations are being run.
And I think if you look at our comparative results, David, as you and I discussed, you raised
a waiver with us. And we view these results over a five-year period were half of what
QBE's results were.
And I think if I look at our results in terms of our insurance margin, yes, it was down. But
still it is well ahead of most of our competitors in the London and Lloyd's markets. So we
are actually quite comfortable with our European business. Yes, we are looking into
various portfolios to see where we can improve and Frank did mentioned some of those.
However, overall, we're very, very comfortable with the European business.

Q - Analyst
On the question on the waiver, I think if you look at the trend, at least the trend is going
up whereas the QBE trend is consistently going down in the figures of --, and that's what
the big markets -- can we see an uptick?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
I think that we need to point out that the returns that we got five years ago in Europe
were absolutely exceptional. We had some very substantial releases from some of our
businesses from prior year reserves. And those were absolutely stellar results, which
eclipsed everybody in the market. So, I just think it's now we're now to a more normal
level.

Q - Analyst
Thanks.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Thank you.

A - Corporate Participant
Dear Chairman, I have Richard Wilkins.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Good morning.

Q - Analyst
Good morning. I've got a number of questions, perhaps I could raise two to start with.
First of all, I'd like to thank you and compliment you for inviting questions from
shareholders. That's a very welcome initiative and I hope you'll continue to do that in
Page 22 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

future years despite perhaps getting only 50 this time, one would hope them to be more
in future.

FINAL

And also as Mr. Cook said, thank you for writing an extremely informative first section of
the annual report. If we had to rely only on the statutory figures, it would probably be
incomprehensible as most insurance companies are, so I think you've done very well.
My two initial questions please. The inward reinsurance premium that -- I emphasize and
talk about inward reinsurance, and not the captive activities of Equator, grew by 30%
during the year. Are you happy to continue to expand the inward business given the
extensive catastrophes and volatility in that market. I know premium rates are going up,
but given the risk it still business that you not only want to be in, but I think it's worth going
in?

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Thank you, Richard for that question and also for your comment on the annual report. We
do spend a lot of time on trying to make it readable and comprehensible to our
shareholders. We understand we have a very complex business.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we appreciate that and I also should have thanked Mr. Cook for your comments on our
RIM report. As I mentioned to you at our meeting, we have spent an inordinate amount of
time trying to make that a readable and comprehensible document.
Just in terms of inward reinsurance, we have actually reduced our inward reinsurance over
a number of years. However, the inward reinsurance business that we do ride is extremely
profitable for us, but I just might now pass the mic to ask Frank to comment on that 30%
increase. Is there anything there we need to note, Frank?

A - Frank O'Halloran
No, no Chair. The inward reinsurance business as you say, has been extraordinary
profitable over a long period of time and I think you've seen in the annual report that a
combined ratio in the high 70s.
And if you look at the comparison with the major reinsurers around the world, some 25 to
30 points higher than what our inward reinsurance have, so it's a very specialist book of
business.
We're very happy. It will have cycles, it will have wheels with catastrophes push the
combined operating ratio above 100%. But we need to look at the longer term and over
the longer term, it produces good result for us. And it's also a good balance against the
cost of buying reinsurance.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Thanks, Frank.

Page 23 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

Q - Analyst
Thank you. If I could ask my second question please.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM

FINAL

Yeah, certainly.

Q - Analyst
It's clear given the fact that a large proportion of the business is overseas and will
continue like that, but it's going to be very hard to maintain more than a tiny proportion of
franking on these dividends. I wonder that since we have perhaps rather tax inefficient
group because of that fact, have you given any sort thought possibly to raising maybe
hybrid equity overseas and possibly buying back some of the Australian shares to try and
introduce perhaps a little bit more tax efficiency? Overall, I realize it's a very complex
question, but I wonder if there is any potential there and whether you have explored that?

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM

Bloomberg Transcript

We have and we do. I think in terms of my address and Frank's address, we talked about
the complexity of our capital and managing that to meet the regulatory requirements, the
rating agency requirements, our policyholder requirements et cetera, so is finally
balanced. And we do have some amount of excess capital, but that is really what we need
for acquisitions and for further growth going forward.
We have raised hybrid debt and we will continue to do so. We try to be as efficient as we
possibly can, but unfortunately given the amount of our business offshore at the moment,
a 10% franking rate is probably what we're going to be looking at for the next year or so.

Q - Analyst
Thank you very much. I just had a couple of other questions, but I'm happy to wait for
another turn.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Thank you.

Q - Analyst
Thank you.
[Question Inaudible].

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
I think I addressed that Mr. Cook, in my address when I talked about the issues that we've
been facing this year and last year in terms of the increased catastrophe claims that
we've come through and also in terms of the investment income. I just -- I think this year

Page 24 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

hopefully, if we are able to meet our targets, we should see an increase in earnings per
share. However, it will obviously depend on the usual caveats.

Q - Analyst

FINAL

[Question Inaudible].

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
I don't want to talk about our internal rates of return. I think that's inappropriate, but I'd like
to assure you that in terms of analysis of acquisitions, we do substantial due diligence on
the books of businesses that we look to acquire and we obviously look at the cash flow
generating capacity of both businesses and what it is going to do to our business. So
we're very, very focused on that in the short, medium and long term.

Q - Analyst
[Question Inaudible]

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Yes, we do.

Q - Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Sorry, yes?

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Yes.

Q - Analyst
[Question Inaudible].

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Frank spoke about organic growth and I think it's important that shareholders recognize
that we are, and have been in soft pricing markets for the last few years. And to grow
organically, when we have soft pricing is not a profitable form of business for us.
If we are looking to buy new customers, we are looking at incurring a combined operating
ratio well in excess of 100 in terms of the first two or three years whereas if we buy a new
book of business, we are able to buy a book of existing customers, where we know what
the history is and are able to achieve a combined operating ratio. As you can see in terms
of the acquisitions we've undertaken are just under 90. So I think that really is the answer
to the question, Mr. Cook.

Q - Analyst
[Question Inaudible].
Page 25 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM

FINAL

I can assure you, Mr. Cook, our business is not driven by an accounting technique. Our
business is driven the underlying profitability of the business that we want. And I can
absolutely assure all shareholders that in terms of the acquisitions we've undertaken, they
are much more profitable for us than would have been organic growth during the current
period.
We have had organic growth in some areas, for example, in our UK regional business,
where we've been able to achieve the sort of premium rates that we want to and when
we think we need, but in terms of other areas, it's been a very, very competitive market.

Q - Analyst
Thank you.

A - Corporate Participant
Dear Chairman, I introduce Glenn Lu, shareholder.

Q - Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

I just got a quick question regarding the Chief Executive's future. There has been some
rumors circulating that will he, won't step down from his role given his longevity. I would
like to hear from Mr. O'Halloran personally as to whether retirement is eminent or whether
he is happy to continue his current role given the support of the Board. Thank you.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
I don't think Mr. O'Halloran needs to answer that question because I answered that
question to shareholders last September. And I said that Mr. O'Halloran was in this
position for the foreseeable future. He looks hale and hearty to me. Doesn't look if he is
going anywhere.
And I'll tell you one of the cheeky comments, one of our senior executives told me to say
today. He suggested I tell you that Frank's really only in his mid 50s. And therefore, stop
this question going forward. But that's not quite true, so I really can't say that.
Look, in all seriousness I should actually address succession planning. I do want to assure
shareholders that we spend, as a Board and as a management team, considerable time
on succession planning. For all of our senior executive positions, we have an immediate
replacement strategy, a medium-term replacement strategy and a long-term
replacement strategy.
We spent a lot of time discussing this. We've spent a lot of time on our senior executives
in terms of their personnel development plan, in terms of training and in terms of making
sure that we see them as a Board, so we know these individuals. Frank has already been
through the senior executive team. He has introduced them to you and I think we've got
enormous bench strength and a very, very good management team.

Page 26 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

A - Corporate Participant
Chairman, I'd like to introduce Mark Moland.

FINAL

Q - Analyst
Hello, Chairman. Thank you very much. Mark Moland from Team Invest. I represent a fairly
large group, several 100 happy QBE shareholders and just on the behalf of the members,
I'd like to congratulate the Board and the management for looking after shareholders'
interest so well through what has been clearly, well, to say it's been to tumultuous period
would be an understatement.
So we think QBE's results for FY10 are outstanding considering the environment you
operated in. And we have a very much long-term positive view to investing in QBE and in
fact most of -- or many of our members have been accumulating shares of what is we
believe a very, very cheap price at the moment.
So having said that, my question is something that comes up quite regularly with our
members is the Asian question as far as QBE only has less than 5% of its business in Asia,
which is clearly one of the strongest growth areas in the world. Can you -- can someone
talk to the issues around there, like what is the opportunity and what are the challenges?
We just like to get a better handle on how you see the future over the next five years in
that area. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Thank you, Mark and thank you for those comments. We do work hard and it has been an
extremely challenging few years with the global financial crisis and the investment market
conditions that we faced plus the catastrophes. We really had a run-in particularly in the
last quarter as we mentioned.
With regard to Asia, obviously we're very focused on Asia and Asian growth and we have
been looking for opportunities over the past five to 10 years.
The unfortunate thing is that most of the acquisition opportunities we've looked at have
been at prices that we're just not prepared to pay. We will continue to look, we have got a
number of acquisitions that we are reviewing at the moment, though we have made
some small acquisitions, but really it's become such a hot market as they say, that it is
quite hard for most of the acquisitions to meet our criteria for returns.
But that's not to say we are not investing. We have opened an office in India. We're doing
work in China. We have very substantial operations in Hong Kong and throughout the Asia
Pacific area. And they are producing very, very good results for us. So we're very happy
with their performance. Frank, I don't know whether you'd like to add anything there.

A - Frank O'Halloran
Yeah, so it's a very good question because we do get that from other investors -- that
question from other investors around the world. The Asian market is very dominated by
Page 27 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

FINAL

motor insurance and our experience with motor insurance throughout Asia, it is not
profitable. So we have taken the decision to keep motor insurance at a very low
percentage of our total portfolio mix.
We are finding that there are opportunity to grow particularly through the major into -division and we've had some significant growth in recent times. But as you know, it's all
about a balance between growth and profitability and our primary focus is on profitability.
And we -- even though we're getting growth in most countries throughout Asia, we're
restricting the growth to ensure that we maintain the profitability rather than doing what
many other insurers are doing growing for growth sake.

A - Corporate Participant
Chairman, I would like to introduce Mr. Jonathan Ojaya.

Q - Analyst
My name is Jonathan. My question is related to the previous question, I noticed that the
company has been taking a cautious approach in entering the China market. I am just
curious to know what is the reason behind this? Is it because of the characteristics of the
market or is it because of we haven't got a right partner?

Bloomberg Transcript

And is the company planning to grow organically there just like what we are doing in India
or is the plan to buy an existing company? Thank you.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Thank you for that question. That is the question we receive often from our shareholders.
We have been looking at the China market for some period of time and we already do
ride business in China through our Lloyd's operations and also out of our Hong Kong
business and we have had an office in Guangdong Province for sometime.
We are constantly looking at acquisitions, we are constantly looking at organic growth
opportunities in China and we are doing some work in fact, Mike Goodwin, who Frank
introduced before, is doing a lot of work with our Hong Kong team on that at the
moment.
The point I think that needs to be made in terms of China is that the profitability of foreign
insurers operating that market is very, very low. Companies like AIG and others have been
operating there for over a 100 years. But when you look at the total profitability of foreign
insurers in that market, it's around US$100 million a year. And when you look at our overall
profitability, that's very, very minor. That's all foreign insurers operating in that market.
Those are the figures that we saw most recently at the Board.
So although it's seen as a big pot of gold, at the moment domestic insurers are the ones,
who are making the money and we need to find a way for us to make money in that
market and we're very, very keen to do so and we are looking at it at the moment.

Page 28 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

A - Corporate Participant
Dear Chairman, Nicholas Tan, shareholder.

FINAL

Q - Analyst
Good morning. I have a question regarding the -- there has been talks about the housing
bubble in Australia. And I'm also aware that QBE is one of the two largest insurers for
home lender mortgage insurance in Australia. So the question I have is what is the
exposure of QBE in case of a housing downturn in Australia?

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Thank you, Nick, that's a very good question. We bought the lenders mortgage insurance
business, PMIs business in Australia about two, three years ago. That business has been
extremely successful and very profitable for us and we have a very good management
team running that business.
We do a lot of scenario testing on that business and Ian Graham, who is the Chief
Executive of that business, recently made some comments that even if there was a
downturn in the market, QBE would still be in a very strong position.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have very strong capital base with regard to that business and we don't feel that
there is any substantial risk with a medium and also a downturn in property prices. So
we're not concerned at the moment. I don't know whether you'd like to add anything,
Frank?

A - Frank O'Halloran
I think Ian Graham, I think Ina is in the room here somewhere, but Ian is always more than
welcome to spend a bit of time with you after the meeting. But the reality is that what we
need to -- what we have to see in the event of a major impact in our probability is our
housing pricing, a high unemployment and high interest rights. And we cannot see that at
this point in time, but I really suggest that you actually spend some time with Ian, who has
been in the business for 40 years and knows the business back to front.

Q - Analyst
Thank you.

A - Corporate Participant
Chairman, I would like to introduce Mr. P.S. Paberi.

Q - Analyst
Thank you. I would just like to ask a question about the exposure of the U.S dollar. There is
a stronger opinion in school-of-thought that owing to the excessive large amounts of
borrowing by the U.S. Government that this would be inflationary and it could lead to a
devaluation in the U.S. currency far more than we've seen.

Page 29 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

FINAL

You would explain if your hands aren't tied because you have to keep a lot of the
reserves in the currencies where you're operating. My -- it's a very fairly broad question as
to whether you -- what can you do to protect yourselves against this, no doubt your
investment people are already aware that it could come, but how can you protect yourself
against that?

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
It's a complex question because as I mentioned earlier, we've got a range of currency
exposures, but we are now reporting in U.S. dollars. So in terms of U.S. dollar reporting, it
would not have that much of an impact. Obviously in terms of our shares being reported
in A dollars, if the Australian dollar is to go up, it's obviously a different impact.
But in terms of an inflation risk, actually that would be in many ways good for us because
interests rates would rise and particularly in terms of the U.S. dollar or U.S. dollar holding
an interest rate rise would have a very positive impact on the company.
So it's a very complex issue. I do agree with you there is concerns about the U.S. fiscal
deficit, but that same issue applies to the Japanese economy and it applies to the
European economies.

Bloomberg Transcript

So where this all goes, I don't know. We run significant sensitivity analysis. The
management team runs those regularly and we get reports to the Board, but we are
comfortable with our exposures that currently stand in terms of business in the U.S. Frank,
I don't know whether you want add anything there?

A - Frank O'Halloran
No, I don't think so Chairman. We are very conscious to the question that you've raised
and that's one of the reasons why we are now focusing on special lines of business,
where the competition is significantly lower. By concentrating on the special lines of
business, we've got a greater opportunity to produce better returns for our shareholders.
In terms of capital adequacy, the valuation of the Australian dollar will not impact the
capital adequacy because the assets and liabilities will move in the same direction as
shareholders funds. So, from capital adequacy point of view, it's not an issue but your
point relative to U.S. dollar versus A dollars is well taken. If you look at the -- all the banks
and where they're forecasting the A dollar together, all forecasting to go down. So I wish I
knew the answer on A dollar.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
It is -- the Australian dollar is at a record high, but where it's going to go, we don't have
the crystal ball.

Q - Analyst
Well, we all we wish we did. If this does happen and you're reporting everything in U.S.
Dollars, of course that could rather unfairly distort your reports after it happens because
Page 30 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

weaker dollar would reduce the profits in -- where you're operating in other countries.
And so we watch local figures and say, oh, we've had an increase in that. But of course, as
I say, they could distort your figures in a year or two years time when you're -- if you
continue to report in U.S. dollar. So anyway, all the things are sort.

FINAL

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
No, I think I agree. You make a good point but the fact is we've had a very weak U.S. dollar
and our results are as they are. Whether the U.S. dollar is going to go weaker, I just don't
think we're in a position to judge and I think Europe quite frankly is just as weak, Japan is
just as weak. So I think we're quite with our exposure.

Q - Analyst
Alright, thanks. And congratulations on an excellent set of results.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Thank you very much. If there is no further questions, I might move on to Item 2 in the
agenda, which is adopting the remuneration report. The remuneration report is set out on
pages 64 to 88 of the 2010 annual report.
I propose the meeting consider and pass the ordinary resolution set out in the notice of
meeting. Does any shareholder wish to speak for or against the motion?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Analyst
My name is Roy Cook and I'm representing the Australian Shareholders Association. We
know that in spite of a very real improvements to the remuneration plans, the total of the
2010 incentives in U.S. dollars increased from 15,919 to 16,266. This is in fact contrast to
the reduction in profit after tax for 2010 and the reduction in share price since 2007.
Is the company prepared to increase the portion of incentives paid on earnings per share
results and to reduce the cash incentives to help ensure that overtime, there is greater
alignment between executive interests and shareholders interests?

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
I think I addressed the alignment of the interest between shareholders and executives
earlier when I spoke about the group executives, short-term and long-term cash
incentives being significantly reduced in 2010 inline with the decrease in return on equity
that they achieved.
The one point I think I need to make is that we have a group of underwriting executives
around the world and those groups of executives are producing stellar underwriting
results as compared to our competitors. We need to pay competitively and we need to
pay them on the return on equities that they achieve on their underwriting portfolios.

Page 31 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

We have done that and that is the reason why in terms of the divisional executives, there
has been an increase, a small increase in the overall remuneration. As I mentioned earlier,
the group executives' results and their remuneration was very much in alignment.

FINAL

Q - Analyst
It's very much upto the company how they modify the plans and they have made
progress, but they still overall inspite the ups and downs, no real alignment or incentives
there and because of that lack of alignment and in the case of the poll, we will be voting
our proxies against this resolution. Thank you.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
I think Mr. Cook, you and I just have to disagree on this. I think there is very strong
alignment between our shareholders' interests and executives' remuneration. And then
that's particularly over the longer term.

A - Corporate Participant
Chairman, I would like to introduce Mr. Steven Matthews.

Q - Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you. Thank you, Chairman. Could I add my congratulations to the improved
remuneration report. It's more understandable and comprehendable, I think with the
words that have been used, I agree with that.
I have a couple of quick questions. Can you tell me please why the key performance
indicators, which are determined on a seven years spread basis don't match up with the
vesting period or performance period for equity grants under the long-term incentive
plan, which is five years?
Seems to me that if anything this could be disadvantageous for the employees or for the
executives depending on when they come in and when they go out of the scheme. Why
doesn't the vesting period match up with the spread smoothing period?

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
I think that's a really interesting question and one, I'd like to answer, the seven years
spread basis of accounting is to allow for our investment income to be spread over seven
years. We don't feel it's fair on our underwriting executives that they have to bear the
volatility in investment markets. It's not what they do, what they do is underwrite risk and
manage risk for us.
So what we want to reward them on is their underwriting profitability and we smooth the
investment income over seven years. And we chose that period as what we thought was
the reasonable period of time for spreading that income.

Page 32 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

FINAL

The LTI is actually quite separate and if you look at most companies' LTIs, long-term
incentive programs, they are really only over three years. However, again on the
recommendation of management, we have taken a five-year period, which I think actually
is the right thing to do because I think it does reflect the longer-term interest of the
shareholders. But as I said, many companies actually only go for three years.

Q - Analyst
Thank you, that clears it up very well. I didn't pick that up from reading the RIM report. One
thing that I found missing from the RIM report, in which most major companies these days
do report on, is the inputs to the calculation of fair value for the grants. Now I may have
said in this forum before, I am very, very reluctant to ask that extra information be
included in annual report or indeed especially a remuneration report. They are all -- there
is all too many words in all of them already, but unless I'm mistaken, you didn't include the
inputs to the calculation of fair value and as most companies do, and is of interest to
shareholders, I wonder if you might give some thought to doing that in future please.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
We'll certainly look at that. As you mentioned, it's already a very lengthy report. So we do
try and keep that to a reasonable length. But we're very happy to talk to you -- get you to
talk to one of our executives, particularly Jenni Smith, after the meeting if you would like
to talk to her about how we do go about that calculation.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Analyst
Yeah, I'd be very happy to do that. Now may I have one other quick question related to
this. I noted correctly in my view usually what to determine the number of equity share
rights that are rewarded -- that are granted I should say. And that the fair value that I
referred to a moment ago is amortized and the life of the units is required by the
accounting standards, but if those grants vest in five years time, the hurdles have been
met and they go to the executives, of course they invested market price, don't they? So
I'm just wondering how do you account for the difference between fair value and the
market price at granting in your accounts for compensation purposes?

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
I actually don't know, I now have now to pass it on to my Chief Executive Officer.

A - Frank O'Halloran
I again have to pass it on to Kim Smith or to --

Q - Analyst
Or perhaps we can talk about --

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Perhaps we can, would you mind if we prompt you to speak to Neil Drabsch, our Chief
Financial Officer after the meeting.
Page 33 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

Q - Analyst
Who is that, sorry?

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM

FINAL

Neil Drabsch.

Q - Analyst
Neil, yes, of course.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Thank you very much. Please step down there.

A - Frank O'Halloran
Here I can add that I must admit I go through the same process that you do and I find it
very difficult to understand how they value future options and future rights.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
We use a binomial model, but to be honest, what goes on in inside a binomial model, I
don't think you have to be -- to understand.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Analyst
One of them being named Monte Carlo, which I can give Monte Carlo's simulation, which -. Thank you.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Okay.

Q - Analyst
Thank you, Chairman. Two quick questions please. Page 75 shows the STI cash award and
it's rather puzzling that in the case of most of the people mentioned there that the
minimum percentage is above zero and I wonder what the rationale for that is? I would
have thought that if people are being paid very handsome salaries in that Group to come
to work and do their jobs, so which their expectations are high already.
And I don't understand, why it would appear to be almost automatic that with the
exception of two people, their minimum cash bonus is going to be at least 15%.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
The answer to that question is very simple. We do have STI hurdles for our executives and
they do have to achieve in terms of the group executive, a return on equity in excess of
14% and for our divisional executives, it cuts in at 15%. So the reason they are getting

Page 34 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

those short-term incentive rewards is because they have more than achieved those
minimum thresholds.

Q - Analyst

FINAL

I see. So that if the ROE have been say 2%, they would have got nothing.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
they would have got nothing.

Q - Analyst
I understand.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
That's right.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Analyst
Thank you. And the other question is, just I wonder if you could just elaborate on the fact
that Mr. Ten Hove received a termination benefit of 2 million and looking at the couple of
references in the annual report including the circumstances and when those sort of
termination benefits is spread over a period of year, I realize that one is obviously talking
about an individual person here, but given that the job is clearly still extent, is being
replaced, I am not quite clear what were the circumstances under which he left the
company and I wondered if it indicated any dissatisfaction with the management to the
investment portfolio.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
No, it didn't and Mark did leave for personal reasons and we had a contract in place for
Mark, which provided that he would receive a one year termination payment.

Q - Analyst
Thank you.

A - Corporate Participant
Chairman, I would like to reintroduce Mr. David Jackson.

Q - Analyst
Thank you, Ms. Chairman. My question is about long-term incentive and for Mr. O'Halloran
and the relativity to his total package. It seems to me that his package is heavily weighted
to short-term incentive including base pay and not long-term, whereas I would have
thought that particularly, this company and given the comments previously about
smoothing over seven years, there should be a much heavier emphasis on long-term

Page 35 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

incentive. At the moment, I think long-term incentive is something less than 15%. Would
you like to comment on that?

FINAL

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
The LTI was only introduced a short time ago and so we actually felt that the previous QBE
incentive schemes worked very, very well over many years. However, it was in response to
shareholders request that we introduced a long-term incentive program.
You'll note with the short-term incentives that actually the conditional rights that the
executives are due to receive only vest over three to five years. So they still have to stay
with us and they still have to achieve good results because we do have a call back at the
option of the Board if the results deteriorate. So in fact, although we quoted an STI, I think
it's actually more like a long-term STI, when it relates to the conditional rights that we give.
But there I would make the point that, having reviewed the top CEO salaries of the top 25
companies on the Australian Stock Exchange, the medium and average remuneration was
over $8 million and our CEO has a remuneration of 6 million. Yes, that's still a lot of
money, but it's well below what the top 25 and we are well within the top 20 listed on the
Australian Stock Exchange.

Q - Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

I think my response to that was that's probably one of the reasons why we have the GFC
that we all know.
My second question is in relation to base pay and I did ask this before but I didn't get an
answer when we spoke previously. For Mr. O'Halloran, looking at the A dollar line, but also
it reflects in the U.S. dollar but obviously Mr. O'Halloran is paid in A dollars. Why has the
base pay gone up so substantially by about 13.8% in the year? Given that you were talking
-- been talking earlier about 1 or 1.5% increase.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
In terms of Frank's base pay, in 2010, he had a 0% increase and this year, he has had a 4%
increase. That additional amount relates to defined benefit contributions that were being
paid because we closed other fine benefit contribution funds. So I don't think that's a fair
comparison, that's a one-off payment.

Q - Analyst
But I think that's referred to -- I mean I'm looking at page 79, the superannuation column
does reflect that, doesn't it? I mean it's got 296,000 for 2009, which I think is when was
paid and then, this year it's only 21. So I can't equate that to your explanation.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Well, if you add $268,000 to $1,878,000, you get the same number. So I think you'll find
that figures that what I've mentioned is correct.

Page 36 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

Q - Analyst
Well, are you saying and that's been added every year, it's added every year, the
$268,000?

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM

FINAL

No, no, if you look at the previous year, it was only 21,000.

Q - Analyst
I'm sorry, the numbers doesn't compute.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Perhaps David, we can have a chat about that. You can have a chat with Jenni Smith, who
is our Group HR Head afterwards.

Q - Analyst
Thank you, Chairman.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM

Bloomberg Transcript

Mr. Bleasel was just pointing out, there is some movement in the Australian dollar, but I
think this is the Australian dollar figures we're talking about, but let's talk about this
afterwards.

Q - Analyst
Earlier you talked about the return on equity targets of 14% for Group headquarters and
15% for units. But I noticed in the annual report in the long-term incentive plan, you've
changed that and it's now the average of the top ten. Why do you have the two different
criteria?

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Because we think that the top ten is a very, very top hurdle and it's a long-term incentive
plan and that was the basis on which we decided to do some comparative analysis
because we have had criticism that we were only using absolute returns in terms of the
short-term STI. So we moved to a comparative relativity in terms of the LTI.

Q - Analyst
Why don't you move the same way in the short-term and that would --

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Because -- I'll tell you, because I don't believe in relative returns. If I am a shareholder, I am
interested in absolute returns.

Page 37 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

Q - Analyst
Thank you.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM

FINAL

I'd now like to ask all shareholders who are in favor to raise the yellow card. And all those
against? Thank you ladies and gentlemen, I declare that resolution carried.
Item three on the agenda is approval of the grant of conditional rights under the 2010
QBE incentive scheme and long-term incentive plan to the Chief Executive Officer. I
propose the meeting consider and pass the ordinary resolution set out in the notice of
meeting. Details of the resolution are set out in the explanatory notes to the notice of
meeting.
Please note that the weighted average price used for calculating Mr. O'Halloran's
entitlement to conditional rights was $17.93. This mean Mr. O'Halloran's entitlement
subject to shareholder approval is 45,532 conditional rights under the QBE incentive
scheme and 60,163 under the long-term incentive plan or 105,609 in total. Does any
shareholder wish to speak to this motion? Yes, we have a shareholder up, Richard.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Analyst
Sorry Chair, just a quick thing, you've answered one of things that I was going to ask, but
the middle of page six of the notice refers to 47.3% and 50% for the QIS and the LTI. I just
wanted very quickly, there doesn't seem to be any explanation of how those percentages
were derived, was that just as a result of the Board process that you felt that was the right
place to be, it didn't -- I just couldn't see anything to several other reason you get this
figures because of such and such.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
No, that relates to the ROE calculation that I mentioned earlier. So it's very much aligned
to those.

Q - Analyst
Yeah, I just wondered why, when the range at the bottom of the page says minimum of 14
and a maximum of 21 and 15.9 was achieved and 47.3 doesn't come out of that obviously,
it's a matter of arithmetic.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
It's just a matter of arithmetic, yes.

Q - Analyst
Well, I am a mathematician and I couldn't get that results but anyway perhaps I can discuss
that with you later.

Page 38 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Or perhaps we can take that offline too. Thank you.

Q - Analyst

FINAL

Okay. Thanks.
I know I am plaguing you with these questions, but you're handling them well.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
How are you hanging on Mr. Cook?

Q - Analyst
Thank you. The ASI acknowledges that Mr. O'Halloran's incentive cost have become closer
inline with shareholders' interest last year. Indeed if it wasn't the 1.5 million decrease any
short-term benefits, total incentives would have increased by about 1.8 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

The introduction of the long-term incentive and the inclusion of an earnings per share are
positively moved, which clearly expects to help achieve a greater alignment with
shareholders' interest. The ASI recommends that the percentage of the TSI allocated to
the LTI should increase and the cash portion should be reduced. This is particularly
relevant to the CEO because of his long-term incentive, is QBE prepared to consider such
a move?

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Well, I think if you look at our QBE incentive scheme, which is what you recall the shortterm incentives, half of that is conditional rights already and then we have the long-term
incentive scheme, which is conditional rights. So I actually think we got a pretty good
balance already.

Q - Analyst
I know you can comment accepting the criteria for award different and the vesting is also
different.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
I explained that previously, yes.

Q - Analyst
In the case of a poll, the ASI will be voting its open proxies against this resolution as a
remuneration of Mr. O'Halloran has not sufficiently, emphasized sufficiently in line with the
reduction in share price since 2007? Thank you.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Page 39 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

I understand your point, Mr. Cook, but you've seen the proxies perform, we have very,
very strong votes in favor of this resolution.

A - Corporate Participant

FINAL

Chairman, re-introducing Mr David Jackson.

Q - Analyst
Just for the sake of clarity Madam Chairman, could we have the proxy figures put up
again? I mean they were put up at the very beginning, the proxy votes and I'm sure most
of us have forgotten what they were by this time and it's quite normal for them to be
actually put up either before each resolution or following each resolution. Putting it up at
the very beginning does make it life very difficult for people to try to remember what the
figures were.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
I have to see whether we can do that, but that was in excess of 97% voted for this
resolution if I recall correctly. Is that right, Thomson?

Q - Analyst
I think for the other one, the rem, I think remuneration, I think it was a lot less.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
I think it was 98, I don't know. Tom, can you? I've actually got that for you. 97. So I haven't
got the percentages here, but Tom, can we have the percentages, I think it was 97 and
98%.

A - Corporate Participant
[Inaudible] say 97% or so, so with over 98%.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Thank you. Are there any further questions? Alright, all those in favor, please raise your
yellow card. And all those against? Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, I declare the
resolution carried.
Item four on the agenda is the approval of providing QBE shares under the QBE incentive
scheme and long-term incentive plan until 30 June, 2014. The resolution means that on
termination, such benefits do not count for relevant employees towards their annual
remuneration cap. A similar resolution has been passed by a number of other Australian
listed companies. Does any shareholder wish to speak for or against this motion.

A - Corporate Participant
Chairman, I would like to reintroduce Mr. Steven Matthews

Page 40 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

Q - Analyst

FINAL

Thank you, Chairman. When I first read this, I wondered whether it was an attempt to sort
of convent the regulations introduced to limit termination payments to one year, but then I
remembered it was QBE. So I was sure that, that wouldn't be the case.
I noticed you used the word termination in your explanation, that is the ability to vest
equities on termination. Could I just, since all the Board is here, over the years, I've
attended quite a few AGMs and I found that in difficult circumstances, Chairs and then
Chairman of Remuneration Committees have used the words termination, resignation,
retirement and redundancy interchangeably and have characterized all at various times as
separation end of quote.
Now they're not similes, the Oxford dictionary has very distinct definitions of each of
those words and I think it's worth mentioning that while we're not involved in either a legal
or an argument on semantics. I'll just remind the Board, if I may that shareholders do
become concerned when filed executives receive excessive payouts and occasionally,
those payouts addressed up as things that they are not including the words that I've
mentioned earlier. Thank you.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM

Bloomberg Transcript

Steven, you made a very good point and I would like to assure shareholders that is not
the purpose here. We're using termination in the legal sense of the word. But if you read
what is actually a complex notice of meeting around this particular resolution, you will see
that it is up to the Board to use this question as to when this actually is used.
So the only time in which the Board will use its discretion is when there is genuine
retirement or genuine redundancy and I think we need to be very, very clear on that.
If it's poor performance, this revolution will not be used. So the reason we're doing this is
because we will have people who leave and they'll have conditional rights outstanding
because they actually leave the company and that would leave terminate in a legal sense.
They will have to then pay tax on those conditional rights. We think that as those
conditional rights still don't exist for three or five years or whatever, they may well be
unable to pay the tax on those conditional rights at that time.
So we are going to allow executives to sell 50% of those conditional rights or shares and
then be able to pay their tax. The continuing vesting periods will apply for the remainder
of those shares. So I agree with your point.
If I don't have any further questions, all those in favor, please raise your yellow card. And
again, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, I declare the resolution carried.
I'd now like to move to item five on the agenda, which involves the re-election of the NonExecutive Director, Charles Irby.

Page 41 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

FINAL

I propose to consider and pass an ordinary resolution for his re-election as a Director.
Charles was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director in 2001 and he is the
member of our investment committee and the European operations; audit committee.
Details on his background are set out in the explanatory note to the meeting.
I might just make a few comments on Charles. Charles is one of our two London-based
Directors. In addition to his Directorship of QBE, he is a Non-Executive Director of Great
Portland Estates PLC, North Atlantic Smaller Companies Investment Trust PLC and Deputy
Chairman of the Council of King Edward VII Hospital Sister Agnes and a member of the
Advisory Board of Nardello & Company.
Charles has a long and distinguished career, firstly as a Chartered Accountant before
moving into investment banking and investment management. He was previously
Chairman of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, one of the major international
institutional investors.
As you can see Charles is well qualified to serve as a Non-Executive Director of QBE. I
confirm his re-election is being sought following the annual board assessment review last
December. I will now pass over to Charles to address the meeting with a few words.
Charles?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Charles Irby

{BIO 1418333 <GO>}

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I think Belinda has explained who I am, but I had
already prepared a few words to explain it. So I'll give you those words nevertheless. I am
a Chartered Accountant by profession and have spent most of my first qualification career
as Investment Banker with Baring Brothers, advising boards on strategy, mergers and
acquisitions. I advise companies of all sizes and for all industries, but with a specialization
in the financial services sector.
After retiring from Baring, I became a Non-Executive Director of a number of companies
including QBE.
On these Boards, I've been an Independent Director serving on various committees
including audit, remuneration and investment. I believe that I have always acted with total
independence and in the best interest of shareholders. I am based in London and as such
it is demanding -- there is a demand in travel obligation being a Director of QBE. Serving
on the Board of QBE requires numerous visits to Australia as well as attendance at Board
meetings in overseas locations, where we have important investments.
However, I have traveled extensively throughout my life both for business and for
pleasure and has been chaired visiting overseas including in Jordan and in Hong Kong. So
travel is not a problem for me, in fact it's a pleasure.
I also have an interest in sport, although I am not any longer or particularly active
participant. I've always supported Chelsea at the football and county cricket and I follow
the fortunes of the England cricket team and what a poor performance we managed in
Page 42 of 43



Company N ame: QBE I nsurance Group L td
Company Ticker: QBE AU Equity
Date: 2011-04-04

the recent World Cup series in India and before that, the one day internationals here in
Australia.

FINAL

What a pasting you guys must have given us in the pre-described matches. Despite that, I
do hope you will support the resolution for my re-election. Thank you.

A - Belinda Hutchinson AM
Thank you, Charles. And on a more serious note, I'd like all shareholders to know that
Charles is particularly focused on earnings per share and really gives management a
seriously hard time if we're not meeting our expectations.
Does any shareholder wish to speak for or against the motion? If not, all those in favor,
please raise your yellow card. Any voting against? Thank you ladies and gentlemen, I
declare that resolution carried and congratulations to Charles.

Bloomberg Transcript

I think we're now getting very close to the end and I am happy to declare the meeting is
now closed. I would like to thank you all for coming today. It's been an absolute pleasure
to speak to you and to hear from you. We will continue to ask shareholders to submit
questions and we would now like you to join us for a cup of tea and some birthday cake
downstairs. We look forward to talking to you. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 43 of 43

