Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

Q2 2013 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Koji Iwai, Managing Director
Shuzo Sumi, President and CEO
Tadaharu Uehara, Managing Director
Takaaki Tamai, EVP
Toshifumi Kitazawa, President
Tsuyoshi Nagano, EVP
Unidentified Speaker, Unknown

Other Participants
Futoshi Sasaki, Analyst
Jun Shiota, Analyst
Koichi Niwa, Analyst
Masao Muraki, Analyst
Takanori Miyoshi, Analyst
Tatsuo Majima, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Unidentified Participant, Analyst
Wataru Otsuka, Analyst

Presentation
Shuzo Sumi

{BIO 3861639 <GO>}

(interpreted) I would first of all like to give you the update on Tokio Marine Group's FY
2012 business plan for about 30 minutes before I open the floor for the Q&A session.
We already announced the full-year projections for FY 2012 on November 19 when we
announced our interim results. Today I would like to focus on the progress our group
made during the first six months vis-a-vis the business plan as well as future outlook.
Please turn to page 2. This page is a summary of what we are going to review today. We
revised our initial projections for adjusted earnings to our regret to reflect catastrophic
losses caused by Hurricane Sandy. However, we have been surely implementing various
initiatives in the respective business fields based on strategies and targets that we have
set under our midterm business plan and annual business plan to be more specific, in the
domestic non-life, life, and international insurance business. We worked to accelerate
topline growth in order to expand profit. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, we
are expecting to achieve higher growth than our original projections.
Page 1 of 24



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

FINAL

In the domestic nonlife business, as we set forth in the midterm business plan, we have
been taking measures to improve profitability of auto insurance and further enhance
business efficiency and these efforts have started to appear. Further, in the domestic life
insurance and international insurance business, which we consider to be our growth
drivers, we are executing strategies that we set at the beginning of the year aiming for
sustainable profit growth.
While making these efforts in their respective business fields, we have been concurrently
reducing risks by selling business-related equities, for instance, and we have successfully
enhanced economic solvency ratio or ESR from the end of the last fiscal year despite the
difficult market environment.
With respect to return to shareholders, as we said at the beginning of the year, we would
like to increase the annual dividend per share by 10% compared to the last fiscal year. This
is the highlight of my presentation today.
I would like to discuss these points in more detail, so please turn to page 3. Let me first
explain to you the overview of the consolidated financial results of the Second Quarter of
FY 2012. Both life and non-life business domestically and internationally showed strong
topline growth. Within the non-life business segment, all of the three operations, i.e.,
Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire, Nisshin Fire & E. Design Insurance grew their top line primarily
through auto business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our international insurance subsidiaries including Philadelphia and Kiln also grew their top
line.
In the life insurance business, due to the steady growth of Tokio Marine & Nishido Life's in
force policies as well as positive growth in Asian Life operations, we achieved double-digit
growth. Our consolidated net interim income decreased by JPY16.5 billion year-on-year to
JPY62.5 billion.
Net income in the international insurance business improved significantly primarily due to
fewer natural catastrophe events against a year ago. However, at Tokio Marine Nishido
Fire, underwriting profit decreased against a year ago because last year there was a
major reversal of catastrophe loss reserves in conjunction with the claims that we paid for
the great Asia-Pan earthquake. We also posted impairment losses of securities reflecting
weaker domestic stock market.
In the meantime, our adjusted earnings increased by JPY30.7 billion year-on-year to
JPY73.3 billion primarily due to the improvement of EV increase in our life insurance
business as well as steady growth of profit in our international insurance business.
On page 4, we are indicating our full-year projections. From this point onward, I would like
to discuss our business on the full-year basis. We revised downwards slightly the original
projections for net premiums written primarily because the expected contribution from
our international business is revised downwards due to the appreciation of Japanese yen.

Page 2 of 24



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

FINAL

However, we revised up the original projections for Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire, reflecting
the strong business momentum during the first half.
Net income is now expected to become JPY90 billion, down by JPY15 billion from the
original projections mainly because we newly took into account the impact of Hurricane
Sandy. Adjusted earnings are now expected to become JPY138 billion, down by JPY27
billion from the original projections. Because same as we did for the net income, we
factored in the impact of Hurricane Sandy, we also took into account newly the expected
impact of consumption tax rate increase to EV to our domestic life insurance business.
With regards to the impact of Hurricane Sandy which hit the US East Coast in October this
year, not many days have passed since the event and it is difficult to understand losses
incurred in their respective contracts to come up with accurate estimates. But in our
projections this time around, we expected that net incurred losses to be approximately
JPY10 billion at Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire and about JPY20 billion in our overseas
subsidiaries. So in total, approximately JPY30 billion as a group.
For the impact of Sandy to our net income and adjusted earnings, please refer to the
bottom right table in the slide.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the next page, for reference purpose, we have included the breakdown of adjusted
earnings projections by company and by region in their respective business fields. Now I
will discuss the business plan outlook and strategies of the respective business.
Let us start with the domestic non-life business on page 7. Here I would like to explain
once again the projections for Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire, which is the core operation in
our domestic nonlife business. Net income is expected to be JPY85 billion, almost in line
with our original projections.
Losses incurred by natural disasters including Hurricane Sandy have been trending above
our initial forecast. We also factored in impairment losses and securities assuming the
level of the stock market as of the end of the first half. While these factors negatively
affected our net income, topline is expected to grow stronger than our initial projections
and we will reduce our business expenses further.
Next, please go to page eight to review how Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire have been
improving their profitability. Improvement of profitability is an urgent issue in our domestic
nonlife business. As we communicated before many times under the midterm business
plan, we are aiming to build a business structure which allows us to keep the combined
ratio at 95% level in a stable manner.
In the current fiscal year, which is the first year under the midterm business plan, we
expect the combined ratio to be under 100% or 99.8%, down from the last fiscal year's
103.3%. More specifically speaking, losses from natural disasters have turned out to be
bigger than initially expected. However, we have been working on a critical challenge
which is to improve the profit in auto by revising products and rate tables and those
efforts are expected to improve the combined ratio as scheduled.
Page 3 of 24



FINAL

Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

Our business efficiencies have also been improving steadily so excluding the impact of
natural disasters, we believe the combined ratio will improve in line with the midterm
business plan. The component called Others is expected to push up the combined ratio
but this is because in the lines of businesses where major accidents did not occur much in
the fiscal year 2011, we are assuming the level of losses typical in a normal year. It is also
because of the increase in claims paid in conjunction with snow damages which occurred
last year. These are one-off factors and it does not mean the performance of this
component is deteriorating in particular this fiscal year.
Let us carry on and review our initiatives to improve profit in auto on page 9. In the fiscal
year 2012, on a written paid basis, we expect the loss ratio of auto to improve by 1.4
points year-on-year to 69.0%.

Bloomberg Transcript

In this fiscal year, loss adjustment expenses are increasing because we posted expenses
for a new claim service system; however, excluding this one off expense, our loss ratio
would improve by 1.7 points year-on-year. This is primarily because the product and rate
revisions that we implemented in July 2010 and generally this year are working out
positively as expected. As demonstrated in the chart, unit premium of non-fleet auto
policies has been on the rise recently.
I would also note that we implemented another product and rate revisions in October this
year. We will continuously work for profit improvement in auto in a sustainable manner in
the next fiscal year and beyond. In the meantime while claims frequency has been
declining this fiscal year, because unit repair cost has been increasing versus a year ago,
mainly due to a rise in repair parts cost, claims costs per policy has slightly increased. But
this level of increase in cost is still within our assumptions, which were factored in our
projections.
We will continue to carefully monitor the claim trend while continuously implementing
measures to optimize repair costs and improve underwriting results. As we monitor claims
and effects of product and rate revisions, we will take additional appropriate measures as
necessary in order to make profit improvement in auto for sure.
Next please refer to page 10 to review the topline trend. In order to expand profit, we are
aiming to achieve number one topline growth within the industry under the midterm
business plan. In the second half of the last fiscal year, we started to see the tangible
effects of the business renovation project that we took on earlier.
In actuality since the second half of the last fiscal year on a managerial accounting basis,
the year-on-year growth rate of premiums written of Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire has been
much higher than the market average as you can confirm in the line chart on the left. To
be more specific, we have been acquiring more new policies by establishing new sales
channels, leveraging alliance with Meiji Yasuda Life, and by offering unique and
competitive products that you cannot find anywhere else such as super insurance and
super business insurance.

Page 4 of 24



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

FINAL

Furthermore, by executing the business renovation project, efficiency of our administrative
employees in particular improved dramatically. We are now able to offer stronger support
to our agents and by establishing procedures to facilitate early renewal of policies, policy
retention rate is improving, which is also contributing to our topline growth.
As indicated in the bottom right chart on the slide, even after the rate revision in January
2012, renewal ratio of auto policies has been improving. Typically, renewal ratio declines
after a rate increase; however, renewal ratio rather increased due to our initiatives
including the business renovation project. We will continue to implement these measures
to achieve number one growth within the industry.
Next please turn to page 12 to discuss our domestic life insurance business. Tokio Marine
& Nichido Life has been growing both new policies and in-force policies steadily;
therefore, we made upward revisions to the original projections of annualized premiums
of both new policies and in-force policies.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the other hand, we revised downwards the year-end EV forecast slightly from the
original projections. This is mainly because we need to newly take into account the
expected impact of consumption tax rate increase to policies in-force given the nature of
life insurance products which are long-term in duration. It is also because the sales of
profitable third sector products have been weaker than the initial sales forecast. However,
I will stress that there is no change in the underlying trend where Tokio Marine & Nichido
Life is steadily growing by continuously expanding its in-force policies.
Next please turn to page 13 where I will explain strategies to support the growth of this
business. Tokio Marine & Nichido Life aims to achieve sustainable growth of topline while
maintaining high profitability with two pillars of strategies. One, channel strategy, and
second, product strategy.
Under the channel strategy, we will promote further the integrated approach of life and
non-life sales by leveraging strength of Tokio Marine & Nichido Life, which are at access to
customer base and agent network of the non-life business. Under the product strategy
we would like to launch new products for living benefits, the segment where demand is
expected to increase going forward so that we can top the market with high potential.
Next to review our international insurance business, please proceed to page 15. In the
international insurance business, each subsidiary is implementing their own growth
strategies based on the conditions of the market that they respectively serve but we are
aiming to further diversify business risks and enhance capital efficiency as a group by
expanding our business globally.
In the developed markets, business environment continues to be uncertain since the
Eurozone sovereign debt crisis and fiscal cliff in the US are yet to be solved.
In the reinsurance market, there continues to be surplus capital so at policy renewals in
June, the market did not harden significantly and it has been said that a similar trend
would likely continue into the policy renewals in January 2013. However. due to the impact
Page 5 of 24



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

of Hurricane Sandy which hit the US in October, there are some market perspectives on
an increase in rate. We will monitor the market trend attentively.

FINAL

In the second half of the year, we will continue to look at these changes in the business
environment carefully and run our business to enhance profitability of each subsidiary.
Next I would like to briefly comment on the full-year projections. In our international
insurance business overall, projections of net premiums written is revised downwards
from the original projections. However, excluding the impact of the stronger Japanese
yen, topline is growing positively and is expected to be JPY13 billion better than the
original projections.
As indicated on page 16, projections for adjusted earnings are revised downwards due to
the impact of Hurricane Sandy in addition to the stronger Japanese yen.
As I mentioned in the beginning, we are unable to give you the breakdown of the impact
of Hurricane Sandy by company yet. We just factored in the expected impact to our
international insurance overall in our revised projections. Going forward, as we receive
more accident reports, amount of losses might change. We will continue to monitor
development of losses carefully.

Bloomberg Transcript

From the next page, I will discuss how our major subsidiaries have been implementing
their strategies respectively. Please turn to page 17.
From this point onward, I would like to explain the situations of each subsidiary excluding
the impact of Hurricane Sandy. Combined ratio of Philadelphia is expected to be 92.0% on
a full-year basis this fiscal year, which is even below our original projections. Philadelphia is
originally a highly bottom-line oriented company and they have traditionally maintained
better profitability than the market average. They are currently executing DPO or Dynamic
Portfolio Optimization, which is an initiative to review and optimize underwriting portfolio
against risk volume in order to further enhance their profitability.
As indicated on the slide, owing to DPO, the combined ratio is better than the industry
average. As we have recovered from the impact of natural catastrophes this fiscal year, as
of the end of the Second Quarter, the combined ratio is at a very low level, almost 9
points lower than the market average.
Next, please turn to page 18 to discuss Kiln. Combined ratio of Kiln is expected to be
79.6% on the full-year basis this fiscal year. This is slightly higher than the original
projections but still a major improvement from the last fiscal year when we were hit
significantly by natural catastrophes. Similar to Philadelphia, Kiln is also a company which
practices disciplined underwriting so when the market is hardening, they underwrite more
prime policies with high profitability, but when the market is softening, they focus on
maintaining their profitability instead of pursuing topline growth. As a result, as at the end
of the Second Quarter their combined ratio was 80.4%. They successfully maintained
stable and high profitability.

Page 6 of 24



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

FINAL

Please turn to page 19 to review our reinsurance business. We expect the combined ratio
of reinsurance business to be 89.0% on the full-year basis. This is higher than the original
projections but still below 90%, which allows us to secure stable profitability in this
business.
The core operation in our reinsurance business, Tokio Millennium Re, plans to underwrite
risks other than natural catastrophes while maintaining strict underwriting discipline. They
are also aiming to underwrite more policies in the branches that they opened in Australia
and Switzerland last year and diversify their portfolio further in terms of types of risks and
geography in order to achieve stable earnings. Based on these plans, they underwrote
more casualty risks independent from natural disasters. As a result as of the end of the
Second Quarter, Tokio Millennium Re increased the revenue from other lines of
businesses than natural catastrophes by 57% against a year ago.
Going forward, in view of the introduction of Solvency II in Europe, European insurers
might reduce the volume of risks that they retain by ceding more risks to reinsurers.
Keeping an eye on such movements in the market, we would like to further expand our
reinsurance business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next let us review Delphi, whose acquisition was completed in May this year. Please refer
to page 20. Delphi's earnings will be consolidated to our book from July through
December for six months. Their contribution to our earnings will begin from the Third
Quarter. Their adjusted earnings in FY 2012 are expected to be JPY9 billion, which is up by
JPY1 billion from the original projections, mainly due to an increase in investment income.
One of the major challenges is how to achieve synergies between Delphi and existing
businesses in North America such as Philadelphia and Tokio Marine Management. We
established a joint strategic committee in order to create synergies through cross-selling
reinsurance as well as cost reduction programs. Relevant parties are now engaged in
further studies where we have started to see some benefits in some individual cases.
Lastly, let us look at the situations in emerging markets on page 21. In emerging countries,
it is our strategy to achieve stable profit growth sooner than later by expanding not only
Japanese business but also local retail business in both life and non-life by successfully
capturing growth opportunities in our respective markets. Based on this, we developed
business strategies for different markets by considering where in the developmental
stage business in the market is at respectively. And we intend to grow our business in
emerging countries from mid; to long-term perspectives.
At the beginning of this month I took part in the opening ceremony of Alinma Tokio
Marine, which started the business in Saudi Arabia as a provider of both life and non-life
coverage.
If you are interested in the breakdown of performance by company, please refer to the
next page.

Page 7 of 24



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

FINAL

Next please go to page 24 for the asset management side of our business. There is no
change to our Group's asset management concept. As a Global Insurance Group, we will
continue to secure liquidity and implement ALM in principle across our Group. In the
meantime, each company aims for higher profit within the tolerable risk levels based on
the liability profiles of their respective companies. It is our plan to reduce business-related
equities that Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire has by JPY300 billion worth over the course of
three years under the mid-term business plan.
Size of the sales will be different from one year to another but in this fiscal year, which is
the first year under the midterm business plan, we are aiming to sell these equities by
JPY50 billion worth or more.
Next on page 26, I would like to discuss enterprise risk management. At the bottom of
the slide, we have included how our economic solvency ratio moved from the end of
March 2012 to the end of September 2012. These numbers include the expected impact
of Hurricane Sandy.

Bloomberg Transcript

As of the end of September this year, economic solvency ratio or ESR was 117%, which is a
slight increase from the end of the last fiscal year. Gap between the net asset value and
risk capital or capital buffer was approximately JPY400 billion which is almost flat since the
end of last fiscal year. Due to decline in stock prices and impact of Hurricane Sandy, net
asset value decreased.
However, by building up adjusted earnings, we recovered the decline to some extent and
by reducing investment risks to strike a better balance between risks and net asset value,
we successfully maintained ESR almost flat since the end of the last fiscal year. We will
continue to control risks and capital based on our risk appetite and aim to enhance our
financial soundness as well as profitability.
Last but not least, please allow me to touch upon returns to shareholders on page 27.
There is no change to our policy for shareholder return that we set forth under the
midterm business plan. In other words, we will essentially give returns to shareholders
through a dividend which we aim to increase along with our growth of profit.
With regards to share repurchase, it is our policy to consider comprehensively market
environment, capital level as well as business investment opportunities and implement
share repurchase in a flexible manner. Based on these policies, we have indicated since
the beginning of this fiscal year that we would increase the dividend per share by 10% to
JPY55, assuming a recovery in growth of adjusted earnings this fiscal year. As I
mentioned, we decided to increase the interim dividend by 10% to JPY27.5.
Our guidance on full-year dividend remains the same at JPY55, in line with the original
projections.
From the next page onward, we have included some reference information. This
concludes my presentation. I would like to ask for your continued support to our Group.
Thank you.
Page 8 of 24



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

Questions And Answers
A - Unidentified Speaker

FINAL

We would now like to entertain your questions. If you could raise your hand, Mr. Sumi will
call upon you and our staff members will bring you a microphone.
Since we would like to receive questions from as many people as possible, we would like
to ask you to limit your questions to up to two questions. Thank you for your
understanding in advance. Now if you have any questions, please raise your hand.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

I am Muraki from Deutsche Securities. I would like to ask you two questions. First on auto
losses and second concerning international reinsurance business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Your loss ratio in automobile business has been consistently lower than the industry
average in recent years. Just focusing on the performance of the first half of this year, the
gap between you and your peers looks to have become a bit smaller even if we exclude
one of expenses for a claims service system. What was your competitive advantage to
begin with? I believe your premium is higher than your peers or your portfolio is different
from others but what was your advantage and do you see any changes to your advantage
here?
My second question is concerning your overseas reinsurance business. Page 19 shows that
you have increased underwriting for casualty risks quite strongly aside from natural
disasters but under the situation where the market is yet to harden significantly, what kind
of risks are you underwriting more?
I believe you are running this business on the assumption that the market is going to
harden over the mid; to long-term, but we're yet to see any sign that the issue of
overcapacity is going to be resolved. What do you think would be a catalyst for a
turnaround in the pricing trend?

A - Shuzo Sumi

{BIO 3861639 <GO>}

Thank you. We have received two questions. Your first point is that our advantage in the
loss ratio of the auto business may be under some change. What is our advantage in the
first place and how do we see the situation?
The other question was why we are taking more casualty risks in the reinsurance business,
the market is yet to show signs for hardening so what has been the trigger behind this
increase in business?
Mr. Iwai, Managing Director of Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire, will answer your first question.
Thank you.

Page 9 of 24



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

A - Koji Iwai

{BIO 16291834 <GO>}

FINAL

It is somewhat difficult for me to make a comment by comparing ourselves with peers.
What I can say is that we have been placing a strong focus on bottom line while enhancing
efficiency.
If I may review the numbers on the written paid basis, the combined ratio in 2011 was
102.6% on the written paid basis. As you are aware while there was a temporary increase
in loss adjustment expenses for IT system renovation for claims service system, the ratio
still declined to 98.6% in the first half and it is expected to improve to approximately
100% on the full-year basis.
As Mr. Sumi mentioned earlier, we will take various measures in underwriting loss
processing and many other areas and consider rate revisions. We will take appropriate
actions to aim for 98%. These efforts and thinking have resulted in the improvement I
believe. Did that answer your question?

A - Shuzo Sumi

{BIO 3861639 <GO>}

Would you like to explain our advantage a bit more?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Koji Iwai

{BIO 16291834 <GO>}

Regarding our advantage, as we aim to improve the combined ratio to about 100%, we
are expecting to improve the business expense ratio by about 0.8%. I believe our efforts
in the enhancing efficiency and as mentioned earlier underwriting practice have led to the
advantage over the peer players in the automobile line of business as well.
In addition, although I'm not sure if I can call this as our advantage, looking at our entire
portfolio, quite a big proportion consists of other lines of businesses than auto. I am a
little hesitant to use the word advantage but when we look at the total combined ratio I
believe this is our strength. It is difficult to make a comparison just based on the first-half
numbers and we would like to make assessment of the full-year basis.
If your question is rather on the earned incurred basis, the ratio increased by 0.1 points in
the first half. In addition to the cost for claims service system, on a very technical note, we
made IB [ph] in our provision for the great East Japan Earthquake in FY 2010 and took it
down last fiscal year. This is a negative factor for loss ratio relative to last fiscal year but
excluding both factors, the ratio improved by about 1.4 points on earned to incurred basis
as well. So we appreciate that the ratio is improving on year-on-year basis.
I assume that each company has taken into account different elements in calculating
combined ratios. We intend to continuously analyze the situation.

A - Shuzo Sumi

{BIO 3861639 <GO>}

Mr. Nagano, Executive Vice President of Tokio Marine Holdings, will take your second
question.

Page 10 of 24



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

A - Tsuyoshi Nagano

{BIO 16141096 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you. I would like to respond to two points concerning overseas business. As
indicated on page 19, TMR based in Bermuda, currently serves as the headquarters of our
reinsurance business. Traditionally they primarily assume cat risks of natural disasters.
Certainly the business has generated stable earnings. However, if our business is
concentrated on cat risks, our business will suffer from volatility because we are hit by big
natural disasters every five or six years as it was the case last year.
So in order to reduce the volatility as much as we could, we are currently considering a
strategy to gradually increase mainly American casualty risks. As you pointed out, the
casualty market would not change immediately to a hard market but we are starting to
see some signs of leveling off. In the reinsurance market, we are now able to acquire
highly profitable business by selectively underwriting policies one by one. We are currently
hiring from the market specialized underwriters by line of business that we want to be
engaged in after reviewing the portfolio thoroughly one by one together with direct
underwriters and gradually increase types of risks that we want.
Based on this approach, we're aiming to increase casualty risks other than natural
disasters to increase the proportion of body risks. The idea is to reduce volatility as much
as possible, so when you say casualty, are you referring to workers' compensation and
D&O or what kind of casualty business?

Bloomberg Transcript

It includes so-called ordinary general liabilities as well as some high excess workers'
compensation we have diversified portfolio within the respective categories.

A - Unidentified Speaker
I assume you are concerned to hear this response because when we say casualty risks in
the US, people would think of product liabilities in the US or Workman's Compensation,
the products which have caused much pain to insurers over a long term.
We are not planning at all to keep underwriting more and more typical general liability
risks in the US. Within the respective lines of business, we see various niche markets that
we are targeting in the Western developed countries and in these markets there are
various niche products. We are focusing on those highly profitable products and
expanding our portfolio.
So we are not really trying to capitalize on the hardening or softening of the general
market. We are focusing on a slightly different area.
We are also interested in opportunities which are more like fee business. We are bringing
such fee business in our portfolio gradually.
Your second question is what triggers the market to turn around? I assume all of you see
so many data points. Hurricane Sandy caused damages. Looking at a range of estimates, I
believe the highest estimate calls out the market loss of about $15 billion to $25 billion. But
this is an earning event and not a capital event.
Page 11 of 24



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

I am sure you know this but it is said that when a $50 billion plus event takes place, market
will harden significantly.

FINAL

However, looking at some local developments in the property markets for North America
and Thailand for instance, rates are rising. And it is said that both casualty and property
markets are hitting the bottom and will be gradually turned around, although the pace of
the turnaround seems to be different from one market to another.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

Thank you.

Q - Takanori Miyoshi

{BIO 16985826 <GO>}

I am Miyoshi from Goldman Sachs Securities. My first question is concerning your business
in North America. After reviewing the financial results of reinsurance subsidiary and direct
insurance subsidiary, I understood Hurricane Sandy affected direct insurers more. What
kind of impact do you think Sandy will bring to the profit and loss of your direct insurance
business in North America going forward? Do you think it will become easier to raise rates
down the road or do you foresee the rate of growth will slow down because you will see
it more risks outside? I would appreciate it if you could share with us your current thought.

Bloomberg Transcript

My second question is concerning sales of business-related equities. I appreciate that
your business performed very much in line with the plan but it reduced equities by around
JPY30 billion worth during the first half, a big part of which was attributable to the
redemption of preferred securities.
I know that your budget is not consistent across the three years, but you are trying to
reduce these equities by JPY300 billion in total to reduce assets whose risks are too high
from the perspective of enterprise risk management. How do you intend to reduce
business-related equities? I would like to once again hear your thoughts on this.

A - Shuzo Sumi

{BIO 3861639 <GO>}

Thank you. For your first question concerning the impact of Sandy to the profit and loss of
our direct insurer and responses and changes that we are contemplating, I will ask Mr.
Nagano to make a response.

A - Tsuyoshi Nagano

{BIO 16141096 <GO>}

Concerning the impact of Sandy, the answer will be the same as my response to Mr.
Muraki's questions. We believe that rates will probably go up gradually in the direct
property market in the US.
As far as our business is concerned, Philadelphia has the biggest exposure to property
business and they are increasing their rates by about 6% now. I assume the average
market growth ratio is about 2% to 3% increase. Overall, net premiums of Philadelphia
grew by 8%. Then we would expect Philadelphia to grow by about 10% down the road.

Page 12 of 24



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

In our business, we can achieve about 10% increase. Market is going to be turned around
gradually and reinsurance market is going to become tighter over time. We're are
tempted to develop such optimistic view but we would like to wait and see a bit more
how the markets will move.

FINAL

Q - Takanori Miyoshi

{BIO 16985826 <GO>}

Concerning outward reinsurance of Philadelphia, I believe there is a trend in the US where
direct insurers are retaining more risks but after this event, I hear that some insurers are
trying to cede more risks to reinsurers. Does Philadelphia have to cede to reinsurers
going forward or do you think it is not necessary for the time being?

A - Unidentified Speaker
If I may also respond to that question. As Mr. Sumi mentioned before, Philadelphia is
executing dynamic portfolio optimization or DPO in order to reduce a portfolio of natural
disaster risks every year gradually by 20% to 30% or to raise rates or change trends and
conditions.

Bloomberg Transcript

You had mentioned that insurers have been trying to reduce retained risks. We are trying
to reduce the level of natural disaster risks that it we retain while at the same time
reducing the reinsurance capacity.
I do not mention any specific number but DPO helped us a lot in preventing a big amount
of net losses from occurring related to Sandy. So as far as Philadelphia is concerned, DPO
has generated positive effects and their situation is slightly different from the general
picture.
This is a mechanism to optimize portfolio so we are reducing exposure to some lines of
businesses and we are increasing retained risks in other lines of businesses by
considering the overall balance.
With regards to your second question on business-related equities, I presume your point
is that we are quite slow against the annual budget of JPY50 billion for this fiscal year. As
we have communicated, we are targeting to reduce business-related equities by
approximately JPY300 billion over the three years under the midterm plan and at the
outset of this fiscal year, we said that we would achieve the reduction of JPY50 billion or
more during this fiscal year, which is the first year under the plan. As you correctly pointed
out, we are at the JPY30 billion mark at the moment but we intend to sell more to
achieve more than JPY50 billion reduction.
Having said that as you are well aware, we need to make a lot of coordination with
corporate clients before we sell their equities. During the previous midterm plan over the
three years against your initial target JPY100 plus billion worth, we ultimately sold around
JPY490 billion worth of equities.
Under the current plan, we are targeting JPY300 billion but it does not mean we can sell
these equities whenever we want to solely at our discretion. We will be engaged in
Page 13 of 24



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

various dialogues with corporate clients and explore appropriate timing.

FINAL

And Nikkei average goes up and down, we certainly monitor the market situations as well
to sell more equities. I hope you will wait for the results that we deliver over the course of
three years. Thank you.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you. I have three questions. My first question is on page 26. Risk capital decreased
by JPY200 billion. Market value of stocks that you hold on a consolidated basis declined
by roughly JPY300 billion, which will be a reduction of risk capital by a little less than
JPY150 billion. The remainder is coming from the reduction of investment risk but what
have you been doing more specifically? Should we expect the investment risks to be
reduced further continuously going forward?
Compared to the past, your buffer has become a bit thinner so are you taking any specific
measures to reduce risks further? This is my first question.
Secondly, I am guessing that Tokio Marine & Nichido Life sold saving-oriented products
based on their performance in terms of E&P in-force amount of new business. What kind
of products did you sell for what purpose and what is your plan down the road?

Bloomberg Transcript

My third question is concerning EV in your life business. It seems that MCEV is becoming
the mainstream approach in Japan so what are you going to do?

A - Shuzo Sumi

{BIO 3861639 <GO>}

Your first question is where the reduction of risk capital is coming from. Is it due to
equities as well as reduction of investment risks? And whether we would continue to
reduce these risks? Mr. Tamai, Executive Vice President, will address this question.

A - Takaaki Tamai

{BIO 15093748 <GO>}

Thank you. Let me respond to your question. I believe your question is coming from the
bubble attached to the gray colored bar on the right hand side of page 26. It says
reduction of asset management risks, so your question is what did we do specifically and
what are we going to do down the road?
First, this risk reduction comes from the sales of equities more than a decline in stock
prices. There was a question earlier concerning the fact that we have only reduced the
equities by JPY30 billion but we are selling down equities.
Also within the asset management portfolio, we have been reducing risk assets slightly
and replaced them with long day bonds. This is how we have also reduced risks.
As we look ahead the future, we have to note that last fiscal year our bond portfolio
became smaller in some areas because of a series of large-scale natural disasters. For a
non-life insurance group which values liquidity, we would like to further enhance bond
Page 14 of 24



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

portfolio. That means in turn that the size of risk assets will become smaller. So generally
speaking as we rebuild bond portfolio, we would like to reduce risks.

FINAL

A - Shuzo Sumi

{BIO 3861639 <GO>}

Your second and third questions were what kind of products we sell at our life insurance
company for what purpose and our view on MCEV? Mr. Kitazawa of Toki Marine & Nichido
Life will take these questions.

A - Toshif umi Kitazawa

{BIO 16818079 <GO>}

Thank you for your questions. On your first point, since our business grew quite strongly in
terms of A&P during the first half of FY 2012, you have assumed that we have grown the
sales of saving-oriented products.
About three years ago, our Company shifted the orientation of business significantly
because we thought that if we grew saving-oriented business too much that would bring
little benefits to the Company's management over the long term. So we have been
mainly selling protection-oriented products while containing the sales of saving-oriented
products within a controllable level.

Bloomberg Transcript

For the past couple of years, we have been placing a great emphasis on so-called
business life insurance, which is a product to help management of SME prepare
retirement benefits. In particular, the business insurance that we developed last year is
highly competitive and agents sold this product quite actively across the nation.
Because of that during the first half of the year, the first sector showed a very strong
growth driven by term policies or business life insurance. As a result, unfortunately the
sales of the third sector products fell short of our plan. So please feel assured that this is
not a result of us strongly focusing on saving-oriented products distorting our overall
portfolio.
Concerning your second question on the sophistication of EV, our Company is using an
approach called TEV. As you all know, MCEV and EEV are the popular approaches used to
measure EV of companies globally. We are of course studying and preparing to make
market-consistent assessment of our Company based on MCEV approach.
However, as you are well aware, there is no transparent or objective methodology
established yet to be used across the industry to assess future risks of products one by
one. This is an area which requires further study and we are studying how to advance EV
to make it a yardstick which allows you to assess the true corporate value with higher
transparency.
I hope you understand. Thank you.

Q - Unidentified Participant

Page 15 of 24



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

With regards to insurance for SME owners, there is a traditional life insurer with a very high
market share. As you compete with such players, what is your competitive advantage over
them in terms of products and channel?

FINAL

A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes, there certainly are many life insurers who have traditionally focused on corporate
insurance including retirement benefit plans for SME owners. Of course, we studied their
business and since economy is very unstable at the moment for the past two or three
years, we have actively developed products whose cash value will accumulate quickly
after taking out policies such as in three years or five years after the purchase.
We are offering various products such as A type, B type, and C type but with the C type
that we launched last year in particular, policyholders will enjoy high cash value in about
three years after the purchase. This product is selling very well and customers are now
increasingly interested in this offering.
We feel a strong momentum to push this business model where we make propositions to
the SME customers of Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire on the PMC side. This model is working
out well. Any other questions?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

I am Otsuka from Nomura Securities. I would like to ask two questions. First on Delphi and
second on Tokio Marine & Nichido Life. On page 20, it looks that the combined ratio is
expected to deteriorate on the full-year basis. Is this just a temporary increase or is there
any reason behind this?
Also related to the bottom half of the slide, Mr. Sumi mentioned that you have started to
see some synergies and benefits in some individual deals. It has been almost six months
since you closed the acquisition deal. As the company actually joined the group, have you
noticed anything better than you initially expected or worse than your expectation? If
there are any new findings about Delphi, please share that with us. This is my first
question.
Second question is about Tokio Marine & Nichido Life. On page 37 comparing the FY 2012
full-year forecast of A&P of new policies to that of FY 2013, it appears that your business
is growing so well that it might exceed the FY 2013 target this year. Some of your peer
P&C companies also seem to have aggressive plans for life insurance business but based
on the latest performance, is there a possibility that you revised your midterm target for
the life insurance business?

A - Shuzo Sumi

{BIO 3861639 <GO>}

Your first question is whether Delphi's combined ratio is deteriorating or not and if
anything has turned better than initially expected in terms of synergies. Mr. Nagano will
respond to your question.

Page 16 of 24



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

A - Tsuyoshi Nagano

{BIO 16141096 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes. Thank you. It is certainly true that Delphi's combined ratio is deteriorating temporarily.
The bottom line is that this is due to a one-off factor which is an increase in the reserve
for one major loss. We believe the combined ratio is going to come down over time.
Because this is not a structural issue, this should not be a source of concern going
forward.
Your second question is concerning synergies for the past six months. In the joint strategic
committee, we are currently discussing what five companies in North America could do to
achieve both revenue and cost synergies.
When we acquired a company, we estimated the synergies effect to be $10 million or
about JPY800 million but almost half of that amount was realized during the past six
months.

Bloomberg Transcript

We are enjoying various synergistic effects at the top line. For instance, companies are
cross selling their products respectively or introducing brokers each other to introduce
customers mutually. Further beyond our expectations, our US branch TMM is now selling
products of RSL, which is a life insurer, and some clients are saying that they would
purchase loss portfolio transfer from Delphi or transfer self-insured portfolio to Delphi
because it is part of Tokio Marine Group. We have identified many opportunities which I
believe will bear fruits going forward.
We have also identified many opportunities for cost synergies at various levels such as
reducing reinsurance costs by slightly increasing the amount of self-retention or joint
procurement of goods. We are making steady progress.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

So does your gut feeling tell you that it's better than you initially expected?

A - Shuzo Sumi

{BIO 3861639 <GO>}

We thought we shouldn't be that optimistic from the very beginning. The actual progress
so far has been in line with our plan. Now that we have identified many opportunities, it
will be important for us to deliver results. I hope this answered your question.
Then your second point is that A&P of life insurance business is growing steadily. Other
life insurers also have quite aggressive plans but your question is whether Tokio Marine &
Nichido Life will redraw and revise upwardly the midterm plan. Mr. Kitazawa will respond to
this question.

A - Toshif umi Kitazawa

{BIO 16818079 <GO>}

Thank you. If you are a life insurance business, you have to acquire new business year
after year particularly at a time like this when the interest rate is so low. There is a very
strong demand for saving-oriented products. If you try, you can easily grow premium

Page 17 of 24



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

income or top line. However, you also need to carefully analyze whether that will
contribute to the bottom line or profit. Or else you might grow sales but not profit.

FINAL

As you pointed out in the first half, our top line grew very strongly particularly on the A&P
basis. However internally, I am assessing our performance from a different perspective to
give high score to the business whose contribution to the Company's profit is big and low
score to the business whose profit contribution is small.
Given this criteria although A&P is growing, internal managerial based numbers are not
satisfactory to me. In that sense, we are very conservative. We will aggressively take up a
challenge but we look at bottom line very conservatively.
At any rate, it is a very challenging target to grow our EV by JPY180 billion over the course
of three years. Numbers grew in the first half but from the second half of this fiscal year,
for the next two or three years, we will make efforts to deliver JPY180 billion target so we
are not planning to change this number at the moment. Did that answer your question?

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

So you are profit-focused but do you see profit in terms of EV growth or core profit?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Unidentified Speaker
We look at EV growth. In terms of contribution to EV growth, saving-oriented products do
not contribute much to EV. This is why we would like to mainly sell protection-oriented
products. I hope this answers your question.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you.

Q - Jun Shiota

{BIO 4127431 <GO>}

I am Shiota from Dawai Securities. Please allow me to ask two questions. First, I often see
advertisement of E. Design Insurance recently. What is your view on this direct channel
business and how do you see the future profitability?
Second, on page 27, you have indicated your ideas on shareholder return, which are not
different from your previous explanation. Would you be more specific as to what you
mean by flexible share repurchase, what makes you start buying back your shares? I
would appreciate it if you could explain your thoughts on this once again, thank you.

A - Shuzo Sumi

{BIO 3861639 <GO>}

On the first question on E. Design, our thoughts on direct business and their profitability,
Mr. Tamai, please.

A - Takaaki Tamai

{BIO 15093748 <GO>}

Page 18 of 24



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

FINAL

Thank you. As you pointed out, we established a company called E. Design Insurance in
our Group four years ago. We are placing advertisements on TV as well claiming that this
company is part of Tokio Marine Group. Recently awareness level is increasing amongst
consumers and this company has earned the place of number one in various rankings
such as (inaudible) by Oricon and J.D. Power. That has led to create very good reputation
among consumers through word-of-mouth.
We are targeting net premiums written of JPY9.3 billion this fiscal year, which is a growth
of more than 200% year on year. In the First Quarter among the direct line companies, E.
Design came in second place in terms of actual growth of sales in yen terms. So top line is
growing extremely well and from the qualitative perspective also, we believe we are
offering high-quality products.
Part of your question was how we view these direct channels. In Tokio Marine Group,
business model of Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire and Nisshin Fire is based on Asian channel.
We do not intend to change this basic model. In the meantime, the direct channel market
has grown to the size of JPY200 billion plus now and there are some consumers who
prefer direct line as a matter of fact.
If that is the case, we would like to offer our products to this segment of the consumers.
This is our basic thinking.

Bloomberg Transcript

As a result while some customers went to the direct line market, we acquired some
policies, switched from other direct line companies, and E. Design has won some business
from other agent-based companies.
If you sum up the outcome as a group in total, the number of cars that we ensure has
grown significantly. In that sense, there seems to be some synergistic effects as a group
in total.
The other part of your question was profitability. This Company is still very small and loss
ratio on earned incurred basis tends to fluctuate during the start-up period. Loss ratio of
renewed policies is better than the new business but given the nature of this company,
most of the policies are still new, therefore the loss ratio on the earned incurred basis is
still quite high at the moment.
But this is in line with our initial expectation. As long as we maintain the current rate of
topline growth and carefully control expenses, they will generate profit in several years
time for sure. So it is fair to say that the bottom line has been trending in line with the
schedule and the growth has been exceeding the plan.
I hope that answers your question.

A - Shuzo Sumi

{BIO 3861639 <GO>}

Your second question is concerning our policy of flexible share repurchase. What kind of
criteria or trigger will make us repurchase our shares? I will ask Mr. Tamai to also address
Page 19 of 24



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

this question.

FINAL

A - Takaaki Tamai

{BIO 15093748 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you. Our basic message is shown on page 27. The primary means of our
shareholder return is dividend, which we intend to grow along with profit growth. The
target payout ratio as shown on the slide and as you see on the next bullet point as it has
been the case, we intend to conduct share repurchase in a flexible manner based on
comprehensive assessment of market conditions or capital levels as well as business
investment opportunities among others.
We believe that Tokio Marine Holdings has been and will continue to be a company which
has placed a very strong emphasis on shareholder return. There is no change to our basic
recognition that share repurchase is another important means for shareholder return
along with dividend.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now then, under what kind of circumstances could we purchase our own shares? When
the financial market is relatively stable, unlike the current market, which is in turbulence, so
to speak, or when our ESR is at a relatively good level or if we have spent several years
simply keeping our money without any business investment opportunity, then we should
act to buy our shares back.
It is difficult for us to say how much shares we repurchased under which circumstances.
Rather than communicating the annual budget at the beginning of the year like we did in
the past, we would like to keep a certain buffer and secure financial soundness while
exploring future business opportunities and implement share repurchase in a flexible
manner since the environment is so volatile.
I know this answer isn't straightforward but let me repeat that our Group does recognize
the importance of shareholder return without a doubt and this basic principle recognition
will remain unchanged. Thank you. Any other question?

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}

I am Sasaki from MUFJ Morgan Stanley. Please enlighten me on two things. Following up
on the previous question, what do you think is the adequate level of the ESR? I remember
you gave us an example of Allianz before. May I understand that you are looking to
achieve approximately 140%? Also in terms of investment opportunities, some Asian
countries are relaxing regulations on foreign capital. Mr. Sumi, how do you see investment
opportunities in Asia now? This is my first question.
On the topic of loss ratio of auto business, you did not explain this today but I heard that
proportion of hybrid cars is growing and more components are integrated into units. It
means that volume of parts to be exchanged or repaired per accident is now increasing
and pushing up the unit repair costs. Are you seeing such situation in your Company? And
if you do, that probably is a new trend and you have to review claim assumptions.

Page 20 of 24



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

Would you think of changing your rates to reflect such a shift in trend where automobile is
changing from a machine to a household appliance? Mr. Sumi, I would like to ask your view
on this as well. These are my two questions.

FINAL

A - Shuzo Sumi

{BIO 3861639 <GO>}

Your first question was the level of ESR that we are looking to achieve and how I view Asia
with some changes in foreign capital regulations.
We introduced the recognition mechanism called ESR last time and we said that Allianz
has the ESE of 143% or 144% as a reference. Similar to the previous question on share
repurchase, we have actually not decided on the target levels of ESR and capital buffer
yet.
Whether 117% is good enough or do we want to keep it around 130%. We haven't gone
that far to decide on specific numerical targets. I presume the ratio would fluctuate under
different circumstances and it would vary depending on the absolute size of the capital
buffer itself. Since it is a gap between net asset value and risk capital, if we decrease risk
capital and our asset goes up, the ratio will go up, which will be best for us. It really boils
down to the question of how we want to manage this capital buffer.

Bloomberg Transcript

Since the stock market is so volatile, sensitivity is very big. We also have to think about
buffer to prepare for large natural disasters such as developments in Kanto, Tokai, East
Nankai [ph] and Nankai Trust in the wake of the great East Japan Earthquake.
We would like to consider this in a total picture by considering various factors. In particular
when we look at international investment or M&A opportunities, which was another part of
your question, sizes of opportunities vary from small ones to big ones. In order to explore
these various opportunities, the ESR should be above 100% at least but we have not
gone that far in our study to decide on a very specific target level.
To your question on how I view investment opportunities in Asia, as you correctly pointed
out, there are some countries that are moving to change regulations on foreign capital. In
particular in India, a bill to relax 26% cap on foreign insurers went on to the Parliament.
However as it was the case at the time of retail deregulation, there are very strong
oppositions to this bill and some people suspect if this bill will successfully pass the
Parliament. Like we see in this example, it is not that regulations on foreign capital are
completely lifted and there are no two countries where regulations are all the same. Tokio
Marine Group has established our locations in almost all the countries during the course of
our long history.
In order to expand our business, if we could find a partner that satisfies our principles and
is capable of running a solid business in the market, we will consider acquisition or
establishing a joint venture with them.
Not only Japanese non-life and life companies but financial institutions in general are
rushing in emerging markets particularly in Asia. Everyone is so interested in Asia that
Page 21 of 24



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

FINAL

Japanese companies are in a way perceived as easy prey from the local perspective, if I
may dare to say so. There seem to be some companies that are willing to pay very high
price for acquisitions, which inflate market price very much in actuality.
We are not interested in going abroad just for the sake of establishing a presence in a
market. If there is an opportunity where we can surely enjoy high profitability, we will
capture that opportunity, but if not, we do not intend to join the other Japanese
companies to dance in their rhythm.
The other question was about loss ratio of auto business. Your point is that as hybrid cars
become more popular, component costs seem to be a big issue. So the question is
whether we should review the latest development and revise assumptions for a cost of
claims for auto business.

A - Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

Certainly with the introduction of hybrid cars, which are mounted with batteries, we have
seen many claims that are different from the past. And as EV or electric vehicle or HV
becomes the mainstream of the automobile going forward, the types of accidents will be
different.
We are monitoring the latest development quite closely but at the moment although
more people are driving hybrid cars, that is not resulting in an obvious increase in the unit
repair costs yet. Having said that, we believe that unit repair costs will increase sooner or
later. We do not know when but we intend to monitor the situation and take appropriate
actions in a timely manner.
Does this answer your questions?

Q - Futoshi Sasaki

{BIO 17564798 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

I am Majima from Tokai Tokyo Research Center. There were some riots in China the other
day. Riots and strikes are not covered under the policy but they will be covered under the
SRCC rider. So my first question is what was the extent of losses incurred in China?
And going forward, many strikes and riots are likely to happen in Asia or in China and
there will be a high risk for factories being destroyed. So the other question is how much
exposure do you have to strikes and riots in Asia and China? These are my two questions.

A - Shuzo Sumi

{BIO 3861639 <GO>}

Your question is concerning damages caused by riots in China and their impact to our
business. The other question is our exposure to strikes and civil commotion risks, which

Page 22 of 24



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

seem to be increasing. I will ask Mr. Uehara, Managing Director, to address these two
questions.

FINAL

A - Tadaharu Uehara
I am Uehara, in charge of emerging markets. Let them respond to your questions. With
regards to SRCC, the riots are not unique to this time. Once every five years or so, we
have seen some kind of riots in China. Also other countries for instance the United
Kingdom, experienced riots last year.
When we go into a new market or in our underwriting process, we limit the amount of
country risks and political risks that we retain along with property risks in particular by
making various arrangements. We use reinsurance. We also set sub limit to the primary
insurance policies themselves to control the risks.

Bloomberg Transcript

With regards to the SRCC in China, as you are aware, we are suspending a new provision
of this rider for the time being. We will monitor and respond to the situation in a flexible
manner. But as you pointed out, we need to control the exposure so we are looking to
arrange reinsurance policies slightly lower sub limit and limit the underwriting of new
business in the first place to ensure that our exposure is within the solvency of our
subsidiary in China and we are taking these actions already.
With regards to the extent of the damages caused by riots in China, we have
underwritten many policies to various companies that appeared in newspaper articles.
However, we are assuming that our net losses will be in the order of several hundred
million yen. Any additional comment?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Right. Since we have reinsurance covers, our net exposure to the damages caused by
riots this time is estimated to be a little under JPY500 million as of now. I hope it
answered your questions.
Time is running short so may we take the final question?

Q - Koichi Niwa

{BIO 5032649 <GO>}

I am Niwa, from SMBC Nikko Securities. I would like to ask you about dividend and auto
business. I am sorry to ask such a detailed question but regarding dividend on page 27,
you are talking about average adjusted earnings excluding EV as a fund for dividend
payout. If you have any specific number, please share that with us. Since more attention is
being paid to dividend compared to the, past, I would like to understand this better.
My second question is concerning the revision of grade ratings system of auto business. It
has been two months since the revision. Have you started to see some bonus effect or
better self-control on the part of policyholders? It may not have appeared on statistics yet
but if you could even share some qualitative observation, I would appreciate it.

Page 23 of 24



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2012-11-29

A - Shuzo Sumi

{BIO 3861639 <GO>}

Mr. Tamai will address your first question on dividend.

FINAL

A - Takaaki Tamai

{BIO 15093748 <GO>}

Thank you. Please refer to page 31 under the reference section. Due to time constraints, I
did not explain this in detail, but on the far right of the top chart on page 31, we are
indicating the projections for FY 2012.
If you look at the third line, it says the average adjusted earnings are projected to be
JPY90 billion excluding EV. Since we are planning to pay JPY55, as you can see in the
second line from the bottom, payout ratio is estimated to be 47%.

A - Shuzo Sumi

{BIO 3861639 <GO>}

Mr. Iwai will respond to the second question concerning if policyholders are refraining from
filing claims based on the new grade rating system.

A - Koji Iwai

{BIO 16291834 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, let me take the question. As you mentioned, the introduction of new grade rating
system has just begun so there isn't any input from the ground that I can share with you at
the moment. We will continue to monitor carefully the effect of the new system and trend
of claim cost and review rate tables and take other actions as necessary in order to
achieve midterm plan.

A - Shuzo Sumi

{BIO 3861639 <GO>}

I hope it answered your questions. Since time has come, we would now like to close Tokio
Marine Holdings RR meeting for the second half of FY 2012. Top management will be
around for awhile, so please feel free to talk to them.
Thank you for staying with us until the very end once again.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 24 of 24

