Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2013-02-13

Q3 2013 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Unidentified Speaker

Other Participants
Jun Shiota, Analyst
Masao Muraki, Analyst
Natsumu Tsujino, Analyst
Unidentified Participant

Presentation
Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

(Starts Abruptly) Domestic Non-life is next. Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance declined
in underwriting profit and investment income resulting in ordinary profits decline on
JPY62.5 billion year-on-year. I will explain more about Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire in a
detail later. Next I would like to talk about domestic life business.
Our Tokio Marine & Nichido Life, ordinary profit increased due to steady increase of
interim policies. On the other hand, our financial life, reinsurance cost increased due to
partial change in the reinsurance program leading to Domestic Life business over the
result in decline in profit.
Next I will talk about overseas subsidiaries. Overseas subsidiaries had increased in
ordinary profit by JPY74.9 billion year-on-year due to the action from occurrence of natural
catastrophes in fiscal 2011, expansion of underwriting why underwritings are done with
discipline and consolidating the gulf line.
Hurricane Sandy which occurred in October 2012 is in the fourth quarter for overseas
subsidiaries. Therefore, it will be just at the top of fourth quarter. However, on
consolidated accounting data the impact of Hurricane Sandy in financial accounting were
JPY22 billion is included in that part of overseas subsidiaries (inaudible) this quarter on
consolidated adjustment.
Next I will talk about consolidated adjustment. For a consolidated adjustment of losses
owing to natural catastrophe take because of the GAAP in financial year and (inaudible). In
the third quarter JPY22 billion of loss was adjusted. However, there is a reaction from less
adjustment relating to Thai flood in fiscal year 2011. So overall, adjustment amount is
reduced by JPY12.3 billion year-on-year. Also due to the stock market recovery, purchase
method adjustment amount was reduced compared to last year.
Page 1 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2013-02-13

FINAL

Let me take this opportunity to explain more about the impact of Hurricane Sandy for
fiscal 2012 projections. Please look at the metrics on the lower left. Group wide incurred
loss of revised upwards from JPY30 billion, which is the amount we announced at the
time of mid-term settlement up to JPY42 billion this time. These were made on top of the
JPY4 billion that increased due to yen depreciation, incurred losses widening at Tokio
Marine Underwriting Limited mainly for their commercial policies due to progression of
loss adjustment.
Next let me explain about the impacts of each business subsidiary projection. Our primary
underwriting business expected loss of expanding due to overseas subsidiary such as
TMUL but because of intra-group reinsurance arrangement, (inaudible) incurred a loss a
result, Tokio Marine & Nichido incurred a loss of revised upwards from JPY10 billion at the
time of loss announcement up to JPY20 billion this time. For the JPY10 million which is the
quantity paid before the end of the fiscal year, we expect that to be subject to reversal
from catastrophe loss reserve and impacts of the Tokio Marine & Nichido's net income is
minus JPY6 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

The Overseas Subsidiaries incurred a loss of JPY22 billion, net income impact of minus
JPY17 billion is expected. As a result, group wide net income impact is projected to be
minus JPY23 billion. The impact of the adjusted earnings is shown over the lower left of
the slide. Adjusted earnings were not impacted by the catastrophe loss reserve and intragroup reinsurance arrangement is recognized with international businesses covered by
loss.
Therefore, the amount of impact should be first from that net income. Specifically, impact
of the adjusted earnings of international business is minus JPY24 billion. Tokio Marine &
Nichido is minus JPY5 billion driving group wide total impacts to be minus JPY21 billion to
the adjusted earnings. Next, let me explain about the quarterly net income.
Please turn to page five. Consolidated quarterly net income was JPY87.3 billion year-onyear increase by JPY107 billion. Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire's ordinary profit declined as I
explained earlier. However, there was a reaction from last year when extraordinary losses
(inaudible) from providing assistance to a subsidiary in Thai at the time of the Thai flood
and deferred tax asset was reduced associated with corporate tax rate is decreased. Net
income in Q3 increased by JPY85.1 billion year-on-year serving rest of main region, the net
income increased for domestic non-life segment. Overseas subsidiaries also had increase
in net income for the same reasons of ordinary profit.
On consolidated adjustments, there are similar adjustments to take place as was done for
the ordinary profits. On the other hand, last year, extraordinary loss from providing
assistance to Tokio Marine & Nichido subsidiaries have eliminated at consolidated levels,
which in a reaction to that this year is a net major negative factor becoming a negative
factor for the net income. That concludes the overview of consolidated financial results.
Next I'll explain about the overview of financial results for each of the business domain.
Please turn to page six. Let me now explain about the third quarter results for Tokio
Marine & Nichido fire insurance company. Right side of the slide lists factors for increase

Page 2 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2013-02-13

FINAL

and decrease of operating profit. Upward arrow indicates factors to increase in profit,
downward arrow indicates factors to decrease in profit. First is about the underwriting
profit. After this point, I will be talking mainly about target insurance, but please also refer
to target insurance part of the major P&L items on the left of the slide.
And now I will explain about the major factor. Net premiums written for auto insurance
continue to increase and thanks to rate revision effects and effects of our alliance with
Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company. Business remains brisk on other line and net
premiums written increased by JPY50.2 billion.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next is net incurred loss. I'd like to explain this by (inaudible). First is natural catastrophe
related incurred loss. Last fiscal year, net incurred loss was JPY98.3 billion due to title
number 12 and title number 15 on top of the slide. This fiscal year, we saw occurrence of
marked low pressure entitled number 4, our Typhoon Guchol from the beginning of the
year as well as received impact from Hurricane Sandy, but net incurred loss was JPY59.6
billion year-on-year declined by JPY38.5 billion.
Next I will explain about foreign exchange impact. Last fiscal year saw a progression with
yen appreciation by JPY5 from the beginning of the year while at this year, yen
depreciated by JPY4 which is yen depreciation by JPY9 last fiscal year. As a result,
provision for reserves for foreign currency denominated outstanding claims increased by
approximately JPY18.90 billion which is a factor of increase in incurred loss. Other than
that, medium-to-large accidents in fire insurance increased more than the developed
underwriting expanding in every line and loss adjustment expense increased for new
claims service system leading to increase in incurred loss increase by JPY22 billion yearon-year, despite the fact that natural catastrophe occurrence was less this year than last
year.
Next, let me explain about the CapEx of loss reserves. First fiscal year have less
provisioning for CapEx of loss reserve due to the provision of claim statement for the
Great East Japan Earthquake this fiscal year due to the reaction from last fiscal year. There
is no publicity to do more by JPY38.9 billion. As a result, for this fiscal year, underwriting
profit came to be JPY4.4 billion, which is a decline by JPY14.1 billion year-on-year. And the
loss ratio on the Earned to Incurred basis also included in the general criteria for the
record [ph], adjacent at the bottom left the loss ratio on Earned to Incurred basis
increased by 6 points to 68.0% primarily because as we discussed before, what is
incurred by natural catastrophes decreased.
Next, let me explain the loss ratio of the private insurance on an earned incurred basis.
There is no notable change in the situations around private insurance business since the
second quarter. As we communicated before, during the second quarter, the insurance
claim per policy for property and business annuity is going up. During the third quarter, the
insurance claim per policy to cover property and business continue to go up, while
frequency of accidents stayed flat around the year.
Since products and rate revisions resulted in a growing of premiums written, as a result
the loss ratio on earned incurred basis increased by 0.3 points to 70.3%.

Page 3 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2013-02-13

FINAL

Now, let us go back to P&L and review our investment income. Investment income
declined by JPY33.7 billion year-on-year to JPY104.7 billion yen. Gains on sales of security
dropped since sales volume of business related equities were smaller. Gains on
derivatives also dropped due to a depreciation of Japanese Yen and from the data on
investment gains and losses due to certain items we will discuss later.
The company's underwriting profit and investment income declined, ordinary profit
dropped by JPY60.1 billion year-on-year to JPY104.5 billion, however, as explained earlier,
because of the extraordinary gains as well as tax rate reduction, net income increased by
JPY18.1 billion to JPY76.5 billion. (inaudible) On page seven and eight, we have included
new information on combined ratio on the written paid basis and a follow-up to
breakdown of net premiums written, which will be explained later.
Next, please go to page nine to review the third quarter results of Nichido Fire. Nichido
Fire increased underwriting profit by JPY2.7 billion to JPY300 million. Net premiums
written increased and business expenses were reduced. Reversal from the cat loss
reserves also increased.
Meanwhile, investment income declined by JPY3.5 billion to JPY1.4 billion, primarily due to
smaller gains in sales of business related equities.

Bloomberg Transcript

In addition to the factors that I just mentioned, it is also notable that last year, we did not
have to reduce deferred tax assets in conjunction with the corporate tax rate in the fiscal
year. As a result, net income increased by JPY5.8 billion year-on-year to JPY0.5 billion.
Next, please turn to page 10 to discuss ANP and key figures. Within the slide, let me start
with ANP. As we see in the slide, which shows the trends of ANP, the company maintained
steady growth from the second quarter. In the medical and insurance policy, ANP of new
business declined by 4.5% year-on-year since the new product effects of Medical Kit
which we launched last year went forward. However, due to the strong sales of first-sector
products such as business insurance and as well as individual annuities, ANP of new
business in total increased by 27.9%. In-force income increased by 9.0% from the integral,
or by 7.3% from the end of the last fiscal year, reflecting a steady growth of the business.
For the other numbers, insurance premiums and other increased by JPY36.6 billion yearon-year to JPY398.6 billion, thanks to the steady growth of in-force book.
Net income increased by JPY9.6 billion to JPY13.2 billion, thanks to the top line growth and
the -- deferred tax assets reduction in conjunction with the corporate tax rate reduction in
our fiscal year.
Next, I will walk you through our international insurance business. Please go to page 11.
Following our usual method, I will explain the performance of our international insurance
business, I'm referring to the graph of total number, including the contributions from all
the business, equity method as well as companies that are not affiliated to our group.

Page 4 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2013-02-13

FINAL

Net premiums written increased by 29% year-on-year to JPY496.2 billion, this is thanks to
the consolidation of Delphi, which was not in the consolidated to book as well as the
organic growth of our existing operations. Let's move to performance down by each
business.
Philadelphia performed well in both new business acquisition and new policies. As a result,
we over achieved the market average (inaudible) revenue by 11% year-on-year grew both
(inaudible). Since they were newly consolidated to our group for fiscal year, we're not
indicating year-over-year change, but on the local accounting basis, we grew the top line
by approximately 10%, TM grew its revenue through marine and property management
business, which is also expected to increase rate in the reinsurance business, their
revenue grew by 26% year-on-year.
Our Tokio operations in Asia grew their top line by 25% year-on-year. There is a new
contribution from our current non-life operations increased as we increased exporting of
the operation also in India, Thailand and Malaysia risen by economic growth of these
countries include our business particularly in the personal auto insurance business.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the new insurance business, grew a top line by 24% year-on-year on expanded basis in
other types of natural cat business and their branch office in Australia and Switzerland
expanded their underwriting activities.
Please go to page 12 to review our adjusted earnings. Our adjusted earnings increased by
JPY83.1 billion year-on-year to JPY51.6 billion losses incurred by natural cat events that we
suffered from during the last fiscal year just appeared in order to increase top line are
also working and also are really contributing to our total performance. Please note that
losses incurred by Hurricane Sandy are now reflected in the adjusted earnings for the third
quarter will be the recognized as losses in the fourth quarter.
Lastly, I will explain to you the revisions that we made to our full-year guidance on Page 14.
When we announced the financial performance of the second quarter, we also disclosed
the full-year guidance based on the market environment as of end of the September,
2012. Since then, as we experienced the depreciation of Japanese Yen as well as the
stock market we need to look at our projections based on the marketing environment as
of the end of December 2012.
Main factors including the reserves are indicated on the slide, but we have made an
upward revision to the projection of total (inaudible) because investment income is
expected to include more of the decline we are expecting underlining profit. Profit of
Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire increased upwardly due to the improvement the investment
environment because I think for underwriting reserves are expected to become smaller.
We also made an upward revision to the project guidance for international insurance
business as loss encouraged by Hurricane Sandy has increased due to weaker Japanese
Yen, our revenue is expected to increase. As a result, we made an upward revision to our
ordinary profit projection by JPY25 billion to JPY170 billion due to the previous result. Net
income is now projected to be JPY110 billion, up by JPY20 billion from our previous
projection.

Page 5 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2013-02-13

FINAL

Please go to page 15 to look at the projections for the year. We made a downward
revision to the underwriting profit projection by JPY17 billion because the provision for
reserves for denominated foreign currencies will increase due to the falling Japanese
Yen, in relation to the impact of Hurricane Sandy. Meanwhile, we had an upward revision to
investment income at JPY22 billion, primarily due to the recovery of valuation securities as
well as (inaudible). As a result, ordinary profit projection is revised upwards by JPY5 billion
to JPY182 billion.
Next, please go to page 16 to look at the projection of adjusted earnings in our
international insurance business. We made an upward revision to the projection of
adjusted earnings by JPY3 billion to JPY50 billion as well as the losses incurred by
Hurricane Sandy have increased, weaker Japanese Yen is a powerful factor here, and
underwriting performance of our operation, including Philadelphia have been good.
This concludes my presentation. I'm happy to entertain any questions you may have.

Questions And Answers
Operator
Now, we would like to get into Q&A. (Operator Instructions) Our first question is from
Muraki from Deutsche Securities.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

Thank you for the opportunity. First of all, I have a question about the auto insurance. In
the third quarter, in the three months of the third quarter, the claims reported growth
compared to the first half, seems to be increase in terms of growth rate. However, in
frequency, it has not changed much. Therefore, as you mentioned in the third quarter, I
believe there is that one-off factor coming from the small effect. Let me confirm if I'm
correct.
The second question is about the securities sale. Excluding preferred securities, the sales
of the ordinary share fell in the first half, it was about JPY15 billion yen, from October to
December, in the three months, it was JPY32 billion yen and then from January to March,
projection is JPY27 billion. So I believe these are the actual as well as projected sales
amount of ordinary securities. Am I correct? Those are my questions. Thank you.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you for the question. So we did receive two questions from you. I'd like to answer
them one by one.
First question, compared to the medium-term timing, the claims of the accident haven't
changed much. And in the first half in 2011, in the first half, there was a free flow that was
introduced and then that things have decreased this year. However, in the third quarter,
with lack of that, it seems like they have increased a little. And so, compared -- so for the
April to October, it is flattish.
Page 6 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2013-02-13

FINAL

Meanwhile the first point, so there is no damage -- there is no damage, not a big factor
so far. And for this no damage, as we pointed out October to January, we did have a lot
of deals even in the region. But for the damage amount, it was several billion yen and
even factoring in that much damage, the overall point level is within what we have
expected for the final one. That concludes my answer.
Thank you. There was another question, we couldn't answer the second question. I will
continue.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

This is about details of the ordinary shares, excluding preferred share and a detailed
amount, including preferred shares was over JPY30 billion and the amount was about
JPY16 billion. So 16 billion, so the ordinary sales for the first half of the year, yes, and after
that, after the third quarter, the amount was 63 minus 16. So it becomes 47 on cumulative
basis, that's -- 37 billion is the amount we have sold up to the end of the third quarter
excluding preferred share sales, for the ordinary shares only? So that means within the
three-month from the third quarter, we have sold JPY29 billion. Is that correct?

A - Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

I believe that's a rough number, and yeah, that's roughly correct. And that part of the
projections we are announcing is meant with yen which includes preferred securities. So if
you exclude the preferred securities, we can estimate the amount of ordinary shares also
take place in the fourth quarter.
So that means in the third quarter, it was JPY31 billion, it was not including JPY1 billion for
the third quarter. So next quarter is going to be less than what we have sold in the third
quarter and that we are extracting for the fourth quarter of this year.
Looking back to stock market, it's rising quite strongly. When we made the revised
projections, we did make some upward revision to the numbers so that securities sales,
and I assume that to take place. So the sell down of business related equities we were
expecting of JPY50 billion at the beginning of the year.
On the other hand, for the medium-term management plan, we were planning for about
JPY100 billion each year for the three years in Japan. Therefore, obviously when market
price goes up, the amount may be spend on but for the medium-term, we will still aim to
achieve the targets that we have announced in the medium-term.

Operator
Next question?

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you very much for this opportunity. I would like to ask you two questions. Number
one related to your domestic business. For the revenue shares on the revenue -- in the

Page 7 of 14



FINAL

Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2013-02-13

third quarter I think that the combined ratio 57. -- 97.5% is expected to go up to 99.5% on
a full-year basis. I think that this could be partly because of the payments related to Sandy
[ph], is that right or is there any other different factors that you have included here? And
what is your expected loss ratio in the fourth quarter, what is your accounting behind that
as well? That is my first question. And second is related to your international business.
Looking at the top line growth of your international business, given on a local currency
basis, I believe that (inaudible) think the insurance to be growing our international business
quite well, particularly perhaps in the Asian business as well as in the reinsurance business.
Additionally in fiscal 2014, we are targeting to achieve the adjusted earnings to JPY100
billion, which I think is a very ambitious target but in achieving this target under the
reinsurance, how do you address where you at the moment? Do you think that you are on
track or do you see something different from what you originally see? That is my second
question.

A - Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me answer your first question. On myself I'm actually from the Corporate Accounting, I
will try to answer that. With regard to Sandy, currently, we have not changed our
estimated number and we expect to pay the amount on the full year basis, that it doesn't
occur with (inaudible) JPY10 billion originally and we have revised it up to 21 volume.
Then in terms of losses incurred, however in terms of amounts we paid we take the
original estimation of JPY10 billion and combined ratio on the other hand expected to go
up on the full-year basis. Excluding the impact of Hurricane Sandy, there were other
natural catastrophes for which we are planning to pay some claims. And that is expected
to be a bigger factor behind the expected increase of the combined ratio.
Does that answer your question?

Q - Unidentified Participant
Are you perhaps expecting to increase the amount of paid by (inaudible) perhaps not a
20%, again JPY400 million is getting paid?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Are you trying to compare the first quarter to the actual? Well, I was just wondering how
much losses we are expecting to see in the fourth quarter. In the third quarter, JPY5 billion
was included in the third quarter already and we are expecting to see JPY5 billion in the
fourth quarter than JPY5 billion in third quarter of 2012, and there are other claims that we
have related to time swaps and if I repeat, the operation in this business is going to go
up. And so we are not expecting to see a major change in the business. Finally, I'm not
really sure of this, but the marketing order insurance that you mentioned earlier, the
frequency has been flat and unit cost or the claim per policy has been slightly increasing.
And we expect that to continue in the fourth quarter and therefore, we have not seen
anything in particular, especially in the fourth quarter. On our international business
planning, top line growth of our international business was flat.

Page 8 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2013-02-13

FINAL

In fiscal year 2013, which is the final year under the mid-term plan, as mentioned earlier,
we are trying to achieve more than JPY100 billion. And in order to achieve that target, we
are planning to achieve JPY200 billion through organic growth at a top line level and there
will be a top line contribution from Delphi and therefore, ultimately, this should be safe to
assume. That is what we currently see under the plan.
And against this plan, how are we managing this, we are excited to say that we are
returning on track to reach this target.
And in order to support organic growth, we are taking creative measures and we will also
continue to carefully monitor how we are doing against the plan. And we also want to
share that we will then quickly just focus on top line growth. We are carefully once again
monitoring it. Thank you.

Operator
We will like to take the next question from Ms. Tsujino of JPMorgan. Tsujino, please go
ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

It's now part of the presentation, but I was looking at the supplementary document
before the telephone conference which is (inaudible) Tokio Marine, we are seeing Tokio
Marine, et cetera and the international business, and then for the full-year forecast, it was
57.1, but it was up to JPY61.9 billion. And last time the Hurricane Sandy was included and
it's also included this time, it' still 69.9. And then this is a variance by positive JPY12.8 billion.
And so you are expecting JPY12.8 billion more even including Sandy. And yen depreciation
I am sure is there by several billion yen. But this is a major improvement so I'd like to know
what's happening in this part and is this still sustainable?

A - Unidentified Speaker
My name is (inaudible) from Corporate Accounting. In the supplement or document for
the telephone conference, the actual versus the projections, how we include the number
to quarterly difference between the two.
That's what we are showing them in the sheet. For the actual number to the overseas
subsidiaries profit being combined together is the actual number where actually the
projection, the interest and dividend payment in between the overseas subsidiaries have
been eliminated.
So the mixed number is shown for the projection. Therefore, for the income holding
companies in the international business, they receive dividend payments from the
subsidiaries, which is about a little over JPY10 billion and that has been inflated to be part
of the projection.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Page 9 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2013-02-13

For the projections you are including that? Or are you eliminating that, you're eliminating
that right?

FINAL

A - Unidentified Speaker
In the projections, we are eliminating that. And then I am saying that since November 19 to
to-date announcement that has increased by JPY12.8 billion and I would like to know the
reasons for the increase in the projections for the overseas subsidiaries. The reasons for
the increase in the projections is the incurred loss which is about JPY2 billion, and then the
FX impact is about several billion yen, which is set up for the revision factor and then after
the third quarter, we will have across seven billion yen.
So it can negative 2 billion right? And then FX and the actual is included on the cumulative
basis. So what part of the overseas subsidiary target structure to be the size of the FX
impact. Which business is doing well?

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Each of the businesses that we've outside of Japan, North America or each business we
have in North America is doing well. So, there seem to be the same level going forward
for Hawaii, because the U.S. market is improving now for, I believe it's coming from one
impacting. Do you believe that this situation can continue going forward or do you think
you are simply lucky this full year? Just add some color to your answer?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Unidentified Speaker
My name is Nagona from international business planning. We did repeat a question on the
supplemental material for the conference call. And the effort that we've made on this
achieved. Previously, Mr. Takaaki explained about the Sandy impact. The Sandy impact,
because of the intra-group trade, TMNF. The reinsurance arrangement which was made
within the group was several billion yen and that reinsurance arrangement within the
group is big at Tokio Marine & Nichido. So that means for every subsidiary member, this
metric appears to be better.
On the other hand, on an adjusted earnings basis, it belongs to each of business
subsidiary. So, as Takaaki explained that, the adjusted earnings will always be for
subsidiary (inaudible). So we are looking at the same number, but where that scope was
the allocation of the property life, remember it was a little bit different. And the
development of the Sandy loss, it started to be a negative factor, (inaudible) elsewhere.
And you asked me whether is that trend sustainable. Very quickly, yen -- appreciation is
about JPY4 billion and a depreciation impacted about JPY4 billion on an adjusted earnings
basis and other than that, Delphi being through existing businesses, expanding our
ordinary and resulting in the (inaudible) At each local market, they are closing their
account, so we are looking at third quarter situation and the most recent situation. And we
are trying to sum up the numbers at each subsidiaries. As it was mentioned, in the North
American business and also reinsurance business basis and also our key business
subsidiaries is in the primary underwriting business, are trying to determine their products
grow and as the decline in the market is increasing.

Page 10 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2013-02-13

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay, thank you. My other question. The auto recently (inaudible) payment is going up.
And we are excluding that count. I believe the 12 billion in the data package and looking at
stock, so you did throw the numbers because of the tertiary methods, is it like projecting
near-term increase in the number?
So considering the most recent situation I know this is difficult for you to say but where
would you be trending to for the E/I loss ratio excluding that count, compared to 2011,
how would that be for the end of the fiscal 2012? Should I expect a flattish or kind of
something else?

A - Unidentified Speaker
(inaudible) from the personal products, the E to I loss ratio trends -- the cranes cost trend
is moving in line with expectation, so we believe that compared to 2011 we are still
expecting some improvement that forecast to be our projections. Second one is, in the
trade cost the systems renewal cost is going to remain in the second half, so is that going
to become an upward factor, but even including that we think we will still improve on the E
to I loss ratio or will be flattish. For the loss adjustment cost, including the loss adjustment
cost, we are still expecting improvement in the loss ratio.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Our next question is from Mr. Shiota from Daiwa Securities.

Q - Jun Shiota

{BIO 4127431 <GO>}

I only have actually two questions on services. I had an assumption behind the guidance.
You have included currency as well as assumptions and the currency trends are changing,
in terms of the currency impacts in previous conference calls as well, the Japanese Yen
falling, depreciation. I think that it's going to target 35 billion to 36 billion worth of
negative impact by any mutual agreement, is that correct? And the stock market has also
been developing, and so are you able to essentially offset or recover a negative impact
coming from the forex change?

A - Unidentified Speaker
So as we look ahead to the future for the full-year guidance, given that the currency as
well as the market has been changing furthermore with the performance and on 316, and
in terms of the business ratio, as stated the previous time, I think that (inaudible) because
we're going to work on further reduction of expenses. And we have to introduce the
product for a short span, and once again, we think that we will be able to continue to
reduce the expense in the full-year as well.

Q - Jun Shiota

{BIO 4127431 <GO>}

Yes. On your first question, (inaudible). As you correctly pointed out, the Japanese Yen is - we suffered from a negative impact. Could you give some numbers?

Page 11 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2013-02-13

FINAL

A - Unidentified Speaker
First of all, as we have mentioned, we have costs in foreign currency and there will be a
negative -- and the revenues on our future contracts, about JPY700 billion negative
impact on before tax basis. And also outside Japan, we have subsidiaries and they're
confident. With a weaker Japanese Yen, it's rather going to be tough, but it's going to
improve. And therefore, that is going to be faster. And I think it's going to be profit after
the JPY100 million and looking at the current marketing, JPY1 million rather. I'll correctly
make JPY11,300 and currently was in terms of the P&L we have finalized the numbers as
at end of December. And therefore, we will not be affected by the foreign currency
market. And so it is essentially the bigger (inaudible) And there will be about other than
that (inaudible) ultimately. And when it comes to flooring [ph], the stock market on the
other hand, from the end of December last year, the stock market has gone up by about
10% or so. And of course therefore we see the securities and at the same time, losses in
securities is also expected to be recovered.
And in addition to that, particularly in financial life, on the full-year guidance, we are trying
to make some addition provision to the (inaudible). However, the company that we involve
that's been improving. We will be able to (inaudible) and therefore, as a result, weaker
Japanese yen, there will be a negative impact however, and we will be able to pretty
much offset that with the soft market. Is that a clear question?

Bloomberg Transcript

in much of that box markets that are providing in stock market in currently your question.
(inaudible) reduction of the numbers you got from insurance we are planning to increase it
by about JPY6 billion. And we continue to reduce these expense further more going
forward.
Well, we expect the expenses to turnaround and we are not planning to -- we are not
planning to push forward kind of the reductions that we were originally bound to make.
And so we don't know how the numbers are going to be for next fiscal year, however, as
far as expense reduction may concern we are working on that earnestly. So we believe
that we will reduce our expenses.

Q - Jun Shiota

{BIO 4127431 <GO>}

The 64 million that you mentioned earlier, is what the gap between original plan and the
current plan you have?

A - Unidentified Speaker
From 19 of November we announced that trend, and then from that number we are going
to increase by JPY6 billion.

Operator
The next question will be from Wataru Otsuka [ph] of Nomura Securities.

Page 12 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2013-02-13

Q - Unidentified Participant

FINAL

I have two brief questions. The first question is about economic solvency ratio, as of the
end of December, what is the number that you have it, let me know. As you develop, you
can tell me the sensitivity for average, you said there is an insolvency ratio, it grows up by
12%. Is that sensitivity still viable? My first question.
And the second question is that you did make an affidavit in to your full-year projection.
On BML, it was JPY110 billion, on an adjusted earnings basis. Does it get revised for the
same amount as what you show for the P&L of that region?

A - Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

To answer your first question, the economic solvency ratio is only announced at the
interim and year-end. We do not disclose it at the end of December, however, the
sensitivity which you said, which is -- the average comes to 4%, both plus or minus is
sensitivity. Does it answer your first question? Yes. Thank you.
As to your second question about adjusted earnings, impact to adjusted earnings, for the
overseas insurance business, as we show at the very end of the presentation material,
you can refer to that. For the overseas insurance business, it's plus JPY3 billion compared
to the previous. And therefore, the adjusted earnings, this is also something we also show
twice a year. However, to Tokio Marine, they needed to go higher, be comfortable, the
improvement was very large. And that does not get reflected on the adjusted earnings.
Therefore, that does not depend on the factor. However, the FX impact, the adjustment
for the foreign currency is 1 million and also the foreign currency derivative targeted now
to be (inaudible). That's been reflected on to the adjusted earnings.
So for Tokio Marine, we need to go to a high insurance company, these are negative
factors for the adjusted earnings projection.
For the life insurance business, we are still looking to that. But we cannot share with you
today financial wise, that's the individual division for the projection.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you.

Operator
Our next question is from (inaudible) Morgan Stanley Securities.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Let me ask you one question, with regards dividend and share buyback, have you
changed your figures yet?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Page 13 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2013-02-13

FINAL

We have change in stock market and we have accordingly reviewed our performance, but
as we announced in the interim results we have not changed our policy since then, of
course the stock prices have been going up with (inaudible). But looking at EXR, the
sensitivity has remained unchanged.
And therefore rather than looking at and reviewing policy shortly this time, we will review a
copy at this time. And also with regards to dividend, as mentioned, we are out of the
fiscal year, we are planning to increase dividend by 10% and this trend has also remained
unchanged. Thank you.

Operator
There seems to be no questions. (Operator Instructions) There seems to be no questions
at this point.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Then we would now like to conclude the teleconference for third quarter of this financial
year. Thank you very much for you participation today.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

This concludes Tokio Marine Holdings fiscal year 2012 third quarter financial results
teleconference. Once again, thank you very much for your participation.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 14 of 14

