Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

S1 2012 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

David Stevens, COO
Greig Paterson, Analyst
Henry Engelhardt, CEO
Kevin Chidwick, CFO

Other Participants
Andrew Crean, Analyst
Andy Broadﬁeld, Analyst
Andy Hughes, Analyst
Cameron Hussein, Analyst
James Pearce, Analyst
Marcus Barnard, Analyst
Peter Eliot, Analyst
Ravi Tanna, Analyst
Simon Denison-Smith, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Tom Dorner, Analyst
Trevor Moss, Analyst
Will Hardcastle, Analyst

Presentation
Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Good morning. Welcome, everybody, to Admiral Group's full-year, 2012 full-year results
presentation. This is the ninth time we've done a full-year presentation since we ﬂoated in
September 2004.
An interesting little fact is it's the 15th presentation, the half years and the full years, so
seven -- a little over seven years, and it's been the same Chairman, CEO, COO and FD
making the presentation. And I wonder how many of the other shares[ph] you cover can
make that claim.
Thank you for the early start as well. I know it's a busy day for everyone; a lot going on.
We'll try and move through our things at a reasonable pace. I will talk for a brief moment
on the results. Kevin will then come up and do a lot more on the results. David will talk
about the UK operations, and I'll come back, talk a little bit about International. And then
we'll take your questions.
Page 1 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

FINAL

You're not singing. Come on . 20 years, we completed 20 years of trading at the end of
December last year. We launched January 2, 1993. We had one brand. We had no
customers. We had 57 members of staﬀ that ﬁrst morning. On December 31, 2012, we had
13 brands, we had 6,500 members of staﬀ, 3.5 million vehicles. It's been a pretty busy 20
years trading in ﬁve countries.
Yes, we've kept busy during the 20 years. A picture is worth 1,000 words. This was not
taken this week leading up to the results announcement. This was actually taken in 1991.
Across 20 years what have we accomplished? If the rules change and instead of us
reporting on a quarterly basis, or even a half-year basis, we only reported every 20 years,
what would we be reporting? Well, we'd be reporting that in that time, we've employed
15,000 people, not all at once, 20 million vehicles; our turnover in that period is GBP13
billion.
And how have we done? Well, our loss ratio over 20 years is 69%, the expense ratio 15%.
So our combined ratio over the entire period of 20 years is, well, I think you'd agree, is
quite a stunning 84%.

Bloomberg Transcript

What was the best loss ratio year? 2001; 50% loss ratio. That was a good year. In that time,
we've generated over GBP2 billion of proﬁt for our owners. And since we've gone public,
the average return on capital is 57%; again, quite a stunning ﬁgure.
How about 2012 itself? I think the numbers pretty much speak for themselves. It's another
year of record proﬁts; record proﬁts every year since we went public. And as Kevin will
explain, actually, the list goes on long before that.
The return on capital was a record for us, 60%. Turnover up just slightly. Group vehicle
count up a little bit more. Earnings per share in line with the proﬁt before tax; and a
record ﬁnal dividend of 45.5p, bringing the 2012 dividend to 90.6p a share.
And dividend seem to be ﬂavor of the month, so I thought I'd spend just a little bit more
time on our dividend and our dividend across time. As you can see, it's a dividend of
constant growth. Every year, that's about a 20% growth rate across from 2005 to 2012,
and the increase every year.
The philosophy is quite simple. We have 45% of our proﬁts in our pledged dividend. We
then have the rest is a special dividend. We keep it that way as a special because if we
need the funds for anything, we can take them and use them. But we also have a pledge
to our shareholders not to leave copious amounts of cash swashing around in the
Company.
So we take what we need to make sure our businesses are adequately funded, and then
whatever's left, we are happy to pay out in dividends. And that's resulted in over, well
over GBP1 billion of dividends being paid since 2004.

Page 2 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

We did ﬂoat; on ﬂoat day, that original GBP2.75 share price gave us a market cap of
GBP711 million. And if you had been lucky enough to get in at that price, you would have a
total shareholder return today of 525%.

FINAL

Thank you. I shall be back in a few minutes to talk more about International. But in the
meantime, I'm going to turn it over to Kevin, who will go into some more details on the
ﬁnancial results.

Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Thank you, very much, Henry. Good morning, everybody. I'm going to talk about proﬁts,
capital and dividend. But before I do that, I just want to say thank you, Will Moore, sitting
at the back. Will, I don't know how many people know Will, has been working for us as
our in-house broker with Merrills for some time. But Will is -- the reason I'm mentioning it
is because Will is leaving us, and I want to thank him for what he's done for us; but more
importantly, thank him for what he's going to do for us, because he's going to join Oﬃcer
Training to join the army. So thank you very much, Will.

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Let me start with the story of the history; turnover since we launched and also
proﬁts since we launched. I think there are three interesting things to say from this graph.
The ﬁrst one is that the turnover has varied through the cycle. It's hard to see it on this
scale, but the fast growth that's clear in '10 and '11, and then not so much in '12, was not an
exceptional phenomenon. We did grow very fast in 2003 and 2004. If you look closely
enough you can see it.
But we don't grow for growth's sake. We've said this before. We aim to do what we think
is proﬁt maximizing. And that means growing faster sometimes and growing less fast at
other times, like now.
The second thing to say is that 2012 is a year of record proﬁts, which is nice; but it's also
the 20th consecutive year of record proﬁts, as you can see from the bars on the graph.
And all of that growth, all of those proﬁts, has been organic.
And the third thing I wanted to say is that it's important to note that proﬁt reporting is not
synchronized with turnover reporting. This graph does, of course, not allow for margin,
which is the critical ingredient when looking for the right level of growth that's proﬁt
maximizing.
And it's also true to say that our prudent reserving approach, which does lead to a
lagging eﬀect on proﬁts, is very much reﬂected in the numbers that you've seen in the
past and the numbers that you're seeing today.
So how did we do in 2012 relatively? Well, you can see that -- over the next few weeks the
analysts will be updating their forecasts for 2013's proﬁts, so I thought it would be
interesting to look at how we did compared to the analysts' forecasts for 2012 proﬁts, as
they were forecast back in March/April of last year. And this graph sets the two against
each other, and I think you can see that it compares pretty well to the range.
Page 3 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

FINAL

Henry's already given you the headline. We made a proﬁt of GBP345 million for 2012, up
15% on 2011. Here I'm showing a breakdown of where that proﬁt has come from. The
picture is a familiar one. Once again, we have two minus ﬁgures, the red and the green
bars below the line.
The red represents our Group costs. This is primarily made of our employee share scheme
costs. It's an increase on last year principally because we've grown our staﬀ numbers, and
we're delighted to say that now over 6,500 staﬀ will be granted new Admiral shares
following these results.
The green bar, the minus 7% of the total, relates to the investment in growing our
businesses outside of the UK. I'll leave it to Henry to tell you more about that progress
we're making internationally, but suﬃce for me to say at this point that they've all got
bigger, and so has the size of the investment.
At the top of the chart is a light blue bar. That represents our UK Price Comparison
business, Confused.com. Confused had a good year. They've grown their turnover, and
most importantly, in what remains a tough environment, they've succeeded in growing
both their net margin and their absolute level of proﬁt. Proﬁts at Confused are up 13% on
2011 to GBP18 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

The outlook does remain tough though in what is -- it is still a very competitive price
comparison market in the UK.
That just leaves the dominant component of the picture which is, of course, the UK
Insurance business. With a proﬁt of GBP373 million, it makes up 108% of our Group proﬁts
in 2012.
The UK Insurance business has increased its proﬁts by 19% year on year. They had a good
year. I'm particularly pleased to say that the claims developments patterns that we saw in
2012 were a strong improvement on those that we saw 2011, and it is the case that we've
not taken all of that improvement into the results that you see today.
David will go into much more detail on that shortly, as well as giving a summary of how
we view the recent developments in the UK market, so I won't dwell on this any further at
this point.
I will go on to talk about the dividend shortly, but before I do so, I wanted to share with
you some numbers demonstrating the strength of our capital position. Our business is
often described as capital light, and in fact, that's how we've described it ourselves. But
that's the same as saying it's not very well capitalized, which it is.
It's a capital-light model because we reinsure the majority of our underwriting to our
reinsurance partners, and because of these relationships, we only take, have to take a
minority of the risk and, therefore, only have to provide a minority of the risk capital.

Page 4 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

We do, however, beneﬁt from the majority of signiﬁcant proﬁt sharing arrangements from
the reinsurance deals. It gives the majority of the proﬁts from the minority of the capital,
and this is what we call a capital-light model.

FINAL

But we are also cautious in our investment policy, and also cautious in our investments in
our growing businesses, and that helps to keep the risk capital low as well.
So this model enables us to produce consistently higher returns on capital, typically more
than 50% in the year, as you can see from the blue bars on the left there. And this year is
no exception with a new record return on capital of 60%.
But not withstanding that, we are very well capitalized against -- when you compare it
against the risk capital we need to maintain to meet our regulatory requirements at least,
and you can see that on the chart on the right-hand side of the slide.
And now to my favorite slide, as always, the dividend slide. Henry has already covered this
in some summary, so I will simply say at this point that we're once again paying out a new
record dividend. We do pay out all of our spare cash over and above what we think we
need to run the business. This means another dividend payout ratio of over 90% of posttax proﬁts.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our dividend policy hasn't changed. In the absence of any speciﬁc calls on our cash, we
do not foresee any reason why the payout ratio should materially change from its current
level going forward.
The ﬁnal dividend, as you can see from the slide, is 45.5p, making the full year dividend
90.6p. And for the ﬁnal dividend, the shares go ex-d on May 1 and the dividend gets paid
on May 24.
That's it from me. Thank you, very much. I'll now hand you over to David.

David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Thank you, Kevin.
In line with Henry's theme of the 20th birthday, I thought I'd just take the chance to just do
a quick review of the UK car insurance market over the last 20 years before focusing the
market in 2012, and then talking about Admiral's performance in that market.
In what many would probably assume would be a slow moving, relatively dull industry,
there's actually been a huge amount of change over the last 20 years. And one of the
most striking elements of that is who are the key players.
Back in '93 when we launched, you can see on the left-hand side the ﬁve biggest private
car insurers. Roll it on, in this case 19 years, and you can see that there's only one of them

Page 5 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

still a key player, Direct Line moving from 5th to 1st.

FINAL

Another thing that's changed is actually what we cover for our customers. Back in '93, it
was bent metal and theft, and now essentially it's largely about bodily injury. So what that
means is the frequency has come right down. One in ﬁve of our customers we'd might
expect to make a claim in '93; that's down 30% by 2011, heading further down in 2012. But
conversely, of course, the average claim cost well up, up 123% over the period.
So some things change, some things never do, and the cycle is one of them. This is a
cyclical industry. You can see the pattern going back over 20 years. And interestingly
enough, it looks like 2012/'13 is going to be an inﬂection point in that cycle.
Another interesting thing is the expense ratio. When we launched in 1993, the industry
expense ratio was 26%. There's been massive IT investment. Distribution has moved from
face to face, to telephone to Internet; substantial consolidation as players have merged.
And the expense ratio 20 years later is 26%. So some things are quite stable.

Bloomberg Transcript

So what about 2012 in the market? Well, the most striking feature of 2012 has been the
premium reductions that we've seen coming through on the price comparison sites where
most of the new business is transacted. This is the Towers Watson/Confused price tracking
survey that tracks the best prices on price comparison. And as you can see, phenomenal
turnaround from the plus 33% of 2010 to the minus 13% of 2012.
Now of course, you've got to caveat that by saying no one expects a plus 33% or a minus
12% to feed -- in 2013[ph] to feed through directly into the earned premiums because
you've got new business renewal mix; not everyone accesses the cheapest rates. But
clearly, there is a strong directional move down there during the course of 2012.
Why was that? Well, partly a correction of an overshoot. 2010, a plus 33% may be
unnecessarily a rapid increase, partly a response to other factors. The frequency during
2012 was a surprise to many of us, but particularly because you have a structural tendency
for frequency to fall, as I talked to -- about earlier, but 2011 had been a surprisingly strong
fall, double-digit fall. And then one might have expected 2012 to see some reversion to
the mean, and in fact, it demonstrated or delivered to the market as a whole another
substantial fall in frequency.
I think another factor that was aﬀecting decision making, especially in the second half of
2012, was a growing appreciation that maybe the Government was actually going to be
serious about tackling whiplash costs and that reforms that were going to be introduced
by April of 2013 might actually have some material eﬀect on average claim costs. It may
have inﬂuenced decision-making on business being written in the latter half of 2012.
I'm not proposing to talk in depth about those reforms. Direct Line earlier in the month I
think did a very good job of talking about them. There's two pages in the appendix, 44
and 45. Happy to take questions, but I'm going to leave it there for the moment.

Page 6 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

FINAL

Another feature of 2012 I think that would have drove prices down was lower switching
activity than we'd recently seen. One might expect that shopping activity would be driven
by absolute premiums, but it does appear very strongly that shopping activity is driven by
change in premiums versus previous year, and so as people began to see their renewal
premiums coming down versus the previous year, they tended to cease to bother to shop.
And so the price comparison market had a very modest level of growth in 2012, single
digit, much lower than the previous few years.
A combination of all of these feeding through into a minus 13% does, we believe, imply
that the cycle this time is likely to be shorter and sharper than the cycle that we saw
during the ﬁrst decade of the 2000s.
So that's the market. What about Admiral? Well, obviously, Admiral's coming oﬀ the back
of a couple of years of phenomenal growth; 60% vehicle growth from the end of
2009/2011, and write[ph] slowing down to 2% in 2012.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now we thought it was logical and correct to grow modestly in 2012. It was partly a
function of getting increased certainty about what the claim situation was after the
volatility of 2011, and it was partly in the context of a lot of players wanting to increase
market share and prices going down. If we actually actively participated in that, we ran the
risk of creating a vicious circle and not necessarily delivering growth but just damaging
margin.
So our policy to ﬂex growth to make the proﬁt maximizing outcome, and that's what we
did in 2012. I would anticipate that in 2013, the logic of that policy will again be that
volume growth would be very modest.
Moreover, average premiums are falling. In 2012, the average written premium, as you can
see on this slide, it was down 9% after two years of substantial growth. This is mainly due
to price cuts. We did not cut our prices in the ﬁrst few months of 2012, but as we gained
increased conﬁdence on the claims patterns, and given the competitive situation we were
in, we did follow the market to some extent and reduced our prices by 6%. That's an
average across new business and renewals from May to December.
It's mainly about price cuts; it's partly about mix. And the most striking mix eﬀect is that a
lot more of our business in 2012 is renewal business than had been the case in the two
previous years.
So moving on to the key margin issues. We've talked about top line turnover issues. What
are the key margin issues? And the key margin issue in car insurance is all about claims
ratios, and there the news has been very good during the course of 2012.
At the half year, we talked about the 2011 accident year coming down 3 points from 74%
projected ultimate to 71%. In the second half, it's come down a further 2 points.

Page 7 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

FINAL

Our ﬁrst cut on 2012 is 71%. In the appendices there's a full history of all the individual
years, and you'll see the years behind 2011 have all be ﬂat, apart from one which has fallen
slightly.
Now our reserve releases at 4% versus 2% are relatively modest by our standards, and it's
a bit surprising perhaps to see that combination of very good news on 2011 not feeding
through into a substantial reserve release. And the reason that hasn't happened is
because at the half year, we decided to increase our buﬀer versus protected best
estimate, and at the full year, we decided to further increase that buﬀer.
Now at some point, if claims remain stable and we cease to increase the buﬀer, that will
feed through into material increases in the size of reserve releases.
Moving on to another key element of our margin, our expense ratio outperformance
versus the market, you can see that over a long period of time we've beaten the market
substantially. 2012, I'm sure, will be the case again with our expense ratio ﬂat at 13%. And
not only do we obviously beat the average, we also beat all our major players, as you can
see from the columns across the bottom.

Bloomberg Transcript

Talk brieﬂy about Confused -- sorry, about other revenue. In 2011, we had average
revenue per vehicle of GBP84, and when we stood up at the half year, we explained that
we were introducing vehicle commission and it would have an impact on other revenue
per vehicle because of the way we were going to account for vehicle commission. That
impact we expected to be of the order of GBP6. And as you can see, the actual outcome
at GBP79 is slightly better than that, but the big impact there is that accounting change.
Now if we go on to 2013, there are two predictable changes taking place in our other
revenue line. One of them is that the partial unwinding of that vehicle commission factor,
some of the vehicle commission loss of revenue actually will feed through into proﬁt
commission in future years, and we'll talk you through how that might work at the half
year. But a chunk of it feeds through into an increase in other revenue per vehicle.
However, oﬀsetting that is the end of PI, Personal Injury referral fees in April 2013. And the
net eﬀect of those two predictable changes will be a GBP2 reduction in our other revenue
per vehicle.
Now I put a question mark against GBP77 just to make the point this is not a prediction for
the overall outcome because there may be unpredictable factors that inﬂuence it, but
those are the two predictable factors.
Yes, moving on to Confused, Confused had a good year. Proﬁt growth up 13%, mainly on
the back of margin improvements; turnover up 7%. Number of things contributing to the
margin, but one particular one I might pull out is a successful year for us on natural search
on Google. This is illustrated on the right-hand side. For those of you less familiar with
Google, the top shaded area is paid-for search and the lower half is free search, and there
is a lot of value at being near or at the top on free search.

Page 8 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

FINAL

And this is key term, car insurance search conducted last week, and the thing that's
interesting here for us is we've beaten MoneySupermarket who historically have been
very strong in this area. And that's contributing, in the short term certainly -- these things
are very unpredictable, but that's contributing to the success of our eﬀorts to increase
margin in Confused.
The most exciting news I think from 2012 has got to be the launch of household insurance,
our ﬁrst major diversiﬁcation in the UK. It came in December so it's only been operating
for a short while. At this juncture essentially it's a price comparison-led marketing strategy.
There's a three tier product, and I've taken a screenshot from Gocompare here to
illustrate that, with Admiral, Admiral Gold and Admiral Platinum.
Obviously, early days; nothing to say about performance at all, apart from we're very glad
to see it launched and working.
An important thing to say though, in line with our commitment to the use of reinsurance
as a source both of risk minimization and of capital eﬃciency, we have signed long-term
reinsurance arrangements with two of our key reinsurance partners, Munich Re and Swiss
Re, with Admiral currently retaining 30% of the business.

Bloomberg Transcript

So in summary, top line prospects not very exciting because we're making decisions
which are proﬁt[ph] maximizing decisions, not volume maximizing decisions. Looking for
increasing reserve releases, if claims remain stable, to support bottom line, and focused in
2013 on laying foundations for what in 20 years' time might -- will be looked back on and
considered the key event of 2012, the launch of our household business.
Thank you. I'll hand you over to Henry to talk about International.

Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Thank you, David. This slide shows you the growth of International over the last few years,
our non-UK insurance subsidiaries. And the point of the slide is to show you that 88% of
the vehicles insured are actually in the UK; that International is still quite small.
It is growing, as you can see. We were 6% of the vehicles in 2010; we're now 12% of the
vehicles in 2012. So it is growing, but it is still quite a modest part of what we do.
We're in four countries, Spain, Italy, the US and France. I'm not going to go through this
chart in detail, but just to put a little bit of color on the countries and explain a little bit
about where they're at.
Spain, it is a proﬁtable market for the insurers. However, premiums are down some 6%
2012 on 2011; less people taking insurance, a little bit more uninsured drivers perhaps;
and people trading down in cover, part of the economic problems in Spain.

Page 9 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

FINAL

So it's a shrinking market in terms of premiums. There are some new players that are quite
aggressive as well, so it's a funny market because the existing -- the incumbent players are
making quite a lot of money but the newest start-ups are losing quite a bit of money and
are very aggressive.
There's also a little of less shopping going on because there's very little movement in
cars. There's new car sales way down and used car sales, which knock on from that, also
way down, and that was traditionally a shopping moment for Spanish consumers.
So economic stress pushing shopping in one direction, less movement in vehicles
pushing shopping in the other direction; sort of a little balance there.
Italy. Rates are now falling in the Italian market. The Italian market is characterized by lots
of new regulations, both in insurance and in labor law. But the uncertainty due to the
recent election, which has left Italy without a strong government, leads to a lot of
uncertainty into what will happen to those changes in the insurance industry. So there's a
lot of uncertainty in the Italian market.

Bloomberg Transcript

Directs have gained a lot in the recent up-movement of their cycle, some 15% growth over
the last couple of years, and now have about 9% of the market.
The US. Some small price rises going through the US market. Direct continues to grow. A
lot of faith being showed in the Direct channel, as illustrated by Allstate's purchase of
Esurance and the sale of the general to a regular insurer. So there seems to be a lot more
appetite for Direct than there used to be.
France; combined ratio of 103%[ph]. Even with some investment income, it's not a great
return on capital. But there's no market panic, and there are just some very modest price
hikes going through the French market at the moment.
Now this is where we're at, and I recognize that you would all like a lot more detail about
our International businesses, but, sorry, we're not going to be giving more details. So
when it comes to the questions, don't -- hey, what about the blah-blah market? Sorry,
we're not going there.
These are young businesses. Individually, they are not material to our results. We don't
feel that we should give out information to our competitors. And when these businesses
become material, we will be happy to provide you with more details.
All the numbers seem to be growing, and that's both a good thing and a bad thing. The
policyholder number, as you can see, is up quite substantially, some 42%. The expense
ratio though is up 3 points.
Now this is a funny number because each individual expense ratio actually went down in
2012 over 2011, but because we're doing a lot more growth in the younger markets, the

Page 10 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

FINAL

younger markets being the US and France, the expense ratio as a whole has actually risen
because it does take more expense in those early years.
The loss ratio is also up. I would say we're not hugely happy with this result, and it is an
area where we can and intend to do better. There are three main causes. One, again, the
young businesses are less stable with their loss results. A lot of new business, as you can
see from the chart on the left, and new business generally drives a higher loss ratio than
with renewal business, and there has been some back-year reserve strengthening in the
older businesses.
All in all, I would say International is work in progress. We're pleased, but we know we still
have a lot of work to do. As we've said before, the payoﬀ period is some six to 10 years.
Our oldest business is just a little over six years old now, so still quite some time to go.
Price comparison, on the other hand, had a very good year. As you can see, a big
increased number of quotes from our two non-UK price comparison sites, LeLynx in
France and Rastreator in Spain, and the GBP5.4 million movement in the bottom line on
the positive side. So just a very small loss coming out of those two sites in 2012.

Bloomberg Transcript

And so good, we've decided to take it further aﬁeld. We are launching a price
comparison site in the US called Comparenow.com. This will be European-style price
comparison, and when I say European style as opposed to, say, American style, in
America, there are quote price comparison sites, but actually, you put all your details in
and then seconds later, you are bombarded with phone calls and emails basically for the
rest of your life.
What we will be providing is actual quotes that can be bound. You can click straight
through to the insurer; you can click through on their websites or call them, and you will
get price comparison.
We have a beta version up and running. What does that mean? It means you can go in
and put your details in and you won't actually get anything. We do -- we are active in one
state with one insurer at this very moment, so I leave it to you to try. It's 50 states,
remember, plus Washington DC counts on its own, so you can have a go and see if you
can ﬁnd the one state and one insurer that we actually will give a quote for.
So there's a lot of work to do in 2013 to bring this up to speed, and that's what we intend.
2013 is a get-it-going kind of year. 2014 is where I think you'll see quite a bit more
investment in this operation. But we do feel from the consumer research we've done that
there is great latent demand in the US for such an operation. And we do have the head of
that operation in the audience here today, Andrew Rose, so if you do have any questions
afterwards, please accost Andrew.
What's the total bottom line? Well, GBP24.7 million negative in 2012. That represents 7.2%
of the proﬁts. That number is an output, not an input. We don't target a certain number.
We don't say this year we're going to spend 8% of our proﬁts or 4% of our proﬁts. We
give these businesses each the amount of money we think is necessary to create growing
Page 11 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

proﬁtable sustainable businesses. That's our intention. We don't try to starve them, but at
the same time, we don't rush out with a GBP50 million spend in the hope that we will gain
traction in the market.

FINAL

So for the GBP24.7 million, you did buy four insurance businesses in very large markets,
two PC businesses, and the pre-launch costs of the US price comparison business. So we
think you actually get quite a lot of bang for your buck.
Where are we headed? Well, looks something like this. Growth, we are looking over the
next 20 years for more proﬁtable growth in the UK. Clearly, we think there's still growth in
car insurance. Obviously, there's massive amount of growth in home insurance, since we
can still name all our policyholders by ﬁrst name.
Internationally, we're looking to create growing proﬁtable sustainable operations.
Expansion is possible over the next 20 years. We're in no rush. This will be as and when
it's deemed necessary, and then opportunistic.

Bloomberg Transcript

The markets we're in have some GBP170 billion of premium income, and we've got a little
more than GBP2 billion, so GBP168 million to go, so plenty to shoot for without having to
expand further aﬁeld.
I leave you again with the highlights of our 2012 year. We've added one more bullet to
this slide. We were recently named the 11th Best Company to Work For by the Sunday
Times in the 250 to 5,000 category, and we came in at -- I think we were 4,970[ph] in that
category so at the upper end, and we're very proud of that. We're also number one in the
Great Places to Work competition, and we're very proud of that, and we're proud of the
eﬀort that our staﬀ give us every year which helps create the record results that we have
once again produced.
Thank you, very much for your attention. If we could open now for questions and,
Greig[ph], go ahead. Is there a mic? Yes, there are mics coming. Two questions at a time
though, if we could start like that.

Questions And Answers
A - Greig Paterson
First question is Telematics. I wonder if you can just give us an update of what you're
doing there.
And the second one is gender neutral. There's obviously some increased activity in the
ﬁnal quarter and the First Quarter of this year. I was wondering if you can give us an idea
of now that you've implemented your strategy, what your strategy was and tactical
strategy, and does it mean we're going to have a fall-oﬀ in the Second Quarter? Some
color around seasonality if you could --

Page 12 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Telematics and gender, yes? David, do you want to --?

FINAL

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

I don't think there was actually. If you're referring to shopping activity, there was only a
marginal increase in December. It was very hard to persuade women that they should pull
forward their inception.
And there's been perhaps a marginal increase with -- in the ﬁrst half, in the ﬁrst few
months with young men seeking to take advantage of new rates, but it's much less than
one might have supposed. The general UK population isn't that interested in car
insurance.
What we've done is we've sought to compensate for the loss of predictiveness that is
inevitably implied by the loss of gender as a rating variable. It's very early days, and I think
people are constantly changing how they respond, but we're comfortable that it's really
going to be proﬁt neutral for us at this point.
Telematics is a clearly very interesting technology, very complicated to bring to market
successfully as a mass-market product, and we continue to test a number of permutations.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andy Broadﬁeld

{BIO 7273415 <GO>}

Andy Broadﬁeld, Barclays; just one quick question. If we go back a few years, Kevin, about
the reserving strategy and that you took a very explicit decision to reduce the size of the
buﬀer because of your comfort around volumes, but also a little bit of pressure around
that stock of pent-up proﬁtability that was inferred by the proﬁt commission as well as
reserving, I guess the wobble last year has made you feel a little bit diﬀerent about that
and the nature of the uncertainty around reserving.
But the other part of that equation, the auditors and the thought about the stock of
proﬁtability that's potentially locked away, has that pressure gone away now, or do they
feel the same nervousness that you obviously felt or feel about the uncertainty there?

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Well, I think you've described it very well, Andy, and that's exactly right. That was the way I
think it has gone over the last couple of years, and we do have a view now that we'd
rather be at the top end of the range of prudency.
As long as we're within a reasonable range of prudency, I think our auditors would say,
and I'll speak on their behalf, I shouldn't do that, but that that's a reasonable position to
take.
I think the discussion is that we're towards the top end of what players in the industry
might be doing in terms of degrees of prudency, but we're not an outlier in an extreme

Page 13 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

way in any way. So it is very contextual, and the surprises we saw in 2011 have led to our
thinking as it is today.

FINAL

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Andy Hughes, Exane BNP Paribas; a couple of questions, if I could. The ﬁrst one's about
the outlook for UK motor turnover. I can see on the slide in front of me the Group vehicle
count's GBP3.55 million. I think it was GBP3.55 million at Q3 as well. Given the
International business is growing strongly, does that mean the UK vehicle count eﬀectively
in Q4 slipped a little bit?
And so in terms of 2013, are we saying very modest growth in UK vehicle count but a
headwind of the accrued decline that you've highlighted from the index, albeit not the full
13% that you've talked about? So what I'm trying to do is basically see where the UK top
line is going to next year; if you can help me with that at all.
Just quick data request number. AVIVA disclosed that 92% of the personal injury claims
were settled involving a lawyer, which is obviously extremely high. Just quite curious what
it is for you.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the third question is on the International really, the International losses that you show,
that you've built up. Presumably, there's an equal number sitting with Munich Re before
any proﬁt commission is paid. Should I just add those up and multiply pro rata, or is there
any assistance you can give me in terms of calculating how much accrued losses there is
on International proﬁt share commission?
Thank you.

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

To do the easiest one ﬁrst, percentage of claims settled without a lawyer, not something
we disclose .
The other one was about volumes. Yes, 2% for the year, but marginally down in the last
quarter, I think, in the UK.
Projections for 2013; all we're saying is we made the right choice for proﬁtability. So it's
not going to be a big number but it's going to be ﬂexed depending on how the market
evolves.
And, yes, I think it is the case that you've got, in terms of ﬁnancials as opposed to volume,
you have got the average premium in fact, which is going to feed through continually in
2013.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

On the International, it's bit more complicated than that, because in the US and France,
Munich Re is only a smaller proportion. So if you want to do all reinsurers as bulk, it was
Page 14 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

two-thirds/ one-third. We're one-third and all reinsurers are roughly two-thirds. But it's not
all Munich Re.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

FINAL

I'm delighted to see that you're building proﬁt sharing into the International projections
there though . Thank you for that.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Andrew Crean, Autonomous. Could I take you back to slide 18 where you gave us the
average premiums in the UK market? And could I ask what happened to average claims
and to frequency so that we can build the picture?
And then a second question, if I could take you to slide 9, can we do that? Let's -- just
average claims and frequency on that one.

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Well, this is Admiral's average claims, and obviously not the market.

Bloomberg Transcript

Frequency in 2012; I mentioned that the market was positive. It was positive for us as well,
so there was a material fall in 2012 versus 2011.
Average claim; you'll see in the appendix that 55% of our claims are larger bodily injury,
and they continue to have substantial drivers of underlying average premium inﬂation,
but it's very diﬃcult in a sense to say, look, the number is 6.2%[ph]. It's a very volatile
number year by year, and it's very -- I'm not sure it's something we're going to disclose to
say the premium inﬂation, the claims inﬂation was X in 2012, partly because it remains to
be seen what it turns out to be.
Which slide now?

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Slide 9. You've said that you increased your buﬀers over the ultimates. Can you give us
some sense of what that is? Because quite clearly, where you sit in that horizon is entirely
dependent on how much you stuﬀ into your buﬀers.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

You can see some of it in the appendix where you can compare the ratios against the
booked oﬀ-hand.[ph] Which slides are these[ph]?

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Do you have any pounds million number which we could just hang our hat on?

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}
Page 15 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

No, we don't disclose the pounds million number. The numbers that we do provide aren't
exactly comparable, so you could make a stab at it.

FINAL

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

It might be worth mentioning that to be fair on the analysts, when they did those
projections a year ago, they didn't know about also the vehicle commission change which
equivalent -- was essentially an accounting change that took GBP16 million oﬀ the proﬁt.

Q - Marcus Barnard

{BIO 2103471 <GO>}

Marcus Barnard, Oriel Securities. Can I ask two related questions? Firstly, on the
consolidated income statement on page 21, the biggest growth there is the insurance
claims recoverable, which I think grows 24% to GBP524 million, and that's faster growing
than any other item. And I think it's probably linked, but on page 43 in your reconciliation
of movement in net claims provisions, the standout item there is the movement in claims
provisions due to commutation, GBP44 million to GBP102 million; again, big movements
there. And it looks like your net claims paid, if you add the two together as you showed
last year, is virtually ﬂat.
I just wondered what's going on with your commutation and claims recoverable from
reinsurance. Is this a new ongoing level, or is there an element of one-oﬀ in there that's
not going to be repeated?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

I think we probably should take the detail oﬄine, Marcus, and go through. It would be
helpful, I think. But in terms of commutations, it will impact the reported numbers when
they occur, and they typically occur within 24 months, 36 months post the completion of
the year. So there's nothing -- there's a one-oﬀ this year that would be distorting the
numbers, so it's --

Q - Marcus Barnard

{BIO 2103471 <GO>}

There's nothing -- one-oﬀ?

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Not that I'm aware of, I can think of that we just --

Q - Marcus Barnard

{BIO 2103471 <GO>}

So that's a normal level going forward?

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

The commutations are a normal behavior and they would typically happen around that
period. That's correct. So there shouldn't be anything -- this is an ongoing thing. But in
terms of the detailed numbers here, I think probably better if you and I discuss that.

Page 16 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

Q - Marcus Barnard

{BIO 2103471 <GO>}

There was no real reason why the commutation grew 2.5[ph] (inaudible) year on year?

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

FINAL

Nothing I can think of in my head that can give you a good answer to that right now.

Q - Marcus Barnard

{BIO 2103471 <GO>}

All right.

Q - Simon Denison-Smith
Simon Denison-Smith, Metropolis Capital. I was wondering if you could compare the
challenge and experience you're having of growing the International business by
comparison to starting the UK business 20 years ago.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Very diﬀerent. When we came into the UK business in 1993, it was God's gift to car
insurers. You may remember that the late '80s were characterized by, was it, hurricane
Andrew eating up a lot of capital in the insurance market. Then you had mortgage
indemnity problems. You also had a horriﬁc car insurance market in the early part of that
decade.
So 1992, rates started to skyrocket, and we walked in 1993 with no back-year liabilities and
in a very rate-rising market. And I've got a rabbit at home that could have underwritten a
successful book in 1993.
Saying that, we were the 7th direct writer in. We weren't the ﬁrst, we weren't the second;
we were the 7th. And about two or three years later, there were 22 direct writers, all with
business plans that said you'll bleed for a while and then it's going to be jam tomorrow.
And they got the ﬁrst half of their business plans right, and a couple of years later, we
were back down to seven, and the market was horrible.
And you may remember '98/'99. '98 was pretty horrible and everybody said this has got
to turn, this has got to turn. And the beginning of '99 it seemed to get worse and
everybody said it will never turn; car insurance will always be unproﬁtable.
We remember those days well because we were put up for sale by our parent company in
'98. The deal didn't go through, and when we came they put us back on the market in '99,
nobody wanted it; half the values that had been discussed in '98. We did take the liberty
at that point to buy it ourselves teaming up with Barclays Private Equity, which has now
broken oﬀ from Barclays.
And it turned out to be a pretty good moment, because rates were actually going up,
particularly in the back half of '99, all through 2000, and probably the ﬁrst half of 2001;

Page 17 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

very similar to the cycle we've just had which was the back half of '09, all of '10, and a
good part of '11, and maybe well into '12 a bit, where prices went up quite dramatically.

FINAL

The International businesses aren't in the same environment. Sorry, if that was the
question. And the most similar would be the Italian market, where we have enjoyed
during our few years there price increases in the market.
But the Spanish market's been very tight. The French market doesn't move a lot, it's very,
very slow moving. And the US market hangs around 98/99[ph]. Is that fair to say?
Traditionally year in, year out, with diﬀerences between the states. So very diﬀerent
environments that we're moving into.

Q - Simon Denison-Smith
What about the competitive environments in those?

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Again, quite diﬀerent. We're seeing good growth in direct writing in Italy. We're seeing
good growth actually in Spain, and good growth in the price comparison side. So we do
see change in all these markets.
America, of course, is already very big on direct writing, GEICO being the third largest
insurer, with premium income not all that far from the entire UK market, to give you a
scope of their size. And they spend well over $1 billion in advertizing each year. So there's
certainly a lot of energy being put behind the growth of direct as opposed to agent-led
insurance buying.
So that's one of the things, the very simple --. If we sit in this room in ﬁve or 10 years, you'd
be very surprised to think that Internet wouldn't be a bigger portion in those countries of
people's buying habits. And we're positioned in the right place; no channel conﬂict, and
right in where the younger consumers are going.
The younger consumers are interesting, because in the UK, you have named driver
insurance policies, but in other parts of Europe, you basically have any driver insurance
policies, which means that the 22-year-old doesn't go out and buy his own policy because
he'd be rated as a 22-year-old. He just jumps on mom and dad's policy because they
don't even know he's there, because they're writing any driver. So the cost of that 22-yearold is spread amongst the whole market as opposed to being isolated into the 22-yearold as it is in the UK.
So younger people don't actually take their own insurance policy until they hit 25 plus,
and they move away from mom and dad and start their own lives. It's a bit of a diﬀerent
situation in terms of the younger driver and, therefore, the generational change to the
Internet is going to be a bit slower.

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}
Page 18 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

FINAL

Ravi Tanna, Goldman Sachs. Just a couple of questions, please, if I may. The ﬁrst one
relates to the claims environment in the UK. Obviously, we've seen a lot of reforms
coming through in the last weeks and months; the reduction to personal injury, lawyers
ﬁxed fees and the consultation on whiplash. And I was just wondering perhaps if you
could comment on the general outlook on that front in terms of claims inﬂation, and in
particular, whether you've seen any change in the behavior of competitors in anticipation
of changing claims trends.
And the second relates to your ultimate loss ratios, and I understand that there is a certain
degree of volatility year to year. But with your 2009 and 2010 accident year ultimates
being at very elevated levels, and your 2011 coming down to 69% now, I was just
wondering whether there's any kind of favorable one-oﬀ within that 2011 accident year
number.
Thanks.

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

If I start at the end and perhaps take you to 42 in the appendix, I think it's 42, with the loss
ratio on left-hand side. On reference to 2000, and I've just partly made the point that very
elevated for 2009 is a function of the fact we live in a cyclical market, and it's clearly not
very elevated in the context of the market.
In terms of 2011, is there a one-oﬀ or a weird thing? Not really. It's the price increases
feeding through. There has been -- there was a benign frequency year, and frequency is
always unpredictable, although it tends to trend towards. But these are -- there is no backyear movement aﬀecting '11, in a sense, because these strip out all the back-year
movements.
In terms of the reforms, I think that there has been at the back end of '12 some positive
view taken of the panoply of reforms that are in place in relation particularly to whiplash.
And speciﬁcally, when the Government came out with the recommendation that the
portal fees should go from GBP1,200 to GBP500, that was clearly a more radical move
than had been anticipated, and led people to people that some of the other stuﬀ that's
following behind around small claims, around medicals on whiplash, all those sorts of
things, may -- there was less cynicism about whether they'd come to fruition.
Now how material is it? In the back pages on claims, you'll see for us small bodily injuries
is low double-digit percentage of claims. So the impact of whiplash reform is somewhat
restricted by the fact that actually the bulk of our claims and the market as a whole is[ph]
big bodily injury. But having said that, if that reduction from GBP1,200 to GBP500 was
eﬀective and applied across the market, and the lawyers failed to ﬁnd ways around it, and
that is a big proviso, then because legal costs represent almost 50% of small bodily injury,
that is a very substantial move down in cost, which we would say would equate to around
2% of overall claims costs.
Then you might also get a frequency beneﬁt because the proﬁts built into the system are
reduced and, therefore, the motivation to actually chase claims is reduced. But there are a
Page 19 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

lot of ifs in there, because a lawyer's ability to navigate around to maintain income is fairly
well established over time.

FINAL

Q - Tom Dorner

{BIO 15847486 <GO>}

Tom Dorner, Citi. Two questions, please. The ﬁrst is on the change in mix of the UK
business. Obviously, as you shift towards renewals business, that tends to be higher
proﬁtability. Can you give a sense of how much of a beneﬁt you might get from that
business mix over the coming years as the growth slows?
And then the second question is on the reserves strengthening in the international
business. Can you just say -- is that a one-oﬀ in your view, or is there a --? Perhaps some
more color around that would be interesting.
Thanks.

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

The -- do you want to do International ﬁrst?

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

The reserves strengthening; whenever anybody does a reserves strengthening, one
always hopes it's a one-oﬀ.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Great. Sorry, are we done?[ph]

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

I'm done .

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Had a moment there. You're right. The renewal business is more proﬁtable. The loss ratio
is typically early double digits better. And that shift in mix, because I've indexed it 96[ph]
to 114[ph], or something, if you try and work that to the mix and new business renewals, it
equates to 1 point or 2 on a loss ratio.

Q - Cameron Hussein
Cameron Hussein, RBC. Just a couple of questions, again coming back to International
and the business mix. Could you give us an idea of what the underling combined ratio
was in International when you strip out the impact of the reserve releases?
And the second question, just thinking about the change in business mix towards more
renewals versus new business, is there any impact that you might expect on other
revenues per policy?

Page 20 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

Thanks.

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

No, we don't strip out the surplus.

FINAL

Q - Cameron Hussein
What would it look like on a --?

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

We don't give that information.

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

And there isn't really a material diﬀerence between new business and renewal on other
revenue.

Q - Will Hardcastle

{BIO 16346311 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Will Hardcastle, Bank of America. Just looking at the ultimates in the books, for 2011, it's
reduced about 5percentage points; the ultimate loss ratio in the book, only by about 1
point more. Can I broadly assume, and I know there's a bit of a mix on those too, that all
prudency eﬀectively baked in the 2012 number, is that increasing the buﬀer to your
reserves?
And the second question is what's driven around 10% increase in IGD given that UK
volume growth has been fairly low in the year?

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

I'm a little bit confused on the buﬀer question, but I think with the way I might answer it is
to say that the buﬀer increased the half year and again at the full year, and that eﬀected in
a sense all years to some extent.
So for example, I mentioned in my presentation that 2010 and prior was ﬂat or slightly
better in terms of the ultimates. If you look in the accounts, you'll see that the incurred
appears to have gone up on 2010 and prior by GBP5 million, which is all about the
increase of the buﬀer. So it's not just a 2012 year eﬀect, if that's what you're --

Q - Will Hardcastle

{BIO 16346311 <GO>}

No, what I'm trying to get to is the fact that if we're to look at the two charts on 2011
accident year, that ultimate loss ratio is decreased 5 points year on year, so from 74 points
to 69 points; and your booked has decreased by 6 points, if I remember oﬀhand. And yet
you've still -- so that eﬀectively means that you haven't reduced your buﬀer at all from
those -- or you haven't reduced the buﬀer on that accident year at all. And then you've
baked in signiﬁcant prudency on the 2012 number again, if we're looking at the book to

Page 21 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

ultimates. So it seems as though you're not really releasing any of the good news and
building complete news on to the buﬀer. Is that correct?

FINAL

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Yes, that's one way of saying it. That's exactly right. Eﬀectively we would -- if we had not
seen any improvement in the 2011 year, if our predictions had been entirely correct a year
ago to today, we would have expected to make some releases in 2011 and reduce that
buﬀer. We've been able to make something of a release from '11 but still maintain the
majority of that buﬀer.
And on the IGD point, I think the capital position at the end of the year versus the start of
the year is partly a reﬂection of building up capital for the capital we anticipated needing
in 2013, which we started to hold at the end of the 2012 year; but also, a reﬂection of the
mix of the capital. So it's partly the capital of our UK business, but also the capital required
for our European operations. And those operations have disproportionately high capital
requirements related[ph] to their scale compared to the UK, so you'll see a bit of
distortion going on in those numbers.

Q - Will Hardcastle

{BIO 16346311 <GO>}

Okay, very clear.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Peter Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Peter Eliot, Berenberg. Just on the reinsurance treaties that you have, I guess in previous
years we would have had the extension of those contracts at this point in time. So you're
probably hard at work negotiating those, and there may be a limited amount you can say.
But just in terms of how the UK market has developed, and we've heard some cautious
statements from some reinsurers, has any -- have any of the variables changed there in
terms of how we should expect or think of those, the extension of those treaties?

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

It's actually your premise that's incorrect. If you go back other than last year, it was actually
after our full-year announcement that we sewed up the deals. Last year was the
aberration. We came earlier last year with the reinsurance. It is work in progress, and at
the moment, there appears to be plenty of appetite.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Andy Hughes, Exane BNP Paribas. The ﬁrst question; you may think it's a bit strange me
giving you a hard time on expenses, but if I look at the top line growth, it's at 1%. If I look
at the salary costs during 2000 and staﬀ costs, they're up nearly 20% from 2011 to 2012.
And obviously, you would expect the expense ratio to fall if you're writing less new
business because you're not paying GBP50 or GBP40 to price comparison websites. So
I'm just wondering, should we expect eﬀectively an ongoing increase in staﬀ costs, like a
catch-up eﬀect of you versus the industry? And can you basically explain what's going on
with the underlying staﬀ costs and the business?

Page 22 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

Thank you.

FINAL

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Well, I think it's fair to say that if we see no premium inﬂation or premium deﬂation for a
number of years in a row, then you're probably going to see some pressure on the
expense ratio going forward, for us and for the whole industry. And that's typical. And in
fact, if you do look at that expense ratio, and you squint carefully at it, you can see a
degree of cyclicality in the expense ratio, even though it looks like it's ﬂat 26%[ph] right
through the cycles.
But on the speciﬁc point about staﬀ expenses, of course, the number in 2011 is the
average of the staﬀ costs right through the year. We've built staﬀ up during 2012[ph]
signiﬁcantly as we had that growth that we saw in '10 and '11. So you'd expect that
particular number to ﬂow through into the run rate in the 2012 staﬀ costs number.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Would you[ph] expect the expense ratio to trend up as you build up the staﬀ in line with
your peer group? Because 26% is actually[ph] exceptional.

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, it was exceptional. It was exceptional because of the staﬀ growth that we saw in 2011
that ﬂowed through into the costs in 2012. I wouldn't expect to see a similar number in '13
unless we saw some signiﬁcant growth in activity in '13, which we're not currently
anticipating.

Q - James Pearce

{BIO 16758460 <GO>}

James Pearce, UBS. On large bodily injury claims, one of your competitors referenced
lower propensities to take up PPOs as people waited and saw what would happen with
the Ogden[ph] review, if I can call it that. Is that something you've experienced, and is that
anything to do with the improving development of the 2011 year end[ph]? Was that to do
with large bodily injury, or was -- could you be more speciﬁc about what happened there?

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

To the second half of your question about whether improving PPO trends have
contributed towards improvements on the 2011 loss ratio, the answer to that is, no,
because the vast bulk of PPO in our projected ultimates is about future expected PPOs.
We've actually had still a very modest number of PPOs. And so it's all about the
underlying assumptions of how many we will ultimately have.
And those are not less cautious; possibly slightly more cautious than they would have
been at six months or 12 months ago. So in fact, there isn't a positive beneﬁt from the PPO
eﬀect.

Page 23 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

And I think it is very early to make a call on PPO. What you have seen is an encouraging
ﬂattening out of the growth of big claims that settle at PPO. But you're talking about tiny
volumes, and it's dangerous to take an optimistic view at this point on that.

FINAL

Q - Andy Broadﬁeld

{BIO 7273415 <GO>}

Andy Broadﬁeld, Barclays. I wanted to understand a bit better on the outlook for the US
price comparison site. If you'd rather I did that oﬄine, I can, but just your thoughts on
gathering issuers onto that, given there's a couple of very big direct players who I think
are very, very reluctant to go on any comparison sites, and then the rest I think it strikes
me who have major channel conﬂicts.
So for you, is this going to follow the same pattern you've seen in Europe and the UK
where there's big reluctance, big reluctance, and then an avalanche, or how do you see
that evolving?

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

It really is a very interesting area, and you do have it in the US, and, yes, it is similar to -what we're seeing is similar to Europe where you have a few of the bigger but not the
biggest guys are interested. The smaller guys are quite interested, but you're right, some
of them can't. And eventually, the growth will draw in the rest. That's the pattern in
Europe.

Bloomberg Transcript

That was Confused pattern. Confused didn't start with a brilliant panel. It took a couple of
years. Rastreator are the same. LeLynx, maybe a little bit better at LeLynx, but similar.
So you have that in the US. And you do have a very interesting dynamic in the US in that
you have these four big players who together spend not far from $4 billion -- nod your
head, Andrew, if I'm in the right number -- $4 billion in advertising, and everybody else
has to ﬁgure out a way to beat them.
And so for everybody else, this is potentially magic, because they don't have to spend a
lot of money in advertising. Compare now can spend a lot of money in advertising and do
the job for them. So it is an interesting dynamic, but you're best to talk in more detail with
Andrew sitting absolutely right behind you when we ﬁnish here.

A - Greig Paterson
Greig Paterson. Just in terms of this accounting change, my understanding is that added
some percentage points to the expense ratio this year, and potentially next year as well. I
wonder if you could just talk about that.
And it was also my understanding beforehand that there would be no impact on the proﬁt
commission, i.e., you were just going to add something to the premium, and then you
were going to deduct from the expense and there would be a timing diﬀerence on the
other or ancillary policy. Can you just elaborate a bit on why there's a change to the proﬁt
commission formula from this account -- or expected proﬁt commission from this
Page 24 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

accounting change? So actually (inaudible) percentage points and why the proﬁt
commission.

FINAL

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

I'd refer to 46 in the appendix which gives an explanation of the business with and
without vehicle commission. And then I would also say we'll give you more support on
modeling that at the half year for --

A - Greig Paterson
Is it material (inaudible)?

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

It's not material to the bottom line.

A - Greig Paterson
But in 2014/'15, is it going (inaudible).

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It's not material to the bottom line. I don't think it's that material actually to the distribution
between the components. But I think a conversation with Louise would be more helpful
than doing it en mass here.

Q - Trevor Moss

{BIO 1741504 <GO>}

Trevor Moss, Berenberg; a couple of things. If I understand it correctly, you've had a fall in
the ultimate loss ratio projection for 2011, I think, yes? Around half of your claims are large
bodily injury, if I understand it correctly. What is it that has happened so dramatically in
2011 to cause the ultimate loss ratio projections to fall so dramatically when a large
component of that, the largest component of that potentially is large bodily injury, which
takes years and years and years to develop? I'm very interested in what's happening
there.
And the second thing is crucial to the development, I think, of Admiral in 2013 is the
dynamics of the market in 2013, which you haven't said an awful lot about. The question
on Telematics from Greig earlier on was answered in one sentence. However, Telematics
is targeting speciﬁcally one of your core, most proﬁtable areas of business, and so highrisk drivers. So I wonder whether there's some more to be discussed on Telematics,
because there's a lot of Telematics companies growing quite fast.
Also, now we have Direct Line fully multi-branded on price comparison, Aviva fully multibranded on price comparison, what is that going to do to the market dynamics? What's
that going to do to your dynamics? I think there's quite a lot to talk about in terms of 2013
dynamics in the UK market which you haven't yet.
Thank you.
Page 25 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

FINAL

Well, let me pick up on the 2011 loss ratio point, and I'll leave David to comment on the
UK market this year and beyond.
It was the case that we saw an unusual spike in large BI claims in 2011, which has been
much talked about in the past. And in the nature of actuarial projections, when you see
data that looks outlier[ph] and it's potentially bad news, the extrapolation from that is that
that trend, it's becoming a trend rather than a spike. And so when we do the projections
for 2011, at the end of 2011, you're going to see an increase in the projected ultimate loss
ratio.
But if in the fullness of time those events turn out to be a spike and not a trend, then of
course you unwind then your projections of ongoing trend, and you put it back into this
position as a spike. And that means that then your new projections you're now doing
going forward don't include all those new big claims that you might have anticipated
being a trend.
So eﬀectively what's happening is changes in projections based on more relevant data
over time, it's changing the increase in loss ratio projection that was to a now reduced
position. So that's what's happening, and of course, it happened in the course of 2012
with the projection.

Q - Trevor Moss

{BIO 1741504 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So you (inaudible)?

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Well, that's -- in fact, it's now being isolated much more as a spike than it was at the end of
2011.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

You mentioned Aviva being fully active on price comparison, and RBSI being fully active
on price comparison. Essentially, Aviva became fully active with the launch of
Quotemehappy about 24 months ago. So I don't think there's new news there. They're a
player in 2013.
RBSI has been active on price comparison sites, with the exception of Compare the
Market, for a number of years; and then last year, quarter 2, I think, went onto Compare
the Market, and so is now fully active on all price comparison sites. That's not new news
for 2013.
So I don't think those factors are hugely material. I think there's a continued -- there's a
likelihood of some players wanting to increase their market share still in 2013, partly
because people do tend to look at reported results rather than current proﬁtability when
they make their calls.

Page 26 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

And so we're not very optimistic about when premium inﬂation will return to the UK
market. We're not projecting substantial premium inﬂation in 2013; maybe some further
drifting down even.

FINAL

Telematics. Telematics are most relevant to the young market. If I had anything interesting
to say about it, I wouldn't say it.

Q - Trevor Moss

{BIO 1741504 <GO>}

Well, would you not be prepared to say what you're doing?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Not in any interesting way. It's a fast-evolving sector that where the balance of interest of
our shareholders I think is for us to be discreet if we feel we're learning interesting things
which have implications for the future.

Q - Trevor Moss

{BIO 1741504 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. If I could just have one quick follow-up. If I saw your graph correctly, I know it's a
hypothetical graph with a steeply rising arrow, shorter, sharper cycle upwards, I'm not
sure which graph it was in the presentation, but it was deﬁnitely like that for the market
combined, yet you're talking about a general drifting of prices.
But I think, having talked to some other players, there is a little bit of a question mark over
whether prices are just drifting lower or are heading lower quite rapidly. My own
conclusion would be the latter actually rather than drifting. What gives you conﬁdence it's
just drifting lower rather than rapidly going lower, especially since your graph has a fairly
expediential rise upwards in the market combined?

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Yes. I hope you'll look at that exhibit and not just see it as a projection.
What I would say is I think people get over excited about short-term premium
movements. At the end of the day, this is a cyclical market that breaks even over the
course of the cycle. And so is substantial premium deﬂation now a problem? Not really in
the long term, because it just means you'll return to premium inﬂation that much earlier.
So it's all about timing; it's not really about true economic impact.
Now unfortunately, the world we live in people tend to look at a one or two-year
projection, whereas in fact they might logically if they're trying to understand value look
across cycle. But from our point of view, we're very relaxed with whichever outcome takes
place.

Q - Marcus Barnard

{BIO 2103471 <GO>}

One quick follow-up. In terms of ﬁnancing your Group dividend, has this all come from
EUI like it did last year, or have you paid a dividend up from the insurance subsidiaries,
Page 27 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

AIGL and AICL? Or will you take that oﬄine?

FINAL

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

No, the subsidiaries pay dividends regularly up to the Group as and when they've got
spare cash emerging from proﬁts that they're making over the solvency capital they need
to hold. The majority of our cash, what's tended to emerge in EUI, and can be paid up to
the Group in the same way that they would do when their proﬁts are in excess of their
solvency requirements, which are obviously much more modest.
So the answer to the question is that we shuﬄe up cash to the Group as and when it's
available, and then from that, we pay the dividend.

Q - Marcus Barnard

{BIO 2103471 <GO>}

Just in light of what you said about needing to build up capital for your IGD surplus. I'm
assuming most of that would be in AIGL and AICL.

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Correct.

Q - Marcus Barnard

{BIO 2103471 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I'm just wondering if that would impact your ability to pay a dividend from those
subsidiaries last year.

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

No unless, only so much as the capital requirements are what they are. The real beauty for
the Admiral model is the capital-light model creates a great deal of cash generation from
proﬁt sharing arrangements with our reinsurers where we get those proﬁt commissions
ﬂowing back through which do not have capital requirements associated with them.
So it does mean that despite very fast growth over the last few years, we've been able to
maintain a dividend in the 90% of post-tax proﬁts, and that is because of that model not
chewing up capital as we grow as an insurer.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Can I just follow up on that? You didn't give when you were rationalizing the dividend the
numbers around buﬀers and around the amount of additional capital that you require for
the business you see in the next year. I wonder whether you could just supply those.

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

I think we've just for the purposes of presentation, we took away the calculation of the
number. But the basis of the calculation hasn't changed, and the amount of the Group
buﬀer hasn't changed either.

Page 28 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

So GBP25 million?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

FINAL

GBP30 million.

Q - Andrew Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

But the amount required for new business does seem to change. When I look at it, look at
projections forwards on premiums, the solvency margin does ﬂing around quite
substantially. Is that the European businesses?

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Mostly it's to do with the European businesses and the blend between the two, and we
obviously do our view on the UK as well. And also, of course, you have to bear in mind the
diﬀerence between what we thought was going to happen a year ago and what really
happened, and therefore we've got to adjust for that in our numbers going forward as
well.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Andy Hughes, BNP Paribas. A quick follow-up question on the commutations and the
large claims stuﬀ. One of my big surprises from last week in the Direct Line stuﬀ was the
increase in large claims reserved that they made following already what seems to be
prudent large claims, which was largely met[ph] by the reinsurers. And you can see that
diﬀerence between the gross and the net reserve releases with the net being massive and
the gross being very small.
And obviously, Marcus raised the point that your commutations are quite big this year. So
once you've commuted these reinsurance arrangements, are you fully on the hook for the
reserve development of the back book? So if, for example, you had a similar issue where
you had to revise up the large claims, presumably, that would give 100% to you the
shareholders.
So who are the commutations with? Are they with Munich Re who share part of the losses,
or are they with the reinsurers who only pay out if the combined ratio is more than 100%?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

We're talking about commutations of proportion of reinsurance contracts here. We're not
talking about excessive loss contracts. So I think it's actually two things separately[ph] in
your mind and so there -- we are eﬀectively through the proﬁt commissions we're sharing
largely on the hook for what happens with our claims development patterns on these
years anyway, so the commutations and accounting adjustment to put it back into our
balance sheet. The excessive loss contracts would still stand. So very large claims would
(multiple speakers).

Page 29 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

But obviously, if you had a loss, on the (inaudible), it would be carried forward eﬀectively;
you wouldn't have to repay that then. But once it's commuted, you're on the hook for the
full share, basically.

FINAL

A - Henry Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Yes, but not the Munich Re co-insurance.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Okay. I thought the commutation was of the Munich Re. That's what you're saying, isn't it,
or am I confused?

A - David Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

No, I'm talking about the reinsurance contracts, not the co-insurance arrangement with
Munich Re. These are shorter-term reinsurance deals that tend to get commuted after two
or three years, not the Munich Re deal, which the co-insurance, long-term co-insurance
deal.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. But I thought you said quota share[ph]. I got confused by the quota, because I
thought it was to stop[ph] loss rather than quota share. No, that's ﬁne. So we'll take it oﬀ
line.

A - Kevin Chidwick

{BIO 15100612 <GO>}

Any other questions? Any questions from the telephone? No questions from the
telephone. Going once; going twice.
Thank you, very much.

Operator
This concludes today's call, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for joining. You may now
replace your handsets.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
Page 30 of 31



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2013-03-06

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 31 of 31

