Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

FY 2013 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Adrian Gore , CEO
Alain Peddle, Head of Health Research & Development
Ricky Farber, CFO, Finance Director, Executive Director
Unidentified Speaker, Unknown

Other Participants
Unidentified Participant, Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Unidentified Speaker
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. My name's Arthur Thompson [ph]. I'm on the
Executive Committee of the Investment Analysts Society. And its my pleasure on behalf of
this committee and all our members that are here today to welcome you. And specifically
to welcome Discovery, for coming and talking to us as they so regularly do and keeping
the investment community informed about what is happening with the Company and its
prospects.
This is a company that is -- enormous strides within South Africa, not only in the
investment community. But also in the daily lives of many South Africans. So these are very
important results and very important for us to know what is happening with the Company.
And, of course, there's all the international operations as well.
We've seen quite a bit of activity in the share price recently following a recent
announcement on SENS. And I'm sure Adrian and his team will elucidate all of this and tell
us about the Company and where it's going in the future.
So over to you, Adrian Gore, the Chief Executive. Thank you, sir.

Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Arthur, thank you for that kind introduction. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. A lot to
get through this morning and a lot to tell you. It's always my honor and pleasure on behalf
of our team at Discovery, some of whom are here. But our team back at the office and
around the world, it's a great pleasure to have the opportunity to tell you about our
results for the full year to June 30, 2013.

Page 1 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

FINAL

It has been a remarkable year, a remarkably successful year; a year of very strong robust
growth. And I hope you'll see that throughout the presentation. But at the same time, a
year we invested considerably in new startups and new growth initiatives. And we
invested in our model to understand how to build it out, how to repeat it, how to scale it.
And how, in a sense to make it global. And that to an extent as well I think was a feature
of the year under review.
The organization looks as you see it on the chart. A number of businesses; we're now in
five territories. You may recall literally six weeks or so ago we announced a joint venture
with AIA in Asia. I think a very exciting venture that's taken us some time to get done,
commencing in Singapore, a pan-Asian opportunity that across from that, we're now in
five territories. And I would say to you that in the year under review, there's been frenetic
activity across the entire Group. And a lot of work done, a lot of good work done that I
think you hopefully will see throughout the presentation.
Let me just start by making a comment about the Discovery approach. And I think it's fairly
clear that we are known as being innovative, as being disruptive in a sense that our
business model being quite different.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'd like to put it to you that the model itself is different. But it's not out there in any sort of
way. To an extent I would put to you that the world is changing. And the changes are
profound in terms of financial services, social security systems, etc. And, therefore, it's
imperative that insurance systems to an extent change with that.
And I would argue that the Discovery system is fit for purpose. And that's what we're busy
building out in markets and finding unbelievable receptivity in the markets we go into. And
the partners like an AIA, or a Ping An, or a Prudential, to what we're doing, because I think
the world is changing.
And it's changing in four distinct ways. This is our view; I hope you agree with it. Four
distinct ways. I've raised this before but I would like to frame them again.
The first is that the causes of death are changing. And this has a profound effect on
healthcare systems, on mortality, on morbidity. In the 19th century, the focus was on
sanitation, hygiene; in the 20th century, curative care, etc. These of course are additives
[ph].
This century it's about prevention and wellness, because we're learning more and more,
which is three lifestyle choices, smoking, poor physical activity, poor nutrition lead to four
conditions that drive more than 50% of all mortality. Once you've grasped that reality, you
realize that things have to change; models have to change, systems have to change.
The second important trend is the stubborn cost of healthcare, known as the Baumol
Effect; the idea that healthcare costs always rise at a rate above price inflation. I
mentioned this at the last announcement. The fact is that healthcare costs are a function
of scarce expensive resources like doctors and other healthcare professionals.

Page 2 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

FINAL

But a fundamental thing about healthcare, it's a function of technology that unlike other
industries, technology drives cost up in healthcare, not down. And so the healthcare
industry tends to inflate at rates higher than other industries. And once you understand
that price inflation is an average, then you accept that medical inflation is structurally
higher.
And you can see across the world in that chart on the right-hand side that we are like
other countries. Medical [ph] inflation tends to be at CPI plus 3% to 5% every year. And
this goes on for decades. That's a major problem and it has to be addressed. And
institutions like ours have to take that head on. That's a fundamental social objective.
The third important trend is the power of what's becoming known as behavioral
economics. We're learning more and more that people don't make rational choices.
Systems may be rational. But individuals don't make rational choices. They're biased;
they're prejudiced. They act with loss aversion. They want instant gratification. And
therefore understanding this irrationality is fundamental in choices about healthcare and
other social security systems.

Bloomberg Transcript

Even regulators around the world, like in the UK, the FCA, as you can see on the chart, are
kind of applying behavioral economics to understanding issues of conduct and product
design, etc. And I think that's a very important change.
And then a final point. And I guess overlaying everything that you would know very, very
well, is that we live in a world of great uncertainty. A lost decade in the investment
markets. But I hope those will recover. I think the big issues is that's there's mega
geopolitical changes taking place; there are masses demographic shifts; countries with
dramatically aging populations. All of these coalesce to create complicated issues for
social security systems, for healthcare, etc.
And so I'll put it to you that the Discovery approach we believe is fit for purpose in a world
where trying to make people healthier, trying to get them to make the right lifestyle
choices, is fundamental to building a system that's sustainable and offers value for money.
And the core of our idea is a very simple idea; building brilliant disruptive businesses and
putting that on the top of a chassis, a set of incentives, a systematized method of making
people healthier.
The effect on healthcare financing is dramatic. It incentivizes better behavior, reducing
healthcare costs, creating better selection in the whole process. The effect on life
insurance is remarkable; better value for money, matching price and risk in a better way;
better for the policyholder, better for the insurer, better for society. And that's what we're
setting out to do.
And I would argue that the model is kind of generic in the sense that we're just starting
out. We're learning so much about the power of the model. And hopefully, the
presentation that you will see that every one of our businesses is getting benefits from
what we're trying to achieve. And to an extent, I wanted to make the point to you that if
you look on the chart, that organogram by geography is less relevant than the
Page 3 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

organogram by strategy. And you can see that the strategy's fairly fixed across every
business. Vitality runs in different forms. And the businesses tend to sit on that wherever
they may be.

FINAL

And I would say to you that in the year under review, there's been a relentless focus on a
dissident [ph] approach to rolling out the business model, to making it work. And I hope
that's fairly clear throughout the presentation as I go through it.
Let me turn to the results for the year itself. I think it has been a staggeringly good year
for us in every respect. New business has grown remarkably strongly on an annualized
premium basis; up 15%, higher than our 10-year average. And I think that's very gratifying
given the scale of the base we're dealing with.
Earnings has grown strongly; normalized headline earnings up 20%, despite the fact we
invested 12% in new starts and growth initiatives. We've typically invested 5% to 7%.
There's been a considerable focus on a number of initiatives, most particularly Discovery
Insure. And I believe that will pay real dividends going forward. So despite that, earnings
up a robust 20%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Very strong cash generation; up 45%, over ZAR2 billion. We have an internal guideline of a
return of capital of risk-free plus 10%. In the period under review, we achieved risk-free
plus 13%. Again, I think that's of course very pleasing.
The quality of business has been exceptional. I need to tell you no matter how complex
insurance businesses are, the fact is you have to get your lapse rate right, you have to get
your loss ratio right. If those are not in control, you have difficulty. If they are in control, you
have a great asset. And to an extent, you'll see throughout the presentation that the
focus on quality comes through I think in every single business.
Embedded value up 18% to close to ZAR36 billion; return on EV amongst the highest in
the history of the organization, exceeding 20%. And then something I'd say to you from
maybe a qualitative perspective rather than a numerical perspective, I think the market
positioning of Discovery in all the markets in which we're operating is disruptive and a
leadership role. In all of them, we're in a very strong position from a new business
perspective.
Our real desire is get to the top three in any market we're in in terms of new business.
And I would say to you that we're doing that in a very, very strong way. And I think the
period under review has been excellent in that regard.
Let me go through the numbers with you and give you a bit of a sense of them. And I've
pulled out, I've tried my best -- it's difficult everywhere as the Group gets bigger to pull
out the observations that we think are relevant. There's a lot of moving parts. But I've
tried my best here to give you a sense of what's going on.

Page 4 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

Firstly, new business up 15%, as you can see numerically to just under ZAR10.8 billion. If
you go down the chart, you can see, I think, a robust performance.

FINAL

In the established businesses, Discovery Health off a high base had a fantastic period of
13% increase.
Discovery Life up 8% to just under ZAR1.9 billion. There was an acceleration in the second
half of the year. And I'll take you through that a bit later.
In the emerging businesses, the one feature of these results that I think is spectacular, our
UK businesses have outperformed all expectation. The results have been absolutely and
totally remarkable. You can see the new business strongly up, close to 50% to just under
ZAR1.6 billion. The performance has been really good.
Discovery Invest up 11%. Very strong growth in the single premium side. So when you
divide it out by 10 to get to an annualized basis, it comes out to up 11%. But I think a very
good performance there.
In the new businesses, Discovery Insure, just two years out of the gate has done a
remarkable job. I think an excellent year. New business up to ZAR366 million, an increase
of 53% period on period.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the US, The Vitality Group, up 65%.
Humana Vitality; you may recall the structure we have with Humana, where they've put a
whole bunch of their business, of their chassis, onto Vitality. That is very lumpy. And in fact,
I think that will slow down because they've put a lot of the existing block, a couple million
lives, onto Vitality. So that naturally will reduce I think over time.
And in Ping An, we focused a lot on steering the business towards the insurance market,
away from some of the stuff that Ping An was doing before. We became a shareholder.
So you can see a slight reduction in that. But the real thing we're focusing on. And I'll take
you through that later in the presentation, is the insurance business, the core insurance
business, up close to 60%. So I think a robust growth in terms of new business.
Looking at it graphically, I'm not sure it adds much value. But you can see the growth in the
period under review I think is very strong. And I think very much stronger than previous
periods.
On the right-hand side, just giving you a sense of the long run growth rate at about 13%.
So 15% growth off a high base we are very pleased with and I think it does reflect a very
strong endorsement of what we're doing in the markets in which we're operating.
A few comments that I thought are really relevant. I made the point that Discovery
Health's new business increased by 13% off a very high base. The performance at

Page 5 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

Discovery Health was, in fact, remarkable.

FINAL

There are two sources of new businesses for Discovery Health. One is what we call
additions to existing employers. So a big company is with us. And that company itself
grows. So we get new members through that process. That is largely a function of the
economy. And that's been a contributor over the years of course to the growth of the
Discovery Health medical scheme.
But the more important one I think is absolutely what we call type one [ph] business on
the extreme left-hand side, new companies and new employees join in Discovery Health
and the Discovery Health medical scheme. And you can see in the period under review,
that was particularly strong.
So to an extent, the second type is a function of the economy. The first type, I would
argue, is a function of competitiveness. And to an extent, I think it illustrates how well
Discovery Health and the Discovery Health medical scheme have performed.
Discovery Life, I made the point; up 8%. You can see the acceleration in the second half of
the year. I hope I'll give you a bit of an insight into that later. In reality, the performance of
the products in the second half of the year was tremendous.

Bloomberg Transcript

And in Discovery Invest, just making the point that the growth was largely in single
premiums, up 20% year on year.
Let me turn to earnings; operating and normalized headline earnings up 20% on the back
of operating profit up 18% to ZAR4 billion. If you look at it graphically, I think the
progression continues very much in line with previous years. But I want to take you through
the breakdown of the earnings and try and reconcile what is clearly an ambiguous trading
update that we put out. So let me try and explain this to you and hopefully get it right.
Normalized profit from operations up 18% to just over ZAR4 billion. It's made up of three
components; the established business growth up 15%, the emerging business is up 54%;
and then, as I said, we invested 12% of our earnings in new starts, predominately
Discovery Insure. But a whole mass of things that we hope will lead to great growth going
forward.
You can see in the established business, I think the performance is very robust. Discovery
Health is growing its operating profit, up 13%. Discovery Life I think exceeding
expectations, up 16%.
Once again, you can see the incredible performance of the UK businesses. The life
insurance business, PruProtect, up 56% in profit; the health insurance business, up 60%
after system costs. The combination of them has been a remarkable performance. And
then Discovery Invest being -- starting to get scale and up 46% year on year.

Page 6 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

So you can see the summation of all that leading to an increase in operating profit; up 18%
to just over ZAR4 billion.

FINAL

Now you can see at the bottom of the slide that brings down normalized headline
earnings up 20% year on year. Very much in line with operating profit; slight tax efficiency
that came through. So from 18% to 20%.
Now to try and reconcile the trading update where we illustrated that headline earnings
are down about 3% to 4% yet normalized headline earnings were up 20%. What is the
difference? The difference is, in fact, quite simple. And it's really a paradox. It's really a
function of how well the Prudential joint venture has done.
Just to give you a sense of it -- I think I've lost a slide here, they've taken it away. To give
you a sense of it, as I've said, new business up close to 60%; operating profit, as you can
see, coming through in that regard. The business has really, really grown.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now two distinct things were done in the year under review. One is from an accounting
perspective; the other is from a tactical perspective. Let me explain to you the joint
venture.
We own 75% of the joint venture and Prudential own 25% of the JV. When we went up
from 50% to 75% and Prudential became a minority, the agreement was a put option and
a call option structure to give them flexibility to exit over time. So from 2015 onwards. And
I think we've mentioned this before, from 2015 onwards, they have a put on their 25% and
we have a call. And this happens every year thereafter. Right?
The way the accounting standards work is that you have to actually set up a liability for the
value of that put option. So you actually have to estimate the value of the business and
then discount that back. And that's essentially charged to your earnings as a liability. That's
fairly clear.
Now we've done that in the years that have passed. What happened this year is, given
the rapid growth of the business, we had to revalue the strike [ph] price of the business
and bring that in. So you can see on the left-hand side of the slide, the value of that put
option or the value of that 25% in terms of the formula generated out in terms of what
our auditors felt was appropriate was about ZAR3.5 billion. That had to be brought into
the accounts; the difference between that and what was held in the accounts before. So
that's clearly of a one-off nature and really reflects the exceptional performance of the
Prudential joint venture.
The other point is on the right-hand side. And I think this is a very, very sound strategy. The
business has been sitting on about ZAR2.4 billion of cash. And over the last number of
years or about 18 months, we've been focusing hard on how to, in fact, get yield out of
that market.

Page 7 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

FINAL

It's a market, as I think you know, that has incredibly low levels of investment returns. We
were earning about 70 basis points on that money for a long period of time. In the year
under review, we generated a further ZAR400 million to ZAR500 million of cash and that
created some problem for us.
So over the last 18 months, we've been working hard trying to rebalance the portfolio that
will give us better yield. I think the guys have done a great job. We've moved, I hope you
can see, from about 70 basis points to about 2.5% by restructuring the investments into a
portfolio we think is appropriate.
But given the very strong cash generation this year, we took a view that the early
reinsurance refinancing was costing us about 5%. We were earning only 2.5% on the
money. So clearly, it made sense to take that extra cash and recapture that reinsurance
financing, which is exactly what we did.

Bloomberg Transcript

But reinsurance financing once you recapture it is a charge to the income statement. So
the sum of those two gave a charge of about ZAR600 million that really is the difference
between headline earnings and normalized headline earnings. So essentially, what we've
done in the main is to take our earnings and add that back to give you a sense of like
versus like; and therefore, normalized headline earnings increasing by 20%. Yet when you
take these one-off charges from the Prudential due to the performance of the business, it
goes down by 3%.
So just to reconcile it from the slide, normalized headline earnings up 20% to just over
ZAR2.8 billion. You can see the impact of the put option and the reinsurance recapture,
close to ZAR600 million. And when you bring that through, the headline earnings are
down 3%.
So I hope that's fairly clear. We should have maybe explained that in the trading update
but we put that fairly blandly. It is quite a complicated issue. But I hope it's fairly clear. And I
hope it's clear that it's a function of the performance, kind of the outperformance of the
Prudential businesses.
Let me make a few other comments on the earnings. I guess this is graphic. But just to
show you the cash generation, up by 45%. In 2011, we generated very little cash; 2012, a
reasonable amount; 2013, this year, it's grown by 45%. I think that's excellent.
Return on capital up to risk-free plus 13%. Our internal target is risk-free plus 10%. So I
think the performance in that regard I think has been very, very good.
A point I wanted to make that is I think quite exceptional is the focus on quality across all
of our businesses. So the focus on new business, the focus on lapse rates, the focus on
loss ratios and claim levels is fundamental. I cannot over-state the importance of getting
these dynamics right in an insurance business.

Page 8 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

FINAL

So in the year under review, in the period under review, there's been a strong focus on
quality across all of our businesses. And I think the results have been staggering.
If you look at the established and emerging businesses, in virtually every single one of
them to a business, new business has grown strongly, lapse rates have some down and
loss ratios have come down. So virtually every aspect of quality I think has come through.
And I think that is fundamental to the ability to grow, the ability to drive profitability going
forward. And I think for me certainly, that's one of the highlights of the period under
review.
Turning to the embedded value, up 18% -- I made the point at the outset -- to about just
over ZAR35 billion, as you can see. The growth continues I think in line with previous years.
The return on EV, up over 20%, I think reflecting the quality. And to an extent higher than
previous periods, in line with some of the highest periods that we've had in the
organization's history.
And then finally a point of just judgment that I would say to you that I think the
organization is incredibly well positioned. Across all the markets we're in, we're a leader,
we're a disrupter. We're recognized as such.
We're dominant in the South African space.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the UK, our UK businesses in both life and health are in the fourth position.
PruProtect is remarkable. Off a standing start of zero a couple of years ago, it's the fourth
largest writer of life insurance in the UK. And I would argue in terms of using Vitality and
how it integrates, it's done remarkably well to establish a very strong position right at the
top of the market.
I'll talk about China a bit later. But it has achieved a number one position in what we call
the Group high-end market, the corporate high-end specialist health insurance space. And
that venture is really embryonic; that will take some time. But we do have great faith that
with AIA as a partner, there's great potential. I'll take you through that a bit later.
And then just to make the point, I guess, across all of the different countries and markets,
we're well established as a leader in every respect.
Let me turn to the specific businesses and take you through some observations.
It is very difficult as we get larger to keep illustrating every single thing in great, great
detail. I'm going to try my best to give a sense of the strategies in each of our businesses
and to give you a sense of where we're focusing.

Page 9 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

FINAL

I made the point that Discovery Health had a fantastic performance exceeding
expectation in virtually every single regard. Operating profit up 13%; new business up 13%;
fantastic performance of the Discovery Health medical schemes. Service levels are, I think,
exceptional. And the focus on building the healthcare system for all South Africans, I think
that's critical.
Discovery Life's performance exceeding expectation; operating profit up 15%. ZAR400
million of cash generated in that -- in the year under review. A very sharp focus on building
out the agency force. That has growing in quality and in size. And fantastic performance in
terms of lapse rates and mortality experience.
Discovery Invest; I made the point exceeding expectation. Operating profit side really
getting, I think, a benefit of scale; assets increasing to over ZAR30 billion. And a really
good receptivity of the products that have been rolled out in that regard.

Bloomberg Transcript

Discovery Insure too is out of the gate; strong new business growth. I think the exciting
thing has been the receptivity to the product. And I'm hoping the virtuous cycle we're
creating -- I'll take you through that a bit later and this focus on trying to make people
better drivers and in the process make them healthier. And I think that the virtuous cycle
of that process should be very powerful and the business, we think, will add value.
On the Vitality side, all of our Vitality businesses had a considerable investment in every
respect of everything we're doing; trying to make the capability global, repeatable,
scalable. We invested in every aspect of it, in how we negotiate with partners, how the
structures work, the technology, the philosophy. Everything about Vitality is being worked
that and can be repeatable and can be foundational to virtually everything we do.
I've made a point about the Prudential business, the joint venture. It's been remarkable in
every respect. Quality, size, growth; I think it is really well set for future growth.
And in the case of China, we've taken a very careful view about not getting side-tracked
into businesses we don't think are right. We're focusing the business on the specialist
health insurance market. And I'll give you insight into that.
We have captured about 30% of that market. It's a small market. But we believe it will
grow very, very quickly. I have great excitement about really building a call option to an
extent on what I think might be the biggest -- one of the biggest health insurance markets
in the world.
Let me start by just giving you a sense of some of these points. And I'll just get my order
right here.
I want to talk firstly about Vitality. We have spent a lot of time on investing in Vitality, in the
capability. And making sure that it's fit for purpose as a foundation to everything we do. It
is fundamental; it is really the driver of the business model. And I made the point at the

Page 10 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

outset, we're trying to build brilliant, excellent insurance businesses sitting on this
foundation of Vitality.

FINAL

It is a remarkable capability. And around the world, people are embracing this idea of
incentivizing people to be healthier and seeing the financial benefits of that in the kind of
industries that we're in.
So there's been a strong focus on Vitality as a foundational piece to every single thing we
do. I would say to you that in virtually every market, the receptivity is fantastic, the growth
is fantastic. ZAR5.5 million lives now sit on the Vitality chassis. We're learning more and
more about engagement, how to get people engaged in Vitality.
In the US, which is the epicenter of wellness. And I think you may appreciate this that in the
Affordable Care Act, the Obama healthcare reforms, wellness and a focus on incentivizing
wellness, is a fundamental piece of that. So that is really the epicenter of the stuff.
In the US we're rated now number one in terms of wellness in that regard. We've
launched a number of initiatives around Vitality around the world to make this capability I
think very, very substantial.

Bloomberg Transcript

In every respect we're getting the philosophy right. Very simplistically, get people to
understand their health, know their health; get healthier. And get rewarded for doing so.
And going around this virtuous cycle is really the simple philosophy of Vitality.
But of course, underpinning it is a whole range of tools and assets and structures and
technology that is developed over time. Vitality Age, working hard on investing in every
market, it's academically accepted as a gold standard. Personal pathways need to be
clinically sound; a lot of investment in that regard as well.
All of the wellness network's tools have been worked on to make sure they're global,
they can be repeated, they can be scaled. And ultimately, the idea is a Vitality capability
that's credible, that works. And creates a foundation that we need. And I think the focus
has been exceptional.
You can see the growth has been very, very strong in every respect. We've just started
out in Singapore. And I want to talk about that a bit later. But I think amazingly on the righthand side, just to give you a sense of perception, Aon Hewitt in the US did a survey across
the corporate market in the US. And you can see they rate it number one in terms of
wellness providers, ahead of UnitedHealthcare and some of the other major players.
So I think the performance of Vitality and its positioning is remarkable. And it is gratifying
that if you look at some of the quotes, the Economist, the New York Times, McKinsey,
whoever it is, I think some of the most credible journals in the world, cite Vitality as a kind
of a gold standard.

Page 11 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

FINAL

Amazingly, in the Economist just two or three weeks ago, they made the point that it's a
pity the NHS does not have a Vitality program like South Africa. That is very gratifying to
us. But I think it illustrates the potential opportunity we have. And therefore, a very, very
strong focus on getting this capability to an extent to a global point.
I need to say this to you that we're learning more and more about the verticals that work
in Vitality; nutrition, physical activity, prevention, etc. And we're learning about how to
structure benefits that engage people. So for example, nutrition, HealthyFood, has been
one of our most successful benefits in the context of Vitality.
We've pioneered this as Pick n Pay in the South African market. It's not just about the idea
of getting a 25% discount, it's the entire experience of the process. You go into the
supermarket. At the till, Vitality tags tell you that it's a Vitality food. You get the discount,
etc. It's a very physical experiential process.
You can see the success of that benefit. Our members have cumulatively spent ZAR10
billion through that benefit of Pick n Pay. It's quite remarkable. So we want to scale that to
an extent and repeat that.

Bloomberg Transcript

We've done that with Woolworths over the last few months. We are now starting [ph] the
end of the calendar year. And that's now available to a certain subset of our membership
base. It gets Woolworths as well [ph], if they want. You can see the growth of that is
staggering; about 40,000 or 50,000 fans already to date have activated that, been
using it actively.
And then we're seeing the same kind of thing repeated in other markets. In the case of
Humana and our Vitality business in the US, we've done the same deal with Wal-Mart,
although it's a 5% discount. But despite that, you can see the take-up over the last
number of months has been quite staggering.
We're also investing in the science of Vitality. So together with Rank [ph] Corporation in
the US, we've done a study, an academic study, on how people respond to these
incentives. And it's quite remarkable that when you subsidize healthy food and you guide
people in the right way, people in their trolley increase the proportion of healthy food and
decrease the portion of unhealthy food. And that, of course, is a fantastic finding.
So these are the kinds of things that we're doing around the world. And I think that is
absolutely critical.
At the same time, we're learning about how to get Vitality out there in the perception of
people. That's fundamental. So in the UK, we've come up with the idea of Vitality
ambassadors working with certain key people that take the message out there. I think at
the last presentation, we spoke about Jessica Ennis, the Olympic gold medalist, who's a
Vitality ambassador. Jonny Wilkinson is a Vitality ambassador.

Page 12 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

And then we formed a Vitality advisory board in the UK with Lord Sebastian Coe, one of
the greatest athletes of all time and the Chairman of the London Olympics. He's a most
remarkable individual who's helping us think through how to get Vitality pervasive in the
UK, how to lead in that regard, how to deal with policymakers in that regard. I thought it
may be worthwhile just listening to him in the context of Vitality for one moment.

FINAL

(video playing)
He looks pretty good for 55-or so [ph], Sebastian Coe. He can run, apparently. He chased
(technical difficulty) at the airport. I'll tell you, very impressive.
So really, the idea is actually working with some top people and getting them out there,
telling the Vitality message. And I think that's absolutely critical.

Bloomberg Transcript

At the same time, we're investing in the size of Vitality. We launched the Vitality Institute in
the US. And bringing in some of the top thinkers to help us think through Vitality, to think
through R&D, to think through policy issues, to think about how you can prevent
preventable chronic illness. And the one of I think the cornerstones of the Institute is
getting some of the smartest thinkers in the US to work in a commission with us about
thinking through these issues.
It is quite remarkable that given the newness of this field, despite the fact that we're a
for-profit insurance organization, we're sucking in the best thinkers to help us think that
through. That is the kind of the -- how can I say? -- the seriousness and the sensitivity and
the importance of this work. And so I'd say to you that in getting some of the greatest
thinkers to help us think through in the US, it will spread out elsewhere how we should be
thinking about Vitality, how we should be taking it forward.
Also, I thought just seeing some of the speakers at the Vitality Institute launch maybe
worthwhile to give you a bit of a context.
(video playing)
Just to give you a bit of a context for some of the work which we're doing, internationally
[ph] trying to build out the perception of Vitality. And I think more importantly, the science
of Vitality that really is foundational to everything we do.
So that is foundation. Let me turn to Discovery Health. I've made the point that Discovery
Health's performance has been remarkable; new business up 13%; operating profit up
13%. The Discovery Health Medical Scheme has performed well in every single dimension.
No matter how you cut the data, the performance is strong.
The growth in the Discovery Health Medical Scheme continues. And in fact, has
accelerated slightly. You can see the surplus generated. In fact, is dramatically higher. We
estimate about ZAR1.3 billion of surplus, of member surplus will be generated inside the
Discovery Health Medical Scheme over this calendar year.
Page 13 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

FINAL

And you can see the reserve build-up on the right-hand side. By the year end, we
estimate close to ZAR10 billion of cash, or near cash, is sitting inside the Discovery Health
Medical Scheme on behalf of members. So I think the scale of the endeavor and its
success financially is quite remarkable.
At healthcare level, our fundamental goal and obligation is to make healthcare affordable.
So the focus is on making healthcare costs as low as possible, driving up quality. If you
look on the left-hand side, we managed to keep over the least five years medical inflation
to CPI plus 3%. That's about 1.5% to 2% lower than the market average.
On a compound basis, that's dramatic. It's about a 12% to 15% lower healthcare cost
benefit for benefit to our competitors. And I think that's critical.
On the right-hand side, just to make the point, we continue to pass on efficiencies to the
Discovery Health Medical Scheme. Administration fees were around 13%. You can see the
graph path down. We're trying to get to about 10% in a short space of time. So there's a
very, very strong focus in that regard.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the year under review, one of the -- very important developments took place with the
Discovery Health Medical Scheme. There's been a lot of debate around the scale of
administration fees of medical schemes and our fees in particular; is the medical scheme
giving value for money, etc.
The trustees of the Discovery Health Medical Scheme at the last AGM brought in
Deloitte's to do a proper public process to actually look at those administration fees and
come out with a finding. The report was, in fact, released at the Discovery Health Medical
Scheme AGM just a few months back. And I think the findings are very, very compelling
and illustrate I think very clearly, not only the performance of the scheme in Discovery
Health. But the value for money members get.
It's an interesting point to make that the Discovery Health model is a sophisticated,
integrated health insurance model. Everything hangs together to integrate it in a model
that works well. And I think to an extent, it is the anthropic principle that works well
because we're the leader. And that's factual.
But it requires some investigation. When you compare to our competitors, they have
largely an administrative structure and they outsource certain elements of their
administration and managing of care.
I think the report is very conclusive that the integrated approach works better. They make
the point clearly that the Scheme performs best amongst its benchmark competitors. And
amazingly, some of the findings that came out of it I think are staggering.
The integrated model costs members about ZAR11 per month higher in administration
fees per beneficiary. But the savings on healthcare cost is about ZAR160 per month lower.
So for a family, the collective savings is about ZAR600 per month. That's a remarkable
Page 14 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

finding. And I think it does show the value for money that members get out of the
administration of Discovery Health.

FINAL

And then just an ROI calculation there estimated in the Deloitte's report. For every one
ZAR1 spent on the administration fees, the scheme beneficiaries get close to ZAR1.77 to
ZAR2 coming back.
So a very conclusive set of findings and I think we're on the right track. And I think the
value for money to the scheme, hopefully, is very, very clear. But we'll continue of course
to drive down costs, to drive our administration costs. And to pass those on to
beneficiaries. But I think we're well positioned based on that.
When we look forward and say to you the contents of Discovery Health we're [ph] fairly
clear of the scale of our obligations, it is quite remarkable that the market share of
Discovery Health and the Discovery Health Medical Scheme is nearly half the market. And
what I find really, really instructive was the latest Sunday Times top brand survey that
came out literally a few weeks ago in which in every category, you get a number of
companies competing, telecoms, or whatever it might be, in a first place, second place,
third place.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the case of medical aids, there was one company mentioned, Discovery. It's quite
remarkable. There was no statistical significance of other responses. It's on one hand very,
very gratifying. On the other, it tells you the enormity of our task.
We're seen as the Kleenex; we're seen as a generic. We're the utility. We are really
building the private healthcare system. And I really think that puts an onus of brilliance on
to us. We have to make sure that every aspect of what we do is exceptional, not just at a
system level but for every individual that we care for. And that's an absolutely critical thing.
We need to understand as well. And I've said this before, I feel there's an expectation
gap that rationally the odds are stacked against us in terms of member perceptions. Just
listen to this fairly simple, logic tree.
We deal with people's most important asset, their healthcare. The product itself
consumes 15% of their salaries; probably the highest, most expensive product they'll buy.
It's structurally inflates above inflation. So it eats more and more of their salary. And
because of the 80/20 rule, 20% of the people consume most of the money, 80% of our
membership base pay in more than they get out.
So simply put, it's the most expensive product they'll buy. It inflates and they get nothing
back for it. So I'll put to you -- I shouldn't be doing this at this presentation -- 80% of
people should really dislike us. But they don't, they really don't. In fact, I think they do like
us. And it's things like Vitality that give people value for money.
But it does tell you that the odds are stacked against you. The rational consumer should
be stacked against us. And any difference, any possible -- any problem when they do
Page 15 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

FINAL

claim is amplified [ph] by I've paid all this and I get nothing back. It's a very difficult,
probabilistic product.
I would argue that the first few points are probably the same for private education. It's a
critically expensive issue. It inflates above inflation. The difference is with education it's not
probabilistic. Everyone uses it. You see a child go to school every day. It's visible. With
healthcare, the sick use it and are happy with it. But the 80% that don't are dissatisfied.
And that means that we have to be absolutely brilliant in everything that we do. We can
never rest.
And this is not just at a system level. We have to make sure that we make it clear that
health is accessible, we bring the price down as much as possible, we offer people
benefit options. And we're brilliant in the interactions. And that's what we are focused on.
It is very, very complex and difficult.
And a great example about this, you may have seen in The Star just a few weeks ago, life
versus medical scheme. Now these are very painful headlines to deal with. We're on the
side of the medical scheme I hate to tell you in this article. But a very difficult case that we
dealt with.

Bloomberg Transcript

It was a cancer sufferer; I think a 26-year-old male where there was a debate about what
medication he should take. Amazingly, we were arguing for medication that's more
expensive than was prescribed by the doctor. But the disagreement led to this front page
article.
But it gives you -- if you look at the funnel [ph], it gives you a sense of what we're dealing
with. We manage about close to 760,000 hospital authorizations a year. It's about 60,000
a month. Close to 96% of them are approved almost immediately; a further 3% are
chucked out, underwriting ineligibility; and then 0.3% of them end up in this kind of debate
around the clinical appropriateness.
We are careful to use the best independent clinical advisors to work with societies to
make sure we're focusing on quality. And any slip-up is not acceptable. We can never look
at this in a statistical way. Every single individual has got to have the best quality care. And
that's what we're focused on. But it gives you a sense of the tolerances that we're dealing
with.
There is no room for error here. We're dealing with people's lives and we're dealing with
statistics that are to an extent stacked against us.
So we are focused on building up the best healthcare system. And to an extent, to
Discovery Health's credit, there's a very, very strong focus on not just building an
administrative capability. But building a seamless brilliant healthcare system that people
have access to.

Page 16 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

FINAL

I think two presentations back I illustrated to you the HealthID capability that medicine is
changing. Doctors aren't sitting in a consulting room in isolation. HealthID gives them on
an iPad access to electronic patient records, scripting medicine, senior pathology results;
really giving them an entire history in a dynamic interconnected way.
At the last presentation, I think I showed you the member apps that really create this idea
that the health plan is on the phone, the smartphone that people have. And they have
access to it.
But I think the power we're building is really the healthcare of the future. And to an extent
we're often negative about our healthcare system and don't appreciate it. I think one of
the exciting things about South Africa is the private system is small enough and we're big
enough to straddle. We can make systemic change. We can drive quality. And that's what
we're doing.
So one thing I wanted to show you that I think is quite fascinating is we're now moving
ahead with biotelemetry, focusing on areas where we can use this technology to make
people healthier.

Bloomberg Transcript

One of the areas of focus we've done is diabetes. Diabetics every day have to check their
blood sugar. They have to check that over time; understand the trends of what that
means; how they eat; how they manage it. These are critical things. And this kind of
technology rollout has the ability to make a difference.
You can see the member take-up in terms of our member access has been dramatic. And
that's created the impetus for the ability to do this.
So what I wanted to do at the risk of actually -- of taking some risks, I thought I wanted to
show you the power of this diabetic telemetry pilot. We're in the process of rolling it out
to 50,000 diabetics. The feedback from the pilot that we've done has been absolutely
remarkable.
So let me show this to you. The idea is that someone suffering from diabetes at home
would have their member apps and have the apps that we provide. I'm going to ask Alain
Peddle, who is our Head of Health R&D and a proud diabetic -- let me say that for him,
he's a remarkable individual -- what he's going to do for us. And I hope I get this right,
next year, we're going to do a hemorrhoid op live . Alain's dropped the phone.
Okay. So what we're going to do here is Alain every day, I think a few times, checks his
blood sugar. Right? Now in the old world, that would just be written down; he'd lose
history, whatever. Here, I have the application. It gives you his bloods. I hope it's on the
screen. He's now going to --

Alain Peddle

Page 17 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

I'm going to do the test. So that's the device. I put the strip in. Everything seems to be
working. I prick my finger. Take my blood. (inaudible) . Look. I do this 5 times a day, or so.
And of course, I've stuffed it up first time. Don't worry. Sorry. That's just me doing it
clumsy.

FINAL

So a four-second countdown. I've had a high reading. I'll take the strip out; get rid of it.
Right? And then it should start to communicate.

Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

So that device now communicates through the application, the smartphone. And
hopefully, what will happen is this latest reading will appear on his phone . I've done this a
few times and --

Alain Peddle
Something's happening. I'm not --

Bloomberg Transcript

Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Maybe keep going. I hope it's clear. We wanted to show you blood anyway, which you did
see. And the idea is, as you can see -- sorry, ring the phone up again -- as you can see,
supposedly his reading would be live in the phone. But more importantly, the entire
history would be available. He could see it graphically. He could look at it before he eats,
after he eats. He gets a complete and total management of what's going on on his
phone. And I think that's critical for a diabetic to understand.
But the real power of it is -- let me go to HealthID where it's now updated at the doctor
level. So almost immediately, the doctor now has access to what Alain's records are. He or
she can track that, see what's going on. And amazingly, understand proactively that if
there's a problem, there can be a callout. If Alain calls in to the doctor or the registered
nurse, they have access to the records, what's going on, what the history is.
And then what we've done as well through that record is in terms of Alain's electronic
health record, everything that's related to diabetes, all ICD codes that are related to
diabetes, are sucked into this. So all the other treatments as well, besides the blood
reading, is pulled up as well. So the doctor/healthcare professional at the point of care
has access to the entire cross-section of Alain's state in addition to his history.
The quality of care is quite remarkable in that regard. And quite soon, we're going to start
coalescing that with Vitality data around health risks and how behavioral aspects come
into being. The effect on quality of care immediately is dramatic.
And when you think about 50,000 diabetics, you get a sense of the scale of what we're
dealing with. 50,000 diabetics in terms of health, in terms of healthcare cost, is a
dramatic burden to the Discovery Health Medical Scheme, the opportunity to make
people healthier.
Page 18 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

FINAL

So to an extent, trying to give you a sense of where healthcare is going and our ability, I
guess, as Discovery Health in a relatively small healthcare system to make structural
change. And that is on the foundation of what we're doing.
At the same time, we're investing heavily in the healthcare system. The Discovery
Foundation has an express goal of uplifting the number of medical specialists by 10%. So
we have about 6,000 specialists in the country; we'd like to make that 10% higher. We're
gaining exceptional traction. We've been offering grants to exceptional people to
specialize. We've got about 200 people now specializing. ~So we're nearly one-third of
the way there to uplifting the number of specialists by 10%.
On the right-hand side, I just wanted to mention to you, during the period under review,
we launched an initiative with Massachusetts General Hospital, it's the Harvard teaching
hospital, about taking some of our smartest PhD students in the universities, getting them
to Mass Gen, getting them to learn super specialties and bringing them back to the
country. And the idea is to train the trainer through the universities which we're working
with we're going to build a healthier system.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we're not starting bottom. But starting in the middle and the top with specialists,
increasing that number; and at the same time going right to the top to actually get a
trickle-down effect of training the trainer and making the universities hopefully at the
cutting edge of what we're trying to do.
I do believe that we can make a difference. I do believe the healthcare system is
sustainable. And I do believe along with other initiatives like the NHI, we can build a better
healthcare system for all South Africans. And I think that that is critical.
Let me turn to Discovery Life. The performance has been absolutely staggering, I think, in
terms of operating profit up 16%. Strong new business growth, robust, off a very high
base of 8%. I made the point that the second half of the year was better.
But it's fundamental to just talk about the Discovery Life model because I think it is
remarkable in its execution. And the effect of it has been tremendous. So the highlight
[ph] is actually very simple.
As I said at the outset, the causes of death today are different. They're dynamic. 50% of
mortality is driven by choices that people make day to day. So the concept of underwriting
someone at a point in time when they enter. And that rate applying for 40 years, is
completely and totally incomplete. The approach behind Discovery Life is you get
underwritten, of course. But then based on how you manage your health, how you
engage, your premiums flex. If you (technical difficulty) your premiums if they come down.
So actuarially, it provides the dynamic pricing mechanism. The effect of that is dramatic.
Better value for money to the policyholder, a better matching of price and risk from an
actuarial perspective, better for the insurer and better for society. Hopefully, people are
getting healthier.

Page 19 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

FINAL

The model has played out I think remarkably well. We're learning more and more about
how the product should be constructed. Over the evolution of Discovery Life, we've had
different iterations of getting in the right.
In the period under review, we've focused on a number of things. The first is the actual
benefits and the triggers that make people think about lapsing and behaving differently.
We've had an incredible success with the side of [ph] getting cash back, releasing some
of the actuarial reserves and giving that back to people if they engage.
So the concept we've established, every five years you get a cash-back; or if you roll out
during the second half of the year, there's annual cash-backs. The flexibility of Vitality
status [ph] have been remarkably well received. And have had an impact of bringing lapse
[ph] rates down.
The other very exciting initiative that I have great hopes for is the idea of using how
people drive with the risk factor. I'll show you a bit later. But for the first time, we're pricing
life insurance based on the VitalityDrive of how people drive.

Bloomberg Transcript

It's kind of intuitive and obvious. And I remember when we rolled out Vitality Insure,
people guessed that at some point we'd link that as a risk factor. But it took us some time
to understand the statistics. But both of those were rolled out in the last number of
months. And I think the receptivity to both has been quite exceptional.
The effect of that has been that Discovery Life remains at the top of the pile in terms of
market share. On right-hand side, you can see the second half of the year has grown
quicker than the first half of the year, I think illustrating the receptivity to the new products.
But I think most important is how powerful the model is working. The idea is that people
behave better. We rate them better over time. Lapse rates come down; mortality's better
than expected. And that's exactly what we're seeing.
Lapse rates, as you can see on the left-hand side in the red, or the orange, are lower than
expected. In the blue across all durations of the period under review, mortality's better
than expected. So things flipped around, the other way round. Mortality levels are lower
than expected. Despite that, from [ph] every couple of years, we've been strengthening
that expectation in the embedded value basis. And I think that's critical.
All the correlations are playing out. If you look at lapse status, if you look at claim
experience, all of them are strongly correlated to engagement and mortality status. So as
people engage more, lapse rates go down. As people engage more, claims experience
tends to be better. So there's kind of a gain here, a virtual cycle of how the model works.
And therefore, to an extent, we are agnostic as to how people engage. The more they
engage, the less they pay; but the less they pay, the better the performance tends to be.
And it's that virtuous cycle that I think plays out so well.

Page 20 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

FINAL

It is quite remarkable if you see what's actually happening in the dynamics of the
Discovery Life policyholder base, the relative frequency of people in the different statuses
is getting higher. So if you look at the gold and silver status on the -- of the gold and
diamond status on the left-hand side, there are 3.5 times as many people there as there
were in 2009, adjusted for growth, as you can see.
In the middle, you can see the extent of cash-backs and premium discounts people are
earning is dramatic. Cumulatively over the 2013 year, we've paid back about ZAR5 billion
cumulatively to policyholders. So people are getting considerable value by engaging in
Vitality status.
And then I found the last in there, this is very, very revealing, that shows you how the
Discovery Life model really works. It's really the experience variances of Discovery Life.
What you can see is a strong negative variance around premium income.
So in fact, people are engaging faster than we expected, which means that they pay less
in premiums than we expected. So it's a negative variance. But the concomitant entry on
the other side is effectively a far better lapse experience and far better mortality
experience. And, therefore, you get this kind of -- the model playing out dynamically
through the experience variances of the embedded value. And I would argue the model is
working remarkably well.

Bloomberg Transcript

The effect then on the quality has been to continue to grow the Discovery Life, EV, I think,
is around 20%, as you can see; strong growth over the period. And continues to do so.
So to an extent, I'm confident of Discovery Life's ability to grow. But we'll be [ph] more
importantly, hopefully, we're creating a virtuous cycle of this engagement, driving down
lapses, driving better mortality experience. And I think driving a better result with no real
trade loss in that regard.
You can see the value of new business margin is staying at about 10%. So despite a very
competitive market, I think we're managing to maintain our new business margins where
they were.
Let me touch briefly on the AIA joint venture. Why I've put it here in the order of the
presentation is that it's completely new. We have great hopes for it. It's a pan-Asian
partnership with AIA. And it is a good segue.
Of course, to an extent, what we're doing with AIA is exactly what we've done with
Discovery Life. What we're trying to do with them is integrate Vitality into the life insurance
business. And by the way, joint venture we've called AIA Vitality that really does both. It
builds the Vitality chassis; it integrates into the life insurance policies. And they are in
search of exactly what Discovery Life has done.
So to an extent, all of the learnings of Vitality, in building the Vitality chassis; at the same
time, all of the learnings about how you integrate this into life insurance with dynamic
Page 21 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

pricing, all of that has been rolled out into the Singapore market with AIA.

FINAL

It's been a remarkable process. AIA itself is a fantastic company. It's one of the largest -in fact, I think the fifth largest insurer in the world. It's the Asian arm of AIG. And in fact,
when AIG was taken over the by US Government, you may know the story, AIA was their
most valuable asset. So they sold it off to the public in effect and became a standalone
massive listed insurer in Asia.
It's of remarkable quality. If you do any reading on it, you'll be very, very impressed. Total
assets under management, I think ZAR1.5 trillion [ph]. They're a remarkable franchise
throughout Asia, starting 90 years ago in Shanghai. So it really has a real powerful position
in the Asian market.
Their focus very much is in -- idea of doing what we've done with Discovery Life; pushing
out protection products in a market that's increasingly buying them. And their idea of
making people healthier in the same way that Discovery has done has been at the
cornerstone of their strategy.

Bloomberg Transcript

What we've done is built a very strong Vitality chassis in Singapore. It's a fantastic market
in the sense it's dense; high GDP per head. It has a whole range of potential parties. I
think what's interesting about it, the point I made earlier, is we've learned in a disciplined
way all of the issues around the verticals of nutrition, physical activity. So while the parties
are different, the philosophy is the same. Structures are very similar; and using the power
of AIA, we've built some very powerful dynamic partnerships.
So for example, Cold Storage, which I think is the largest grocer in Singapore, is our
partner on the nutrition side. And we've built it piece by piece in a very similar way to
we've done in the South African market, in the UK market. I think that bodes well for the
future of the joint venture.
And then on top of that, AIA has done the actuarial work to dynamically price life insurance
with us in this JV. So it really replicates the Discovery Life model that we've done in South
Africa into the pan-Asian market, starting in Singapore.
I thought it may be worthwhile just hearing from AIA as part of the launch process; give
you an insight into their thinking.
(video playing)
It's a very exciting venture, I must say. Going to the launch in Singapore was like a kind of a
Monty Python moment for me. We sat in audience listening to CEO Huckley [ph] tell us our
own story in a different language. It's quite a remarkable experience if you ever get it.
Let me move on to Discovery Invest. I'd like to move quickly and try and give you an
insight. I think the Company has done well. I made the point about getting scale. And you
see that coming through in the operating profit, up 46%.
Page 22 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

FINAL

There's been a very strong focus on product excellence in Discovery Invest. Understand
that the hypothesis behind the business is very simple. It's like other -- like its competitors,
it offers a list [ph] platform, open architecture in terms of choosing any asset manager,
any fund. It has all of that. But the key thing is offering value and protect your own using
integration and efficiency of our model.
So two products I think with two initiatives that have got real traction in the period under
review. The Retirement Optimizer is an incredibly smart actuarial concept. The idea of
giving Discovery Life policyholders, essentially post retirement, their unnecessary, or too
much life cover you have post-retirement, using the excess life cover, taking the actuarial
value of that and putting it into your retirement annuity, supplementing your retirement
income. It really transfers life cover into income post-retirement.
The efficiency of that is dramatic. And work is done on that Retirement Optimizer getting
excellent traction in the period under review. And illustrating, I think, the power of to an
extent integrating investments of life insurance at a structural level. I think that is very
powerful.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the right-hand side, we've used the tax efficiency and the structure of Discovery Life
to give people a simple, powerful boost up front when they invest. So if you invest in
Discovery Fund, if you're a Discovery Life policyholder, you can get up to 26% up front in
your investment as a booster.
In the period under review, we extended that to non-Discovery funds at a lower booster.
And to people that don't have a life plan. So using that same kind of structure has got
great traction.
And I think to an extent, what you'll see on the left-hand side is the new business fairly flat
in the previous financial period. In this period, it has responded to those. And in fact has
accelerated over the second half of the year.
I made the point before about single premiums being up 20%. You can see that on the
right-hand side of the chart.
So a very strong focus on getting all the aspects of Discovery Invest right. But I think an
excellent focus on products that is getting traction in the marketplace.
Let me turn to Discovery Insure. Discovery Insure really has been a focus of ours for the
last two years. It really is two years out of the gate. We are very excited about what is
being built and have great expectations it will become one of the great Discovery
businesses.
New business up 53%, as I said. The base has grown to nearly 50,000 vehicles; in-force
premium over ZAR600 million. You can see that graphically there; very strong new
business from the get-go, to be fair. Even in its first full year, I think they've got very, very

Page 23 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

good traction. But in the second year, you can see the traction has accelerated and the
premium in-force is tending to grow at a rapid rate.

FINAL

We estimate that Discovery Insure is getting about 10% of the market share, of the
personal lines market. And hopefully, that will grow quite significantly.
I think what is most exciting is in fact the behavioral aspect that we set out to achieve. The
simple idea here is the same irrationality with driving. People think they're good drivers
but they're not. And if we can change the choices around and make them better drivers,
we can, of course, lower the costs of insurance. But I think more importantly, make people
healthier and safer. And that's the idea behind Discovery Insure.
I think the results have been remarkable. You can see how quickly people respond to the
incentives. So in Month 2 typically, only 27% -- on the bottom left-hand side -- only 27% of
our policyholders in that month either advanced and engaged in terms of the measures
that we measure. By Month 12, just 10 months later, nearly 50% are.
So it turns out that people do respond quickly to the incentives, to the tools, all the kinds
of things we do in Discovery Insure, to get them to drive better. It's a fantastic opportunity.

Bloomberg Transcript

And as you would guess, on the right-hand side, it turns out to be measuring the right
things. People who drive better have less frequency of accidents. And the accidents they
have are of lower severity. And therefore again, I think at a health level, at a safety level,
at a claim level, the effects are quite powerful.
In addition to that, the lapses are all positively correlated. So as people driver better, their
lapse status tends to drop. So as they get engaged in our system, they tend to become
more sticky. And on the right-hand side, the longer they stay with us, the lower their lapse
rates tend to be. And the lower their claims tend to be.
So I would say to you again, I'm hoping that in Discovery Insure, we're developing a
virtuous cycle. People are incentivized to change behavior and drive better. When they do
that, claims go down, they lapse less frequently and the process goes on. And in that
process, hopefully over time, we'll see the value being created and we'll see the effect
on society. Early days. But I have great hopes that we can achieve it.
Now it's important we maybe state that in the case of short-term insurance, most
products are fairly commoditized. The market we're in largely competes on distribution
channel. Either you're a D2C player, that's above-the-line advertising and that's really the
focus, or you're a broker player and the focus is on working with brokers, giving them an
underwriting pen, giving them a whole load of things to get them to sell your products.
So that it [ph] teaches people to have better death [ph] perception, peripheral
perception; there are a lot of tools that are online. We've done a joint venture within that
[ph] which is available to our drivers to get them to drive better, to have better
perception of what things are going on [ph] around them.
Page 24 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

FINAL

We've done an amazing amount of work on this concept of Driver DNA. In fact, I wanted
to show it to you in a much more complicated form; we didn't have the time.
It's really worked out on an actuarial theme [ph] Discovery Insure around a very simple
idea. If you look at how people drive and the statistics coming from that, everyone has a
unique fingerprint, to an extent. And it turns out that that's true. You can model it carefully
and you can predict who's driving the car. So every individual has their own DNA of how
they drive.
And once you have that tool to predict, we have the ability to tell who's driving the car. Is it
the driver? Is it someone else? It has a whole load of applications. If someone has stolen
the car, we should know just from the statistics coming through in real time on a real-time
basis. And so I think it has an amazing opportunity for all kinds of applications in Discovery
Insure.
But the point I'm really trying to make is just the power of the product is driving what
we're doing. And to an extent, that's where the focus has to be.

Bloomberg Transcript

It's interesting, just to go back to the Sunday Times survey, I think it's interesting just to
get a sense of perception that I think the strategy works.
So we are spending far less, even in our D2C initiatives than our competitors. You can see
on the left-hand side. That's public data. It gives you a sense of the ad spend above the
line. Yet, amazingly, in the Sunday Times brand survey, Discovery Insure was number two
in the category in which it competes. Really it says I think the ability to capture the hearts
and minds of people with a product that makes a difference. And that's what our focus
has to be. And we'll continue doing that going forward.
And one exciting thing that I made a point of earlier is just the exciting link of VitalityDrive
to Discovery Life and its (technical difficulty) to affect how people drive. It turns out that if
they drive better, their chance of fatalities are lower. And therefore, we can use their
driving statistics as a risk factor.
So for the first time in the period under review just a few months ago, we've rolled out
the idea that you get a 10% discount on your life insurance. And that premium flexes like
Vitality does through VitalityDrive by using how you drive as a risk factor.
And I think that offers fantastic value for money. It offers us an increasing learning in
Discovery Life about what drives mortality. But fundamentally as well, our distribution
channel; for the first time it gives our distribution channel, our brokers, the ability to link
these two products. And I think from a distribution perspective that is incredibly powerful.
Let me turn to Ping An, to China, moving in a bit of a haphazard order. I wanted to just talk
about this very briefly and give you a sense of I think we're building a very special
company here. I do believe it's going to take time. We've been careful in saying to all
stakeholders this is a very slow process. China's health insurance market is embryonic. But
Page 25 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

FINAL

I do believe in, as do the most sophisticated commentators, that it's one of the largest
insurance markets emerging.
Just to give you the case for China again, it's actually quite simple; ignore all the big
numbers that you hear. But effectively, China spends very little on healthcare per person.
You can see $221 per annum on healthcare versus $8,000 per annum spent in the US. But
amazingly, their total healthcare market is pretty big. It's about 10 times the size of ours
and growing at a rapid rate.
But the really interesting thing is private expenditure. Nearly one-half of all spending in
China on healthcare is private, not government. And of that, 80% is out of pocket; it's not
covered. So 80% of 50% gives you close to 40% of the entire spend that is out of pocket.
Clearly, that is a massive, massive insurance opportunity.
The products being sold into there currently are crude, critical illness dread [ph] disease
policies. There isn't yet a sophisticated health insurance market developed yet, except
right at the top end. And that's where we're focused, on developing a proper, specialized
health insurance business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Some of the analysis done by McKinsey, Munich Re and others, will show that the current
health insurance market is only RMB1 billion, on the left-hand side. But the expectations
are that this market is likely to grow at 40% a year as opposed to the life insurance, or
P&C, property and casualty, at far lower rates.
The expectation of growth is by 2018 that it is a 6 million market and it continues to grow.
So our strategic response together with Ping An is to focus on building a company that's
fit for purpose in that market. We've been very careful there. And I made the point about
some of the peripheral products that have been sold; fund and service products we felt
were wasteful, have very low margins, don't make sense. We've tried to get the company
not to do that. And we've focused on really the proper health insurance business.
You can see on the left-hand chart, trying to give a sense of size, we estimate by the end
of the 2013 calendar year, we'll have about RMB330 million of premium in that market.
And that's about 30% of the total high-end space in the Chinese market.
We'll have competition on the group high-end space in terms of just positioning. We are
now the biggest writer of group high-end health insurance. Second place is now Sigma
[ph] of the US, which is a very, very fierce -- it's fierce competition. And make sure we
keep that place. But the focus I think is correct here in terms of what we're doing.
Sorry, let me go back one.
I want to just show you one other thing; just give you insight into China. Virtually all
healthcare delivery is public, in public hospital. And it's of good quality. But, to an extent,
there's a differentiation between general wards -- even then, there's a lot of out-ofpocket exposure -- and these private VIP wards. And understanding the ability to have
Page 26 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

access to the private wards is what people want when they buy health insurance. So I
thought a very quick video might give you some context and insight.

FINAL

(video playing)
I'm not sure what they chose . So its queues [ph] like our -- our people at team
development assured me you'd see beautiful private wards. But I assure you, when you
go to their public facilities, don't be fooled. They are of considerable quality. But there is a
very vast difference between private VIP wards versus what you see in a typical public
hospital setting. I think that is our advantage.
I'd like to end up on the British businesses, on PruHealth and PruProtect. As I said to you,
to me, the performance over the year has been absolutely remarkable and staggering.
I made the point about the growth. When you look at it graphically, you can see combined,
the business, new business, up by net close to 50%; and the materiality substantial to
nearly ZAR1.6 billion. Operating profit up 40% to just under ZAR600 million, if you look at
the core operating profit. So the performance I think is remarkable.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then giving you a sense of materiality; in terms of Discovery's overall picture, the new
business of the joint venture's about 15% of our total. And the profit contribution's about
12% of our total. So it's a substantial business and forming that way.
I do need to say to you that our vision for the business is to build the best protection
business in the UK. And that's what we're doing. It is interesting that a number of years
ago, all of the life insurers were thinking about long-term savings; that's where the market
is. In truth, there's a re-focus on protection. And I think we have the amazing opportunity
to build in the UK, like we've done here, Vitality, Health and Life Insurance through an
integrated approach. And that's what we're doing.
And I would argue that it is largely embryonic. PruHealth itself has had a fantastic period.
We've digested the acquisition into the Standard Life Healthcare; operating profit up 23%
when you take into account the system costs. New business approaching ZAR1 billion, up
by 54%. So despite the acquisition, the team has done remarkably well now getting the
structures there to compete for new business and I think doing very well.
The Vitality Ambassador process has allowed us in the direct-to-consumer space to use
our ambassadors. And that's had a fantastic effect on responsiveness. Core rates are up,
conversion rates are up. So we're getting into that very profitable individual market. And I
think doing very, very well there.
And then the most important point is the quality of the business. If you recall our earlier
presentations in PruHealth, we had a lot of difficulty on the loss ratio and those kinds of
aspects. The guys have done a remarkable job. Our lapse rates are now in the industry.
Our loss ratio is the lowest in the industry. And you can see that coming through on the
embedded value growth of 24%.
Page 27 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

FINAL

So you can see that lapse rates are coming down off the low base and continue to do so.
A very strong focus on conservation. And our loss ratios are coming down; and again, 12%
lower than the industry average. It's a remarkable performance, I think.
And then the final point I would make. And this is maybe just a prediction, just to make the
point that we are still busy with the process of the acquisition. So we still have a number of
system platforms working concurrently inside PruHealth. We believe that once those
disappear and we're on one platform, which is in the process of happening, I would
estimate in 18 to 24 months' time, ZAR100 million or so per annum of saving should fall off
PruHealth. We hope that that takes place. And that's really the aim.
So in addition to the quality, I believe over time, the duplication administration costs
should recede and the profitability should emerge very, very strongly.
From a Vitality perspective, we've done a huge amount of work on the Vitality chassis.
We're getting fantastic traction. You can see on the right-hand side, I hope it's clear, in
terms of gym activations, healthy food activations, it's climbing strongly month by month.
And interestingly, movies, which are a kind of low-value, high-frequency benefit, we're
finding in Vitality, it's an incredibly powerful way of incentivizing people. People use them
at a rapid rate.

Bloomberg Transcript

And we see that here. We've seen it in the UK. As you can see, in August, 40,000 people
a month are using that benefit.
So to an extent giving you a sense of the work done on Vitality. We've had a 70% take-up
on people buying up Vitality to Vitality Plus. And I think as well we're getting great traction
at the perception level.
I wanted to show you this. It comes out of Britain's healthiest company survey we did
together with the Daily Telegraph to just give you a sense of the traction we're getting.
(video playing)
So we've got really good traction around what we are doing in every respect. And I think
PruProtect hopefully will also be the beneficiary of that. PruProtect's performance is
absolutely staggering. From a standing start from nothing. Purely organically built from the
ground up. You can see on the left-hand side the policyholder count is just absolutely upsloping.
New business has grown year by year very, very -- at a rate that's absolutely remarkable.
And then operating profit this year, as you can see on the right-hand side, growing by
close to 60%, illustrating the quality of the business.
Lapse rates continue to go down. Mortality experience in the blue continues to be lower
than expected. So every aspect of the business tends to be I think frankly brilliant.

Page 28 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

The business mix is excellent. And all of that is driving quality. You can see that coming out
in the embedded value calculations, the value of in-force nearly doubling; the value of
new business a substantial ZAR450 million, up nearly 50%; so illustrating, I think, the ability
to give both scale and quality at the same time.

FINAL

And I really believe that PruProtect is embryonic. There's a lot we can and will do with the
business together with PruHealth going forward.
In terms of distribution channels, the ability to write [ph] I think is substantial. Over 70% of
the new business on the left-hand side comes from our franchise face-to-face channels. I
think that's critical because it's high-advice [ph], quality business.
And amazingly, on the right-hand side, our account managers inside the franchise, it's the
people that call on the brokers; the longer they are with us, you get a dramatic uplift in
business. So as the business ages and matures and the franchises mature, we expect
additional growth from that.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then a final point to make is that on September 16, we're running out a really
powerful integrated product for the first time into the UK very much along the line of the
Discovery Life Vitality integration. We've had that before where there has been some
integration. But not at a deep level.
A lot of work has taken place on the learnings over the last year of Vitality, of the
Discovery Life model. And a very deep integration model is being built in the UK. I think
the effects of it will be dramatic on new business and on the market. So great hopes for a
launch that's coming up in just a few weeks' time.
Let me end off by saying it has been a great year. Just to end off with a summary, strong
new business up 15%, earnings growth on a like-for-like bases 20%. A considerable
investment in new initiatives we believe will grow rapidly going forward. Strong cash
generation. Great EV growth, I believe. And excellent return on the EV. Quality of business
in every respect, lapse rates, loss ratios down across the entire Group. Embedded value,
strong growth. And finally, I think, probably most importantly about the future, very strong
market position for the way forward.
So we are very alive to our core purpose of making people healthier. And believe in our
ambition of building the best insurance organization in the world. That's what we set out
to do.
I appreciate the time that you've made of all of our key executives and directors here with
us. Can I just share the questions if you come for [ph] (inaudible). Thank you for the time.
Ricky Farber, our CFO, I think you know well, is joining me up on the podium. Can I take
some questions?

Page 29 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

Questions And Answers
A - Unidentified Speaker

FINAL

Nice to have you and nice to see you.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Mr. Gore, I don't want you to misunderstand me when I make certain comments. And this
is not a backhanded compliment, I mean everything that I say.
I would suggest that everyone takes the time to read the three-page overview, to which
you did not refer. Within this overview, you used the word strong 13 times . There's also
the liberal use of the words exceptional, excellent, unmatched, outstanding. And in your
presentation, you used the words staggering, brilliant, fantastic, remarkable. And for all
that, I detected no sense of boastfulness; rather a justifiable sense of pride. So my
congratulations to you and your team.

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Si those are versus expectation, I suppose, aren't they? .

Q - Unidentified Participant

Bloomberg Transcript

Now I have about 100 questions. But I'll stick to just about three or four, if I may.
Your balance sheet shows an item -- got to get to it first. Forgive me while I turn to it.
Under liabilities headed investment contracts at fair value through profit and loss at just
over ZAR6 billion. Now is there any link with that item and a similarly-worded item on your
income statement headed net fair value gains on financial assets [ph] at fair value through
profit and loss at just over ZAR2 billion? Is there any link between the two? And if there is
a link, why is there a difference in the numbers?

A - Ricky Farber

{BIO 5884718 <GO>}

You're 100% correct. There is a link between the two. That's policyholder liabilities. So this
is Discovery Invest. And the policyholder liability increases one of two ways.
Either the assets that we hold for those policyholders increase through market gains. And
that's the net fair value gains; or alternatively, they can invest more money with us. And
that would come through as a premium revenue; and that would reconcile the difference
between the two numbers.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Okay. Then staying with the balance sheet, there are a number of items that show
substantial increases from the year before; equity securities, debt securities, money
market loans and receivables, total ZAR15.5 billion; which has reduced by ZAR5.2 billion on
the equity-linked notes.

Page 30 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

FINAL

Now I'm fully aware that the market has been strong in the last -- there's the use of the
word strong -- has been strong in the last year. But still, I doubt if that explains the massive
increase in these items that I've just mentioned, particularly since the cash flow statement
shows only ZAR737 million being net purchase of financial assets. So what in effect was
the reason for the strong increases in those items I've just mentioned?

A - Ricky Farber

{BIO 5884718 <GO>}

Sure. So the bulk of the increase is pretty much the same thing; it's policyholder assets.
And you're quite correct; they have increased once again through the market value gains.
But they've also increased through further investments by the policyholders.
Included in that is a small amount of shareholder assets. And that's the part that's gone
up by ZAR737 million. So only the shareholder assets is included in our cash flow. The
policyholder assets comes in and out a little bit higher up.
The only one that's probably worth explaining in a little bit more detail than that is the
equity-linked notes, which looks a bit odd because it's gone down.

Bloomberg Transcript

You'll recall that. And we discussed this six months ago, Discovery took a view that we
were previously offering a guaranteed product on the back of an equity-linked note
offered by one of the international banks. And we restructured that in, I think, October last
year, where we instead brought it -- we colloquially say onto our balance sheet.
But we took the underlying assets at the equities, the money market and debt securities.
And instead of holding a note from this bank, we now hold the underlying assets.
We were worried in part about the credit of that bank. And also the ability to manage it.
And so we now have taken it on ourselves. So that's also driven an increase in equity
securities, money market and debt securities. But the resulting decrease in equity-linked
notes.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you for that, Mr. Farber. Finally, please, Mr. Gore, I'm turning to the table headed
normalized profit from operations, which features the contributions from different
divisions. And the last line -- sorry, the second last line, is a negative ZAR470 million being
development in other segments. Can I conclude that that is a catch-all for Ping An, the Pru
companies, Discovery Insure. And also Vitality USA, all lumped together?

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

You can. And the bulk of that is Discovery Insure. More than half of that is Discovery Insure.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you.

Page 31 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Thank you. I've got Pru -- sorry, did you say the Pru, not the Pru? I missed that (inaudible)
the point.

Q - Unidentified Participant

FINAL

(inaudible).

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Not PruProtect. Thank you.
Are there other questions? We're going to have -- tea and coffee will be here. Are there
any other --?

Q - Unidentified Participant
Mr. Gore, you need to obviously reward your shareholders as well as your policyholders.
And you very fleetingly mentioned your dividends in your presentation. Could you just
perhaps say a bit about your dividend policy, your cover? You've lots of cash in the
business. Are you going to give it back to the shareholders?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

It was on the slide. I never mentioned it. Sorry, I got stuck in the strategy. But the dividend
has increased for the half year, ZAR0.645, about 20%. So we're increasing the dividend in
line with the normalized headline earnings per share. So the dividend will increase by 20%.
We've taken the same view. We have a crudely 4.5 times cover based on the formula
we've used. And that remains unchanged. So it's really just a formula we continue to apply.
Ricky, is there something you want to say? Is that okay?
Sorry. That's fairly important stuff I glossed over.
Any further questions? Can I suggest then, I've been a bit long winded, we break for
coffee? Once again, I really appreciate the time. And we're all out here for questions.
Appreciate the time. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
Page 32 of 33



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-09-03

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 33 of 33

