Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2013-05-07

Q1 2013 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Catharina Hellerud, CFO
Helge Leiro Baastad, CEO
Janne Merete Flessum, IR Director
Mats Gottschalk, EVP

Other Participants
Gianandrea Roberti, Analyst
Matti Ahokas, Analyst
Per Gronborg, Analyst

Presentation
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

The conference is now being recorded.

Janne Merete Flessum

{BIO 19368607 <GO>}

Welcome to the presentation of the First Quarter results for Gjensidige. As usual, our
CEO, Helge Leiro Baastad, will start with presenting the headlines for the quarter; before
this time our EVP, Mats Gottschalk, gives some insight into Gjensidige's own Pension and
Savings business. Then our CFO, Catharina Hellerud, will give you the details on the
ﬁnancials. And ﬁnally, we will open for Q&A session, as always.
I'll leave the word to Helge.

Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Thank you, Janne. Figures for the First Quarter indicate a good start to 2013. Proﬁt before
tax expense was NOK541 million. And as you have seen, the Insurance result amounted to
NOK343 million, corresponding to a quarter combined ratio of 92.3%. If we would have
discounted reserves, the ﬁgures would have been 88.8%.
It is a satisfactory First Quarter result; the period that normally characterized by a lot of
weather-related events in the Nordic region. The increase in the combined ratio from
88.4% in the First Quarter of last year is mainly due to a more normal proportion of large
losses, combined with a lower run oﬀ gain. Adjusted for this, the combined ratio was on
par with the First Quarter in 2012, which, as you remember, was particularly good.

Page 1 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2013-05-07

FINAL

Good underlying proﬁtability was driven by continued good customer (and) risk selection
and no signiﬁcant negative weather eﬀects in the quarter. And as always, is that element
of random variation.
Go to the ﬁnancial result; amounted to NOK173 million, aﬀected by the impairment loss
on Storebrand we announced about 1.5 weeks ago of NOK611 million. Gjensidige is well
capitalized and it's important for me to repeat that it is the Board of Directors' clear
intention that the impairment loss shall not aﬀect the dividend for 2013.
This is exactly the same communication regarding dividend for 2013 as we presented to
the market 1.5 weeks ago. The annualized return on equity before tax was then 8.4%.
Then if we move to page, is it 4? Yes, I will brieﬂy comment on some of the most
important highlights of this quarter. First, the growth in premiums in the quarter was solid.
Adjusted for the exchange rate, we had a growth in premiums of 2.8%.
The very important private segment in Norway had a growth of 3%. And the growth in
premiums was also very good in the commercial segment, due to a high proportion of
policies being renewed at the turn of the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Adjusted for the loss of two pension agreements, as you have heard about before in the
second and Third Quarters last year, this was a strong performance from the Commercial
business in Norway.
In addition, the development in our international operations was particularly pleasing,
with a growth in premiums of 8.2% in the Nordic region and as much as 17.8% in the
Baltics, both adjusted for exchange rate eﬀects.
I now want to highlight the activities in the Nordic region in particular this quarter. As
mentioned, the growth in premiums, adjusted for the exchange rate, was a solid 8.2%.
The result was driven by a high level of activity and good renewal rates in the commercial
segment.
Since the acquisition of Nykredit Forsikring in 2010, Nykredit has been our most important
distribution partner in the Danish market. In the First Quarter this year, we entered into an
agreement concerning adjustment of the existing cooperation model.
From, and including April, we will be taking over the ﬁrst line customer dialog. This
strengthens distribution and helps to bring insurance expertise closer to the customer. As
such, it's fully in line with our goal of becoming the most customer-oriented general
insurance company in the Nordic region.
We think this adjustment of the distribution agreement with Nykredit will support both
customer orientation and sales, going forward, in the private line.

Page 2 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2013-05-07

FINAL

It's then pleasing to see the high level of activity in the Bank and that it has resulted in the
growth in lending of almost 21% from the First Quarter last year. The target customers for
groups for the Bank is primarily Gjensidige's loyalty and (inaudible) customers. Gjensidige
Bank shall be among the most competitive regarding pricing within these target groups.
The terms of the Bank is perceived to be very competitive, and the activity level is still
high, and with good inﬂow of customers also into the Second Quarter. In addition, the
Bank is small, but cost eﬃcient. The management and the employees are focused on
improving results, in combination with good ability to deliver.
The Bank has a strong (risk management). This is important and makes it possible to
achieve good lending growth, without changing the risk proﬁle of the portfolio.
Finally, so far this year, we have received three awards for customer service, and customer
treatment. And we see this as a recognition of the eﬀort we put into every day in our
dealings with customers.
Value creation takes place through contact with customers, and focusing on cost
eﬃciency, has not resulted in poorer customer service, only smarter and better handling
of customer enquiries.

Bloomberg Transcript

Page 5, and my last page, some words regarding the unique customer dividend model.
Model contributes to loyalty and increases Gjensidige's attractiveness among insurance
customers in Norway.
The Gjensidige Foundation will shortly receive NKK2.1 billion in dividend from Gjensidige,
which, after deduction of expenses, will be distributed to our Norwegian insurance
customers in May, June. This year, our customers will receive approximately 15% of the
premiums paid for 2012 from the Gjensidige Foundation, provided that they were
customers on the date of the Foundation's general meeting last Friday, May 3.
Since the IPO in 2010, Gjensidige has paid dividends of more than NKK8 billion, of which
close to NKK5 billion to our general insurance customers in Norway.
This year, as before, the Gjensidige Foundation will invest in proﬁling the model and the
Foundation's work through a big marketing campaign. The results of last year's campaign
show that increased focus on proﬁling works, has a retaining eﬀect, generates loyalty,
hence to create awareness about choosing Gjensidige Insurance as insurance supplier.
(Market campaign creates) recognition of the unique model among the general public.
90% of the customers know about the model, but only 55% of the population knows
about this model. The building of recognition takes time. It provides potential for
increasing customers. 6% to 8% more people will consider choosing, and/or choose
Gjensidige, due to this customer speciﬁc model.

Page 3 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2013-05-07

So with that last ﬁnal words, we can continue with Mats, and Pension and Savings
business.

Mats Gottschalk

{BIO 17501562 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Helge. We wanted to provide you with a strategic update as to our thinking
with regards to the ﬁnancial services businesses in Gjensidige.
Turning to page 7, Pensions and Savings is one of two non-insurance operating businesses
that we currently have. Those two businesses are both closely linked to our strategy, and
our strategy for the Norwegian market only.
With regards to Banking, as you heard our CEO, we've gained strong momentum in
developing a simple and easy banking oﬀering to our retail insurance customers, and
we're very pleased with that development.
Similarly, we are focusing on building a deﬁned contribution pensions business, mainly
servicing our SME commercial customers, again in strong cooperation with the insurance
company.

Bloomberg Transcript

These are two integrated businesses utilizing the distribution model of the Group as a
whole. They both contain relatively simple, modern and cost eﬃcient products, and we're
starting to see a contribution in terms of proﬁtability that is approaching the Group
requirements in terms of ROE.
Combined, or collectively, the Retail Bank and Pensions and Savings contributed NKK60
million to our Q1 result, the majority of that coming from the Bank. However, we think that,
over time, as the pensions market develops, we should also expect to see an interesting
income stream coming from our Pensions business.
Turning to page 8, we have today developed, eﬀectively, the fourth largest deﬁned
contribution business in the Norwegian market. This is still a very, very small market.
We've come a long way from starting this business back in 2007, 2008. As you can see
from the chart, our assets under administration have grown from about NKK3 billion, to
just shy of NKK23 billion, as of Q1, 2013.
The mix of assets is roughly half and half, split between pensions and savings. We expect,
going forward, that the bulk of the growth in AUM or AUA, is coming from pensions.
We're more excited about that market. More of our resources, in terms of distribution, are
allocated to the pensions market, and we think that the revenue base, again from
pensions, is somewhat more interesting.
Moving to page 9; as we've commented on before, there is a number of regulatory
changes going on within the Norwegian pensions market. Our strategy remains the same
as before, to provide a simple, deﬁned contribution product to our core customers.

Page 4 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2013-05-07

FINAL

What's interesting about the legislation and the regulatory changes is that we think it's
going to actually support our core market, as we've tried to illustrate in the presentation.
We expect to see traditional guarantee type products within the pensions market to
decline over time. The decline is going to be gradual, but we expect to see the majority of
growth coming from deﬁned contributions, which is what we are specializing and
focusing on.
Our view is supported by the dialog that we continue to have with our customers around
this product. Our sense is, employers, both small and large businesses, would like to see
easier, less costly pension plans, going forward, and we think that we're well positioned
for that.
So in summary, on page 9, we think that we developed a competitive business model. It's
scalable; it requires very little capital. We think that we can grow the revenue base, over
time. We'll have to patient, but over time, this business features attractive ROE prospects.
And we're going to apply the same strategy to developing pensions as we have in
developing insurance. We're going to be disciplined, we're going to be selective in
picking our customers. We're not primarily focusing on market share. We will focus on the
best risk and the best customers, and we will stick to the SME market as our main playing
ﬁeld.

Bloomberg Transcript

With that, thank you. And Catharina will continue.

Catharina Hellerud

{BIO 17276650 <GO>}

Thank you. Insurance operations continue to deliver strong results. The Insurance result of
NOK343 million is a strong First Quarter result, and there is good underlying stability in all
the segments. The decline, compared with the corresponding quarter last year, which was
a very good quarter, is largely due to lower run-oﬀ gains and a higher proportion of large
losses.
The Bank also recorded a very positive proﬁt performance in the quarter, with a pretax
result that is more than twice the result in the First Quarter 2012. Increasing volume and
less interest income, cost eﬃciency and a reduction in write-downs and losses contribute
to the strong performance in the Bank.
The result in Pension and Savings is on a par with the corresponding quarter last year.
However, this year we have taken into account that the ﬁnancial proﬁt for the paid-up
policy portfolio will be used as provision for higher loss expectancy.
The owners' share of the ﬁnancial proﬁt corresponding to (NOK1.4 million) in the quarter,
was allocated in its entirety as a provision in the First Quarter 2013. The return on the
investment portfolio amounted to 0.3% in the quarter, adjusted for the impairment loss in
the stake in (Storebrand). However, the investment portfolio recorded a satisfactory yield
in the quarter of (1.3%). Taken together, this means the proﬁt before tax expense of
NOK541 million for the quarter.
Page 5 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2013-05-07

FINAL

Turning to page 13, the combined ratio for the general Insurance operations ended at a
total of 92.3% in this quarter. The cost ratio was unchanged and ended at 15.7%. The loss
ratio ended at 76.6%, which is an increase from 72.6% in the First Quarter of 2012. As
mentioned, however, the increase in the loss ratio, compared with the corresponding
period last year, is mainly due to a lower run-oﬀ gain and a higher proportion of large
losses.
There is (still) underlying proﬁtability in the portfolio. Since 2009, we have worked on
developing a modern, more (life)-based price models in a large part of the Norwegian
portfolio. In the First Quarter, annual tariﬀ for the workers' compensation product was
implemented in Norway. A new motor tariﬀ for the Danish part of the market was also
launched in the First Quarter. We are now in the process of developing a new tariﬀ for the
Danish property and contents product. At the same time, work continues on developing
the Norwegian tariﬀ.
In addition to the underlying proﬁtability in the quarter, the claims' frequency is still above
favorable levels. Although we had a more normal winter this year than in 2012, the
frequency level was positively aﬀected by the lack of extreme weather events and the
negative weather eﬀects in the quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

The favorable frequency level continues for motor claims in the private market in Norway.
The same applies to property where we see lower frequency levels than we would
normally expect during winter, although the ﬁgures are somewhat weaker than the
corresponding quarter last year. There are also somewhat weaker frequency
developments within the commercial portfolio, and especially within agriculture.
Turning to page 14, there was good increase in earned premiums in the quarter of (2.4%)
with an underlying increase of (2.8%) if we adjust for the negative exchange rate eﬀect in
the Nordic segment. Private recorded a good growth in premiums of (3%). The number of
customer is stable and the growth in premiums is mainly due to higher premiums.
Commercials increased in earned premiums in the quarter of (0.2%), despite the loss of
the two large accounts that Helge mentioned previously. Adjusted for this, the growth in
premiums was very satisfactory in the quarter also in the commercial segment.
Nordics reports very strong growth in earned premiums of 5.9% in the quarter. In local
currency, the increase in earned premiums amounted to (8.2%). This is mainly due to an
increase in the number of new commercial customers, and the strengthening of the
cooperation agreements Nykredit is, of course, expected to contribute to increased sales
in the product market in the time ahead.
(General) operating expenses increased by NOK15 million in the quarter while the cost
ratio was unchanged as a result of the growth in premiums.
Turning to page 15; large losses in the quarter have an eﬀect on the combined ratio
3.3percentage points (sic; see slide 15 "3.3%"), well below the expected level for the
quarter of 5.4percentage points (sic; see slide 15 "5.4"). Although the portion of large
Page 6 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2013-05-07

FINAL

losses was lower than expected in the quarter, it was, nonetheless, higher than in the
corresponding quarter last year, when the proportion of large losses had an eﬀect on the
combined ratio of only (1.0percentage points).
Page 16, there was a run-oﬀ gain of NOK34 million in the quarter, corresponding to a
positive eﬀect on combined ratio of (0.8percentage point) compared with (2.7percentage
points) in the corresponding quarter in 2012. I would like to remind you that the
provisions are made on the basis of the best estimate principle. So that the expected runoﬀ value is zero in the long run.
In the period from 2000, as you can see from the graph, the run-oﬀ gains have had a
positive eﬀect on the combined ratio of about 0.8percentage points on average.
Page 17; the internal risk-based capital requirement for the operational segment has not
changed material during the quarter. There are some changes between the segments as
a result of the portfolio being moved from Private and Nordic to Commercial in First
Quarter. The capital requirement for the Pension and Savings business and the Bank,
which is based on the capital adequacy regulations, have increased somewhat during the
quarter as a result of growth in volume.

Bloomberg Transcript

The asset risk has increased from NOK3.5 billion at the end of the Fourth Quarter to
NOK3.6 billion at the end of the First Quarter. This is mainly due to the portfolio being
larger at the end of this quarter, compared to the Fourth Quarter 2012, in addition to a
somewhat increase in the allocation per share, private equity and property in the free
portfolio.
Total (diversiﬁed) capital requirement amounted to NOK10.8 billion at the end of the First
Quarter. However, as you can see from page 18, it is still the rating requirement from the
S&P, the A rating requirement, that is the most binding of the (three) capital perspectives.
The calculated excess capital amounted to NOK5.1 billion at the end of the quarter.
Available capital increased during the quarter; that is the total capital requirement for
asset and insurance risk increased slightly more. Excess capital was reduced by NOK0.2
billion during the quarter.
And also, I would like to mention here that the comprehensive income for the period is
not included in available capital during the year. For the First Quarter, the comprehensive
income amounted to NOK422 million.
The asset allocation; you will ﬁnd asset allocation on page 19. The investment portfolio
amounted to NOK57.9 billion at the end of the quarter, mainly more or less the same
allocation that you saw in the end of the Fourth Quarter.
Turning to page 20, adjusted for the impairment loss on the Storebrand stake, the
portfolio yielded a return corresponding to 1.3% in the quarter. The Match portfolio has a
return of 0.8%; the biggest part of Match portfolio is the (bond) classiﬁed as amortized
cost. It's achieved a return of 1.0%, which is unchanged from the previous quarter.

Page 7 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2013-05-07

FINAL

At the end of the First Quarter there was an excess value in this portfolio of NOK1.1 billion,
which is a doubling from the end of the corresponding quarter in 2012. The increase in
value reﬂects the falling interest rate level, which can also be seen in the reinvestment
rates in the portfolio. And during the quarter, the average investment rate for these bonds
has been around 4.4% compared with approximately 4.5% in the Fourth Quarter.
The return on bonds classiﬁed as short-term bonds was 0.1% in the quarter. This portfolio
mainly consists of (Danish) ﬁxed income securities, and the level of return reﬂects the low
interest rate level in that market. Associated companies recorded a negative return of
9.7% in the quarter; that is, of course, the result of the impairment loss in the Storebrand
holding of NOK611 million. Adjusted for the impairment loss, the return was 2.4%.
The Free portfolio yielded a return of 2.0% in the quarter, and the return on shares private
equity and properties was a gain, while the return on the properties result was negative.
The general interest rate level in the period was stable to falling, while the credit margin
there was falling as well, and this contributed positively to the yield in the Free portfolio.
So to sum up, with the exception of the holding in Storebrand, the remaining investment
portfolio yielded satisfactory returns in the quarter.

Janne Merete Flessum

{BIO 19368607 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator, then we are ready to take the questions, please.

Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Matti Ahokas, Handelsbanken.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

Since you presented the Pensions and Savings business very well, a question on that side.
Firstly, what kind of asset base are you targeting, or could you see in Gjensidige on the
Pension and Savings business in a couple of years' time, just to get some kind of feeling
that what kind of ballpark ﬁgures we're talking about?
Then the second question is actually on the same topic that, if we look at your
competitors, it's clear that this business doesn't require a lot of capital, but it's very, very
scale dependent. So are you willing to look at potential acquisitions to reach your targets
in the Pension and Savings business? Thanks.

A - Mats Gottschalk

{BIO 17501562 <GO>}

Hi, Matti. Thanks for the question; it's a good one. I'll try and address it this way. We were
excited about the fundamental growth in the DC pensions market but, as we commented
earlier, this market has taken quite a long time to develop. And we're seeing a meaningful

Page 8 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2013-05-07

FINAL

momentum in terms of the willingness of our clients or customers to move into this
market and change their pension plans into this market.
And we've tried to illustrate for you our best estimate as to how we think the market,
overall, is going to develop, and we put that in the presentation on page 9. And as you
can see it is a -- we're talking about a market expansion by a factor of maybe 4 or 5, or
even more in the near term. However, I'd like to qualify that by saying we are not chasing
purely volume for the sake of volume.
We have been, and we continue to be, disciplined in terms of targeting the SME market,
and we will participate to the extent we can see economics and returns in some of the
bigger pension plan schemes. But they tend to be brokered, the risk margins tend to be
competed away and so, therefore, I wouldn't guide you as to necessarily how we think our
overall volumes are going to develop. We're much more focused on actually getting a
good book of pensions business with suﬃcient returns and the appropriate risk margins
in it.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

But what kind of market share should we expect that you guys are going to have in this
business, say in ﬁve years' time?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mats Gottschalk

{BIO 17501562 <GO>}

Well I couldn't comment on where the market share is going to be in ﬁve years' time, but
as of today our market share, I think, based on DC reserves, is just shy of 10%; it's
somewhere between 8% and 10%. And I think, when we look at the number of DC
pension plans that we have, our market share is probably around 15%.
And that goes to my point earlier, that a bigger portion of our customer base that are
insurance customers with Gjensidige tend to be smaller companies with fewer
employees. And so, by deﬁnition, the overall volume of those contracts will be smaller,
but we think that the proﬁtability and the returns and the risk proﬁle in those pension
plans are better for us.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

And what about the acquisitions?

A - Mats Gottschalk

{BIO 17501562 <GO>}

We've been a consolidator in this market; when the DC legislation was ﬁrst introduced
there was a large number of participants, both from the insurance sector, the pensions
sector, and also from the asset management and banking sector, who wanted to play in
this ﬁeld. And over the years, Gjensidige has actually consolidated quite a number of the
smaller participants. We're now left with a situation where there is eﬀectively only a
handful of players left.

Page 9 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2013-05-07

I would not speculate as to whether or not there's actually going to be any acquisition
opportunities in this space, precisely for that reason. It's a relatively thin market and there
aren't that many players left to compete with or to consolidate.

Q - Matti Ahokas

{BIO 2037723 <GO>}

FINAL

Fair enough.

Operator
Gianandrea Roberti, Carnegie.

Q - Gianandrea Roberti

{BIO 6786731 <GO>}

A couple of questions on my side. One is related to the capital structure. Wouldn't it be
fair to say that, considering what we know about life insurance in Norway and your stake
in Storebrand, any kind of discussion about Gjensidige's own capital structure is probably
postponed at least to 2014, if not even after that?
I think recently, Helge, you mentioned that you didn't need full visibility, but at least
enough to take in that kind of discussion, but it seems to me we are really not getting
close to have this enough visibility. So any comment on that would be much appreciated.

Bloomberg Transcript

And also, if you can highlight how you see the competitive position or your key leading
players versus Gjensidige after an incredibly proﬁtable year like 2012, it would be much
appreciated. Thanks.

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}

Yes, hello. The ﬁrst question regarding capital structure visibility on the pension
legislation, we have had some more visibility, as you know. It's still a hearing process
regarding longevity and the period for reserving. It's also uncertainty, going forward,
related to the old book and also, it's uncertainty regarding the paid-up policies, so we
have had some more visibility.
If we are going to release more information regarding capital structure in '13 or '14, we are
working with the questions, together with the Board of Directors. I hope that we can be
more clear regarding the future in the period of 12 months from now, I hope so.

Q - Gianandrea Roberti

{BIO 6786731 <GO>}

Thanks.

Operator
Per Gronborg, Danske Markets.

A - Helge Leiro Baastad

{BIO 5865247 <GO>}
Page 10 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2013-05-07

FINAL

I didn't comment the competition situation; maybe I should do that before we continue.
We have had a very strong First Quarter for most of the players, both in 2012 and 2013
actually. Underlying results is very strong also from Gjensidige, so when you adjust for
large losses and run-oﬀ gains, it's a very strong underlying result.
The competition situation is more or less the same as it was last year and last six month. I
would say that the major players, the Nordic players, they act increasingly rational, more
or less in the same type or way today, compared to one year ago. They have more or less
the same type of ﬁnancial targets, and they are more or less in the same -- they had more
or less the same targets and the same timeframe.
So we can see some increasingly competition in Denmark from small players. We have
seen some price reduction actually from small players in Denmark. In Norway, it's not
increasingly competition from the banks, but it's maybe somewhat more active smaller
players in Norway, like (Stualdom and Nairme) and (inaudible) in some segments.
But I would say that the competition is more or less the same as it was the last six months
in 2012. But of course, it has been, though, a period with very low frequency, especially for
motor in both First Quarter 2012 and 2013, so it's hard to estimate what kind of
competition we will have, going forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

But we do not believe that the frequency ﬁgures is sustainable as it has been in First
Quarter in '12 and First Quarter in '13, so our price increases is more in line with what we
expect will be the long-term claims inﬂation, and that's around 4%, as we had said before,
for motor, and it's about 5% for the property.
But we started with price increases slightly before some of our main competitors, so we
had ability to be more, I would use the word, maybe smart in some attractive segments.
So the average price increase is slightly below then 4% for motor and 5% for property.
That was some words regarding the competition.

Q - Per Gronborg

{BIO 15910340 <GO>}

I have a couple of questions as well. The ﬁrst one related to large claims; you're guiding
for a run rate of some 5.4% of premiums. If I look back over the last 17 quarters, where you
have data for large claims, you've been above that level one single quarter, and clearly
below most of the others. Is it fair to see this as a quite cautious view on where your
normalized large claims should be or, otherwise, why should it be materially worse the
next four years, compared to what has been the last four years?
My second question, when I look at your asset mix, you added quite a lot to current
equities last year; you only seem to have net invested some NOK200 million this quarter.
What are your thoughts on your asset mix? Could we see the equity allocation go further
up? That was my two questions.

Page 11 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2013-05-07

A - Catharina Hellerud

{BIO 17276650 <GO>}

FINAL

I can start with commenting on the large claims. The expected level is based on
calculations on our internal model and it's based on all the data that we have going many
years back. So it's based on the historic data and it's also, of course, based on our current
reinsurance program. So it's not conservatism built into this estimate; it's based on the
actual historic data from our business history.

Q - Per Gronborg

{BIO 15910340 <GO>}

So basically, you've just been lucky 16 out of the last 17 quarters?

A - Catharina Hellerud

{BIO 17276650 <GO>}

Excuse me?

Q - Per Gronborg

{BIO 15910340 <GO>}

Basically, you have just been lucky 16 out of the last 17 quarters with large claims being
below your expectations?

A - Catharina Hellerud

{BIO 17276650 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Large losses can happen just -- you can have some large losses more than one in one
quarter, and then you can have quarters with no large losses; it happens with no regularity
or it's -- yes.

Q - Per Gronborg

{BIO 15910340 <GO>}

Okay, good. What about the asset mix, the net investments into equity? Should we expect
that to continue?

A - Catharina Hellerud

{BIO 17276650 <GO>}

Were you talking about the asset allocation? Yes. What I commented was that we have a
slight increase in allocation to equities at the end of the First Quarter, compared to the
end of the Fourth Quarter, reﬂecting our market reviewing during the First Quarter this
year.

Q - Per Gronborg

{BIO 15910340 <GO>}

But also taking into account that we added quite a lot to equities, (I believe you added
some) to equities also last year. What are the sorts -- do you ﬁnd the equities are more
interesting asset class due to the low interest rate environment, or is it just a temporary
ﬂuctuation?

A - Catharina Hellerud

{BIO 17276650 <GO>}

It's, as I said, based on the market view during the First Quarter, where we put on some
more technical assets than we envisioned in the Fourth Quarter.

Page 12 of 13



Company Name: Gjensidige Forsikring ASA
Company Ticker: GJF NO Equity
Date: 2013-05-07

Q - Per Gronborg

{BIO 15910340 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator

FINAL

(Operator Instructions) At this time, no further questions.

A - Janne Merete Flessum

{BIO 19368607 <GO>}

Okay. Then we will just thank you for your participation and wish you a continued nice
day. Thank you. Bye.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 13 of 13

