Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2013-03-07

Y 2012 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Andre Zeeman, Chief Actuary and Chief Risk Officer
Johan van Zyl, Group Chief Executive Officer
Kobus Moller, Financial Director
Unidentified Speaker

Other Participants
Unidentified Participant

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Unidentified Speaker
Right, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning. I mean it's still morning. We might have some
people checked in, but I think let's get things going, because this presentation is being
broadcast more generally. This morning to hear from Sanlam on their results for the year
ended December 2012. Sanlam, as you know, was founded back in 1918, so probably
been around longer than some of our members. What I think many members will
remember is that in 1998, 80 years later, Sanlam listed on the JSE with an issue of shares
to its people that hold their policies and held investments and that demutualization
process credits something like 2, 2 million shareholders. If you had a Sanlam policy, issued
you free shares.
I see now Sanlam is down to about 520,000 shareholders, of which only about 15%
individuals. So it's about 80,000 people, so they credit a lot of shareholders and it would
be nice if they stayed in the JSE as shareholders of those -- not only Sanlam, but other
shares. But since 1998 Sanlam has been a great success story. It now has a market cap of
over R100 billion. One of the things it's done is, it's always reported back since its listing
to stakeholders, the society, members on its results.
And I'd like to thank Johan internally seen both for that and for doing this presentation for
us here this morning. And if I can then invite Johan to come up and start the presentation,
he will introduce the other members of his team. Thank you, Johan.

Johan van Zyl

{BIO 4080290 <GO>}

Thank you, Mike [ph]. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It's my pleasure to welcome
you all here to the annual results presentation of Sanlam. In particular, I'd like to welcome
a few people. We have our Chairman, Desmond Smith here today. Desmond, welcome.
Of our EXCO we have Kobus Moller and Andre Zeeman here. They will help me with the
Page 1 of 22



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2013-03-07

FINAL

presentation and answering questions. We have a number of other staff members here.
Reporters, thank you for that, thank you for being here and supporting us.
One or two things, our Annual Report and our integrated report has been audited and
available on the website. It takes a while to transit, so that will become available, the print
copy next week. We've had it too -- at the final Board meeting yesterday, so some people
worked through the night to finalize these things. Thank you to them. I think that's a first
for us and pretty old for -- also for a South African company.
Ladies and gentlemen, onto the results. We're quickly going to take you through the
strategic positioning of Sanlam. We believe a lot of the results have to do with the road
that we've chosen. I'll briefly do that and take you through the business environment, talk
about strategic delivery and the issues that we focus on. Kobus will then take us through
the excellent numbers. I will again finalize with what we see as the priorities, what the
outlook is and so forth. And finally, we'll have some time for questions.

Bloomberg Transcript

Starting up with the strategic positioning, when I started here 10 years ago, ladies and
gentlemen, I said it was going to be a relatively boring journey and this slide has been
with us for 10 years. This is what we're trying to do. We're trying to get returns up, trying
to get it done through growth in the business, to get growth through efficiency gains,
entering new market diversification, efficiencies in general and to do that by working the
capital base better.
Most of our people work on growth and operational efficiency, a few of us work on capital
efficiency, finding new businesses and distributing the excess capital. That has been with
us for a while. Recently though 10 years ago we didn't have an international component,
we were basically a South African business. Today we're still mainly a South African
business, but we use the South African base to optimize a mature -- a relatively mature
base. I don't want to say mature because we've achieved tremendous growth over the
past few years there.
But using the stable base we've entered into Africa, other emerging markets of India,
Southeast Asia and also into niche markets at the high end like the UK, where we play a
particular role to provide offshore products for our mainly affluent client segment. So the
story for us is, South Africa, which is the biggest part of our business, we make sure that
it's sustainable what we do there, a lot of drive about efficient effective management,
maximizing returns and the costs, and the cost base is really a big part of that.
Using that surplus money as we owed more capital-intensive policies to mature. We will
reap that capital and then we apply it to the highest return areas, the effective capital
management being a critical part of this, growth in effective capital management,
sourcing new opportunities. And this is where Africa has been looking low for us. We're in
10 countries now, even India, Southeast Asia and we'll expand to an additional one or two
countries. The top end of the market is really following our clients, as we see the
exchange controls we'll do that, following our clients into the UK, also in Singapore [ph].
So that is really the story and what we're trying to do. So South Africa and international
and effective capital management binding those two businesses together.

Page 2 of 22



FINAL

Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2013-03-07

Within that we have five strategic pillars that we drive, ladies and gentlemen. First is
improving performance through top-line earnings growth and this is really increasing
markets share in key segments, not across the board, but very focused and diversifying
the base. And this diversification is not only in terms of regional diversification, it is there, it
is also moving up north and I think the fact that we're presenting the results here make us
acknowledge that South Africa is bigger than central Cape Town. It is about playing in
different segments in South Africa, the entry-level market, the middle market, the net
affluent and the high net worth, the corporate, the SME market and so forth.
It is about distribution platforms, while in the past it's mainly been through intermediaries,
increasing the use of different methodologies of distributing our product, affinity being an
important one for unions, for church groups and a whole range of these kinds of things.
Also we have direct distribution models like MiWay and so forth. But increasingly finding a
range of -- a range of ways in which to diversify the base.

Bloomberg Transcript

A big part of our business, ladies and gentlemen, is about operating and cost efficiencies
and we would include the quality of business here. It is relatively easy to grow the
business. If you write at a relatively low cost, you give the business away. If you stand at
the street corner handing out money, you'll find a lot of people taking. So it is about
margin, it is about the ones you had the business making sure that it stays on the books.
And it's about how you manage that, the cost efficiencies of the whole process.
And I think one of the core competencies of the Sanlam Group certainly over the past 15
years is to keep costs within inflation. In spite of growing the business, we've been really
doing a great job in the costs. And into the future, this will still be a key part of what we
do. Then the international position, I've spoken about that really driving high-yielding
areas. Capital efficiency is a key part of what we do and transformation of the group,
particularly in South Africa is also a pillar. As we do more business in the lower end of the
market, it's increasingly starting to reflect in our business, the composition of the
population that we see.
If we talk a little bit about the business environment in the past year, the results were
achieved in an environment that we see as mainly unsupportive. And starting off
internationally, we've seen slow progress in addressing the sovereign debt concerns in
Europe. At least we can say that while the world is for a while, there was a debate on
whether we will make it economically or not, we've looked into the present first and we've
moved on, albeit slowly. So we don't think things will collapse, but it will be a slow
recovery.
And emerging markets was impacted by the low demand from the developed world,
particularly in Africa we've seen a lag. We've seen generally a low -- very low interest rates
environment, which is not good for savings on the one hand, but provides opportunities
for product development. And a lot of that was ignored by the investment markets which
ran quite hard in the second half of last year all over the world, but particularly in South
Africa. In the South African economy, I'll talk a little bit about the four things that really
impact us; the growth rates, the interest rates, equity markets and currencies, and I'll also
say one or two words on India.

Page 3 of 22



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2013-03-07

FINAL

If you really look at the growth, I don't have to tell you too much, it is at a much lower level
than what it used to be. It recovered a bit from the credit crunch that we've seen and the
international problems there, but not nearly at levels we would like it to be. And
weathered those unemployment, also the social pressures and so, so a tough
environment certainly going forward primarily.
On the interest rate side, two major trends. On the long-term rates sharply down from
2011, which supported our value of new business, quite startling. On a lot of what we
write, we use the nine-year bond yields to discount that on and if the rate is lower, the
discounted value is simply higher, the present value of it. Therefore, new business is
worth more and the value of in-force in our group embedded value or group equity value,
valuations also higher and that had a very positive effect on us.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the other hand, the low short-term rates continued to impact earnings on working
capital and where in the past, we received a substantial slug of our operating income
from these interest earnings that we've had on working capital, with each insurance
business it's a sizable component. The return on that is now pretty low or much lower, at
least half over the past four years or so. And net investment return is also low, so that
increasingly people look at other ways to make money, they don't put it in fixed interest
and things like that.
The equity markets has been quite buoyant, as you know. It's also impacting the way we
look at the business. It was substantially up to equities overall by about 22.7% on average
from 2011. And this, of course, provides us with a much higher pace on which we earn the
fees. And since much of what we do using the contractual savings area, this provides a
much higher fee base and therefore, it impacts very nicely on our -- in our operating
income. And therefore, you'll see particularly our life insurance businesses and assetbased businesses getting much higher yields.
With respect to exchange rates, you can see the European, United Kingdom, the USA
rates being much stronger than the rand over the period, rand weakening against those
rates, which meant that -- which means that the income that we made in the UK, Europe,
the USA actually was more in rands and that buoyed with the performance of those
businesses, while by and large in the emerging markets there where we're playing Africa,
India, Botswana and so, hurray, it's relatively flat, no influence. One or two exceptions
there, particularly Ghana and Malawi, where the exchange rates deteriorated quite a bit,
against the rand we took a bit of a hit.
If we look at Africa, Botswana in particular, our biggest exposure outside of South Africa
and Africa is to Botswana. There the consumer is under pressure. It's an economy mainly
dependent on government and diamonds, where a big part of the government income is
derived off diamonds. The moment the diamond industry has a bit of a problem, we see
the hiccup throughout the economy. Now, the civil service there has for four years not had
annual increases and a big part of our business there is amongst civil service. They had an
increase after a strike or so a year or two ago, but marginal much lower than the inflation
rates. So that in consumer there is under pressure. In Ghana and Malawi, I spoke about the
depreciation of their currencies and that hit us by about 100 million since we -- the
currency being worthless on the group embedded -- on the group equity value basis.
Page 4 of 22



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2013-03-07

FINAL

Rest of Africa, we see low demand from developed economies, with the products
impacting a little bit on growth. India also slower growth, but still around 6%, 6.5%, 7%,
ladies and gentlemen. And all over the show, we see regulatory changes. So by and large,
we've had certain things going our way, particularly with the market, the equity markets
and the bond markets, but we've seen a really tough environment in terms of operating
conditions with respect to the rest.
This is the environment against which we have to deliver, and I'm very happy to say
strategically, we've made progress on all the pillars of our strategy in 2012, and the
success is evident in the strong financial results. The highlights what we see as being in
the earnings per share, the net operating profit per share increased by 6%. If we take
some time out, we separately reported and where we've had a few issues around
catastrophes and particularly how.
The net operating profit of the rest of the business is up by about 16%, normalized
headline earnings per share up 17%, business volumes -- new business volumes increased
by 18%, net fund flows up 23 billion. The net life value of new business up 23% to over R1
billion for the first time and the net margin for life new business 3.22%, up from 3.05%. So
that's a great result.

Bloomberg Transcript

The group equity value at the end of last year came to just over R37 per share, which
gives us a return on group embedded value per share of 22%. This is the increase in
embedded value plus, of course, the dividends that we pay, which we think is a great
result.
If you look at the operational efficiencies, we've seen profitable volume growth. Gross
value of new business grew by 23% at higher average margins over the period. When we
started off, at least, at some of the lowest margins in the industry, consistently trying to
push those up and firstly through the product mix that we have in South Africa doing much
more risk business, entering into the lower end of the market, entering into Africa and
places like that where the margins are higher, this savings business through the mix but
also through expanding the footprint. And you can see the results with respect to that.
We've had consistent growth in the value of new business and I think over the 10 years or
so, the past 10 years the growth here has been close to 20% on an annualized basis, so
it's a great result.
As I've said, the growth comes fairly easy, you can always buy growth. You have to always
weigh the growth against the quality of it. And here I'm very happy to say, ladies and
gentlemen, again we were able to get the lapses, surrenders and fully paid-ups as a
percentage of the in-force per half year down to the lowest level that they've been for
any six-month period over the past 10 years.
This is the middle-income market, quite a great good result for us and this is in spite of
many, many customers and clients with a lower income segment -- in the middle-income
segment being under pressure financially. It shows that we've been able, I think, through
prudence over the number of years to select those clients and customers that would stay

Page 5 of 22



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2013-03-07

FINAL

on the books. Those that aren't shooting for the stars, but who don't like steady returns
and who don't change jobs, houses and things like that every year.
In the lower end of the market, it's a similar story. We've have seen in spite of increasing
indebtedness, some people talk about the debt bubble, times being or customers being
-- the South African retail customer being under pressure. Even here we've been able to
get the NTUs, lapses and surrenders down as a percentage of the in-force book. Again, I
think hard work we see don't happen by itself, the whole culture being developed over a
period of time within the business to focus on quality.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then again, ladies and gentlemen, outperforming the assumptions that we've said. A
key part is that -- within our business is that it's always relative to the assumptions that we
make. So it's important to also show how you perform against those assumptions. And
again, I think for another year, we've come with a very, very credible positive experience
variance in the business, 555 million. This is now becoming a big number year after year
after year and to me, together with the growth is one of the reasons why we think we
should have the business growth at more than simply the group equity value.
If you look at where we are now as a group, ladies and gentlemen, we are a really
diversified group based on the life business in South Africa that gives us stability, which
allows us to branch into a number of other financial services in other areas. And the
picture gives you some idea of the diversity that we have in the group with respect to
that. We operate, as I said, about 80% in South Africa and then about 10% in Africa, 10%
outside. Increasingly, we have a South African footprint, big base, emerging markets into
Africa, Southeast Asia and India, and we have at the high end an increased presence in
the UK, where we're mainly serving South African clients and off that base also do one or
two things with clients over there.
If you look at the diversification picture, ladies and gentlemen, two things come to mind
here. You've seen that we've grown the size of the business substantially over the past 10
years and we've essentially grown it by doing better in the markets that we were South
Africa, but by adding a whole lot of new markets. About 25% of the business we're
actually getting now for markets that we weren't in at all a few years ago and the profit
that we're making there. I think the second part that you have to look at here is in this
period, we bought back close to 30% of our shares. So not only did we grow the profits,
we serviced fewer shares and a lot of the value has been created in that process.
If you really look at the diversification more closely in the past year, you see that 25% of
our life new volume -- business volume is derived from these new areas and territories,
while about half of our value of new business to profit. That goes to show that these
areas that we're entering relatively high yielding, less competition, and therefore really
adding tremendous value to what we're trying to give.
So on the diversification, we think we have a bit of a competitive advantage. We have a
relatively large exposure to businesses outside of South Africa. Relative to other South
African insurers, in this extent, we regard of new insurers being in the UK, then they have
big operations, of course. We see diversified operations shield group earnings from

Page 6 of 22



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2013-03-07

FINAL

difficult operating environment in specific countries, so we use a portfolio approach. If
something goes wrong in say Malawi, where we've had a devaluation of 50% of the
currency, it's only one country in the portfolio and you then see the overall effect.
We're expanding the SA entry-level footprint. Our Shriram Capital transactions were
completed. That has not been in the numbers at all, although we did the big deal in
October of last year, there's a lag of three months until when we put those numbers into
our numbers here. So they will start contributing to earnings in 2013.
We're strengthening our relationships in Africa. In each of the countries we operate, we
don't own the whole business. We own between 35% and about 65% of the businesses
and in every single country we're trying to up that ratio. In some cases, we've been
successful in the past year as opposed to places we're still working on it.

Bloomberg Transcript

So since the expansion in Southeast Asia is starting, our P&O acquisition in Malaysia is
nearing completion and yesterday, the shareholders there voted on approving the
transaction. The next steps now is getting the results up till the end of March, to audit
them and then if there's nothing wrong to pay that for the business as soon as possible.
So you will see a lot of that also coming through in and out in our results.
Finally, the capital efficiency, optimizing the base there. We see -- we have a central
allocation model where we optimize the allocation through the business cluster, we make
sure that we're driving increased returns and if they're not doing what is required, we pay
back some of that capital. The discretionary capital is invested in growth markets as our
first preference before we pay it back. And we only return money to shareholders if it's
not then to be utilized in a reasonable time frame or if it falls outside of our strategic plan.
An important point here is the investment market generated excess returns of R1 billion
on life portfolios in 2012, we've had the special dividend in Santam. So while part of that
was planned, it did give us a windfall of around about R1 billion for which we didn't plan at
the beginning and in the middle of last year. And therefore, that is the money that has
been allocated to a special dividend.
Remainder of the money is allocated to growth opportunities. After year-end, we've
already announced 1 billion investment in the Shriram Truck Financing Company in India
and since year-end we've also disposed PSG in -- our stake in PSG in the UK that added
again to the capital base.
If you want a picture at the end of last year what's happened, we started with 3.9 billion,
we had small buybacks at the beginning of the year at below embedded value. Our
investments that we've made is about 3.2 billion mainly in Shriram and the money
allocated to P&O is also in there, then a few other acquisitions in South Africa and so
forth, I think the biggest one being Satrix, our 50% that we didn't own.
We added 2.4 billion of surplus additional capital from illiquid investments, mainly the
property portfolio, Santam special dividends, the excess return on the life capital around 1
billion. We have investment return and other stuff, mainly the dividend cover that we didn't
Page 7 of 22



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2013-03-07

FINAL

pay out and things like that of around 1.2 billion, that gives us 4.2 billion at the end of last
year. And from that, of course, we pay a special dividend to the shareholders.
Lastly, and this is my last slide before we get to the numbers, like the fifth pillar that we
have is transformation. Just a picture on the changing face of Sanlam. Few years ago,
ladies and gentlemen, we really focused on the African middle-market segment and our
staff reflected that as we diversified the business. We also diversified the people, mainly
in the country to service the markets that we're focusing on and you can see the change
there also in Sanlam itself.
Today, we have a much more diverse business, focusing on -- diverse people and staff,
focusing on a much more diverse offering that we have across the world. So staff changes
are keeping track of what we've been doing elsewhere.
And with that, I would like to ask Kobus Moller, our Financial Director to come and talk to
us a bit on the financials. Kobus?

Kobus Moller

{BIO 7480143 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It's indeed a pleasure to share with you some of
the main features of our results for 2012. There is some more detail in the booklet that
you have and on the SENS Announcement that Johan also said. For the first time we will
be able to give you the full integrated report on our website, so I'm sure you will enjoy
reading that at your leisure when you get back to the office.
Just a bit of background to the results, no accounting policy changes during the year and
as we've already said at the interim results announcement, we've adjusted for the
increase in capital gains tax. That had a negative impact of 174 million on our value of inforce and then another 100 million in the income statement on the NAV side. Because of
the low interest rates, obviously, the impact of that in the rest translated views for the
Sanlam Life book in the ticker, it was about 140 basis points, down with adjustment of
discount rates, better deposit impact on our valuation -- the value of new business and
RoGEV. And then also what we've already announced at the interim stages actually upped
our inflation assumptions by 1% relative to the rest for your right at the -- that income
stage already.
The overall picture of our results, I believe, is very positive and the group equity value of
R37, it presents a return of 22% for the year. If you back out the impact of the markets and
some other one-off adjustments, the return -- the adjusted return that we calculate was
15%, which is still well above our internal hurdle for 2012 was just within 12% in our margin, ,
good performance.
The company, the group remained well capitalized with the CAR cover of Sanlam Life
being 4.3 times. Net operating profit 7% and as Johan said, if you exclude Santam's
performance the last year, the rest of the group businesses actually achieved a 16%
increase in net operating profit. New business volumes up 13% and R1 billion in net flows,
and our value of the life business increasing by 23% year-on-year.
Page 8 of 22



FINAL

Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2013-03-07

In terms of the individual businesses, and starting with Sanlam Personal Finance, Sanlam
Personal Finance had an exceptional year last year, as you will see from the next flew
slides. Starting with new business flows, up by 19% overall. The entry-level market increase
of 6%, which itself may sound a bit disappointing, but if you look into the detail there, the
individual life business, our core business then grew by about 18%, a good performance
safely driven by the business volumes of our advisor force. Then on the group business
there, we had some negative volumes than last year, in part driven by the biannual
renewal of the ACC scheme that happened in 2011.
In the middle-income, growth of 16%. That is firstly driven by single premiums. Very good
growth in our single premium VAT business there. The recurring premium growth around
7%. Then as in the past very strong growth in the affluent market, the Glacier business
recording a 21% growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the net flows, which is important to that business, you can see that our businesses are
holding up and increasing our net flows from just about R6 billion to almost R9 billion. And
although the number is relatively small, very positive for us since the middle-income being
positive, so that's the more mature book, which by its nature you would expect to see
some EBIT outflows and we have experienced some negative net flows over the last
number of years to see a positive number where you believe it's very positive.
In terms of value for new business, very good performance in all the segments within SPF,
up 33% in total. Strong growth in entry-level, middle-market and also in the affluent
market, has been assisted by the lower discount rates and some economic assumption
changes. So maybe a better comparison of the two underlying performance with the -- if
you calculate on the 2011 base and then the increase is about 18%. And the margin there
has been about 3.%, 3.2%, which is still a very good performance on a like-for-like basis.
In terms of the profit contribution, also another 18% growth both on a gross and a net
basis. And again, as you can see there, all the investments have performed exceptionally
well. In the entry-level market 27% up essentially based on greater risk experience, claims
experience has been very positive. Similar in the middle-income market, also good claims
experience, risk experience, but also assisted by the higher levels of the market,
obviously, impacting there on our fees front.
Glacier, continue on the growth deck, another 11% growth and then personal loans up
33%. The quality of that book is still holding up. So what you see there is really just the
growth in the actual book. It is up from about R2 billion, R2.5 billion at the end of 2011 to
plus R3 billion at the end of 2012. And we're still very happy that the levels of bad debts
and sort of wins make us at least still well within our own assumptions. And as I said, the
quality is holding up in that book. If you look at the group equity value of Sanlam Personal
Finance of just more than R32 billion. That represents a return of 24% for the year, which
is almost double the target that they had for the year, so it's an exceptional performance
from that business.
Equally good performance from Sanlam Emerging Markets, growth of 18% our new
volumes, but if you look into the detail, the life businesses had about a 33% growth. In

Page 9 of 22



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2013-03-07

FINAL

Namibia, we've see some very strong growth, in particular the entry-level market, the life
business stays. So very pleased about that. The Botswana business essentially driven
through growth in single premiums. As Johan also indicated, the economy is back in strain
then, you can see that coming through some of our recurring business that we would say,
but single premium business has been doing very well.
In the Rest of Africa, that's the growth part of that and segment or cluster of businesses
very good performance, they increased volumes by 70%. And India also good growth,
most of that coming from our general insurance business, the short-term insurance
business doing very well in India. Again, you can see that the system fees also holding up
in this segment of our business with the net fund flows almost doubling over the last year.
And in all businesses, we had seen good persistency levels. Value of new business up by
20% to R267 million with the margin more or less in line with last year and the reason for
this slight lower margin is purely changing the mix of business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Profit contribution of the Emerging Markets up 30%, Namibia a more mature business up
10%, Botswana still delivering a 20% growth notwithstanding the current environment.
Good part of that growth was coming from their exposure to credit business, the other
business in (inaudible) actually doing very well there. In the Rest of Africa, from a relatively
low base, but a very good performance, up 134%, it's up on last year. Some of the
countries doing very well.
In Ghana, notwithstanding the currency issues that they had, so they've performed
exceptionally well in local currency, but also in rand terms a very good performance from
Ghana. And also Kenya and China doing very well. And even our business in Nigeria,
although still relatively small, they also broke even for last year, which we believe is a very
good performance for that small business.
India is starting to make a bigger contribution in terms of profits and actually -- certainly
actually as a three-month lag in the guarding in operations. So this would only be the 26%
interest through to the insurance businesses for last year until before the year after 30th
September 2012. Next year, the results will account for our exposure to this Shriram
Capital Group for the next year, which is September 2013.
The group equity value of 6 billion and that's reflected 2 billion investments in Shriram
Capital. So that accounts for the big jump from last year. And it represents a growth in
equity value of about 17%. The one thing that we did in this year is to actually capitalize the
infrastructure and the corporate infrastructure costs in the Emerging Market clusters, so
that had a negative impact on this year's return. Without that the return would have been
in excess of 20% and that's now in the base. So in future, we will see a normalized return
going forward again. And the 17% is actually a very good return, well above the target as
well.
Sanlam Investments, in terms of new business flows, slightly -- in a net basis slightly down
on last year's R10 billion. We had a number of -- a few mandates that we've lost, in most
cases those were because of rebalancing of clients and one particular decline that actually
used our international capacity and got their own capacity that they now use. The big

Page 10 of 22



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2013-03-07

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

impact on flows is depicted on the project line business. In the life business, employee
benefits in particular is down on last year, but you may recall that last year we had a single
big client right at the end of the year, that's contributed quite substantial to the flows last
year. So that didn't repeat for this year. And excluding that, we've actually seen some
good growth in employee benefits in new business. That that reflects in the value of new
business, as you can see it slowed down in last year and it's also reflected in the margin
that they have achieved for the year.
The profit contribution from the Investment cluster up 7%. Investment management that's
both nationally and up by 3%. Two factors impacted on that relatively low percentage
increase. In the past, quite a big value, part of the income came from performance fees.
Africa for the current year it's down by about R50 million. And in addition to that, we have
incurred some restructuring cost in our new acquisition in the UK, the Merchant Securities
Company of about R25 million. If you add those two negative items back into the current
year results and the increase is about 17%, which is in line with increasing their underlying -the average underlying assets under management, so more or less what one would
expect then to achieve.
Employee benefits up 9%, combination of slightly risk experience, offered a very good
year in 2011. But all the other businesses too, they were involving particular the open
business, while we are still making some losses there and the value from losses or the
size of the losses are coming down. So we're quite happy with that trend in that business.
Capital management up 18%, a good performance and as always just by the nature of
that business, one of items every year and that may not necessarily repeat in the next
year unless we're trying another good year to make some money on. The overall group
equity value for that cluster R16 billion and that's return of just about 17% year-on-year.
You then see the Santam results, I mean the impact on their results -- on the underwriting
results in particular decreased the capacity claims that they have. If you see, the
underwriting margins essentially dropped from about 8% to 4%, and quite a big part of
that drop came from the impact of those claims. Obviously, the 8% was at a very high
level, so Johan would expect some kind of a drop in the margin over time, but we had a
typically difficult year last year.
Not so with our investment in Santam well, and you can see the jump there from just
below R10 billion going up to almost R13 billion. There is an increase in the market price.
So our investment in Santam yielded a return of 44% for Sanlam last year.
Look at overall business flows just a summary of what you've seen already. You see that, I
mean, a 13% jump in growth in our new business volumes to R123 million, with particular
our life insurance business doing very well both in South Africa and out of Africa. And
grown by 19% with R25 billion net inflows with good contributions in all our businesses and
that's marginally up on 2011 notwithstanding some the outflows that we've seen in our
investment business.
Overall, the value of new business up by 22%. On a gross basis, the net of minority
interest also up about 23%. As mentioned before, the impact of the -- of some

Page 11 of 22



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2013-03-07

FINAL

assumption changes, that have in particular the risk-adjusted discount rate that is just
positively picked on that. I would say if you do the calculation on the 2011 base, about half
between 3% to basis changes and ideally the underlying performance is about 11%
growth. And most of the margin increases also be to those changes, so the average
margin at least achieved on a like-for-like basis slightly up on the 3.05%.
Net operating profit of the group up by 7%, and so if you exclude Santam 16% up. And let
me -- just a few words on our dividend and the level of our dividend. And as you know, our
policy is pretty clear and our cash operating earnings, Santam as you had seen maintained
the dividend growth back and notwithstanding the fact that the actual operating profit is
down by 39%, we declared an increased dividend and that obviously reduced the Sanlam
cash operating earnings component and that helped us to actually increase our dividend
as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

At the same time, we also get back the ACC impact on our previous dividend, and I think
that the same -- I think that's same of the previous year. So the combined effect is that we
could increase our dividend from 130 cents to 165 cents a share for this year.
If I look at the balance of the total income statement, the net operating profit up 7% and
then the substantial increase was the performance of the equity markets in the third
quarter -- well, the fourth quarter in particular. Had a big impact on our net investment
return. What we earn in our funds specifically, up by 50% year-on-year and that's -- the
combined effect of that is that our normalized headline earnings is actually up by 18% last
year. And the headline earnings on an IFRS basis up 15% for those of you understand
Santam, so that's really because of the Santam share price being up, that's capped in the
policyholders' funds increase and therefore, we had to make a bigger transfer for the
IFRS -- on an IFRS basis to pay the policy funds, policyholder funds.
Our total group equity value of 37 cents a share or R75 billion, about R68 billion of that is
our group operations and you can see Personal Finance still being a big -- is the biggest
part of that. And in the right-hand column if you see the -- that the returns in all those
businesses are exceptionally good, overall about a 24%, 25% return from our group
operations. And even if you take out the effect of the markets and returns about 17% as of
Q4 in all cases. We spend better than our own internal hurdles that we see for those
businesses.
On the discretionary capital, you can see that we just about earned nothing. And it's a
combined effect of earnings, essentially cash although yielding rights on what we keep as
the discretionary capital, but that's the opposite for corporate cost impact of the ACC -or the ACC payment on the Sanlam dividend, the two major items that actually earned or
received out of that contribution. 14 days receivables, that's again next year, so at least
that will give us a boost on that line for returns going forward. Overall that a return of 22%
on our RoGEV and an adjusted basis at 15%.
And if you look at that R14.3 billion that we added in value for the year, I'm just looking at
little bit more detail in the actual column there. The value of new business of R1.2 billion
and then as you've seen already in the operating experience variances, another year of

Page 12 of 22



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2013-03-07

FINAL

major of 555 million. The bulk of that being risk experience, sitting both in the entry-level
market, actually there is in the middle market and seen some positive risk experience.
We've capitalized some of that in the assumption changes of R95 million. And then the
market area, the major impact is well on the value-added in the year, the investment
variance of in-force, that's purely because of the growth in the market and the bigger
capacity and fees going forward, R1.3 billion. Government took away 228 because of the
CGT, higher CGT rate and then the lower interest rates added another 874 million on a
net basis.
And as you can see, we actually picked away those three items when you calculate the
adjusted numbers, which was really outside of our control. And similarly on the return on
the net worth, the total return was R1.5 billion and our long-term assumption as we
actually assume the R1 billion returns for the 460 million was also in excess of that. And
similarly sized with our non-life businesses.

Bloomberg Transcript

The overall return was R6.4 billion when you calculate something at the impact of the
markets of about R2 billion which leaves a net return of the R4.4 billion. So both of our life
business and our non-life business is seeing the adjusted return is in excess of 15%.
In summary, we continue to deliver on our strategy, maintain our outperformance relative
to our target that we said on the return on equity value. Even if we adjust for the markets
the 15% was still above that. And our profitable growth been on track, a strong growth in
Rest of Africa. The value of new business up by 23% and operating profit also is doing
very well with and without the Santam results. And I think one positive of our results is the
specification benefits that we start to see the benefit of that strategy, on the one hand
increasing contribution from our growth markets, but also then the rest of our businesses
are performing well enough that we can actually turn in a year with a company like Santam
underperforms the prior year.
On the capital management side, we've added another R2.4 billion to discretionary capital
and then if identified, certain opportunities -- will spend some of that. And so with this
capital and as we are working on those initiatives, but it left us with a capacity, exceptional
performance of the markets and also the Santam dividend, to pay a special dividend of
just about R1 billion or 50 cents a share to shareholders.
Now the final slide, just to remind -- of our outperformance and target over time. You can
see the blue line being our actual performance through the shaded area and the last year
actually just added to the outperformance, margin rates, now well above the target on
prices.
Thank you. With that, I give back to Johan.

Johan van Zyl

{BIO 4080290 <GO>}

Thank you. Given that last slide that you've seen, of course, if you outperform the target
you should trade at more than the equity values (inaudible). So there is rationale in the
Page 13 of 22



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2013-03-07

FINAL

market. If we talk a little bit about the priorities looking forward and let's take it by
business. And now Sanlam Personal Finance business, our biggest business, focusing on
retail in South Africa. The real issue is to focus on sales growth and maintaining the
margins.
This is really the business that is the biggest and it is not about doing funny things. But
really focusing on going steady as it goes forward. We still need to exploit growth and
internal synergies by having all these business segments together. Yeah, I think that they
can do it together. In the entry-level market in particular in Sanlam SKY, we have to grow
our advisor force. That's a core of our business there that's done very well in the past
year with growth of 19%.

Bloomberg Transcript

We need to keep fund on that trajectory. We need to improve the SKY broker channel
performance as we're much more discerning about the business that we take, be
struggling a bit in the broker market where we appoint our own advisors, we're still doing
very well. We have to get the brokers a level back to where we would like them to be. We
have to continue focusing on consistency. You've seen the two slides that were still made,
we believe a big part of our success in the retail market is focusing on the right time,
having the right solutions available and once the plans are on the books is doing a lot to
make sure that they stay there.
There are several opportunities of improving operational efficiency within the business.
And like you've heard, with other companies reporting in South Africa, we have the same
cost pressures in Sanlam in the retail market. This is the big stuff we're managing things,
particularly around IT where most of that is imported. With the rand deterioration we have
pressures there. We have plans there to keep costs manageable and at the same time to
invest in growth opportunities. So much more of the same.
A big part of what we will be doing in this business in the coming year is to meet
regulatory obligations. And we have been inundated from every single segment of the
business, whether it be in the way we sell and what we disclose and the way we pay
commissions and the qualifications of advisors and the way we treat our clients and
customers for -- on the capital that we keep for the business, everything is changing.
And a big part of what we do in the business is making sure that we do the right stuff. At
lot of this one would expect to normally doing a business like treating customers fairly, a
lot of it is in pressures and would like to do it. But there is much more onerous obligations
on us to be able to prove that we're doing those things. So there will be a big focus on
that.
And lastly in the retail business in South Africa, to make sure as our client composition
changes that we also change our business and transform the business to reflect what
we're doing for the clients and to stay your employer of choice. We've done a whole lot
of work in this area, ladies and gentlemen.
On the front page of the investor presentation, you will see a formula, that formula for
success is really looking at staff, the cultural stuff that we have to focus more on, on those
Page 14 of 22



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2013-03-07

FINAL

issues that we have to do away with. We've been doing massive project with some
improvement for success in the last year to make sure that culturally we do the right stuff.
I'm very happy to say if you look at the results, we're well on the road.
In our Emerging Markets space, ladies and gentlemen, no change. The focus remains on
Africa, India and Southeast Asia. And Africa, it really continued focus on top-line growth
and then efficiencies in the current operations. So instead of adding a whole lot of new
countries in this sort of thing, it is really focusing on bulking up the operations that we
have in the existing countries. In Botswana, the big focus is to review the cost models and
efficiencies given lower growth.
For many years, the focus of this business has been on how do we grow the top line. And
now with the consumer under pressure in that market, there will be much more emphasis
also on cost efficiencies. Something that we've been doing in South Africa for a long time,
and there will be a lot visits to Botswana to depart some knowledge on that particular
area. We may have to manage cost.

Bloomberg Transcript

In Shriram, we have now made our investments in Shriram Capital, we bought up to a 10%
level in Shriram Truck Finance. We're now in all of these businesses and in the next year
we'll have to focus on unlocking the capital -- Shriram's capital synergies. The big value
that we've invested in apart from the businesses that we have, the hundreds of so
thousands agents, 60,000, 70,000 people that we have working out of 1,400 offices all
over India. These people are there, those things have been paid for. It is now utilizing this
to sell more and to cross-sell and to grow the business. This is where Sanlam will be
playing a role, partly in Shriram in that respect. And that would be a big focus.
We have to bed down a number of IT implementations. We've embarked on renewing our
IT base. The biggest part of the thing -- our big system within Sanlam Personal Finance
has been done last year. We're taking the things forward now currently for it this year, is
supporting Botswana, Namibia, Kenya in particular in changing the IT implementations
there using the South African experience again to support our partners.
And then we have to expand the revenue base in Namibia and we have some
opportunities there. In the rest of the countries, we have the both-on transactions,
deepening of the existing relationships in Africa and India. You've seen the first part
investing more into Shriram Truck Financing. We spoke a little bit about Pacific & Orient,
which is a general insurance business focusing on the lower end of the market there.
Our investment there, we expect that to be finalized in the next month or two. That said,
the shareholders yesterday voted -- overwhelmingly support the transaction. We already
have all the regulatory issues banked there. It is just now the final accounting of the
numbers, so that we can pay for our business.
We have to continuously refine the organizational capacity to support growth. We do most
of the support for these businesses from South Africa, particularly on product
development and places like that. It's a difficult business, ladies and gentlemen, definitely

Page 15 of 22



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2013-03-07

South Africa in particular. It's not easy both ways. We often think it's difficult to travel to
Nigeria as though we could travel from Nigeria, just another Africa.

FINAL

And a big part here is to create a strong governance compliance and reporting culture.
We have that in Sanlam and often in many of the countries we're not at those levels with
the development of the business and the businesses there struggle often to cater to the
very high roof that we sit there. That we have to find a way of getting there.
In Sanlam Investments, the key part really is to maintain credible investment performance
and then they have to use that to get improved flows, particularly in the institutional area.
And I must -- I'm happy to say that, if we seem to be making headway. Particularly in the
retail space, we've seen tremendous net flows into retail products same to same and we
want to do more of that.

Bloomberg Transcript

A big focus looking forward will be the establishment of our African Funds proposition
when we look at property funds. We have presence in several countries, utilizing that not
only through a pipeline from South Africa and elsewhere in the world on how to invest
using on the ground experience above that equity fund, the debt funds, and the range of
bands in the process of being executed on.
We have to strengthen our distribution network, particularly at the high end of the market,
going into the union space and the parasidal [ph] space. We have to bid down some of
the acquisitions particularly in Sanlam, personal investment, and we have to be able -- a
number of these businesses are small, to collaborate and drive efficiencies across the
businesses. Again here in the investment space, we also see the same cost areas that we
see in Sanlam Personal Finance, here maybe a little bit more we've invested some money
into new startups and so -- and we'll have to really manage our costs quite closely than
before.
Finally, at Santam, ladies and gentlemen, we have to deliver on the diversified growth.
Market diversification, we have the specialist business, we have now Santam Re,
reinsurance, we have the technical partner role that we play in Santam with our Sanlam
Emerging Markets through, where we do have general insurance there. We have to do
that. And we have to continue the growth at MiWay. We have to say that they've been
enrolled and they are on track.
We have to maintain the size and quality of the risk pool. A big focus this year will be an
appropriate premium rates following the catastrophe claims in 2012, but also the lower
exchange rate. A lot of what we do is motor business, ladies and gentlemen. And these
things are being important parts and so forth.
And often the cars are being sold for on the cost and people didn't try to make up these
values later in the cycle of ownership of the car, particularly when you have an accident, so
many of us cannot test it. So these costs are going up and so we have to manage that
and that will have to result in some premium increases. And a big part of our success
there will be our ability to get those premiums, not across the board, but particularly in
certain segments of the market too.
Page 16 of 22



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2013-03-07

FINAL

Sustainable insurance by addressing systemic risks and these things are important. We're
increasing this EBIT, particularly high, the highly affluent building in spots that are prone to
water damage, flooding and things like that build on cliffs and I don't know what area. So
these things are systemic risks and we have to look at that and try to avoid them. Often
you think you have one house or two or three houses in a complex, then you found out
that all those places are similar and everything comes down. So these are systemic risks
that we have to look at and price properly.
And then drive efficiency throughout the value chain. Focus on cost management, again,
you'll see cost management, the key theme here. We see those pressures coming
through the duration of exchange rate, high -- relatively high salaries, regulatory prices,
electricity, these things going up and the impact on us, there is some impact on us. And
within all of this though, there are particularly two auto regulatory requirements that they
have to address, there are optimizing -- there are opportunities that we can take.

Bloomberg Transcript

Finally, the outlook, just two or three things on that. We think the investment market
performance are not likely to repeat although in the shorter term, we think there are still
lags, ladies and gentlemen. And often we think our shares are expensive, but remember
on a relative basis there aren't many places in the world where you get the yield that we
still get there. So we see a lot of money coming particularly while we may think these
things are expensive.
We have the African growth story, we have a lot of other things going for us. And we will
see some of it, but we don't expect these very high investment market performances to
be repeated. Economically, we expect slow economic recovery, that remains the best
scenario. There will be ups and downs, but we won't necessarily fall flat. But over the next
number of years, we will see in our economies in Africa, particularly picking up. That's why
we think places like Africa, India and Malaysia, Indonesia are great to be.
We think regulatory changes will be continued to be there all over this place, but
particularly in South Africa and there we're trying to do a whole lot of things together. But
elsewhere in the world while we've seen pushback, when you talk about Solvency II, these
things have been pushed up now, it seems to be to 2016. While we were going to have a
single approach within the European Union, it now seems that there will be a country-bycountry approach.
We'll make these decisions. This was originally the motivation why we had to look up our
things to be part of a unified world economy and so forth. It seems now that that has
dissipated and fallen apart. We will still be going ahead with our own Solvency
Assessment and Management, something that we think is important. But I think we should
just focus on the key issues, treating customer fairly within Sanlam is certainly a key, key
driver and into the future. And we're using this regulatory change that we have to achieve
it too to also make our business more streamlined and more supportive of or clients.
Ladies and gentlemen, that's our story. We think we've come with a very credible set of
results in tough environment. You can see the growth rate, but the more important thing,
this is another chapter in a continuing story. And if we look forward -- if we look ahead of

Page 17 of 22



FINAL

Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2013-03-07

us, there's more of this decline. So nothing is going to change this strategy that we've
seen. There may be in some areas a bit of an acceleration, some areas we might pull
back a little bit. But overall we are now at a diversified base. We have a solid base. We're
going to do more of the same and it's in our game, ladies and gentlemen, it's a game
about people. I'm very happy to say that most of our key people have been in those
positions for quite a while, maybe too long. I'm not referring to myself, but there are
more challenges ahead than those that we saw and there are more solutions for us
ahead for us.
And if I -- just talking about coming up here and be there amongst the team and the plans
and the stuff that we would like to do, I can sense a sense of urgency. And I'm very happy
to say that as a management team, we will sit and we would really like to drive the
business forward.
So I look certainly forward to another certain year of performance. Thank you. I'll take
some questions and I'll invite Kobus and Andre Zeeman up to the podium then. All right.
Ladies and gentleman, there are roving mics here. We're going to start off in here and
then just find out if people want to phone in or from other sources, we're connected to
virtually everybody now. There is a mic, just put up your hands, announce your name.
There is somebody over there. Announce your name and institution or affiliation and
shoot.

Bloomberg Transcript

Questions And Answers
Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning, Johan. (inaudible) from Deutsche Securities. Two questions but they are
related. You had made big investments into India and then also Southeast Asia in the past
year. And you mentioned that your African strategy is more to bulk up your existing
operations rather than expand the footprint. The questions is, the business in Nigeria that
broke even this year.
What do you need to see happen in that market for those profits to become a
meaningful contribution to SEM? And then if your African operations are more about
bulking up and expanding and considering it has been a relatively slow growth story
historically. Are looking for the big expansion to come out of Southeast Asia?

A - Johan van Zyl

{BIO 4080290 <GO>}

Yes, it's relative game. I think if you think about Nigeria and increasingly the basis is
becoming bigger and so -- and I know analysts don't like things to happen over a three
and a five-year period or so. You always look because they wanted to happen tomorrow,
if you say this is the strategy. So I came to buy something that is your question.
Yeah, many things we'll sell in Nigeria and you can probably bulk the business up really
quickly. But most of those businesses are firstly over for us and they are up for sale,
because they don't work. Therefore, we can always try to fix something in another
country. So our experience is that it's virtually impossible. So we'd much rather grow in that
Page 18 of 22



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2013-03-07

FINAL

economy off a small base grow by 102%, and it's amazing what the power of compound -compounding can actually do to -- particularly if that number is high. And a few years, we
said exactly the same in Ghana, we said exactly the same in Kenya. We said that this
offshore business of ours, the Emerging Markets business was only about Botswana and
so forth.
But for three years in a row, we grew the rest of the businesses in Africa by 50% and now
suddenly it's a meaningful contribution. And within the next year or two, you will see what
happens there. So I'm not too worried about that, the strategy being much more cautious
and not throwing money around. The fact that you have surplus capital doesn't remove
the responsibility to make sure that we invest this money into two areas where you get
your return from that.
So the second part of the question, we believe Africa is going to make a massive
contribution to our profits into the future, but so will be India and the Southeast Asia. It's
not the one over the other, rather than Southeast Asia. We just simply had the opportunity
there to invest in credible businesses at prices we have from the outset, we can make the
price.

Bloomberg Transcript

And those things don't exist in Africa. So in Africa, we had to use a different strategy to
get to the same results of both making. It's not that we've abandoned Africa and say that
is more -- if you think eventually, it will be a key part. But because of the investment
opportunities through a partnership and we can -- it's akin to a courtship where we've
started dating -- started one or two ventures together with Shriram, it took us five, six
years before we made the bigger push.
We have now cemented that, there are further opportunities to bulk up. And once the
income comes through there, that's going to make a significant contribution. We expect
an additional 300 million, 400 million coming from the Indian business alone on to that
operating line next year. And that by itself will be a big driver of growth. Of course, we've
invested more money in India and so forth.
And similarly, in spite of P&O business in Malaysia and hopefully we'll also be able to
conclude later on something in Indonesia. Again, not a big thing, a smaller thing where we
are a partner, much more of a technical partner and we're bringing in a little bit of money.
This is what can be done. So again, not a big acquisition. So I know it is not the most
exciting stuff. It's not the stuff that people can write about. All of these things less than 1%
of our market cap by themselves, but that's the way we go, that's the inherent culture and
this is the DNA of the way we do business and it's worked for us.
Another question? Yes?

Q - Unidentified Participant
Johan, in your Personal Finance, quite a lot of your business new flows seem to be
personal loans. Personal Finance in that form, is a lot of this unsecured or is it secured part
of lending? What's your experience in terms of nonperformance and are you having to tie

Page 19 of 22



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2013-03-07

capital up in that business, in provisions and so on, is there anything you can say about
that?

FINAL

A - Johan van Zyl

{BIO 4080290 <GO>}

Yeah. Our unsecured loan business in Personal Finance has a book of around just about 3
billion now. We've slowed down the expansion of that business a little bit. The growth
there has been about 700 million, so it's not been a big positive. It looks that the growth
of the overall flows of the business is 23 billion on a net basis. So the net growth there is
about less than 1 billion, so just up 5%.
But what we essentially do is a lot of the clients' money that all with that -- in the past had
to go to back, if they wanted to learn. Yet their whole income statement is with us. We
paid them their annuity every month, particularly in some of the places. We know how that
thing will unfold, all their money sits with us. The savings, the retirement funds, everything
right into the future.

Bloomberg Transcript

And for that person to go to a bank, where they have to pay some interest rate or so, we
after then provide the security against the policy and see this thing is simply very
inefficient. So a lot of those guys who are savings positive, these aren't people who are
using savings negative like most of the people, so they need money to grow in the
younger phases of their life. These guys haven't made payments for 60 years on policies
or 60 months. They have 10 times the amount of money in savings with us that we -- that
they actually borrow from us and so forth. For those clients, for shorter-term loans, we
given an access and that's what we focus on.
So if you look at the provisions we provided, if it's a normal business and we have high
expectations of 5% bad debts and that sort of a thing, so we provide on a normal basis.
The reality though is that the bad debts run a fraction of that. So this is a very good
business for us to do.
In that sense we don't really compete with the banks, because we segmented our debt
with South African population. That's part of really great people, those who saved, who've
done the right stuff and so forth. And to give them a little bit of unsecured credit, it is
unsecured, because we don't link the savings to the loan. But they usually have 10 times
more money with us when they borrow from us, relatively small risk and the record tests
with us.

Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible). To what extent would the operating experience variances be due to an
improving age picture in South Africa?

A - Johan van Zyl

{BIO 4080290 <GO>}

Well, I'd like Andre and Kobus to give their views as well. A big part of it is that we -- very
conservative, but remember, there are two steps there. One is the -- what actually
happens out there. The other one is where we sit our own -- because experience variance
is always relative to our own assumption.
Page 20 of 22



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2013-03-07

FINAL

And we've always assumed we feel conservative, so we've always assumed something
happens -- it's a bad thing, it came to be much worse than what it really is. And it's a good
thing to know, it went up. So we don't put too much of that into the business. So the key
part for us is really about being conservative and that has not changed. And you will see it
in the numbers. A big part, you're right, of that comes from AIDS and a big part of that
comes from the risk policies. Andre?

A - Andre Zeeman

{BIO 16015264 <GO>}

It's still a lot of that business was written 15, 20 years ago and we haven't changed our
assumptions, but the actual outcome was a lot better than we assumed at the time when
we got the business. And most of that is because people like HIV positive lives longer
than we assumed at that stage.

A - Johan van Zyl

{BIO 4080290 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Just one thing on the experience and the way we usually view this. If look in a given year,
at our risk profile and then our assumption base, and we've underperformed some of
these assumptions that we've said. We've performed worse than that. We assume that is
always going to happen and immediately stems from the base. If we outperform we
assume that it's a ones-off and we've done stem from the base. So we constantly get the
strengthening of the base.
So it's always -- also a result that over time in those areas when the assumptions may be
a little bit -- not strict enough or conservative enough, it's to strengthen those. And where
there were conservative in that execution in there, the question always arises after a
while. If this now is a constant positive, shouldn't I capitalize part of it in there. We prefer -some people do, but we prefer as a group to use the more prudent approach not to do
that. If you see many of our peers in particular, once there has been a positive for a few
years, they immediately capitalize it and put to some big number. We haven't done that.

Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible). This year we expect sort of market share gains of the maintenance expense,
the maintenance that discovery was by market share and maybe cash into Sanlam as one
company, it wasn't taking market share from. How do you sort of see the market share
dynamic?

A - Johan van Zyl

{BIO 4080290 <GO>}

Obviously, let me give you a more ideal market share. We increase market share and I
said it in the presentation. Not difficult. If you stand on the street corner and have money,
people will come and take it from you. If you offer products, the 10%, 20% discount where
your margin is 2%, people will definitely come and buy those products from you. So the
increased market share, I think, is not the way to look at the market. See it's certainly
across the board.
We're much more interested in what happens to the margins, what happens in particular
areas that you operate in and so forth. And we certainly don't have an across-the-board
market share approach. We have niche areas and certain things that we can look. For
Page 21 of 22



Company N ame: Sanlam L td
Company Ticker: SL M SJ Equity
Date: 2013-03-07

FINAL

instance, take the lower end of the market, the entry-level market, we know we can
probably grow market share substantially and so forth. If we were to offer loans by some
of our peers, so we are here to offer savings products and some of our peers into the
lower end of the market. So we only offer this product.
We think they add value to what the customers want and so forth in the clients. We can't
see savings product at present, because the cost is substantially more than that value that
you add to the client. Those guys and built in to get no return at the lower end. And so
we've decided not to offer them. To the detriment of market share in a the whole range
of others -- and on the credit side, we don't go there because we can't do in other banks.
And so our market share, it doesn't work well. But look at the profitability and it really adds
something to what it is. So we're skeptic of market share and we wouldn't like to just
compare market share. But it was the other side as well. We like it if they want to increase
market shares in unprofitable segments.
Ladies and gentlemen, anything else? Then we -- anything on the webcast? Nothing?

Operator
There are no questions on the webcast.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Johan van Zyl

{BIO 4080290 <GO>}

Thank you. Thank you for being here. Thank you for sharing us the great set of results.
And we hope we see you in six months with more good news. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 22 of 22

