Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

S1 2013 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Adrian Gore , Group CEO
Barry Swartzberg, Executive Director
Herschel Mayers , Executive Director
Jonathan Broomberg, CEO, Discovery Health
Ricky Farber, CFO, Finance Director, Executive Director
Unidentified Speaker, Unknown

Other Participants
Brian Mushonga, Analyst
Mike Christelis , Analyst
Unidentified Participant, Analyst

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Unidentified Speaker
If I can be a little bit more formal, Mr. Adrian Gore, the Executives of Discovery, members
of the Board, the investment analysts aside, we all once again thank you for presenting to
us today for the period ended December 2012.
Discovery is an enterprise that comes to us once in every generation, where an enterprise
rises above the rest. And Discovery has risen head and shoulders above the rest in South
Africa, not only adding shareholder value, that's only one aspect of it. But also as a Group
and as a Company. And as an enterprise adding to the quality of life and also to the
quantity of life of all South Africans and all those that participate in their products.
So Mr. Adrian Gore it's, once again, we thank you for giving up the time and for the energy
that's gone into this presentation, thank you.

Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Peter, thank you very much for the very kind introduction. And you really touched on
something close to our hearts and it's really trying to make a difference to the people that
we serve. And I do want to make that point.
It's an absolute honor and a pleasure to be here and to present to you today. It is the
interim results of Discovery to December 31, 2012. It has been -- I'm trying to find my way
around this very complicated -- it's like a NASA launch pad here . There we go.
Page 1 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

FINAL

It has been a very, very exciting period for us. And I think it's been excellent and it's been
important. It's excellent in the sense that I think our results have been strong and rigorous.
You'll see later in the presentation operating profits up 21%. Our established business has
grown by 15% and our emerging businesses, particularly in the UK, had a fantastic time, up
70% in total.
So it has been an excellent year for us. But I would say it's an important period, important
in the sense that our business model is taking shape. We're learning more and more
about its ability to scale, to repeat, to penetrate in the South African market. And I think
across our 10 business units in core countries, as you can see on the chart, I think we're
alive to all of them and there's a very, very strong push in that regard. We're excited
about what's been achieved and I think we're very confident about what we can do going
forward.
I think it's important to contextualize once again. I need to restate it. What we're trying to
do, what our purpose is and what is our ambition? And our purpose is clear, build an
organization that makes people healthier. Build an organization that through doing that
builds products and structures and solutions for our customers that enhances their lives
and protects them in the right way. And that's what we're focused on doing.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our ambition is to build the best-in-class global organization that is renowned for
strength, financial strength and innovation. It makes a difference to the societies in which
we operate.
Now I've been talking about this core purpose for many, many years and often times I get
the feedback it sounds kind of soft and a bit fleeting in the rough and tough bottom line
role of financial services. But I will contextualize to you today in a sense how fundamentally
the purpose is, the methodology is, in a world that's changing around us.
And there are a number of global trends, I think mega-trends that are becoming clearer
and clearer that make our model directionally, I think, fundamentally important.
The first is, I think, quite an obvious issue, something we've been speaking about for a
long time. But the simple idea that diseases of lifestyle are fundamental in driving
mortality and morbidity. And we know this. There are many different ways of cutting this.
The one that I like that's the most descriptive on the left hand side of the chart is the
Oxford Health Alliance view of what they call 3-4-50. Three lifestyle choices; smoking,
poor nutrition, lack of exercise, lack of physical activity lead to four conditions, diabetes,
cancer, heart and lunch diseases that drive 50% of mortality. It's quite remarkable.
And these are modifiable through behavior change. Now we've known this for a long time.
But it's becoming a bit of a fever pitch. The United Nations had a summit last year. The
World Economic Forum in Davos just a few weeks ago brought out a charter for healthy
living. There's a strong focus on this in every respect.
And I think there's a wave coming our way, a wave around nutrition; a wave around how
food companies from Nestle to PepsiCo, how they make their food, the salt content, the
Page 2 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

trans fats; a wave around physical activity leading to policy change. That's happening.

FINAL

But at our level, an institutional level, an organization that can create behavior change
could price that into insurance, can make people healthier and somehow integrate that
into insurance models I believe has a competitive advantage and has the ability to offer
better products to customers. And that's what we've focused on.
The second import trend is a world of uncertainty. And we know this well. But we are in a
very volatile world in every respect, geo-politically, power shifts from west to east, the
multi (inaudible) with all kinds of complexity. From a financial perspective, the global
financial crisis has meant, if you look at any index, there's been a lost decade to an extent.
People have lost faith in the stability of markets and the ability --the investment markets
the ability to really deliver.
It's amazing that almost accepted dogma 10 or 15 years ago that you should opt out of a
defined benefit pension scheme and go into a defined contribution one. It was a terrible
choice to make if you did do it, essentially a world shift from individuals to companies
that's what has happened. And it is problematic. But people have lost faith in a sense in
that regard.

Bloomberg Transcript

At the same time, we have recession in different parts of the world. And you have other
things, climate change, demographic shifts. We live in a very complex world.
Now not to be pessimistic. And that's not the point of my comment, I'm simply making the
point that people are risk averse and concerned. And, therefore, the protection industry,
the life insurance, the health insurance industry, those industries that can create certainty,
can create predictability are very, very relevant.
But the fascinating issue is that the innovation has been largely in the investment space,
the investment markets, hedge funds, ETS, whatever it might be, complicated
innovations, sub-prime mortgages, dare I say. But be that as it may, life insurance markets
largely are commoditized. There hasn't been much innovation.
If we look on the right hand side of the chart, there's just a -- I'm sorry, it's not very clear.
But just to show you a portal in the UK. Life insurance is about commodity, it's about price.
There's very little innovation.
And once again, I'd say to you, given the relevance of this industry, if we can innovate. And
I believe we can, if we can, in fact, innovate for our mortality and our morbidity, the very
input costs that drive these things, our ability to compete, be relevant is real. And so I say
to you the global uncertainty is good for what we are doing.
And then the final trend I wanted to mention and I just want to explain this to you very
carefully is the issue of healthcare. Healthcare's massive. It's probably the largest industry
in the world. And it's going to grow, it's robust.

Page 3 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

FINAL

And that might sound against the run of play, wherever you go in any country, there's a
sense that healthcare's unsustainable. In our country here, the doubts about the NHR; the
doubts about whether private healthcare can sustain itself. Same in the US, same in the
UK, those are the feelings about healthcare.
But there's seeming contradiction between the robustness of healthcare and the fact that
people can see that it's unsustainable. It's because, in a sense, its cost inflated above
inflation. That is what disarms people. How can you have an industry that continues to cost
more in real terms. It's not possible. But I think it is.
And there's some fascinating work by an economist call Baumol, a great book called the
Cost Disease that I think it makes it absolutely obvious when you think about it. You see
his thesis and we've seen it play out is that certain industries drive efficiencies down
through technologies. The manufacturing, automotives, electronics, they're getting more
efficient over time.
But industries like healthcare, education, the Philharmonic Orchestra is an example, rely on
skilled labor, doesn't respond to technology. Healthcare is full of technology all over. But,
in fact, we see healthcare technology, ironically, makes things more expensive. Biological
drugs mean we can do more; scanners cost more, we can do more.

Bloomberg Transcript

Technology at this stage is not driving down cost. And, therefore, you will accept those
industries that don't have efficiencies through technology will inflate higher than those
industries that do.
Now the simple epiphany is that CPI is the arithmetic average. So, therefore, you have to
accept healthcare will always inflate above inflation. And other industries are always, in
fact, below inflation. And that's how it is, right?
Now the interesting thing that you have to ask and you see from the chart there, I think
that came out of one of the Baumol studies, if you look at the US over the last 30 or 40
years, you can see how healthcare and education have dramatically outstripped price
inflation. In fact, they're at CPI plus 2% to 5% across the world. If you read some of these
studies, it's quite remarkable.
The question is how do they sustain it? And the obvious answer is because the other
industries inflate below inflation, they make way for these industries that inflation above
inflation.
Now, not to say that they continue forever and hopefully we can bring technology to
health in a way that brings costs down. But the point I'm trying to make is healthcare's
likely to grow. And we have to fight, as Discovery and others, to keep costs under control.
That's our fundamental role. And so I'd say here at a strategic level, in an industry that's
going to grow. But if we can bring costs down for our customers and we must, our
relevance is fundamental. And I'd to say to you that's one of the directions we're focusing
on.

Page 4 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

FINAL

So to an extent, I would say to you that these three trends contextualize our core purpose
of making people healthier. It's not a soft idea. It's not a fleeting idea. It's very, very
fundamental. And to an extent, in the period under review, we've restructured our
business, focused very hard on building out the chassis, Vitality at the base; building best
of breed companies in every regard; being meticulous in how we structure them in our
different geographies, in different industries, to make sure we capture the value that we
think we can.
If we get it right. And I believe hopefully you'll see in these results, in many cases we do,
fundamentally we have the opportunity to make people healthier. That's the core of what
we do.
But from a competitor position, our price points are lower; our selection is better; our
selective lapsation is better; our products are different; and the performance is
fundamentally better. And that's what we're trying to do.
What I think is exciting and hopefully you'll see that, in our establish businesses we are
learning more and more how to do this. But I think we're learning how to scale and repeat
this into different markets. And I think that is the great opportunity that I think we have. So
the fundamental benefits of the model, I think, hopefully are self-evident as I go through
the presentation.

Bloomberg Transcript

So let me begin by just giving you a bit of an overview of the results. I then want to go into
just showing you a few analyses of the earnings very quickly. I hope in the disclosure that's
much more detailed. I'm not going to get bogged down in that.
And then what I thought I would do, as I usually do, is try and give you a bit of strategic
insight into some of the businesses. I can't do all of them. And some of the thoughts of
where they've come from, where I think they are, where I think they are going.
Let me start with just giving you a bit an overview. Discovery itself, operating earnings up
21%; headline earnings per share up 20%; embedded value of 18%. And I think robust new
business of a higher base up 12%.
Discovery Health had a fantastic performance in every regard. And the Discovery Health
medical scheme under that has performed remarkably well for its members and I think
that's important.
Operating profit up 12%; despite a cut in our administration fees, we continue to do that.
We reduced them by ZAR70 million over this period; despite the size of the base. The
base grew by 6% in total off the back of strong new business and very low lapses. And I
think in every dimension of what Discovery Health is doing, it's done remarkably well, as
has the Discovery Health Medical Scheme.
Discovery Life had a very pleasing performance, operating profit up 17%. New business up
7%, I'll show you later the development of that. I think the real story around Discovery Life
Page 5 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

has been quality. We focused hard on getting the model to pricing, the lapses, how that
interplays with mortality, how it works with Vitality in different ways. And critically, Discovery
Life is now cash positive, I think it's very, very important; so a very good period for
Discovery Life.

FINAL

Discovery Invest, a rather pleasing performance, operating profit up 22%; assets under
management up 42%; the business is relatively young, great potential going forward.
Vitality had a tremendous period; growth up, lapses down. But the real story of Vitality.
And I going to make a few points a bit later, has been the learnings we're getting about
engagements, about what programs work in the context of Vitality and how we can scale
them out. And that really forms a foundation for what we are doing. We're deploying a
number of different ideas into different markets.
Discovery Card continues to perform well, over 9% market share; the book is over ZAR2.6
billion; excellent credit experience. I think it continues to provide a foundation for growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then finally, Discovery Insure, in the local context, new business up 56%; a very, very
strong growth in new business. We estimate at the end we're capturing around 9%, at the
new business run rate, of the market. It's pretty good after 18 months; we're pleased with
it. We've invested a considerable amount in the period, about ZAR100 million/ZAR102
million. And I'll take you through that a bit later in the presentation.
Turning to some of the international new businesses, in UK, by a long shot, a star of the
show. The UK businesses have been absolutely remarkable. I'd say it's the best period
we've had; a lot of work that's been done in PruHealth and in PruProtect have really paid
off. You can see there that the combined new business grew by nearly 50% to ZAR727
million. Operating profit up nearly 70% to ZAR347 million. The business is throwing out
huge amounts of cash at the same time.
So I think that, to me, has been one of the seminal events of the period. PruHealth itself
operating profit up nearly 90%. As you can see, every aspect inside the PruHealth
business I think is very strong; lapses, mortality rates up, claims rates and loss ratios. And
I'll show you a bit later how that's played out.
PruProtect, I think, by the long shot the star of the show. Operating profit up over 100%;
strong new business growth up nearly 60%. It's navigated a very complex environment
like gender equality, tax changes. But you'll see every aspect of the business is tight, the
distribution is excellent and very pleased with the performance.
Our stake in China we've reached first base. I'm going to take you through some of the
thinking there. We really have focused hard on building the business; building up a very
good quality health insurance business in China. I think it's reached first base and it's,
really, we've refocused the business towards core, proper health insurance products in
both the Group and individual market. And we're pleased with the progress.

Page 6 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

FINAL

And in the US, the Vitality Group with Humana I think has grown tremendously; up to 2
million lives. Post the reporting period, Humana has now opened up Vitality to their
Medicare book. So they're adding on -- they've added on 700,000 lives now. We've
transacted a deal with Wal-Mart together with Humana around offering HealthyFood in the
US that I think has great, great potential.
So across the Group I think the performance has been very, very strong and I think the
innovation is very much alive.
Let me just say this about the business model on a financial level; what we've tried to do.
And I hope it's clear, is a build a business on innovation; a business on IP; a business on a
different business model; and, to an extent, one that is capital light. Our view is if you
have sufficient IP and knowhow and expertise you can grow organically and you can grow
in a sense and the ability of the team. And I think we're managing to do that.
The methodology has been around incubating new businesses, spending 5% to 7% of our
operating profit on new businesses, at the same time. And strong organic growth. And
then those businesses become established and they then fund the growth. You get,
hopefully, this virtuous cycle. That's what we set out to do.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, to an extent, if we're successful I would argue what you should see is robust,
established businesses, throwing out cash, funding new businesses with new platforms.
And you get this kind of virtuous cycle. I think. And I hope you'll see, in the period under
review that I think that methodology has been very, very sound and has played out, I think,
very, very well.
Going through just some of the numbers. I've just told you about these. But I'd like to just
contextualize them. If you look at the operating profit, up 21% to just under ZAR2 billion;
the established businesses, Discovery Health, growing by 12%; Discovery Life growing by
17%; both of them off a very, very large base. The established businesses together then
collectively growing by 15%.
You can see the emerging businesses in the UK and Discovery Invest growing by a very
strong 71% collectively. You can see PruProtect over 100% growth; PruHealth nearly 90%
growth. And Discovery Invest up 22%.
We spent slightly more on incubating new businesses in the context of the Vitality Group,
Discovery Insure and Ping An. The real driver there is Discovery Insure; we spent over
ZAR100 million on Discovery Insure. It's growing quickly; significant new business during
bad weather during the period. And I'll touch on that a bit later. So we spent about 10% of
operating profit on that. We're not concerned. I think with the platforms we're building we
are confident of great potential going forward.
When you add it all together you find that headline earnings per share up 20%. And we've
declared a dividend of ZAR0.60 per share, up 20%; very consistent. So a very simple
flow-through from operating profit to headline earnings to the dividend declaration. I think
quite straightforward and quite simple.
Page 7 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

Let me turn to new business; quite an interesting set of dynamics in the new business
side illustrating a number of issues. We're pleased with the new business performance;
up 12%, as you can see, to around ZAR5.1 billion; made up of different pieces of it.

FINAL

The established businesses, Discovery Health off a very high base, growing by 9%;
Discovery Life growing by 7%. That trend is escalating. I'd like to take you through that a
bit later.
Vitality is getting great acceptance. It's growing into the base at a rapid rate; you can see
it growing by 42%.
In the UK the points I made, you can see PruProtect and PruHealth going very strongly;
58% and 36% respectively. I'd say to you the 58% is slightly flattering, because the
gender equality and tax changes in the UK at the end of the year, there was a bit of a rush
of new business in December. So it's slightly bloated. But I would still argue that that -- it
would have probably ended up not that far from there anyway. The kind of momentum
and the pace of the business, I think, is quite remarkable.

Bloomberg Transcript

Discovery Invest up 6%; we slowed down capital bonds in that period. So not overly
concerned about that. You can see on the new business side the Discovery Insure
performance quite remarkable, up 56% to ZAR184 million.
Vitality is a bit lumpy. We did very little in the second part but, in fact, post the reporting
period we had 700,000 lives join. So, it's a bit difficult to get consistent growth, because
our big client is Humana. So you're going to get lumps of business coming over from
period to period.
In the case of Ping An, I will show you a bit later that there's a refocus of the business
away from what they call service and fun products; more towards the insurance products.
So, to an extent, the 6% growth that you see there doesn't tell the full story. We kind of
slowed down the other business. And you can see that we're focusing more on the
proper, bona fide health insurance business, per se, which is growing quite nicely and will
continue to grow very strongly into the future.
If you look at the performance in both earnings and new business in a graphical form, I
think you see clearly how we've progressed. I think the earnings have grown nicely. The
earnings per share we've managed to add 28% per annum, compound, over the decade
and more since we listed in 1999. And I will point out that we've managed to achieve that
growth without recourse to much capital. And I think that tends to show the virtuous cycle
and how it's playing out.
You can see the new business will fluctuate from period to period depending on how we
play out. We are pleased with the 12% growth. And I think, more importantly, we built very
good foundations, I think, to go forward from that.

Page 8 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

FINAL

A few points about the earnings I thought I'd make, just to give you a sense of quality, the
first is earnings are becoming more diverse. So if you go back a couple of years, the
organization was really Life and Health, to an extent. If you wind forward to this period,
which you can see is a much more diverse set of earnings by industry, by country, 13% of
the earnings are now offshore through the Pru ventures. And I think that's going to grow.
So to an extent I think the earnings have become more robust and more diversified.
The second important point I wanted to make is cash flow. The organization is throwing
out considerable amounts of cash. During the period we generated ZAR2.3 billion in cash
from the business.
Amazingly, you'll see. And it's an important point to understand, I hope I make it clear later
in the presentation, you can see Discovery Health threw out about ZAR1.5 billion of cash
on its existing book. Discovery Health threw out some cash. The Pru businesses in the UK
are throwing out quite a bit of cash. We're investing a lot of it back into Discovery Life new
business, into Discovery Invest. And in fact, most of it locally.

Bloomberg Transcript

So if you actually look at the use of cash on the right-hand side, you'll see that only 6% or
so is being spent offshore. So despite the ambitions of globalizing a lot, what we're doing
is still taking a very prudent approach and a very careful approach to the deployment of
capital outside of South Africa. We remain very optimistic and committed to our country
and we think we can do both, in a sense, at the same time. And I think that's played out in
the cash and capital allocation.
And then, finally, in terms of quality. The embedded value has grown very nicely, up 18%,
as you can see, to just over to ZAR59.26 per share, as you can see.
And I think maybe more important than the actual just quantum of the embedded value,
it's interesting to look at the build-up of the embedded value from ZAR30.2 billion to
ZAR33 billion on the right-hand side of the slide. What I want to show you is the
controllable build-up; in other words, where we can have an influence from the ZAR30.2
billion to the ZAR32 billion or so, the two blue charts.
And the point I wanted to make is if you look at the build-up, of course, there's the unwind
of the expected return that you see coming through. But the real drivers of that growth is
new business and positive experience variances. And I think that's fundamental.
We've achieved the highest positive experience variance I think we've seen, certainly in
Discovery Life, as well. So, to an extent, the growth in embedded value is a function of
ability to transact and attract quality new business. And at the same time, I would argue,
that it's a function of the organization outperforming the expectations set for it at the -within the embedded value assumptions. And so to an extent I think illustrates the quality
of the earnings and I think the quality of the business that I think we are building up.
In terms of the positive variances, just to make the point, the organization over six months
generated over ZAR600 million positive experience variances across a wide range of
different metrics. You can see the very strong performance in terms of lapses on the leftPage 9 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

hand side of the chart, in addition to mortality and morbidity. So, I would just argue that I
think quality of earnings is very strong; cash flow generative diverse, great quality in terms
of the embedded value. And I think we're pleased with that.

FINAL

Let me turn to some observations. As I said, I cannot comment on all the businesses;
there just isn't the time. But I want to make a few, hopefully, interesting comments and
give you a sense of our strategy and give you a sense of where we're going.
Firstly, I want to talk about Vitality generally. I've made the point about Vitality in the local
environment. It's growing strongly and it's really a powerful foundation for what we do.
You can see the membership growth is very strong. Lapse rates are remarkably low. So,
they were always low at 3% and have come down to Vitality-only lapses of about 3%. So
it's very, very, sticky.

Bloomberg Transcript

The engagement levels are quite remarkable. If you look at this we're generating 2 million
gym visits a month from our client base. People are flying 70,000 flights a month. That's
like 12 737s packed every single day of people using their Vitality benefits. There is
frenetic activity in the context of them. And, of course, that bodes well for people doing
to actually earn those benefits. We're driving population health better. And I think that's
fundamental.
But, at the same time, I would say to you that we're learning about programs that can be
repeated and scaled, not only here. But in the other markets. One thing I'd mention to
you is the HealthyFood benefit that is a tremendously simple idea; give 25% discount on
healthy foods. It addresses the very thing that people are concerned about; trying to
create the difference in price between healthy things and unhealthy things.
I've mentioned this to you before. It's simple to the customer. It's very complex what is
healthy, what isn't healthy, how you filter out these foods. The joint venture with Pick n Pay
is something that has been remarkably strong. You can see the cumulative spend. Our
clients are spending about ZAR2.5 billion a year now through this benefit; this is
remarkable.
And we're starting to see, on the right-hand side of the chart, differences in lifestylerelated illness, incidence of it, by people that are buying more healthy food, those that
are buying less. Now, of course, we don't have the causality of it. But it's quite fascinating
what we've started to see; we need to understand it better.
But the point of this benefit is it's amazingly crisp; we need to make it bigger. And we
need to scale it into other markets. So some work has been done on a number of things.
The first thing we did during the period we transacted a deal with Woolworths, which you
may have heard of. That's rolling out next month. So, in fact, expanding the HealthyFood
network in the South African context, will be available to certain parts of membership of
the Discovery Health plan.
It's very much on the same line, a very crisp idea, 25% HealthyFoods, the same kind of
physicality of the benefits. It's leading to the till splits; it's leading to the shelves of
Page 10 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

Woolworths. So, you'll be able to see on the different Woolworths shelves the Vitality
HealthyFood tick, as you can see.

FINAL

So we're going through a process of rigorously building up the infrastructure together
with Woolworths. And I think we have a fantastic set of, what's the word, goals and
excitement about this particular development, excited about what it can do.
At the same time, we're scaling it into other markets. We've done a lot of work with
Sainsbury's in the UK. I think that's in its infancy. And we need to push that out.
Something notable during the period I make the point Humana together with Vitality. And
Wal-Mart have got a joint venture now on HealthyFood. So we're playing this out into the
US market at the same time. We have taken a bit of a soft step into that market. We're
giving a 5% discount; the US is a complicated place. We need to field that out. But I think
quite quickly, over time, we're going to, in fact, escalate their Vitality status.
I thought I'd show you Humana's now matters actively promoting this as part of a Vitality
rollout to Medicare clients, etc. I thought I'd tell you what they're saying, hope this comes
through.

Bloomberg Transcript

(video playing)
Quite interesting, because Humana is the biggest Medicare player in the US and, in fact,
Wal-Mart is a distribution point for the Medicare products as well. So there's the potential
to link it all together and I think it's very, very, powerful. So this is -- this really is in its
infancy and I'm trying to illustrate the ability of these programs to scale and to be
repeated. The customer message is simple but the technology behind it is not that
simple. And I think it's a competence that we're developing.
The other important point is we're learning more about how to build the Vitality brand in
different markets. So, in the UK, for example, one of the things that we're doing. And it's
actually working remarkably well, is the idea of a Vitality ambassador, Jessica Ennis, who,
you may remember, won the gold medal for the decathlon for the UK. She's a remarkable
role model. In fact, research shows she's the number 1 role model in the UK. She's a
remarkable, clean-living, smart, successful individual. And she's now a Vitality ambassador.
And the power of it is quite remarkable. So it does illustrate to us the ability to use
people. It's such a positive message. There's no downside to Vitality. And the ability to
use ambassadors to get that above the line I think is great, great, potential.
At the same time, what's interesting about Vitality is, it helps build the brands of our
partners. And I hope you can see this. This is an amazing thing, what Ping An has done.
Ping An, as I think you know, is the second and third largest insurer in the world. They are
only active in China. But they're desirous of building their brand outside of China. And
ironically, they believe building it outside of China will support their efforts in China, with
Chinese people.
Page 11 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

FINAL

So in the Chinese New Year, last week or the week before, essentially on Times Square
played a video of Ping An on a continuous basis. And most of the video is about Vitality.
So, as you can see, now Vitality, new (inaudible) about health insurance, there's interviews
on it, it's quite remarkable to see. You can see on the right-hand side, we only spotted
this now, if you look above the screen you can see a weeping Pistorius to give you a
sense of the time of this.
But the point I'm trying to make is it's such a positive powerful message. And it's beside
us building brand, our partners find it as a pivotal way to build their own brands. And I think
that bodes well for a much more global approach to what Vitality can do.
But ignoring the soft stuff, the hard reality is we're growing Vitality significantly. You can
see the growth through Humana. We've only just rolled it out in China. We launched it six
months ago. It's taken us six months to go through the regulatory process to get out
there to market it. So, to an extent, we're only starting to get some traction in China. It's
going to take us some time. But despite that you can see the rapid growth of Vitality.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then the ultimate thing about it is it really is competitive advantage. We've done a lot
of work on mortality rates, by Vitality status. It's remarkable. What you can see in the lefthand chart is different mortality curves by Vitality status. We can now effectively price life
insurance by status, which is critical. And it gives us more rating factors. And that is a
powerful competitive advantage. It also gives us the way life insurance products are
developed; gives us ability to have dynamic rating factors, as people engage their
premiums flex. That's remarkably powerful in the world of life insurance. I think it has
global potential in the sense of what we're doing.
On the right-hand side, you know well, we've done a lot of work on the healthcare base
to understand the effect on admission rates, on chronic illness and a cost-per-member
per life for hospitalization. So essentially, ignoring all the soft, fluffy stuff about Vitality, the
fact is it does make people healthier. It is a fantastic selection tool. And it does give us the
potential to offer products that are simply better, priced better. And perform better. And
that's what we're focusing on.
Let me go to the UK. And talk about the PruHealth, PruProtect, JV; it's had a remarkable
period. I need to just state our ambition here of building a business along the lines of the
Discovery business model; the best protection business in the UK. I think that
opportunity's there. I think we're on the way to doing it. I think the potential is there.
The UK life insurance industry has typically been focused on savings, products,
investments. As I've said before protection is, in a sense, commoditized based on price.
The PMI market is very commoditized. We have a great opportunity.
And I think the period under review has seen this JV grow significantly. I made the point
about some of the numbers. But I think if you look at them graphically, the performance is
strong. You can see collectively new business growing by nearly 50% to over ZAR720
million; operating profit at 68%, very strong to ZAR350 million for this six-month period;

Page 12 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

embedded value up to over ZAR4 billion over that period, up 30%. You can see the
quality I think of the business that, to an extent, has been built.

FINAL

And from a cash-flow perspective, you can see how the business is playing out. Over the
comparable periods of the last three years, you can see break-even at a cash-flow level,
throwing out now nearly ZAR0.25 billion in cash that, I think, has the ability make us grow,
or has the ability to give us real power in the UK market and elsewhere.
So the performance at a combined level has been absolutely tremendous. The UK itself is
an interesting market. It's a complex market. Firstly, the considerable headwind the
market itself is experiencing, as you know well, the recession; austerity from Government.
This is a very depressed environment and difficult. And I think that's exciting for a
company that's innovating and changing. And trying to offer value for money.
At the same time, there are massive policy changes that are affecting both health and life
insurance, that are significant. I think all of them are directionally good for us.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the first case, the Retail Distribution Review that looked at distribution of insurance
products is fairly profound. One of the important by-products of it is that independent
advisers cannot earn commission on savings and investment products; they can only earn
fees. And what that means is they're shifting their focus towards protection. And
potentially selling private health insurance. That means a much greater distribution
channel for us. And I think that's very good.
At the same time, wealth managers tend to be high advice, right at the top of the pass,
absolutely perfect for the PruProtect vision and target market. But the gender neutrality is
fascinating. The UK, following the EU, now has banned inability to differentiate premium
rates by gender.
Complicated issue in life insurance, because women live longer than men, right. And it's
quite remarkable. So what's happened now is prices for women have gone up. And prices
for men, to an extent, have gone down to equalize. Complicated thing to navigate as a
life insurer, there are all kind of lapse and re-entry problems. But the truth of it is for a
competitor that's innovating. With Vitality the ability to attract women, we're in a very
competitive position. I think that's important for us.
And then also important for the protection market, changes to the tax base to an IFRS
basis of taxing life insurance, keeps prices up; again, good for a new entrant and good for
a differentiator and good for someone competing at the top of the market. So we've had
to, in a sense, navigate very complicated changes, all them I would argue directionally
good for the business.
And then finally from a Health perspective, NHS continues spending reviews and
complexity. The NHS is here to stay. That's why it is a fantastic asset. The UK, it's deep in
psyche. I did see a saying once that there is a national religion in the UK, it's called the
NHS. And I think it's very, very true.

Page 13 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

FINAL

But the truth of it is, under austerity, under the growing healthcare stent, it is going to
battle. And, therefore, we are very confident of a growing, robust private health insurance
market. And so we continue to innovate and our clear role is to outdo our competitors.
And I think we have the ability to do that.
So if you look at the actual businesses themselves, I think they illustrate how we're
navigating through this market. The PruProtect numbers are very strong. I've made the
point about new business, about profitability. But I think if you look at policies in force up
53%; the value of new business significantly up to ZAR388 million; significant margins.
We're increasing the profitability to an extent of the business.
The actual focus is on what we do here, innovate and offer better products. So we're
focusing on a number of different areas, improving the critical illness products; getting
Vitality to integrate properly with the protection products. And you can see the half-year
by half-year development of the new business, very strong.

Bloomberg Transcript

And on the right-hand side, I think it's a remarkable chart of the policyholders in force. You
can see the rapid and consistent growth of what we've managed to achieve. And I think
we're very pleased with that.
If you analyze the market share, it's really, really interesting. I think the business is doing
amazing stuff. In the intermediated market, you can see looking quarter 3, that's the latest
data we have, 2010/2011/2012, you can see how quickly we've taken market share. So I
think we were seventh or eighth position in 2010. We jumped a spot, 2011. We jumped
another two or three spots in 2012. And the period under review, in the Third Quarter, we
captured 10% of the market.
I think when the quarter 4 stats come out you'll see further increase in market share. But
illustrating just how quickly this business is starting to make headway in the context of the
UK.
And then I think fundamentally the quality of the business is remarkable. You can see the
lapse rates have come down dramatically, below our expectation. In the middle of the
slide, you can see that the claims to expected are dramatically lower than -- sorry, the
claims are lower than expected. And the value of in-force is growing very, very strongly.
So the focus on the top of the market, high premiums, quality business, careful pricing
and underwriting and the quality of distribution that we're doing is paying great dividends
in the UK. I believe that we're scratching the surface of some of the opportunities that
we're looking at. And there's a number of very exciting innovations that the team have
planned for PruProtect.
If you go to PruHealth, the performance I think has been staggering. There are two pieces
of PruHealth that are important. One is that we made this acquisition Standard Life
Healthcare two years ago or so. And it's about digesting that and making that pay. The
acquisition was done for strategic reasons to give us scale. And I think that's worked.

Page 14 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

FINAL

The other strategy is growing new business and differentiating, bringing new products out
and driving Vitality. I would say to you that in both of these we've done remarkably well. If
you look at the numbers, I think they're fairly clear. The loss ratio is stubbornly low and
coming down, I think that's to us probably the biggest asset; the operating profit up
strongly; new business up strongly.
But, importantly, if you look at the actual acquisition and the effect of it, all the metrics are
positive. If you recall a couple of years ago, our real worry was the loss ratio, how we keep
that, how we manage that. We've worked incredibly hard on the pricing integrity, on the
underwriting, on the risk management, on every aspect.
We've been absolutely focused on pricing bad groups up and out and making sure we
maintain good groups. You can say that play out in the diminishing loss ratio. And when
you compare that to the industry, it is quite remarkable. We are dramatically lower than
the rest of the industry.
On the lapse rate side, we've brought the lapse rate down. And I would argue we're
lapsing out the right kind of groups. So the performance of the plan at the base level has
been incredible.

Bloomberg Transcript

The acquisition of Standard Life Healthcare, we've been very careful in this acquisition.
When we did the acquisition, we were careful about setting a roadmap for both loss
ratios and lapse rates. So we set out that roadmap in the blue on both sides. What you'll
see is the actual performance is far better in both cases than expected.
And our calculation is that the internal rate of return on the acquisition is about 33% over a
10-year period. So despite the strategic imperative to do the acquisition, the reality from a
pure financial perspective has been exceptionally good. And I'm very pleased with where I
think it's got to.
In terms of driving the business forward, there's been a huge focus on innovation, on new
products, on the base of what we've created. There's a number of different pathways of
innovations. We're really pushing around lines that our competitors aren't; driving benefits
for not smoking; driving a focus on obesity with Vitality and bariatric surgery; wrapping
around products all kinds of different issues.
You can see that's paying off on the new business side. In 2010, we did a lot of new
business, quite a bit of corporate stuff. We're back to that level on higher post the
acquisition. And, in fact, you'll see a lot less corporate, much more individual where the
loss ratios are much, much lower.
So I'd say to you the new business is really growing, 36% growth in new business. But the
quality of the business has been quite exceptional.
On the Vitality side, we're getting great traction. One thing we've done on Vitality, I think,
is very smart in the UK, the regulations allow us to do that, we've broken up into two
Page 15 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

FINAL

components; the core product, Vitality; and then a Plus, the outer ring, where companies
and individuals can buy up to Vitality Plus, who offer richer benefits.
And the key thing for us then is to get the buy up to happen, we've introduced a whole
range of new benefits in that structure. What you see on the right-hand side is the take-up
level. A year ago, we're sitting at about 40% of new business buying Vitality Plus. Today
we've climbed that to about 70%. So we're getting great traction, I think, in the context of
Vitality.
And then we're focusing very much above the line in the UK on a number of different
initiatives. I made the point about Jessica Ennis and I think we're using it in a whole lot of
different ways. We're pushing things like the pharmas of the world triathlon, ultra tri -- the
world triathlon series. The final is in London this year; it will be a PruHealth Vitality event.
We need to think about how to get that ahead. It's on the same course as the Olympic
Games. It's going to be quite fascinating.
We've also learned about things that we've done in this market. The healthiest companies
to work for, we're doing it in the UK, together with the Sunday Telegraph and Mercers.
And we're getting fantastic participation of companies in this initiative. Tesco's is there.
Amazingly BUPA is part of our competition, I don't know why. And they've been
remarkably active in it and we're very grateful. But it's really an exciting initiative.

Bloomberg Transcript

Trying to make the point that we're pushing hard above the line to get the Vitality
message out there. And I'm very pleased, I think, where both PruHealth and PruProtect
have got to.
I want to turn to China. I wanted to give you a sense of the progress made in China. China
is complex. And it looks opaque from the outside. And I think you can get stymied with the
view of this massive explosive growth. It's the biggest market in the world. It's a complex
market. And we're aware of it. And I don't think we're fooled by it. We've been quite clear
that we have to build a Company brick by brick, life by life and let that market emerge.
And we need to be at the front of that market.
We are pleased with the progress made. We're focusing very carefully on the kind of
quality of new business. You can see new business up by 6%. I made the point about
focusing on insurance business. But I want to just remake the case for China in the context
of the health insurance.
It is a very big market in terms of healthcare. It's one of the biggest markets in the world
in terms of total healthcare spend, more than 10 times the size of our market and I expect
it to grow as China per capita becomes much more prosperous. But it's amazing that only
3% of expenditure is through private health insurance. The health insurance market is
nascent; it's just starting to form.
On the right-hand side, you can see, amazingly, that 37% of expenditure is out of pocket.
So you have this unbelievable combination of a rapidly emerging middle class, very big

Page 16 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

healthcare market, very big exposure out of pocket with very little insurance. And I think
that is our opportunity and so we're pushing very, very hard.

FINAL

But the point I wanted to make is we're not bamboozled by the scale of the market.
We're focusing on building a quality Company. And I do believe we've got to first base.
We've an organization of 371 people; we've got, I think, skill and structure in every part of
the business.
And on the bottom side of the chart, I wanted to give you a sense that we've migrated a
number of our systems, risk management; claims systems; customer service; systems into
China; our head office in Shanghai, together with Ping An is strong, great people. We're
focused hard in that respect.
We built a very strong branch network across China that gives us great potential to grow
into China. At the same time, we have about -- we have seven branches. The core of the
business is in Shanghai, Beijing and Guangdong. But we're growing out further than that.
And I think that's a great asset going forward. The ability to penetrate the Ping And
distribution channel is fundamental in this branch network.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then from a product perspective, we've refocused the business into two distinct
markets, what they call the group high-end market, what McKenzie might be buying or
Goldman Sachs for their staff in China. We think that's a fundamental market. We need to
compete and win there. I think that's in terms of scale and it's in terms of status, etc. And
then on the individual mid-market, giving individuals the ability to buy state-of-the-art
health insurance products, give them access to better healthcare.
And so we've refocused the market away from fund business and service business and
the kind of stuff that they've been doing towards a very careful focus on brilliant products
on the basis of Vitality. That has taken us some time to achieve. I must say, we're pleased
with the results. In the high-end market, in the group high market, you can see there's
been a very strong growth of business. I think we said explosive. I think it's very strong
growth and I think we can take that number one position.
The quality of clients, you can see in the middle of the chart, is very strong; Goldman
Sachs, Pricewaterhouse, Accenture, ICBC, etc. So I think we're penetrating very nicely.
And in the right-hand side of the chart, we're number two now in that space, ahead of
Cigna, ahead of AXA, who need to capitalize on that. So the team knows there's a clear
goal of being number one in that space. And that space will grow.
On the individual side, it's a very complex place. Chinese culture doesn't play well to
products that you pay risk premiums to and if you don't pay them you get nothing back.
There's a very strong savings culture. And so we've been very careful trying to understand
how we can interpret the products in a way that will give people a sense of payback. So at
the moment people are buying riders on their life insurance critical illness products to get
into to pay for healthcare. It's a pretty blunt instrument.

Page 17 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

FINAL

We have the opportunity to offer. And we've called it CHP, the Comprehensive Health
Protector, a product that's more comprehensive, focused, indemnity-based on the back
of Vitality. And that's what we've developed over the last year. We rolled it out in
November. It's now being actively marketed. I'm excited about what its potential is.
Just to give you a sense, it's actually very interesting in China. In the same hospital, you
have a VIP section and that is what people buy insurance for. They want to avoid the
normal piece and go for the VIP section.
This is a pictorial description; same day, same hospital, five minutes apart. You can see
the general section; crowded, lot of people waiting. You can see the VIP section; quite
remarkable the difference. In addition, there's, in both sections obviously, massive out-ofpocket exposure. So the ability to offer product to give people access to better quality
care, better quality hotel settings as well, is in incredible demand. And we think the
potential there is huge.
At the same time, Ping An has hundreds of thousands of agents selling across China. So,
for us, this is a key strategic requirement.

Bloomberg Transcript

We built a product, as I said to you before, the CHP product. We rolled out Vitality. That's a
very comprehensive base, I believe, with partners like Adidas, Sinopec, offering cheaper
fuel; some of the learnings we had from Discovery Insure.Travel benefits. We've done a
whole range of things to pivot it.
And very importantly on the right-hand side, we have developed a product that's not
inexpensive. But if you manage your health, on the right-hand side, you can see you can
get a lot of your money back. You get all of it back, in fact, if you don't claim and you, in a
sense, get the Vitality benefits out of it.
So we're trying our best to interpret the kind of healthcare needs of individuals. But, at the
same time, play to the desire of people getting money back out of their product if they
don't use it. And so I'd argue it's embryonic. But I think we're quite excited about what can
be achieved.
So we have refocused the business; number 1 in the high-end market. We set a very clear
goal of getting to 100 cases a day in the individual market, penetrating the Ping An health
distribution channel. And I'm excited by what I think has kind of got to first base. And I think
the team feels a sense of confidence of our ability to grow.
Let me make another point that, for us, is very important. At the outset of the Ping An
relationship we tried to acquire 25% of Ping An Health. We couldn't quite do that; we got
to 20%. But we agreed with Ping An that, if it became possible, we'd like to buy up the
additional 5%. It was an agreement in good faith to do so.
I'm very pleased to tell you we're in the process of acquiring that 5%. We've agreed all
the terms of Ping An. We're just waiting for regulatory approval by FIA and from the
Page 18 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

FINAL

Chinese authorities. So, essentially, I think it's a done deal. We're going to move up from
20% to 25% of Ping An Health. We're going to push particularly hard in the year ahead to
get to our goals.
Let me turn to Discovery Insure; fascinating business. I think a very exciting six months. I've
made the point many times about the scale of new business. We invested ZAR100 million
into the business over the six-month period. You can see we invested ZAR74 million in the
previous period.
It's largely in line with plan. The one factor we didn't factor in was the most ludicrous
hailstorm on one day in October, on October 20. This is our claims register, how it looked;
ticking along quite nicely and suddenly one of the worst hailstorms ever. I know that, from
a short-term insurance industry, it has been one of the worst storms in 30 years, as you
can see some of the research that we've done. So this massive spike in claims, that cost
us ZAR20 million in the process; that's the nature of the business. I'm not overly
concerned about that.

Bloomberg Transcript

But the business itself is developing nicely; if you look at the new business, climbing very
strongly half-year by half-year. You can see that we launched the business in 2011. It had a
very, very fast start.
We spent the first part of this calendar year, of the 2012 calendar year, restructuring the
product around Vitality, how it integrated with Discovery Insure. It took us a couple of
months to get that right. We flattened out during the period. We weren't as much above
the line. We weren't marketing much. And then we put our foot on the gas. So to speak, in
the second part of the year.
During this period you can see the rapid growth in new business. And the business is
growing quickly. You can see the in-force premium income is approaching ZAR0.5 billion
now. So the business, really, I think is gaining scale very quickly. We estimate at a run rate
we're catching close to 9% of the market. And I think we're excited by the potential.
Something that I think is very important in this market, when we're setting out to enter the
motor insurance market one of the warnings in some of the research we saw was that
often a new player gets selected against. The people that leave the existing players and
move to a new player tend to be the worst risks that have been priced out. And
therefore, you can get this massive bad run on the loss ratio.
We're not seeing that. We're seeing quite the opposite. We're seeing quality clients. If you
look at the distribution of our client base, close to 60% have three or more Discovery
products. We are tracking Discovery disciples, to an extent, into Discovery Insure. And I
think that that means that the value should be good going forward. And we're focusing
very hard on that.
The other point I'd make is that really the distribution channels are really embryonic. Close
to 80% of the new business is from almost a direct process. Our broker channels, we're
building very, very carefully. We don't want to work with a channel where we give away the
Page 19 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

underwriting pen, we lose the administration. That's a very important Discovery principle.
So we're developing broker leasing channels to use our existing broker network. That will
take us some time. But I think the potential is quite remarkable.

FINAL

If you look on the right-hand side, our estimation in embedded value between these
different channels is stark. So we're focusing hard, investing a lot to build out that broker
channel in the right way.
But I do need to tell you we are learning a lot about how to make people safer drivers.
And that's the core proposition behind Discovery Insure. Our global vision has created a
nation of safe drivers. That's what we're trying to do. So we're tracking people,
incentivizing them. They come in at a neutral level. They can go to the advanced level and
they get 50% off their fuel if they do the right things. It's remarkably powerful.
And the way people change their behavior is quick. So what you're seeing is by duration,
over 17 months the distribution of people from the base all the way to advanced. And you
can see how people are getting better over time very quickly. Our death rate, the fatality
rate for motor vehicle accidents we see is a fraction of the national average.

Bloomberg Transcript

I do believe, with these kind of incentives, with the structure, you have the ability -- forget
about loss ratios and profitability; we can change people's behavior and make them
better drivers. And that's the desire behind Discovery Insure.
What is very interesting as well is the technology we've built has unbelievable applicability.
So we're tracking every single driver, as you can see, around, in this case, Johannesburg.
And what it gives us the opportunity to do is some strange things.
So some of the learnings we had in that hailstorm is we know where people are driving
and when. And, at the same time, we have access to the weather systems. So if you
superimpose the two, what you see on that terrible day is a storm descending on our
cars; terrible sight. But we can match the two. And that's what's exciting.
So what we're doing now is building the technology to be able to actually SMS individuals,
based on our weather predictions, based on where they're driving. And warn them; move
out or go under cover or whatever. It's good for us and good for them. No one wants to
see their car destroyed in a hailstorm.
So it's these kind of permutations, of having that embedded technology, that give us such
incredible opportunity.
In addition, I might have mentioned this before. But we're trying to bring the whole loop
into the Discovery Health world as well. We track people how they drive, their g-forces.
We know the statistical distribution of our people driving individually. We're developing a
lot of statistical methodologies to do that.

Page 20 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

FINAL

And so we know if the g-force is out of range, probability is they've had an accident. So
we can reach out to them. We can dispatch an ambulance to them, because we know
they've had an accident. It's quite remarkable.
And then some technology we're in the process of developing, we've just sent out, over
the last number of months, these new Discovery car stickers with a QR code per
individual. And the idea, we haven't quite got there yet, is that paramedics, at the point of
the accident, just simply use their smartphone, the QR code and all the health records of
health ID appear on their phone.
So we can dispatch help immediately proactively. We can get at the point of care, from
Discovery Health, all the health records, all the issues about that individual. The
opportunities, I think, to save lives and to make differences is limitless. So the real
potential is there.
So the business really is embryonic and I think the potential is quite remarkable. So we're
excited and I think we will continue to invest. I see that business taking a number of years
to get to scale.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me turn, then, to the big businesses in South Africa; Discovery Health and Discovery
Life. I think Discovery Health and, by implication, the Discovery Health Medical Scheme,
performed unbelievably well over the period, no matter how you cut the data. The new
business was robust off a very hard base; up 9%.
The lapse rates inside the Discovery Health Medical seem remarkably low. They have
come down further to 3.2%. So people are joining us in big numbers and they're not
leaving. I don't know a health insurance system anywhere where you have lapse rates of
3%. If you look at the UK or the US they're typically 15% to 20%. I think it's remarkably
sticky. And the function of new business and low lapse rates means that our very large
base of members has grown by 6% in total, period to period.
Discovery Health itself grew its operating profit by 12%, despite a cut in administration
fees by ZAR70 million over that period. And if you look at the Discovery Health Medical
Scheme, the performance has been remarkable. It continues to grow in terms of its
membership.
And amazingly over the last number of years that rate of growth has tended to escalate.
The reserves built up inside the Discovery Health Medical Scheme for its members is now
topping ZAR8 billion. It's a remarkably strong entity. I don't know how many corporate
entities are out there that have ZAR8 billion -- no liabilities, over ZAR8 billion in cash or
near cash sitting in the Discovery Health Medical Scheme. If you compare it to the
absolute quantum of our competitors, it's awesome.
So the Discovery Health Medical Scheme I think has done remarkably well. And done
remarkably well for its members. So, in every respect, I think the system is very, very
strong.

Page 21 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

FINAL

But I must say to you. And at every presentation I need to make this point, given our scale,
our responsibilities collectively are not just for our members; we have to build a better
healthcare system for all South Africans. So we are strong supporters of the NDP. We're
strong supporters of plans to evolve in NHI. We think that that is fundamental. We think
that that is a plus -- a responsible and robust execution of NHI is fundamental for our
country.
And as an organization, Discovery Health is working very close in every respect. We're
part of the pilot projects. We've got our people working on data, on groupers. Some of
the systems that we use we're trying to make available. I think we can add real value.
At the same time, Discovery Health has been very active in forming a social contact,
together with many actors in the private sector. And with government and the Minister of
Health. And I think the opportunity to use that that contact is remarkable in terms of
building the system.

Bloomberg Transcript

Having said that, I don't believe that the NHI is going to be disruptive to our core business
model. It would be fantastic if, as a country, we could afford to provide healthcare for
everyone. But we can't. And so, from a business perspective, from a strategic
perspective, we are focusing on building our industry. And we need to do that.
It's important to say, getting back to the trend that I said at the outset, healthcare inflates.
And that's our challenge. It's very, very difficult. We have a shortage of doctors, as you can
see from here to other countries. And, if you look over time, medical inflation's
outstripped other industries. It forms exactly the Baumol effect I spoke about at the
outset in our country. And it's our role, with every fiber to fight against that. And to make
healthcare affordable to our customers.
But it must be said that our system is remarkably stable. Despite all the noise about
healthcare inflation and all the difficulties, people are not leaving. As I said to you before,
the lapse rate has come down. Our lapse rate for the calendar year 2012 was 4.2%. In the
last six months it was down to 3.2%, as I previously showed you.
The other measure I think is critical to look at is the buyer buy-down process. If people
find healthcare completely unacceptable they would buy down their benefits to exit. But
they're not. If you look on the right-hand side of the chart, 94% to 95% of people are
constantly keeping benefits unchanged and a further 4% or so have tended to buy up, if
anything.
So the system is remarkably robust. And I think that gives us confidence to say that we
have to invest considerably. So despite all the noise, we believe strongly we're an industry
that's likely to grow; and there is nowhere to hide. We have to be excellent for our
customers. We have to be excellent for the Discovery Health Medical Scheme in a sense
in every regard.
So if you look around this virtuous cycle, we know what we have to do. We've got to
minimize costs for our members. We've got to maximize benefit. We've got to make sure
Page 22 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

FINAL

that the healthcare system is excellent, improve the patient journey into the system. We
need to be able to give a promise that, if you're covered by Discovery Health and the
Discovery Health Medical Scheme, you will be healthier; that's what we have to do.
And then importantly in the bottom left-hand side, we've got to build a healthcare system
for all South Africans. And we need to run around this wheel continuously. There is no
compromise. And I would argue in the period under review, I think we've done remarkably
well.
In terms of the administration fees we continue to drive them down. You'll see on the
right-hand chart, they're around the 15% level, we brought them down to close to the 11%
level over the last number of years. And I think we can get to the 10% level, which is an
important milestone, in the next two or three years. And I think we see that as a reality.
Amazingly, in the left-hand side we often get these debates about the value for money of
the administration fees. We've done a lot of studies around that. And we can illustrate
strongly that the fees journey to 2 to 1 ROI in sense, ignoring the administration the kind
of the effect on healthcare all the issues on growing the scheme, etc., etc.

Bloomberg Transcript

And I'll tell you something that's very, very interesting. I think we are doing reasonably well.
We can always do better in terms of keeping costs under control. We're fighting hard in
every respect across every single discipline. And if you look on the left-hand side of the
chart, what you'll see is our rate of inflation across hospital costs, specialists' costs,
wherever you look is dramatically lower than our competitors.
On the right-hand side of the chart what you'll see is the rate increases over time. Our
rate of inflation is around CPR plus 3%. Our competitors tend to be CPR plus 4% to 5%.
The cumulative effect in that is dramatic. Our analysis shows that benefit-for-benefit now
Discovery Health Medical Scheme options are 15% cheaper than our competitors. That is
very, very material. So I'd say to you working hard in every respect of the healthcare
system to bring prices down to bring inflation down. And I think we're getting on top of
many that we need to do, we need to keep fighting there.
But it's interesting, when you bring together this debate about administration fees in
healthcare costs you get a very interesting dynamic. If you look at the healthcare costs of
our competitors. And you set them at 100 units or 100%, we estimate that per unit to
benefit we're 15% cheaper.
In other words, what costs our competitors 100% costs us 85%. If you then bring together
the administration fees, you'll find when you add up our healthcare costs plus the
administration fees, we are still less than our competitors. And I think it's a very simple
way of seeing the return on investment of the Discovery Health Medical Scheme is getting
from that process.
If you then look at the administration fees that our competitors have to add you get a
difference in exit price. And it's that difference in exit price that's creating, that's sucking
sound to an extent, that really is driving the new business and holding in the lapses. And I
Page 23 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

believe, given the sophistication, the continued investment, our ability to do that is very,
very real. So I think Discovery Health is pushing hard on the cost side.

FINAL

In the case of benefits, we are focused hard on increasing benefits. This is a very difficult
battle to win out there in the hearts and minds of people. People perceive benefits based
on limits. What's the spectacle limit? What's the limit on this? What's -- and there are
those limits. We acknowledge it. We have to fight hard to lift those.
But the real actuarial view of benefits is per unit of sickness, how much are people getting
out of the system? So things like oncology, biological drugs, scanners, all the technology
that drives up cost, if you look actuarially, we've increased benefits by 10% over the last
number of years. We plan to do that, going forward.
So we're focusing very hard on not skimping on benefits. And making sure that the
promise of Discovery Health and the Discovery Health Medical Scheme is, you get access
to the best-quality healthcare. And we need to do that at the same time as controlling
costs.

Bloomberg Transcript

We would argue -- and it's a point we made at our launch for the 2013 year, we would
argue that benefits trumps austerity in healthcare. And therefore, we're focusing very
hard to make sure benefits stay real.
You can see on the right-hand side of the chart the cover ratio. Hospital costs, what
percentage are covered by the Scheme to the claimants. In the case of a heart plan it's
close to 100%, even in the case of the less expensive plans 96% to 97% are covered. So I
think on balance, benefits we are doing relatively well. And we'll continue to do so.
At a previous presentation I spoke about the patient journey. And this is a very, very
exciting opportunity for us. We brought out this fantastic piece of technology for HealthID;
it really puts on an iPad, for doctors, everything. So when patients of the Discovery Health
Medical Scheme come to see them, they have all of their patient records. They can scrip
medicine. They can see everything. You can look at pathology results.
We've had tremendous take in this regard. You can see that nearly 100,000 of our
members have already given their doctors consent to use it. On the right-hand side you
can see in the last number of months the number of doctors. We estimate 15% of doctors
who should be using it are now using it. We're going to drive that up, going forward. So
we really are trying to digitalize the healthcare system. And I think that provides a fantastic
opportunity.
At the same time, what we've done over the year. And we launched into the 2013 year, is
made available a whole set of technology for our members to use. So effectively, we
made the health plan actually exist, to an extent, on an iPhone.
The idea here is to try and get away from this very clunky idea of phoning up your medical
aid. And claims being submitted. And making a health plan exist here, that's where we
Page 24 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

have to go. So the technology platform that we're trying to create is not only at the doctor
level. But at the member level as well.

FINAL

And I think the power of this is quite remarkable. I wanted to show you this. In Discovery
Health, just to show you a few things, I don't want to waste your time. But there's some
really powerful things that you can do.
The first is as an individual, you can see your health records. You can just page through,
through any date, like a carousel, see what you saw, who you saw. So everything is there
for you; your entire health record is kind of dumped into this capability.
You can if you want to submit a claim through the 'phone. So I select a patient, in this case
I'm John Smith. And I have a claim in paper, I want to submit it. What I do is just take a
photo of it, just take a picture of it, excuse my poor photography, saving photo. And I
submit it. It's gone. It's in our system.

Bloomberg Transcript

So it takes away the hassle factor. And then you can do things that I think are quite
remarkable. You can -- if you want you can buy medicines through our courier system in a
way. So if you really have a -- in this case a re-order of Cataflam that this person has, I
must just get the details which are already in there; confirm it. I want it in the morning.
Submit it; gone. And through our Medical Scheme system it will be delivered.
So moving the health plan onto the 'phone. And I think the potential of that is quite
remarkable. Now, even things like Medical Scheme details, what you can do is have your
membership card on the 'phone. So you go and see a doctor, it's all there, etc.
So to an extent that digital interfaces as I think we've managed to create for doctors, with
HealthID. And the ability for patients and members to use this kind of technology's getting
rid of the clunkiness of the healthcare system.
And I'd argue beside obviously the convenience factor, it makes people healthier. The
ability to really, at the point of care, give the caregiver all the information, the client is
better informed, as everything on his or her desktop or phone has fantastic potential.
And we're pushing this a lot further. One of the initiatives we're busy with now, it's an
amazing opportunity. See Discovery Health and the Medical Scheme's big enough to
straddle the healthcare system. So a lot of the telemetry that's coming out, we have the
potential, in fact, to execute across our client base.
We have, for example, 55,000 diabetics inside the Discovery Health Medical Scheme.
Making sure they're compliant, making sure you know their readings, is a critical issue. So
what we've done now, we have a pilot running with these telemetry devices that a pilot
test has, when they check their readings goes through their 'phone, like this. And it comes
to us and to their doctor.

Page 25 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

FINAL

So quite quickly over time the doctor through their HealthID will be notified continuously of
those readings. And if they get out of kilter. We're going to be running that out of the
whole diabetic basis and other conditions will follow. So this suite of technology has the
ability to really drive the quality of care. And I'd argue that's where we're focusing on.
And then the final point of the wheel that I showed you is building the healthcare system;
we are intent on making sure that the South African healthcare system is excellent. So the
Discovery Foundation currently has about close to 200 recipients of grants, of excellent
doctors specializing in the right kind of areas. That's 4% of the specialists in our country.
We need to do more of that.
We're doing things like working with Murchison Hospital of trying to bring super specialties
into the country, educating our best people at places like Harvard and bringing them back
to train the trainer. We have the ability to build a healthcare system. We need to do that.

Bloomberg Transcript

So I would argue, in the context of Discovery Health, the performance is strong; that our
responsibility is much more macro. We have to control costs. We have to maximize
benefits. We have to improve quality of care for doctors and our patients. And we need to
build a healthcare system. I believe that's a reality.
Let me end off with Discovery Life. I've taken much too much of your time. But I think
Discovery Life performance has been very, very pleasing over the period. New business
grew by 7%; the revenue grew by 18%. But you can see the quality of the business.
Operating profit growing by 17%; and the value of in-force growing over ZAR16 billion, by
28%, really reflecting a lot of progress made in a number of areas. It's interesting that the
new business grew by 7%; we'd like it to be higher. It's off a very high base and 7%, I think,
is robust.
But we were slightly late in terms of getting new products into market. You can see if you
compare this period's new business, in terms of the bar charts, to the previous period, in
terms of the straight line, once we got our new products into the market, you can see that
things started to escalate. And many of the structures in those products we're going to try
and bake in, over time. So we grew by 7%, new business. But I believe we can escalate
that, going forward.
The real story of Discover Life is the quality of the model; it really is fundamental. It's
integration with Vitality, the ability to bring prices down, the ability to dynamically price with
dynamic rate indicators, through Vitality, means that we have better benefits, lower price,
more dynamism, better lapses, lower mortality. And that's exactly the progress that I think
we saw in the case of Discovery Life.
Lapses have come down dramatically, as you can see. The mortality experience continues
to outperform expectations. I think that's remarkable.
In the middle of the chart what I'm trying to show you there is the embedded value
assumptions of mortality. As you can see in the gold line we keep bringing it down. And

Page 26 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

FINAL

the actual performance in the blue line. So we keep outperforming and reducing share.
We're better -- we're increasing hurdle around mortality. And I think that's important.
The lapse rate performance is staggering. We went through the financial crisis with an
elevation in lapse rates that's come down to the lowest levels ever. And the effect of that
is positive experience variance. So you can see on the right-hand side Discovery Life
generated nearly ZAR300 million in positive experience variances; dramatically higher
than any period in the past. So to an extent, I would argue that the virtual cycle of how the
model works is paying significant dividends in the context of Discovery Life.
The other point I want to make. And some work we're starting to do, is about life
expectancy. I've made the point we're here to make people healthier. In the case of
Discovery Life, it's difficult to strip out selection from behavioral change. But if you look at
the experience what we've seen, it's quite remarkable.

Bloomberg Transcript

South African insured life expectancy is about 67 years; we're seeing ours at about 80.
And people inside Vitality -- policyholders in Vitality are typically 82 to 88 years old life
expectancy; it's remarkable. So if you're a Gold or Diamond Vitality member with
Discovery Life, our expectation is you could live to 88. And we're trying to understand the
drivers and causality of that. That's just for -- to our core purpose again about what we're
trying to do.
I want to end off with a very important point about Discovery Life. We've made the point,
over many presentations, that we invest a lot of capital in Discovery Life. It's a fantastic
investment. The returns, we think over time, will be tremendous. It's a better mortality
which we believe in, very strongly. But I think one of the critical things about Discovery Life
is it's throwing out a lot of cash. And in fact, the business in total, despite the new
business, is cash flow positive.
So what you see if you actually go through the cash flow progression over the six months,
Discovery Life attracted about ZAR3 billion of premiums. In terms of claims and reserves,
they have consumed about half of that. You can see expenses and commission further
amount, leaving just ZAR1 billion in cash that's been generated by the existing block.
We then invested, just progressing it, about 80% of that into new business, into the new
business strain, leaving about ZAR200 million thereabout as free cash.
Our belief very strongly is that investment is worthwhile. The margins inside the Discovery
Life new business are remarkable, about 10%. And in fact, they've gone up to 10.6% over
the period. But the point I'm trying to make is the Life businesses is about throwing out
cash. And I expect it to grow, hopefully, strongly, going forward.
We're using that cash to build Discovery Invest and to build other things in the Group. But I
think the Company has performed remarkably well. And that's it on that.

Page 27 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

FINAL

Let me wrap up by saying, I think it has been an excellent period for us. I tried my best to
illustrate the context in which we operate. It's a global context in which I would argue that
our business model is actually directionally perfect and fundamental.
I said to you that we're trying to build the best organization, globally; I think we can do
that. Our Board and our Company has articulated that, in terms of methodology, return on
capital, diversity, the effect on society and I think we have the ability to do that. And I'm
very confident that we can continue to grow at this rate, without recourse to capital.
Let me end there. And just thank our staff, our people, the 11,000 people that work in
Group, who've done a remarkable job over this period.
I appreciate you listening. And we have all our executives here for questions. I'm going to
ask Ricky Farber, our CFO, to come up and join me. Thank you, very much.

Questions And Answers
A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

If you're okay, I'll just direct questions. If we go here, where's the mic? Just wait one sec.
Sorry, I missed.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Mike Christelis

{BIO 15233664 <GO>}

Mike Christelis, UBS. Just one question, if I can? On your PruProtect business, clearly
gender neutral pricing coming in towards the end of December provided a boost to sales.
Can you give me a sense of what the January and February to date run rate looks like? In
other words, how much of that is just an acceleration of January sales into December?
And how much is actually being boosted by things like the change to RDR, etc?

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Herschel, do you want to comment on that? Just wait for a mic there; there we go.

A - Herschel Mayers

{BIO 3614988 <GO>}

Mike, as Adrian showed, the December number was dramatically up; January has come
down a bit; and February is starting to pick up to normal rates. So overall, it was an
acceleration. But I think that the average increase is probably 5%/10% above previous
values.

Q - Mike Christelis

{BIO 15233664 <GO>}

Herschel, it's not clear, because you would expect males would wait to buy insurance as
parts are going down. So the dynamic is not clear; interesting.

A - Herschel Mayers

{BIO 3614988 <GO>}

Page 28 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

Well, there were obviously two factors. It was the gender neutrality changes and the tax
change, which increased prices by about 10%/15%; just because of a tax change.

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

FINAL

A question over there.

Q - Brian Mushonga

{BIO 16209522 <GO>}

Brian Mushonga, Credit Suisse; two questions. If there was a return to collective
bargaining of medical schemes, versus the hospital groups, do you think you'd still be 15%
lower on costs? That's the first question.
The second question relates to the additional investment in Ping An. Could you just
remind me if that's on the same terms as the original investment? And I guess, maybe
related to that, who actually owns the hospital that you showed in the pictures? The
Chinese Government, I assume so.

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Barry, do you want to deal with this? Maybe the Ping An question first. And maybe, Johnny
will you talk to the --?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Barry Swartzberg

{BIO 3296824 <GO>}

Most hospitals -- I'm assuming that hospital question on hospital is government owned,
including the VIP ward. And there are private hospitals. But they are not of that scale in the
market.
In terms of the premium that we paid, we paid about a 20% premium on the original
price.

A - Jonathan Broomberg

{BIO 16688888 <GO>}

Brian, on the centralized bargaining, it's a complicated issue. The first point to make is that
it -- to the extent that we ever get there, it may apply only to individual professionals,
rather than hospitals and corporates. But assuming it applied to everything, I think there is
some chance that the pricing advantage we have in the hospital space would be
narrowed. We would expect pricing to come down towards our level.
But I think it's critical to understand that that 15% lower cost of healthcare that we see is
made up of many different parts. Pricing advantage in the hospital sector is an element.
But we have price advantage in many others areas.
And, more importantly, we have different pricing structures, alternative reimbursement,
which would not be impacted by collective bargaining. And we have a wide range of risk
management tools and assets, fraud and forensics. And a whole lot of other areas that
contribute to that gap that wouldn't be impacted by a narrowing of the pure price gap.

Page 29 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

Q - Brian Mushonga

{BIO 16209522 <GO>}

Excellent.

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

FINAL

(inaudible).

Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible) I have a few questions, please. Firstly, regarding your proposed additional
investment in Ping An of a further 5%. Some roughly two months ago it was announced
that HSBC had sold their, I think, 10% share, I might be wrong with the percentage, to a
Thai tycoon; I had to get that in.

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Is that a stutter? (Laughter).

Q - Unidentified Participant
Does this in -- I would think that this in no way concerns you, given that your proposed
additional 5% purchase came after the announcement of HSBC's sale.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

No, no, it didn't concern us. Obviously, Ping An. And its ability to succeed is important to
us. Ping An's strength in China, I think, is remarkable. That particular transaction, I think
HSBC was trying to offload that for a long time and that whole complexity around that
particular transaction is nothing to do with operational integrity of Ping An. So to speak. So,
it's not an issue.

Q - Unidentified Participant
All right. Now, you referred, a number of times. And quite correctly, to. And justifiably,
about the amount of cash that's been generated. Your last few slides highlighted this.
However, it's only when one looks in some detail at the balance sheet to see what extent
this has impacted. And I think I need to ask Mr. Farber to give me the secret of how the
equity securities level has increased in six months, by 165%. The increase is of the order
of ZAR8.5 billion.
Now, we're all aware that the stock markets worldwide have done particularly well in this
period. But an increase of 165% is something staggering. Does it also include an
adjustment for currency movements with the weakening of the rand? Or have you just
purchased the right shares all the time?

A - Ricky Farber

{BIO 5884718 <GO>}

It's a little bit of luck and the right shares. But fundamentally, you have to understand that
there are two pieces sitting in there. The first piece is what we call available for sale

Page 30 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

financial assets, that's the shareholder funds. And that has gone up. It went up from
ZAR5.3 billion to ZAR6.1 billion. So an increase of ZAR800 million over the period.

FINAL

Now, Adrian spoke about the cash we generated. And that cash ends up in the money
market instruments and the big part of that driver is that.
The second bit is the currency that you spoke about. And then a little bit of the rising
market and the right shares.
To be fair, we don't have a great, or a large equity exposure relative to, I guess, what we
would have liked over this period. Our investment style is much more cautious. And
particularly because a fair amount of the equity is sitting supporting the UK business,
which hasn't had the same stock market performances as we've had here.
The other bit. So the balance of what's now ZAR26 billion. So ZAR20 billion is sitting in
policyholder assets. And fundamentally, that's the money that we get from Discovery
Invest policyholders. There, the biggest driver is really new products that we've sold. And
our policyholders benefitting from gray markets.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we're pleased to say that, that equity security is the biggest part of that increase is for
our policyholders. And the performance of the Discovery equity fund has been quite
good. And the overall investment return that it had over the six-month period has been
great.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Income statement there are two items I'd like explained a little bit, please. The first one is
the item net fair value gains on financial assets. That is now standing at ZAR1.6 billion; a
massive increase from the previous comparable period. How did that come about?
And secondly, also from the income statement, acquisition costs of ZAR1.7 billion, nearly,
what is that a reference to?

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Do you want to handle that?

A - Ricky Farber

{BIO 5884718 <GO>}

The net fair value gains ties exactly back to the point that I just spoke about. That's the
gains on policyholder liability. So the money that we hold for our policyholders in Discovery
Invest. And that big gain, from ZAR252 million in the comparable to ZAR1.6 billion, is the
stock market performance that I spoke about a few moments ago.
The second item which you asked about is acquisition costs. Primarily, that's commission.
So we, as a Group, have paid out ZAR1.6 billion commission over this period. It's split -- the
two biggest parts are, obviously, Discovery Life in South Africa, which Adrian spoke about;

Page 31 of 32



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2013-02-21

and then the life business in the UK, PruProtect, where you saw the phenomenal growth in
this period. Obviously, that has quite a high commission burden.

A - Unidentified Speaker

FINAL

Thank you, Mr. Gore.

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Thank you. Are there any other questions? We have taken a lot of your time. If you are
okay, I'm going to wrap it up. And thank you all, here. If you have questions. Once again,
thank you. Greatly appreciate you listening. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 32 of 32

