Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

Q4 2014 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

David Paul Cooper
Rodney Malcolm Cook
Shayne Paul Deighton
Simon George Thomas

Other Participants
Andy Hughes
Barrie J. Cornes
Gordon Aitken
Oliver G. Steel

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

All right. Good morning, everybody. I'm Rodney Cook, Group Chief Executive of Just
Retirement. For those listening in on the phone, today I have with me Simon Thomas, our
CFO; Shayne Deighton, our Group Chief Actuary and David Cooper, our Group Marketing
and Distribution Director.
Welcome and thank you again to Deutsche Bank for the use of their conference facilities
this morning. And we do really appreciate your interest in the company for those who've
joined us today.
Our agenda, it won't surprise you. First, I'd like to walk you through the issues and
opportunities facing our company, briefly describe our results for the 30 of June, 2014.
And Simon, of course, will go through those financial results in detail. I'd like to wrap up at
the end before your questions, of course, with an outlook for us in the marketplace.
May I please remind you that, of course, we're one of the few companies with the 30th of
June financial year-end, and therefore, most of the references you'll see in the
documentation and you'll hear about are for that financial year for the 30th of June. And
we will try and highlight clearly where we're talking about calendar years rather than
financial years.
So indeed what a year it was. It's very difficult to summarize in one sentence. But maybe
the phrase, it was a game of two halves, would come closest. Clearly, there were
positives. We delivered some record results. We raised £300 million pounds in an IPO.
Page 1 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

FINAL

And we have helped more customers than ever. But those achievements have rather
been overshadowed by the Chancellor's fundamental reforms to allow people more
freedom and choice in how they use their pension savings; which were announced on the
19th of March in the budget.
Our job now is to transform our business rapidly in order to maximize shareholder value in
this new environment as it unfolds. Now, I firmly believe that Just Retirement has what it
takes to build on its sector-leading individually underwritten annuities foundations. And
then extend its reach into the broader retirement income market which is very definitely
fit to grow.
So before we address our approach in this changed marketplace, I'd like a short moment
to grab some time in the sun, so to speak, to show you that in fact, we were delivering
good results before the budget changed the game. So despite including two-and-a-half
months of lower post budget trading, we actually had a record year for total sales, at
£1.751 billion. And our operating profits held up well also. And more importantly, our
embedded value has grown particularly strongly, further enhanced of course, by the IPO
proceeds, which were net £282 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our model is working. And with our intellectual property-led pricing, giving great value to
customers, and driving into new market share gains. And we mustn't forget the critical
importance of our market-leading service when it comes to retaining advisers support.
That is even more important in the current time. So I'm particularly pleased to let you
know that we achieved our ninth consecutive 5 Star Award for service. And to top that off,
our fifth consecutive entry in the Sunday Times, Top 100 Companies To Work For.
We're actually putting the strength of that IFA relationship to work at this very time as we
seek to create the new customer propositions for the future. Getting adviser feedback as
to what customers want is critical. And I believe no one has stronger adviser relationships
– just forgive me while the technology resists itself – stronger relationships than we do.
This adds to our expectation that we can respond positively to the environmental
changes. Thank you.
But like you, I cannot ignore the fact that our volumes have at least hummeled (05:04)
post the budget. Foremost in your mind and in ours too is the question of how we adapt
to this. We'll talk more about that later. However, I would wish to point out to you that the
government's insistence that Guaranteed Guidance should be truly independent. It looks
like it an important step in the right direction. So maybe the future could indeed turn out
better than some have predicted. And we do intend to do all that we can to ensure that.
So let's touch on a few of the numbers. This is the slide headed resilient sales, profits and
EV for those on the phone. I imagine you may be a little surprised to hear me say that we
actually had a record year for two out of our three key measures. But for sales and
embedded value, that is indeed the case as you can see in the charts. Although, individual
annuity sales obviously did suffer during the post-budget period and in the final quarter,
mortgage sales powered ahead. And overall, we have never witnessed more volume
than this.

Page 2 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

FINAL

As a matter of fact, our second half annuity sales, and that is the latest half that you've
recently been covering on behalf of our competitors and their reporting season of late.
They actually rose 8% compared to last year. This, of course, was helped by our launch
into the defined benefits derisking market. So I'll repeat that. Our second half total annuity
sales rose 8% compared to the equivalent period in 2013.
Likewise, as I mentioned, our embedded value grew strongly. And that was before the
new capital raised in the IPO. But facing facts, unfortunately, the drop in individual annuity
sales has driven a small fall in our underlying IFRS operating profit. However, the scale of
our back book did mean that our in-force profit grew a little. And that partly offset that fall
in the new business profits confirming as we pointed out at the IPO, our higher earnings
quality as our model matures and back book grows. I will allow you to be the judge as to
whether a 3% fall in underlying operating profits feels like a reasonable outcome given
the totality of the circumstances.
Simon, indeed will take you through the numbers in more detail shortly. But I wanted to
make sure that it would not be forgotten that despite all that has happened in this 20132014 reporting year, it was pretty productive for our Group.

Bloomberg Transcript

On this overhead buoyant market share, most of the numbers here are calendar year, as I
said I would highlight the differences. The annuity market started out tough, as you'll see
in the top right-hand chart and then deteriorated significantly post the budget. And there,
you'll see the individually under annuity numbers in blue for the market and the standard
annuities above in gold.
Year-on-year comparisons were already difficult in the first half shown here as the second
half of calendar 2014 in that top right chart, given the exceptional volumes that resulted
from the pull-through into calendar 2012 I think you're all very much aware of caused by
gender neutral pricing, and of course, the RDR pull-through.
Unfortunately, almost as we had lapped the tough competitors from the prior year, the
budget comes along and the current financial year as a whole has become a whole lot
more challenging. As you'll recall from our recent Q3 IMS, individual annuity sales in the
first calendar quarter of 2014 were in fact up strongly against a weaker 2013. However,
helped by our pre-budget pipeline, our individual annuity sales in the three months till the
end of June fell by roughly a third. So as not to be confused, while the market is down at
least 50% because we've had an established pipeline at the time of the budget that
flows through into the April, May, June quarter, and therefore that quarter was down by a
third drop than any more than that.
So overall, our individual annuity sales excluding defined benefits for the whole financial
year to June were 13% lower than the prior period. And perhaps that's not unexpected
given 2012 section, which was boosted significantly as you can see in the graph.
Now, for what it's worth, our individually under annuity sector share also grew during the
financial year. But I'd remind you that our focus is on growing profits, and shareholder
value and market share looks after itself, albeit positive change this time. Now, fortunately,
Page 3 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

FINAL

our entry into the defined benefit de-risking area is really starting to kick-in now. And that
partially offset the decline in individual sales. So, you'll see two entries in the top left; £5
million in our first half of financial year. And then, £87 million for the second part; it is
shown there in gold color.
Our team leader for defined benefits, Tim Coulson and the balance of his team are really
hitting their stride having launched the service only in 2013; a very commendable £92
million of production in their first year. I do worry when people tell us about large
pipelines. But in this case, I think the volumes really do show that further growth is
possible from the 2014 level achieved.
So I will conclude there. Simon will now take you through the financial numbers in detail.
And I'll come back later for your questions and importantly the outlook on the market.
Simon?

Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

(12:15 – 12:35). The overall message here is that fortunately the Budget reforms came too
late (12:41 – 12:53). The headlines are that underlying operating profit fell only 3% while
operating profit actually increased by 2%. Within our operating profit (12:55 – 13:04). Inforce profits were modestly up at £44 million compared to £41m last time. And I'll
elaborate – the volumes just go up – I'll elaborate a little bit further in a moment on both
the new business and the in-force margin.
Moving down the profit and loss account, it's good to see the fall in operating variances
and assumption changes where we saw no repeat of last year's charges for annuitant
mortality, and reinsurance and bank finance costs grew in line with our expectations.
Below the operating profit line, you can see that we've expensed the £5 million of
restructuring costs in relation to the head count reductions which we announced back in
the budget.
And finally, we enjoyed a £44 million investment and economic profits, mainly as a result
of lower credit spreads, which I'll come back to in a second, and house price gains,
although this obviously affects the future in-force profit expectations too. Overall, I hope
you agree that our IFRS results were resilient in this period.
Now, just moving on to the next slide covering the annuities sales. As Rodney has already
touched on, our calendar Q2 sales turned down after the budget announcement. Before
the budget, it's fair to say that we'd actually seen strong sales. Indeed, as you can see
here, our calendar H1 actually beat the prior year result by about 8%. Now, although the
whole of the calendar Q2 was in the post-budget environment, I think it's too soon to say
that the Q2 volumes now represent any form of normal – new normal. Indeed, we're
seeing continued weakness in the market, indicating a fall of slightly below 50% to the
pre-budget volumes.
We suspect that large number of retirees with smaller parts have taken advantage of the
trivial commutation rules where the limits have risen from £18,000 to £30,000. And at the
Page 4 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

FINAL

other end of the spectrum, large cases being taken out that obviously dried some of the
growth. So the market was immediately pruned back at both the bottom and the top end.
However, during the IPO, you remember that we said that a typical case size for us was
about £47,000, putting us firmly in the midmarket and well away from those small and
those larger cases most directly hit by the budget (15:26). In which case, you may well ask,
well, why is it that we're seeing activity levels fall by about a half. Well, we believe that the
answer lies in deferral. Advisors are telling us at the moment that many of their customers
are simply waiting until the next April to make their minds up. At that point, they may have
a wider choice of retirement income products, perhaps, implying better value for money.
After all, many of them can certainly live off the tax-free lump sums while they make up
their minds about whether to annuitize.
Rodney is going to cover the outlook in a moment, but it's worth flagging that deferral
could be an increasingly important part as the likely launch of the products in April 2015
approaches.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, on a slightly brighter note, our DB business is developing quite nicely. The first thing I
should flag is that the DB market is broadly unaffected by the budget. And our medically
underwritten proposition is really starting to gather some momentum, as you can see
here. We started the last financial year from very, very low levels of business, and we
thought that we might get to about £80 million for the full year. In fact, we came in at £92
million. This has really picked up nicely in the last three quarters with our final quarter
topping £50 million of new business and new sales.
We've got a growing pipeline that are now transacted with a broad range of EBCs (16:53)
showing that our capabilities are becoming more widely recognized and accepted by the
marketplace. Now, this is an attractive business. It's very lumpy, I think as we've discussed
before. But as I mentioned in the interim results, it has slightly better margins than the IUA
business, the individual annuity business. And in many cases, due to the index-linked
nature of this business, it's an even better match to our lifetime mortgages.
Now, moving on to the lifetime mortgages, well, once again, it's surpassed our
expectations and equated to about 35% of the annuity volumes during 2014. The high
percentage is a function of the combination of the strong mortgage demand we're
seeing in the market and the fall in our annuity volumes in the last quarter as a result of
the budget. It's almost a bit of an embarrassment to riches and the intention is to bring
the lifetime mortgage volumes back down towards 25% annuity volumes over time. And
that intention has not gone away.
There are three ways we can do this. We can either write or we bought (18:03) more
annuities including DB or we can write fewer mortgages becoming less than positive
conversely capturing a (18:09) wider and higher margin. Or thirdly, we could use external
funding sources. Which one we choose really remains to be seen, but the choice is going
to be driven by a mix of price and market conditions. But one way or another, we're
working on this at the moment.

Page 5 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

FINAL

In contrast to the IUA market, the lifetime mortgage market continues to grow strongly,
stimulated by rising house prices and inadequate pension savings. As you can see here,
the loan-to-value ratio of our portfolio actually fell to a very (18:43) 25% mainly as a result
of increasing house prices. Yields on the products remained healthy. And we've tactically,
as you can see here, allocated more capital into this area.
Now, I wanted to touch briefly on costs. As you're aware, the drop in annuity volumes
meant that we have to review our operating capacity promptly. We felt it was important to
take swift management actions to keep our cost within allowance levels assumed within
the EV computations and the pricing assumptions for our expected levels of new business
in the following year. And that's precisely how we calibrate our cost savings program. Now,
unfortunately, that necessitated a head count reduction of around 90 people, which is
now complete. And in fact as you can see here, our head count is now falling further as a
result of natural turnover (19:35).
On the chart, you can see that approximately a third of the benefit or a third of the cost
savings was captured from reduction in staff numbers. We also reduced the benefits for
remaining staff and directors, significantly reducing the wage bill. And when you come to
see the remuneration report shortly, you'll see that our non-executive directors, our
Chairman, have also taken cuts in their fees as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

The other cost in the final third include reductions in other areas including distribution
(20:07). And while there's been no doubt that we'll manage capacity in line with business
volumes and ensure that the expense allowances we did on embedded value will remain
consistent with the environment in which we operate.
Now, just turning to IFRS new business profit. As you've already seen, the new business
profit fell from £59 million to £53 million for the full year. The total volume of annuity sales
fell by about 5% in the period due to substantial fall in sales in the final quarter of the year
caused by the budget discontinuity.
Overall margins for the year fell by approximately 0.3%, down from 4.7% to 4.4% for the
financial year 2014. This is a result of a number of factors. The first half of the year, we saw
margins very much lower due to the general competition in the marketplace. And you may
recall the first half, the slower margin (21:10). But then as we trailed in our interim results,
the second half margins in 2014, saw a small pickup as a result of market pricing discipline,
which we've seen in the first three months; high yields on the lifetime mortgage business,
which is also partially assisted by slowing the volume; and slightly higher margins on the
DB business to tackle the individual business where, as you've seen, we started to write
some meaningful levels of business in the second half of the year.
Now after the budget change and indeed into the first few months of this year, I'd
describe the pricing is becoming more competitive. Now, judging by consensus margin
expectations, the market and the analyst appear on average to have understood the
impacts of its competition and lower volumes will have on our new business margins in
the next years.

Page 6 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

FINAL

Now turning to in-force profits, the modest growth in the in-force result from £41 million to
£44 million reflects the interplay of the two opposite sources. Opening liabilities increased
by about 19%, which all other things would be being equal would have improved the inforce returns commensurately. However, in-force margins fell from 89 basis points of
opening liabilities down to 79 basis points over the year mainly due to the credit spreads
falling from 182 basis points to 130 basis points. So a fall of about 50 basis points over the
period. So this meant that the healthy liability growth is partially offset by this movement.
However, it's important to remember that the effective top line (22:47) benefit of the
spread tightening emerges through the economic variance in the IFRS P&L account and
boosts the tangible net asset value. And that was included in the £44 million investment
gain that I mentioned earlier in the (23:01). The final thing I flagged for clarity is the budget
again, doesn't directly affect the impacts on the release from the in-force book (23:10).

Bloomberg Transcript

Now turning to one of our other key metrics, embedded value, our embedded value has
grown to £959 million. Excluding the effect of the IPO proceeds, underlying growth in the
embedded value was approaching 20%. As you can see, the new business contribution
was particularly strong at £115 million. Now, once it's flagged that this is flattered by the
high weighting of mortgages within the year.
And after aligning for the one-off deal with Grainger underwrites (23:43) for a mix closer
to our longer term outlook, we would've expect that the new business results to have
been somewhere between £65 million and £75 million (23:51). The operating variances
and assumption changes primarily represent assumption changes relating to experience
on mortgage redemptions, which we think are probably being driven by recent
improvements in (24:04) prices.
Annuitant mortality experience was in line with our assumptions and no assumption
changes were made in that regard. We saw a significant positive economic variance, as
you can see there, which was driven by a combination of credit spreads and a house price
inflation. So it all adds up to an embedded value of £959 million or an equivalent of £1.91
per share.
So, finally, turning to capital, our capital position remained strong at the end of June on
both the Pillar 1 and an economic capital basis. The Pillar 1 capital of 236% is a touch lower
than the prior year but clearly not a constraint on us. And as you know, the board is more
focused on the economic capital which at 178% is well above our 140% target. In fact, you
will note that our surplus rose by about £50 million over the year.
There's been a small pro forma fall in the percentage over the year and you'll recall that
we're always planned in the IPO to raise sufficient capital to allow our surplus to fall as a
result of writing our business at around the 100% of capital (25:16). And therefore, there
was always going to be diluted effect to our new business.
There's been three other small effects this year which is the effects of the higher than
expected growth in mortgages (25:27). Also it reflects the stronger levels of DB derisking
(25:34) coming through, which do not benefit from the financial reinsurance that the IUA
Page 7 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

FINAL

contracts do, and are therefore marked slightly more capital intensive, and together win
some interest rates (25:47) as well.
Just turning to dividend, you'd see there that we're declaring a dividend of £0.022 per
share. And given that our policy is to pay our final dividend of two-thirds in the full-year
amount, you can reasonably infer that this would have equated for a notional full year of
£0.033, if we can quote it (26:06). And that's up about 10% from the notional level of
2013 that was indicated in the script.
In terms of future dividend policy, as you can imagine, we'll have to wait until there is more
certainty as to the levels of new business and the potential for growth before we can
make a clearance (26:25).
Okay, I'll now hand back to Rodney to cover the outlook.

Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Simon. Some reasonably good numbers, and now a look into the future. So
what is the outlook for Just Retirement given everything that's going on? Well, firstly, can I
bring us back to the demographics in the overall retirement income market? And the first
point here, as you can see from the top two charts, it doesn't matter how hard the
government tries, they can't stop people getting older, and the demographic demand for
at and in retirement financial products remains favorable as you see in the top two charts.
And in the bottom left, the UK population is getting older. You can see clearly they're
factoring in all the planned increase in the state age of retirement, pension age for both
men and women. But over time, the UK will deliver consistent growth in the total retired
population. Now, this is particularly so among men, and as you might remember, the
majority of retirements savings are still held by men that go through retirement rather
than women.
Now, although low-interest rates and other factors such as the end of the normal
retirement age within employment contracts has encouraged more employees to further
retirement or take part-time retirement, overall, we are confident that in the bottom righthand chart, you'll see the current flow into the retirement in the market of £17 billion. And
that by the way is the defined contribution retirement income markets.
The present value of people retiring with defined benefits would be somewhere around
£40 billion on top of that each year in present value terms. So we expect that £17 billion
annual flow to grow according to Towers Watson's most recent survey defined
contribution to around £50 billion by 2023. And of course, they're taking clearly into
account the trend from defined benefit to defined contribution schemes over that period
increasing.
Now, the more difficult question is how much of that £17 billion or £50 billion will create
demand and flow into products which offer guaranteed income given the changes that
the Chancellor has just announced. I'll talk about that next. But here, I can't make any
Page 8 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

FINAL

promises about the future. So, the question I post at the top of the slide, what will the
new retirement income market look like? I would have to observe that there are many
views as the answer posed by that question. The reforms in the March budget represent
a once-in-a-lifetime upheaval for retirement income products.
As we've already touched upon, these are now the transitional rules introduced on the
27th of March have reduced demand for individual annuities amongst those that Simon
mentioned, very small pots because people are now allowed to catch up to £30,000 and
also for very large savings cost. Here, people seeking flexible (30:23) benefits they're
required to have a guaranteed income of £20,000 per annum to access the balance of
their pension account. And of course, they were purchasing some part of that through
annuity. So that was immediately reduced to £12,500 on the 27th of March.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, along with the deferrals Simon mentioned, this has led to roughly just over a halving
of demand in the open market for annuities. And as you know, we adjust retirement on
open markets. Starting in April 2015, consumers will have even more freedom then to
deal with their funds regardless of the size of their pension pots. So, the £30,000 will
stop being relevant. Some commentators had boldly suggested that everyone will take all
of their pension in cash.
I sincerely hope that some of these commentators would also consider reminding
consumers of the very significant tax consequences of doing so. After all, if HMRC has
taken nearly 50% of your life savings, I'm sorry, you cannot spend them later on. But it is
also how to know about the new world and how it will look, and have a clear idea of
precisely what the guaranteed guidance we'll deliver because that process hasn't been
finalized as we speak. And even when we do know the details of what TPAS and Money
Advice Service and so on are intending to deliver under that guidance, we don't know
consumers' reaction to it and how many will take it up seriously.
Now, our guidance could actually significantly increase the number of cases that we at Just
Retirement can quote upon. As you know, we only quote on customers coming to the
open market. So we are seeking and strongly guiding the Financial Conduct Authority on
two points here. One, that they should use terminology that customers would relate to
such as you have the right to shop around and buy yield products from anybody and not
use terminology like open market options, which no one in the industry actually
understand.
And secondly, for those people who don't take up any form of guidance, that there'll be a
second line of defense that the regulator requires pension providers to give additional
support to those customers who, perhaps, unwisely chose not to take advantage of
independent guidance. But clearly, those propositions could be very helpful to us and
could increase the numbers of customers that seek out an external growth. That,
however, is one scenario. And in truth, we do not know what the final guidance regime will
look like. And as I mentioned, we can't predict exactly how consumers will respond to that
guidance even once we know the details. As Simon mentioned, this could mean some
people will sit on their hands until April next year once the new environment is clearer.

Page 9 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

FINAL

We could easily see a market where people take their tax free cash and leave the
remainder of their retirement money at work in some form of investment market vehicle,
perhaps eking out their income with some part time work, and then eventually purchasing
a lifetime income when they're slightly older. So we could see a pickup in older age
annuitization.
And here – but unfortunately for them, of course, at that later age, they will perhaps be
less healthy. And here the silver lining is that we can then offer them a higher standard of
living due to PrognoSys, our state-of-the-art medical underwriting system. That allows us
to offer those customers higher rates of income, taking account that their health and
lifestyle conditions rather than just wondering where they live.
Currently, we predominately underwrite unhealthy lives as I think you all know, but
ultimately, we may become competitive for healthy lives also and remembering that's at
least half of the total market. We still predict that the whole market will become totally
underwritten medically. And that cross subsidies that now exist in the standard market
become unviable as a pricing approach.

Bloomberg Transcript

We're currently working on products for customers who don't actually want to annuitize
the totality of their pension savings up front at the time. In other words, they'd like some
guaranteed income. And they'd like to hold some assets in reserve. We'll talk more about
those products as we get closer to launch in 2015. But I think you can see from our record
over the last 10 years, we're quite proud of our product and innovation skills.
And you can be well assured that we are doing plenty of market research currently
utilizing those excellent IFA relationships to test out our new product ideas as we plan to
launch them throughout 2015. And it's important to make that point throughout 2015. It will
be not possible for the markets (36:34) every new product that is launched on the 1st of
April. So we think that the budget changes represent a huge opportunity for both retirees
and for the savings industry. And we plan to play a full part in that new and innovative
future.
So our product range could serve increasing numbers of consumers who wish to take
advantage of those new freedoms and I include here the healthy and the unhealthy, the
50% that we've been dealing with today. We're including some people who would like to
keep and take some investment risk, as well as those who would like the security and
safety of a guaranteed income which lasts for as long as they live; it doesn't run out.
Although the budget clearly has been tough for us, we can certainly envisage an annuity
market which will regrow once a new base level has been established. Like you, we
cannot quantify exactly the effects of all of this. But we believe by this time next year we
should have much greater clarity to share.
On the positive front, the news with respect to defined benefits and lifetime mortgages
is unequivocally positive. Simon has touched upon lifetime mortgages in detail. So if I can
give you a little bit more background to our defined benefit annuities. So we have a
defined benefit de-risking team that has delivered nothing but good news, which as you
Page 10 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

FINAL

might imagine, has been well received over these past few months. The leader of that
team, Tim Coulson, has assembled a group of 15 strong who are as experienced as any
others who are participating in this segment of the market and the fruits of their labor are
beginning to become clear.
We have or are in the process of completing 60 underwriting processes. Most employee
benefit consultants, as you know are the gatekeepers for large pension schemes and
medium sized pension schemes trustee, have become involved. And at the current time,
there are three providers to four providers participating in this market.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now we at Just Retirement focus on schemes where liabilities are concentrated either
amongst a relatively small pool of members. And here, I mean, by underwriting, say 20%
of the members. We're covering 80% or more of the liabilities. These have, of course,
typically (39:37) in those companies. We are also targeting schemes where the trustees
may already be aware of health issues amongst their members or where the overall
mortality based on the company and their operations happens to be above market
average.
Now, we are almost as nervous about giving you a forecast with respect to defined
benefit volumes just as we are, and Simon was, with respect to volumes for individual
annuities. But I must stress that this is more a function of the lumpiness of that market and
not because we don't see fundamental growth in the defined benefit de-risking market
overall; which I believe you've also heard from a number of large competitors, nor about
our capabilities to play in the space. When I talk about our 15 strong team this does not
include administration. So there are people on the ground who are both pricing, and then
participating and presenting to EBCs and trustees.
So in fact, our pipeline continues to grow. And most pleasingly the medically underwritten
defined benefits sector is also gaining traction. So on balance, we think we can further
good growth above the results in 2014, which has been established. But as you know
trustees tend to meet quarterly. They make binary decisions on whether or not they are
going to de-risk or not. Then they make a binary decision on who is going to be awarded
for this or not. And therefore, it is not possible or appropriate for me to predict future
sales on a quarter-by-quarter basis.
We are particularly pleased to see the trends have now emerging that either very large
schemes are considering medically underwriting the highest value pensioners in their
schemes. This is the concept the industry is calling, top slicing. And this means that as an
underwriter, Just Retirement, we can now participate in tenders we wouldn't have even
been advised of previously.
So this could be in multibillion pound scheme to which the top slice group of members.
This is a market that we are skilled and able to participate in. On that aspect we expect
the consulting activities to drive further growth of.
So we expect structural growth in the overall DB market, and in our particular segment
thereof; so more and more members are moving into the pension phase, and as I
Page 11 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

FINAL

mentioned – well, as I will mention, our administration is provided by JLT, and that gives us
full scalability in terms of business volumes.
Finally, to the outlook, so after all that discussion, where does it lead us; and what does it
add up to? Unfortunately, like you, we are having to work in an environment of
considerable uncertainty particularly as the period up until April 2013 approaches. I don't
believe you would have believed me, if I had told you anything different. But we are
realistic about the challenges that we face. And as our prompt announcement of cost
saving in our May IMS, clearly demonstrated, we are not going to just shy away from
taking difficult decisions.
However, given the uncertainties in the market, we won't be making any further specific
comments about earnings guidance in addition to the ones that Simon has sought to
cover with you earlier today. You might observe that forecast of the markets themselves
span a very wide range at the moment. But we are well aware as our responsibilities to
you and to the market to keep an eye on market expectations. And we will do that.

Bloomberg Transcript

So in conclusion, I'm proud to be leading the Just Retirement Group which has shown
itself capable of delivering results like those we've just presented against what have been
in some of the toughest of backgrounds and situations. And I want to record my thanks
publicly to the management team and all of the staff for their hard work. I know that if we
continue to work together the way we have done at Just Retirement since the budget
announcement on the 19th of March, then no one will have a better chance of delivering
for both our customers and for shareholders in this new pensions environment.
Thank you for your attention. And we will now turn to questions, please.

Q&A
Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Hi, Andy Hughes Exane BNP Paribas. I'd just like to talk about on three subjects that I don't
think you talked about very much in the presentation. First of all, I think maybe comment
about the deaths being in line with your – over the last year. This is very surprising given
that across the population as a whole, that's down significantly over the last year. So could
you just tell us was that already in your assumptions? And if so, why didn't you tell people
like Dignity who issue profit warning on the share?
And the second thing is on the solvency of the Group. You haven't talked about this at all
in the presentation, but there are a couple of things on solvency I think would be
worthwhile touching on. And the first one is the press comments from the ABI about the
PRA tightening of the solvency rules on annuities particularly? Second is on Solvency II,
obviously we know the city have failed Solvency II and therefore was forced into a share
sale. And if I look at your economic capital of £400 million in surplus and £2.4 billion in
equity release mortgages, which are now pre-paying. So could you tell me what Solvency
II position is with and without the matching adjustment on the equity release please? And
so, yeah – so that's pretty much it. Thanks.

Page 12 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

FINAL

Right. I'll just comment on the deaths and I'll turn back to Shayne Deighton who can talk
about Solvency II position. We most certainly will not be giving the capital numbers with or
without matching adjustment, but we can certainly tell you the position with respect to
mortgages, which I'll make the introductory comment that our friends in Europe are not
against mortgages being part of assets to back annuities. So Shayne will explain the issue
of matching adjustments and the fixed date.
Coming to the deaths, we're not familiar with the comment that you've mentioned. That
is not consistent with ONS statistics. We are aware that Dignity had a lower trading period.
I think they represent a quarter of the market. That's unfortunate for them, but the
Institute of Actuaries is not recording, and nor are our experiences consistent with
Dignity's.
So, on that one we ....

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Sorry, the ONS thinks that we can (47:43).

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

(47:46) published weekly, but we certainly haven't had that experience. So when we were
talking about annuitants, it's not the right term, but you'll respect the fact that they're
dying according to the actuarial assumptions. So no, the Institute of Actuaries are not
reporting or are proposing any changes at the current time. The other assumption
changes with respect to our mortgages, Shayne, would you cover Solvency II and
mortgages?

A - Shayne Paul Deighton

{BIO 17759794 <GO>}

Yes, just to finish on the mortality, we didn't build into one thing in particular, declining this
year, but we had no reason to expect that, but obviously our basis has got all sorts of
other factors and various directions. Just to back up what Rodney says, it's difficult not to
sound morbid here, but obviously I look at this all the time and in the last four months of
the financial year, two of those months were records by a considerable margin in terms of
the numbers estimated through the various processes. So we remain comfortable with
where we pitched the reserves last year.
The ABI position on annuities, I think, is actually the position on two things. One, longevity
and the other the freedom of credit; and obviously I'm not part of what went down
(49:16), my understanding is that it's more in terms of paying on the current regimes,
rather than Solvency II. You know, those discussions that they would have had would have
been some while ago now as, indeed, were ours.
So we went through a full ICA process in the UK, in the earlier part of last year, obviously
conveniently timed in relation to the IPO, apart from my team, of course, who didn't think
it was very convenient. But we went through a lot of discussion at that point in time, we
Page 13 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

FINAL

reached a satisfactory position, clearly, otherwise we wouldn't be where we are now and
we do understand (49:59) have continued around the rest of the industry, but obviously
they're catching up with where we are rather than something which is coming down the
tube at us.
If we then turn to Solvency II and apologies, I'm going to have to repeat a couple of things
I've already spoken to you about this morning. The text that finally came out in relation to
(50:18) there was no specific text for mortgages, but the words around matching
adjustment were not what we hoped for following the lobbying that had been done by us
and the industry, but they don't specifically exclude equity release. They do allow the PRA
some discretion and they haven't yet come off the fence, but we're hoping for some
announcements at a conference in October.
We are obviously going ahead with contingency plan in case they come down on the
wrong side of the fence, and we have continued to polish structures that we began
developing in 2012, which we have discussed with the PRA on a couple of occasions and
which we have been taking detailed advice from a big four firm on as well. And then what
that structure effectively does, without going into the detail, is to take the mortgages to
some extent off the balance sheet of the life company and replace them with effectively
bond cash flows, bond (51:10) cash flows that do match the rules of matching adjustment.
So that effectively, we capture the vast majority of the spread in mortgages back to the
liability side of the balance sheet.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Can I ask a small question on the lifetime mortgages. I think you said, given that you're
above the 25%, you're looking at funding options equity release mortgages. I'm just
wondering who, how, why would anyone fund these things; I mean the only transaction I'm
aware of involving equity release mortgages was the sale of (51:42) who went into
partnership. I think that was done at around par value maybe a little bit higher. So I am just
wondering – and that was a kind of seasoned portfolio of, presumably, much higher
interest rates than today's portfolio. So I'm just wondering, why would someone want to
fund your equity release portfolio (51:58)? Thank you.

A - Shayne Paul Deighton

{BIO 17759794 <GO>}

Because others agree with us, that it's a very attractive asset so we need long dated
liabilities. So to some extent, the demand come from other life companies who despite
the obstacles being put in the way by Solvency II, are still keen on acquiring some of this
very long dated and very reliable cash flow. So they've had some conversations with other
companies and pension schemes themselves and they believe this is a particularly
attractive asset because, as everyone knows, they've been struggling for a long while to
find the appropriate assets to meet their long liabilities which had an additional problem
of being indexed, which, as Simon alluded to, is actually a great combination. The
indexation within the DB brings the matching against mortgage cash flows in an even
better shape than (52:51) individual annuities, which are largely not indexed. So a lot of the
demand is coming from pension schemes, but clearly that will need some form of
intermediary to package them up in a way that pension schemes can then access. And
again, we're (53:06) couple of players there.
Page 14 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

But to be clear, our first priority will be to grow our annuity business. We will look at the
two other options of scaling back and taking slightly wider margins and the third one,
which we are certainly also looking at currently, which is that external party fund.

FINAL

Next? Greg (53:34), you should have sat closer.

Q - Barrie J. Cornes

{BIO 2389115 <GO>}

Good morning (53:44). It's Barry Cornes at Panmure Gordon. I've got three questions, if I
may. First of all you mentioned that new products would be released during the year,
suggesting (53:54) early April. Can you explain why, when you actually have a (53:58) key
product out in April? First question.
The second one, Rodney you talked about the products going forward perhaps being a
mix of maybe in savings and longevity product, on the savings side, is it something you
are likely to offer, or are you going to get together with somebody else, a fund
management group perhaps, to offer the combined products? And the last question I had
was, international. You mentioned looking overseas, but one of your competitors has
made noises in that direction. I was just wondering if that's something you looked at?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Well, if we go from the first, backwards and I'll ask David to comment more specifically on
the products. So international, yes, we included it in our prospectus; we included it in our
IPO discussions. We have a small, beautifully formed team, who are exploring
opportunities in other countries. Clearly, the UK is not the only country that has ageing
population and retirement income challenges, so we do see potential openings in other
countries. I'd hasten to add that we don't see those as significantly capital consumptive in
the near future, but we are encouraged by what we've seen there. I don't intend to say
anything more about the country-specific areas until we're ready to make a more formal
announcement about what we've done.
The critical part, just to start you off on the products, is, we see very clear opportunities
for our intellectual property of underwriting people and more appropriately pricing their
longevity risk. So that's point number one. That will be at the heart of the things that we
deliver. We also believe that people want certainty and security, so we will continue to use
high yielding assets such as lifetime mortgages, to support a higher yield for customers
who take our secure income streams, be they either temporary or for the whole of their
lives. And as you know, that is one of the factors that makes us more competitive in the
marketplace over standard writers currently.
David, if you can just explain what sort of melee it will be next April and how advisors are
coping.
I think one of the other critical things Barry is that there are two groups of customers.
We're going to have a whole group of customers who deferred from last April for the
year and then new retirees coming onto the market as they normally would have in 2015.
Page 15 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

So I think it's going to be a huge time for advisors and I think we're well placed, given that
we have a number one rating with respect to the advisors service and relationship. David.

FINAL

A - David Paul Cooper

{BIO 15900182 <GO>}

Barry, I think it's worth remembering that the fastest growing segment in the distribution
industry has been and still is, and they suffer the setback like everyone else, is the
retirement specialists. These are the guys that will be targeting the mass market
individuals who are looking for help with their retirement. They need simple,
straightforward products, albeit it that they would expect them to be tailored now to
make the most of the flexibility that new rules allow. So in discussions with them, we've
agreed that we won't bombard them in April with masses of options, but come to them
with one very clear proposition and that's been welcomed.
You asked about the capability. We have been looking intensively at the way that we
would create simple additions throughout securing some capabilities. You'll be aware that
there's plenty of capability in the space you've alluded to, the capacity in the space and
we believe we can secure at value, either by licensing, outsourcing or partnering with
existing players. It'll probably be a mixture of some of those. So we won't play everything
from scratch, but we are very much targeting April for the first (58:36).

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

We see a lot of people who will want to create a certain proportion of guaranteed income
to pay their bills. I think we mustn't forget that despite the government's announcement
on the single-tier pension, there are plenty in the community we do not see 7,000 as
being sufficient to meet their costs of annual living and in addition to remind everybody
that that requires 35 years of NI contributions to get that and it's proportionally reduced
down.
So people will want to have something that pays all of their bills and the council tax and all
of those good things, but we also recognize that, in addition to taking their 25% tax free
cash, they may desire to hold like a rainy day, or a holding account which they may
consider in five years thereafter buying further guaranteed income. So we're focusing on
designing those additional holding accounts.
No, we're not going to become an investment manager. There are more than enough of
those in the market and, as you know, some of the key platform providers are not
investment managers themselves. They opt out. We are not seeking to compete in the
open SIPP market and we are still focusing on our strategy, which has always been at and
in retirement. So we're not launching a, forgive me if I use the word, savings account,
someone used the word savings account. Just to be clear, we're not building a savings
account for someone to start contributing from age 30. We're focusing on giving the
people at retirement that wider flexibility.

Q - Barrie J. Cornes

{BIO 2389115 <GO>}

Thank you.

Page 16 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

FINAL

Greg (01:00:32).
Hi, good morning. Greg Patterson (01:00:40). Three questions. One is, your competitor
made an interesting point that just in terms of (01:00:50), the run-up until April next year,
the opportunity costs of someone actioning a retirement plan now increases quite
dramatically (01:01:00). And I don't know what your experience is month-on-month, I know
it's somewhere around (01:01:05) statistics. But it should be penciling lower volumes in the
three quarters running up to April next year because of this one-off fact, just in terms of
psychology and market (01:01:16).
And second one is, I noticed on the slide on PrognoSys, you mentioned it three times or
four times, if I recall back to the IPO you were talking about the ability to move from
discreet mortality boxes to continuous benefits around (01:01:35) and also around putting
the real panel of reinsurers at the bottom and moving to the lowest common
denominator. I was wondering if
That's happened, if it has, how far we are? Shall we factor in some gross margin boost
from this, et cetera and where we are with that story?

Bloomberg Transcript

And then the third one, I don't know you mentioned it, but it wasn't answered, because of
other points being raised, but I see there was a negative operating assumption change,
quite a big one, associated with mortgages and I was wondering if you could just talk us
through what's going on there?
Very good. If I do the first one, April, I think that both Simon and I mentioned and I think
Simon's words were, the potential deferral would become increasingly important in the
lead up to April. So while we don't have any clearer crystal ball than any of the rest of the
people in this room, we do understand that that planning period may be more difficult as
you might imagine. And I think I mentioned, we have put extra efforts into our defined
benefit business, post the budget and, of course, we will continue to do that in the lead
up to April and because they're very clearly distinct themes, we have the capability of one
not to interfere in our preparations for April.
To be clear, we have experienced, apart from, as I mentioned, having the pipeline at the
date of the budget, the activities were down just over 50%. They have continued at that
level. There's the normal August, Greg (01:03:21), where everybody goes on holiday, so
we still expect to have the normal season changes; Christmas and August are periods
that go up and down.
Activity levels, David, are certainly still around 50% post everyone's holidays, but I
wouldn't say that it's imprudent for you not to consider the period of the first quarter next
year would be even a more uncertain time. But as I said, people are still deciding to buy
guaranteed incomes. They might just not put as much of their pension pot into them at
that time.

Page 17 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

Shayne will cover PrognoSys. In terms of the assumption change, Simon, can you just take
the guys through? This is the total redemptions, Greg (01:04:21), from all courses for
mortgages.

FINAL

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Yeah, certainly. And what we've been saying is that there has been a slight pickup in the
level of mortgage redemption mainly caused by optional redemptions, but also deaths
coming from the actual mortgage property sale. Indications are that that might have
something to do possibly with the movement of house prices just recently, but it's very,
very difficult to say. But there was certainly a charge put through in terms of embedded
value for the impact of increasing redemptions coming through. I have to say on an IFRS
basis, because, of course, IFRS doesn't look that far into the future, it doesn't take
account of those future cash flows to the extent that an embedded value does (01:05:12).
Shayne, do you want comment on that?

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Shane, could you comment on that?

A - Shayne Paul Deighton

{BIO 17759794 <GO>}

The grand total of redemptions per annum is still a tiny percentage (01:05:20) figures...

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

... per annum from all three types of redemption (01:05:26).

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

So Greg (01:05:28), I think we're a long way away from, you know, normal bank
redemptions and turnovers, but we have slightly increased the overall percentages and
we've created a structure that takes into account the number of years you've held the
product. Redemption is not the same every single year post purchase.
Sorry, sorry, just on that 2% per annum. I mean, that's an aggregate number for you; is it
suddenly spiking up and it's going to be 3%, 4%, 5%? What should we think?

A - Shayne Paul Deighton

{BIO 17759794 <GO>}

No, not particularly. The history around the redemption, which is probably the largest of
the three, and the three being redemption, death and transfer to long-term care, is that
we started out way back with a relatively simple math assumption. We watched that and
observed the experience against it for the first five years or so, five years or six years
after. Two years ago, we introduced a term-dependent shape and we're getting more
sophisticated as we are really with the annuities in terms of clarity, but that was a virtually
no actual cost. This is the first time in the eight-year history that we've had to tinker in a
way that involves any sort of material cost, but to some extent we are catching up on
experiences we've seen over the last couple of years. It's not a sudden spike in this year.

Page 18 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

FINAL

But that said, we do see quite a lot of volatility from month-to-month, so it does move up
and down quite a lot.
The other thing I'd say is that we do have access to a private ABI survey that was done a
couple of years ago, obviously at our instigation and actually the experience is quite
stable across the whole market. Everybody has experienced, what I would say, very similar
term structure and clearly the advantages of that are that we can see companies in there
that have got much longer experience than us, because we've only been in this market
since 2006, but other people have been around for much longer.
Our rates are showing exactly the same pattern as theirs but, actually, are quite a lot
lower. So our redemption rates are lower than other companies and the primary reason
for that is the fact that we have a fairly substantial further redemption charge, but there is
a penalty if they do redeem it, not on death, but on redemptions and that gives us some
protection.

Bloomberg Transcript

The other protection comes from the loan to value. So unless house prices grow, so that
they then outstrip the accumulation of the mortgage amount, then the loan to value on
the individual mortgages typically grows from inception and that makes it increasingly
difficult for anybody to actually broker their mortgage around. So those protections
together depress the market. So clearly, when there is a surge in house prices, like I said,
you could get the instance of people that did take out mortgages during a depressed
house price period could actually find that temporarily, they were in a good loan to value
position and (01:08:36).
So I'm going to take the PrognoSys one?

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Yes, please.

A - Shayne Paul Deighton

{BIO 17759794 <GO>}

You may recall that I talked last year about two stages of PrognoSys development, the
development of the IP and the system itself, which was largely complete when we were
talking back in October last year. Of course, we haven't resisted the temptation to lift the
lid and continue tinkering, but the big thing that's going on is a project run by David, which
I referred to as sorting out the plumbing. So I described a very large project but then we
had to take a look at business that was engineered around the way that America works
and reengineer it around the way that PrognoSys works, which is not insignificant. That
project was largely continuing on track for a July launch, as we'd indicated, but to be
absolutely frank with you, following March we took some of the critical IP resource off and
had to start focusing on development of a new role, what we've been talking about, and
we're happy to accept there will be a small delay in prognosis development. So that is
now pretty much ready to go. The training of all staff has been completed. We're basically
doing the final, final testing and expect it to go live definitely within the quarter four.

Q - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}
Page 19 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

[Question Inaudible] (01:09:55)

A - Shayne Paul Deighton

{BIO 17759794 <GO>}

FINAL

I was really trying to say – Apologies, Greg (01:10:00), I forgot that part of the question.

Q - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

[Question Inaudible] (01:09:55)

A - Shayne Paul Deighton

{BIO 17759794 <GO>}

Well, let me deal with that one first. Now, we have – I think I've covered this at the time of
the IPO. We're very conscious that we don't want to destabilize the market, (01:10:21). So
I'll make a distinction between assessing longevity and pricing, the two obviously linked
but separate exercises. So we've already been forming our view based on where the
market currently prices and where we see, shall we say, the true answer in terms of
longevity. And planning out how, over time, we will effectively try and move our pricing and
we do tend to find the market does follow us over time, to get the market to the right
place. But clearly there are some differences in our views on prognosis of where the
market is and if we were to come in and suddenly change all the pricing overnight, that
would cause some destabilization. So we will take it slowly.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

But I think a year ago, Greg (01:11:05), Shayne was talking about 0.1 in the margin, not a
large amount. What is more comfortable for us is the future risk experience. It gives us
much better confidence of the emerging future risks and, of course, the whole idea is you
refer to about categories or boxes or forgive me, which precise word you used, clearly
we would like to pick the risks that are at the top end of each box and leave the ones at
the bottom end or if we write the ones at the bottom end of the box, we knowingly take
a lower margin.

A - Shayne Paul Deighton

{BIO 17759794 <GO>}

On the reinsurance, we have been working with a number of reinsurers, including the
existing ones, so Hannover in particular are fully aware, obviously, of the PrognoSys
position and supportive of it, as are our other financing type reinsurers. The more
interesting and exciting development is the move towards a pure longevity swap type
structure and, again, we've been talking to several reassurers there. I can't give you any
definite news at the moment but we would hope, to be in a position that we can let you
know something in the not too distant future.

Q - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

[Question Inaudible] (01:12:19 – 01:12:29)

A - Shayne Paul Deighton

{BIO 17759794 <GO>}

Potentially, potentially.

Page 20 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Right, Oliver.

FINAL

Q - Oliver G. Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Well, I thought that conversation was never going to end. Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank.
Three questions. Moving away from sales for a second, can you just give us a little bit of
guidance on outlook for the in force profit? I'm thinking here about the margin as a
percentage of reserves going forwards because credit spread is down. I believe you've
sold quite a lot on mortgages and you've got the IPO proceeds.
Second question, which is linked to that is, the in force profits are almost half total profits
and I guess in the coming year they'll be quite a lot more than half. That's a pretty stable
and probably growing source of earning (01:13:20) single digits percent. How should we
think about those in force profits supporting the dividend? Then the third question,
coming back to sales is, one of the areas of opportunity that you talk about is older
people buying annuities. So instead of buying annuities at 60, 65, buying them at 75. How
big a market is that today? I guess the point here is do we have to wait ten years for that
or is there actually a relevant market for that today?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

If I do the latter one and then, Simon, if you can pick up on the in force. As you've rightly
said, if you look in the accounts, our total liabilities have grown from an early £6 billion to
£7.4 billion in asset ratio. So, as you rightly say, the liabilities have grown. Older people. I
think, for the actuaries in the room, you will know that what we call the mortality drag or
the cross subsidization between people who survive getting a subsidy from those who
die earlier, it has a very clear and positive return, effective return, vis-à-vis a simple invest.
So what are the available client base? Can I remind everybody that it used to be
compulsory to buy an annuity at age 75? So unfortunately we do not have a big mass of
people between 75 and 95 because they already have annuities and it was only three
years ago that the age 75 rule was removed. However, we have got a growing customer
base who are holding personal pension accounts between age 70 and 75 and
increasingly, as you move up at that phase, it is increasingly difficult for when you do the
critical yield calculation, for an advisor to show their customer that they're better off
staying in an investment related income product. So we see a significant opportunity for
advisors sitting down with, I suppose, their SIPP clients, currently and defining what they
would like to be sure to leave to their inheritance.
And of course, that's a new and exciting area that guaranteed incomes will also be able to
put by under the new rules next April. But also, currently in the letters you receive on
critical yields, none of the current providers, as far as I'm aware, take account of real
market rates of annuities and of course no one takes account of underwriting. So I think as
this area comes into increasing focus, I believe the regulator will require advisors to make
clear their opportunities. So if you understood my critical point there, you are required to
point out to your client what yield they need to get from their investment portfolio to beat
an annuity, but currently they're doing it against the government actuaries' yield rates,

Page 21 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

FINAL

rather than against the open market or indeed, having any regard to your health. So we
do see an opportunity in the professional market for the underwriting annuity companies
to assist those advisors to show a clear comparison, and we believe that will show that we
have to take quite high risks with your investment portfolio in your late 70s. And then
there's an obvious question for the advisor as to how comfortable they are in (01:17:43).

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

(01:17:47) drawdown was first created in 1996, so it's coming up to its twentieth
anniversary. And I think it was Money Marketing that reported that £45 billion of SIPP
money is currently post crystallization in draw down. So those two numbers together
suggest that there is a here and now opportunity for people of advanced age who are in
draw down. It can't be the annual opportunity, but I think it's sizeable.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

So, more importantly, Simon, the in force profit, which I think people have observed has
gone up in the last five years, from £20 million to £44 million, but what's next year?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Yeah. Well, as we've seen, the absolute overall basis point movement on this year has
gone down from 89 basis points to 79 basis points. And the main driver there, Oliver, is
the fall in credit spreads, which have moved by about 50 basis points, 180 basis point
down to 130 basis points over this year. Clearly, the track that you see on the chart is
obviously an amalgam of what's happened in credit spreads over the last few years, if you
think about it, because it's an average (01:18:57). So if you think about, when you go back
to 2012, it's 303 basis points, something of that sort of order, so it was extremely wide.
Clearly, the credit spread effect has affected the 79 basis points. Looking forward to next
year, July and August, we've seen a further slight tightening, but nothing dramatic, I'd
suggest. But the averaging effect will come through into this next year as well. Offsetting
that to some degree will be the full year effect of the assets that we took on board as
part of the IPO, so that will be helpful. But really there is a bit of guessing ongoing as to
where credit spreads are going to go over the next twelve months. Who knows what's
going to happen today with the Scottish vote? We'll see but certainly from my
perspective, I'd be disappointed if it wasn't in the 70s at least, next year, but I'll be able to
update you.
Now, your second part of the question was the dividend capability. You're quite right.
Obviously next year the in force business is becoming a bigger part of our (01:20:00)
from a financial perspective and the in force profit is becoming a bigger part. From a
dividend perspective, clearly, this year we've decided to pay a dividend of £0.022 which,
as we said, would be about £0.033 on a full year basis. Up about 10% on the previous
notional dividend that we talked about in the IPO. I think it's fair to say that the board will
take some time understanding exactly what the environment is like after April next year,
to understand what's happened from a growth perspective and what's happening to our
business overall, before coming up with any clarity as to which way that's going to go in

Page 22 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

the future. But I do recognize that the in force part is a good underpin to the capability to
pay dividends in the future.

Q - Oliver G. Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Thanks. So, this gentleman first.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Thanks. It's Gordon Aitken from RBC. I have two questions please. First, there was always
the threat that the larger annuity writers would reach into the underwritten market and
particularly the enhanced end rather than the impaired end. How has this threat changed
post the budget? And secondly, another one of the large annuity writes were very happy
to jump into the DB market and that's more than offset anything in the decline in the
individual market. How happy would you be with that? I mean, are you indifferent between
DB and individual?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Perhaps if I do the first one and David the competitive market. I think we would observe in
a broad sense on the competitive market that you'll see, that our market share in that
space has remained robust. So without commenting on other competitors, we're at least
pleased that our capabilities have continued to show through and those concerns that
you've raised haven't materialized. David will give you a bit more color to the players.
Certainly the market is competitive at the current time, as Simon indicated, because of
the smaller size.
Simon's slide was also quite clear that we've observed that a number of market
participants have moved capital into the defined benefit space. Clearly some of our large
competitors were active in defined benefits before we were. But to be very clear, we did
not enter to defined benefits as a result of the budget, as you know. It took us a year to
build the team, fifteen people from around the industry. We launched and gained traction
from just over a year ago. So we were a player and we intend to be a more meaningful
player. We are putting more effort into it post budget. We have both the capabilities to
compete and the team to compete with those bigger players. So not only can we
compete with the big players, but we've also got the added advantage of that
underwriting and top slicing. So we think it's attractive and we'll put more capital into the
DB space.
You're absolutely right, one of the largest competitors concluded an extremely large deal,
in billions, and each company has capital available on a year-by-year basis. So I think you
would be right to observe that that probably meant that the individual market wasn't quite
as competitive because the defined benefit market has filled some of that hole.

Page 23 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

FINAL

I think from Towers Watson and other commentators, we expect the total DB derisking
market to be up very significantly from our previous years. So previous year, say total of
£7.5 billion, our sector of that would be £1.5 billion to £2 billion that we would play in, but
we think the results this year, some of the consultants were talking well north of £10 billion
in total deals. So we think that that is a growing and attractive market and we can cope
with new competitors.
David, what has happened this year and then the budget?

A - David Paul Cooper

{BIO 15900182 <GO>}

Yeah, I can't add much to what you said, Rodney, but I mean, there are four large insurers
that have been playing or operating in the enhanced space. Two very established that
operate in standard rate annuities as well. They haven't made any greater inroads than
they had prior to the budget, post the budget. I can't speak for exactly what they're doing
but we're not seeing any change in the market presence. Two new players who have only
been embryonic in their market activities and they haven't changed either. If you were
asking me to suggest what I think is going on, I think they have been distracted by the
budget and will be now looking at alternative ways of capturing income revenue from
retirement funds that may not focus on enhanced annuities, that would be my guess.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, it's Andy from Exane BNP Paribas. I just want to come back on your answer to Greg's
(01:25:35) question, because it sounded quite bad, so I just want to clarify that's exactly
what you meant. And on the...

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Sorry, on which question?

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Yeah, on the change to the assumptions for the equity release portfolio. I think he said
you twisted the assumptions last year so that they didn't show up the cost. Surely that's
not what you meant?

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Andy, that's not what we said either.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

No, I think he said, we've changed the long term assumption in favor of short term
assumptions but the cost didn't come through. So, I mean obviously, I'd quite like to know
exactly what you mean and when you said the assumption (01:26:00) the prepayment, do
you mean the long term assumption, or do you mean the short term assumption? Just run
us through roughly what you imagine the assumptions are, were and the impact, that
would be very helpful. Thank you.

Page 24 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

FINAL

A - Shayne Paul Deighton

{BIO 17759794 <GO>}

(01:26:26) What I actually said is that we'd moved from a flat interest rate, so we just used
X% per annum with a very simple start out from before my time in the organization.
Through tracking the experience it was very clear that there was actually a term strategy,
so we introduced the flat redemption, but when we were introducing the terms structure,
the overall experience was not out of line with that assumption that we were using. So all
we were doing was becoming more sophisticated and the answer was a very small
difference. Not the other way around. I didn't start from the answer and work backwards.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

No, but the outcome is the same, right? The outcome is, you had a higher short term
assumption and lower long term assumption?

A - Shayne Paul Deighton

{BIO 17759794 <GO>}

No, it's the other way around, the term structure that we say and, as I say, is repeated
across the industry is very low redemption rates for the first few years, then growing up
to, in our case, of the order of 1.5%, 1.8%, low percentages, staying there through to
about ten years and then declining. So it has a curvage through it, effectively. As I say, that
is repeated in the industry experience.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Could I just add one point as well? In terms of your comparative against some of the
other providers, like Aviva, the experiences that they've seen in terms of their book have
been obviously dependent upon the interest rate on the particular mortgages
themselves. If you look at some of the older ones, their interest rates were up in the 9%,
8% and therefore, from a personal perspective, there was an opportunity for somebody
to remortgage and get it down in the 6%. That's why you'll see a greater churn on those
books than
you would on ours, where you're seeing our typical rate is around 6% mark.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Right, I need to just check whether there's a last question on the phone because we
haven't looked after our people who have dialed in. Otherwise I have been advised our
time expires.

Operator
A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Given that there's no questions and our allotted time...

Operator
There are no...
Page 25 of 26



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2014-09-18

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

... passed a short while ago, and thank you very much for the stimulating questions and
interest, which has caused the timing. And we look forward to seeing you again in
November when we announce our third quarter IMS. Thank you very much.

Page 26 of 26

