Investor Day
Company Participants
FINAL

Craig Fundum
George Quinn
James Quin
Jeffrey Dailey
Martin Senn
Michael A. Linton
Mike Foley
Steve M. Hatch
Unverified Participant

Other Participants
Andrew J. Ritchie
Andy D. Broadfield
Atanasio Pantarrotas
Ben Cohen

Bloomberg Transcript

Dhruv Gahlaut
Farooq Hanif
Marcus P. Rivaldi
Nick Holmes
Ralph Hebgen
Stefan Schürmann
Thomas Seidl
Vinit Malhotra

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Good morning, everyone and welcome to our Investor Update for 2014. My name is James Quin,
I'm Head of Investor Relations. And I'll talk you through the agenda for this morning. So we are
going to start off with Martin, who'll provide an update on the execution of the strategies we set
out one year ago today, but the main focus of today is really to talk about two of our main priority
businesses, being Farmers and NAC. And finally, George will give you an update on finances and
our progress so far this year and also on our priorities for the next couple of years as we look to
obviously move towards our targets. There will be plenty of time for Q&A. So we have three Q&A
sessions. Obviously, we look forward to your questions.
With that, I will hand over to Martin.

Martin Senn

{BIO 3241585 <GO>}

Thank you, James. Thank you again James and good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It's great
pleasure to have this opportunity to update you on our progress in executing our strategy 2014 to
2016 that we have set out one year ago.



FINAL

Back on December 5, 2013, we described how we saw ourselves in terms of our strengths and
where we needed to improve. We set out what we saw as the context for the next three years in
terms of the economic market and as well as the strategic environment. And based on this
assessment, we told you that we would continue to do and what we would change, but also where
we got improved and we stress that our strategy for 2014 to 2016 could be an evolution, another
evolution. We would not compromise on the discipline and focus that has helped us to remain
profitable and as well helped us to defend a very strong balance sheet.
At the same time we recognize that the context in which we were operating have changed and
that we have to change with it if we were to continue delivering attractive total returns. We set a
new and renewed focus on investing in our areas of strengths and addressing the challenges in
those operations that were performing less well. And we acknowledge the need to improve our
profitability and grow our operating earnings.

Bloomberg Transcript

And with that, we laid that three cornerstones to our strategy. First, prioritizing investment in
distinctive positions, which are those where we can capitalize on opportunities, incorporate in
commercial mid-market and select retail markets, where we have a clear competitive advantage.
Second, managing other businesses for value. This means extracting more value from some of our
key life back books, particularly those in Continental Europe, and continuing to capture value from
profitable smaller general insurance markets by turning around or exiting some of our nonperforming operations.
And so we said that we would make these investments and manage other business for value by
taking actions to grow our operating profits by delivering further efficiencies globally, reducing
complexity and overheads and by enhancing returns on our investment portfolio. The aim here for
us was to report back during 2016 with a better position and high return business with more of our
capital allocated to priority markets. We also set new targets that are closely aligned with these
ambitions as well as the priorities of our investors and other foundation of how management is
being remunerated. One year in, we have made good progress in terms of prioritizing investment
in distinctive positions. We have also taken significant steps to address manage for value
challenges and taking actions needed to grow our operating earnings. But as I've said before, this
is only a start and we have to do a lot in 2015 to continue this momentum.
In terms of progress to-date in prioritizing investment in distinctive positions we will spend time
today expanding on initiatives which are on the way to our key markets, Farmers and North
America Commercial. These two businesses account for more than 40% of Group earnings. They
are both leaders in fast evolving markets and while there have been challenges we are
encouraged by what we have seen in 2014 with those operations. We are able to place the benefit
from significant changes in the market in which they do operate.
And in this respect today we will illustrate very clearly how we're responding to two of the key
industry trends that we talked about last December. First, how technology and big data are
creating new opportunities for the insurance industry altogether. And second, how customers'
needs in retail are changing and how we need to respond. For example, in focusing on developing
omni-channel capabilities.
There is a lot going on in the business beyond NAC and Farmers. We are investing in advance
customer segmentation in our corporate business and in select retail markets like Switzerland and
Italy. And we have expanded our presence in two priority markets through new distribution
agreements with Via Varejo in Brazil, and Sabadell in Spain. Our priority for 2015 will be to continue
these investments and to deliver more evidence on the impact that this is having on our
positioning.
In relation to manage for value, we have taken a number of steps in some of our key item and
businesses, including the sale of the Russian retail business. And in Global Life, we have exited
some optional positions, and we have developed a holistic approach to in-force management in



UK, Germany and U.S., which we anticipate could contribute additional bump of between $80
million and $100 million.

FINAL

For 2015, we intend to largely complete the work on the GI turnarounds, and on the first phase of
Life in-force management actions. We continue to look closely at structural options to improve
manage for value returns, and we expect to see some early actions in this area over the course of
the next 12 months.
In relation to growing our operating earnings, as we have announced at the half year, we largely
completed the streamlining of our organization structure, above the business unit level in July. This
process is intended to speed-up our decision making and optimize our governance. But it is also
expected to deliver annual cost savings of $250 million by the end of 2015. And as part of our
initiatives to enhance investment returns, investment management completed the objective of
deploying additional risk capital in the second quarter of this year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Looking into 2015, we have made some good progress, but there's much more that needs to be
done. George will talk later about the levers at our disposal to improve our return on equity as we
continue to invest in our priority markets, while finding additional efficiencies in our operating
structure. But to come back to the main topics for today, we want to spend time explaining the key
trends in two of our main priority businesses. And before I hand over to the respective CEOs, I'd
like to summarize, the distinctive strengths of these businesses. And why we see these operations
as well placed to capitalize on a period of industry change, let me start with NAC.
North America Commercial accounts for around 16% of our Group operating profits. We are a top
five player with around the 5% market share in what is the world's largest and biggest market for
commercial lines by some margin. This is a business that has been completely reshaped over the
last decade under the great leadership of Mike Foley. We believe that we now have among the
best pricing and underwriting capability of the industry. And as Mike would put it himself, we have
moved from reds to green in terms of the profitability of our portfolios. In other words, we have a
well-managed business with a distinctive position in an attractive market, a great example of
where we intend to invest our resources.
Now, as you all know, pricing trends are less positive than they were one year or two years ago. But
our profitability is good and we see the industry in aggregate as disciplined. Furthermore, we see
significant change in the industry as the top tier insurers invest in developing data and analytics
capabilities. We expect this to drive significant market share to the top eight insurers, including of
course, our business. And this is a key initiative for us. Mike and Craig Fundum, who is the President
of Commercial Markets within NAC will explain how we managed the business and where we are
investing in more detail later. But the key differentiator for us is our ability to export these
capabilities to other parts of the world over the next three years to five years.
Farmers is another key priority market for us. Farmers is among the top five retail insurance brands
in the U.S. and second behind State Farm and its core 29 states in the western part of the country.
While the business has continued to generate stable and steady cash flows for Zurich, the Farmers
Exchanges had their challenges in 2012 and 2013. And we won't be the first to admit that the
business did not evolved quickly enough to address a dynamic and rapidly changing market.
But this is not in the past. Farmers is in the middle of a nature of business transformation build
around the strengths of agency distribution and focusing on customers who do look for quality
service and advice. And Jeff Dailey has done a great job in his three years as the CEO of Farmers
to help the business adapt to the exchange market and insert overhauling all aspects of branding,
technology, distribution and customer service.
Jeff and Mike Linton who is the Chief Marketing Officer of Farmers will explain recent trends in the
industry and how Farmers is adapting, expanding on the many transformation actions on the way.



And he'll also highlight a number of examples that show whether these actions are starting to
translate into tangible success.

FINAL

So without further comments from me, I would like to hand over to Jeff who will take you through
the Farmers business in much more detail. Thank you very. Jeff, the floor is yours. I wish you joy and
success. Thank you.

Jeffrey Dailey

{BIO 17070898 <GO>}

Thank you, Martin. Thank you. Here's the joy. It is a pleasure to be here today to speak to you and
really to talk to you about the customer transformation journey that we begun last year, we spoke
about it last year in Zurich at the Investor Day. We are – I'd love to agree with Martin more in the
middle, but I think we're early part of that journey of really transforming Farmers into a customercentric organization.

Bloomberg Transcript

With me today to help describe what's going on in the marketplace and Farmer's journey is Mike
Linton, who is our Chief Marketing Officer. Mike has extensive background in marketing, in fact, he
has been the Chief Marketing Officer for firms like Best Buy and eBay, as examples. And he comes
to Farmers in a bit of a non-traditional way. Our paths crossed almost 30 years ago and he's one
of those people that you friend on Facebook and you can't quite exactly remember why you did
that or who he was.
So four years ago, Mike had been a Farmers customer, probably had the same thoughts about me
that I had about him, and I got this note from Mike in Facebook's complaining about a claim, at
Farmers, saying that I work at Farmers. So lo and behold, we are able to fix his claim and actually
convince him to become the Chief Marketing Officer at Farmers. And he has been instrumental not
only in our strategy development, but also in the execution over time. So before I start, I want to
do what I did last year, really describe especially for people that maybe a little bit new to Farmers
story. Really the unique relationship that exists between the Farmers Exchanges, the Zurich wholly
owned subsidiary which is Farmers Group, Inc. and our customers.
So this is a relationship that's not quite unique. There is one other company in the U.S. that is a bit
like this, but the exchanges are a policy owned insurance company. In fact, we talked about the
exchanges, there are actually three of them. There are three separate exchanges and they have
outsourced the management of those firms to the wholly owned Zurich subsidiary, called Farmers
Group, Inc. And we do that obviously for a fee.
Now the core agreement between the policyholder of the exchanges and the management
company is something called as subscription agreement. And that subscription agreement
provides in one of the exchanges that for the premium charge, the management company can
collect 25% up to 25% of that premium and in the other two exchanges up to 20% of the premium.
And for that fee, we do all of the typical insurance underwriting, policy, maintenance, management,
IT, investment management all of that is done by the attorney in fact.
And the risk – the underwriting risk is borne by the exchanges. The exchanges are managed by a
separate board of governors for each of the exchanges. They're responsible for the strategy of
the exchanges. They're responsible for the performance of the exchanges. And they're also
responsible for the claims adjudication. We have 11,000 person claims force for Farmers. The head
of our claims operations actuary reports into the board of governors. So that's how the structure
works. And that fee now on average in 2014 is a little over 14% of premium is what is transferred to
the management company.
Before I start, let me just give you kind of an outline of what we're going to talk about today. And
Martin I think summed it up well, which is we're going to talk about where the marketplace is in the
United States today, and how Farmers fits in and the changes that we're making from a strategic



FINAL

perspective that's going to enable us to actually win in the marketplace differently than we
competed in the past. And even though as I said its early in this journey, we have some significant
proof points that show that not only is the strategy working, but from our perspective more
importantly, it's really fit for the long-term for Farmers and so that's really what I'll be covering with
you today.
Let me set the stage though by talking a little bit about the retail marketplace in the United States.
And really I want you to take away three points from this slide. This is a very large market, so if you
just take automobile and home owners insurance in the United States, it's almost a $270 billion
business. It's very mature and it's very concentrated. The top-ten writers of auto and home
insurance in the United States today account for two-thirds of the premium in the marketplace and
that has been consolidating over time, albeit relatively slowly. And there are hundreds, if not
thousands of other companies that compete, but it really is a consolidating marketplace.

Bloomberg Transcript

The second thing I would like you to takeaway is that what's fundamentally changed in this
business over the last 10 years or 15 years, is really the advent of marketing, which is a key reason
that Mike is on our staff and a key reason that he is here. Probably the best way to describe this in
the U.S. is around the advertising spend. So if you look at the chart in the middle there, we spent
last year as an industry $6.1 billion on marketing spend in the United States for insurance. So to put
that in a little bit of perspective, at least, and again I know this won't translate directly, but at least
in the U.S. you see an awful lot of beer adds, Budweiser, Miller, and certainly different brands here.
The insurance industry spends more than two-times what the beer industry spends on television
advertising.
And so this is really become a very important part about the way people think about this. This
spend has been focused on really two areas in the United States and we're going to show you
how we think about it differently, but it's been focused on two areas. The first is, almost all of that
spend is around car insurance, so it's very heavily focused around car insurance and almost every
single ad you see is going to tell you how you can save money. So it's been a real push to try to
commoditize the car insurance business.
The last thing I would tell in terms of marketing being really important in the U.S., is as I think about
barriers to entry probably the most significant barrier of entry for companies coming into the U.S.
to try to compete in the marketplace really is this advertising spend. If you don't have at least $100
million to spend on your brand to actually create consideration, you almost have no chance. And
consideration that Mike will talk about in a few minutes is really the key, if you can't get your brand
considered then it doesn't matter how attractive your prices are, it doesn't matter how good your
service are, you're just not going to get used. So this has really become a pretty significant barrier
to entry.
Third, takeoff on the market that has changed a lot in the last 15 years. There has really been the
sort of the flattening of the auto insurance line, if you look at the chart below for the last 10 years,
the average premium to insure an automobile in the United States has essentially not changed.
And that's because we have, not only do we have safer vehicles and we continue to get safer
vehicles on the road, in the U.S. there has been a lot of work on actually trying to create safer
drivers as well, whether it's through team licensing, much more aggressive enforcement of drunk
driving laws and those kinds of things has really taken frequency down. And as a result, the severity
actually has been sort of more or less offset by frequency. So you see a very flat expenditure for
auto insurance and our expectation is that that will continue if not overtime decline a bit.
But the second point is that, at that same timeframe, we've got a 4% compound annual growth
rate of the homeowner's line. Now this is actually significant for a couple of reasons. Home for the
first time in 2007 actually became more expensive for a person to insure than an automobile. And
if you think about how people think about homes versus autos, the most significant investment a
person is going to make probably in their life time, most people will be their home. So as it
becomes, that's something that they really want to make sure that they get properly insured, and



FINAL

it also is absolutely critical that, as it takes a larger share of their disposable income that they've
done that right. So home is really kind of emerged in the last seven years or eight years as a very
important part of the personal lines experience.
So as the market has changed, it's obviously had an impact on the leader board in the industry and
so let me describe that for you as well. So what this is? This is the companies listed in 2013 by the
direct written premium. And then where they were in 2000. And so, you can see there has been
significant change. And there is a couple of points I would make about this change. The first I talked
about was this really a ramp-up in marketing and advertizing expenditure. And I said it was really
mostly about auto. So if you look at the big changes that companies like GEICO and Progressive
made was really fueled by their development of advertising their ability to grab customers.

Bloomberg Transcript

Most exclusive agency companies, Farmers included of them, try to compete actually in that space.
And in fact, a number of us again including Farmers, actually were not acquired direct auto
platforms in order to compete. But what we've come to learn over time and I think looking back,
you're always smarter than you are looking forward, as this was not a story about direct
distribution, what this really was a story about, was a story about consolidating price conscious
shoppers or price oriented shoppers. And the story really is that the company with a best business
model, that can drive the lowest cost can ultimately run on those customers. And that's not a
position that Farmers can be in. We're not going to be a low cost operating model. We're not
going to be able to compete for the price-oriented consumer. And I think we recognized that
perhaps a little late as Martin said, but we did recognized that.
The other major thing that's actually happened to the multi-line, which tends to be the exclusive
agent companies during this timeframe was we had a significant change in the weather in the
United States. We got better at modeling, in understanding our risk and we had a lot of named
events, Katrina probably being the single largest name, but there certainly were a lot of them. And
that actually caused a lot of companies with significant exposure in catastrophe-prone areas to
shut business. So when you shut a homeowner risk, more than likely you're also going to lose the
auto risks that go away from that. In addition, just away from the cat-prone areas, we've had a
significant change in weather, mostly in wind and hail all throughout the whole country. So that has
made actually the homeowners line, exposed it a bit in terms of being underpriced. So there has
been a rapid rise in prices in the homeowners line to make sure companies that they're actually
making sure that they get enough premium for the risks of their insurance through weather.
And so as we think about the move, the battle for the price-oriented consumer has been on for
about 15 years. We think it's largely one, but still being fought out a bit. The emerging battle from
our perspective is really around value-oriented customers and that is the strategy that we
described to you last year, and that we're going to talk a bit more about here today is really
positions Farmers well to win in that area and to talk you through that bit of the strategy, I'm going
to ask Mike to come up and take it from here.

Michael A. Linton

{BIO 2053429 <GO>}

Thanks Jeff. Good morning, everybody. My objective today is to take you through the strategic
specifics of our strategy with an emphasis on why we think we can win in the marketplace that Jeff
just described. And this and its core is a story about focus and we believe that relentless focus for
us is required in what is a massive and very competitive marketplace, because generally all things
equal, we're going to be a higher priced company and so that focus as you go through my slides, I
want to kind of set a stage here is in three key areas:
The first is targeting the right customer that wants what we have to sell. The second is building a
single customer facing brand, and that's Farmers that attracts those customers to the brand, and
makes them look at what we have that is different than the marketplace. And the third is investing
in the infrastructure and the capabilities, like digital, I'll go into later that deliver a great experience
for that customer, because if you're going to have a higher price, you want the customer to have



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

better experience and I'll tell you why our assets we think as we arrange them will help that
customer have a great experience. So let's start by talking about the customer. You heard last year
about confident planners, I would like to drill down into the confident planner now with the next
slide.
So in 2012 we spent almost a full year of very, very detailed, very mathematical research to
segment the market. And we ended up with six segments. I am showing you the value segments
here, but I'd like to draw your attention to first on this slide, is the dark blue and light blue columns
on the one side of the slide and that really differentiates. The light blue is value oriented
customers, and what I mean by that is they care more about protecting their assets than they care
about price, so the first thing they look at is, are my assets covered. Below the line, care most
about price and that is their first movement when they shop. As Jeff talked about we think that
market has been a long-term fight and has in large part consolidated. We believe the top end has
not.
I wanted to take you through confident planners and what we mean when we say confident
planners. The research around was not just about buying insurance or even just thinking about
insurance, it was thinking about assets and coverage and how you go about that. And the
confident planner is at the peak of this marketplace. It's 70% households, 28% of the insurance
spend, but as we look at their lifetime value owns the third of the marketplace. And when you think
about the confident planner, it's more of a mindset than anything, but it is a person who believes
that they are building assets for the future, even if they don't have any assets today. Over time
they have a tendency to accumulate assets. They actually concentrate in certain professions,
architects, engineers, lawyers, almost anybody that has to invest long-term in education or
development is in the large part confident planners. An important part about the confident planner
is the two groups below them, relationship seekers and loyal outsourcers, they're looking for
partners and insurance or people that kind of will do it for them. If you meet the needs of the
confident planner, you meet the needs of the entire light blue group. So while we target confident
planners, we sell to – and we'll sell to anybody that wants to buy, we are meeting the needs of
everybody in the light blue group.
So let's now talk about how we stack up Farmers versus this customer group, and I'm going to start
with some of our strengths. When we look at the marketplace, one of the keys is there you have a
big recognized brand and we've been in our business for well over 75 years. We've been
advertising for a fair amount of time, in our core 29 states, 93% of customers are aware of us.
That's a really good start meaning you have a really big brand and you can leverage it.
The second thing is a broad product line. When you think about the confident planner, they have
multiple assets. The value group has multiple assets. They are really over time looking for
understanding of those assets and coverage of those assets and then the ability to cover more
and more things simply. We have a lot of lines there. You may not know of a business insurance,
we're the largest business insurance provider in the exclusive agent channel, and we are also
launching some new products, for example, we just put out pet insurance, just a bit ago, to further
broaden our product line.
The third thing we have is a large agency force. And why is that important particularly with the
confident planner and the value segment. As you think about your assets and you build your
assets, what you want is not just a route delivery of coverage, you want someone to help you talk
through, what is a very complex marketplace with tremendous different choices that you have to
make, particularly as you have more assets. That's where the agent comes in, and provides
customized service. And as we build out what we call omni-channel, we'll talk about that in a
minute, digital and call center capabilities, the agent is still the cornerstone of this, providing
customized service to those value consumers. One thing, I do want to say about our agents is, we
have over 13,000 agents which is equivalent of the McDonald's store fronts in the United States.
We have it leveraged the agents as much as we may in terms of building the brand, but that to me
is a big opportunity. So that's some strengths we think we start with as we build this out. Where are
we going with those strengths next?



FINAL

But when we talk to customers, what we learned is, man, if I'm going to pay more and if I'm a value
customer and I want my assets protected, boy, I expect outstanding customer service, and frankly
we didn't think our service was good enough. And we've launched on a relentless journey to
improve that, that would go on forever, but early results are very encouraging. The move away
from 21st, with a single focus on Farmers has allowed us for our marketing and our thinking into a
single brand. And as Jeff pointed out earlier, this is surely a battle of big brands, moving to one
customer facing brand gives us a lot more leverage to leverage the big brand as we go forward.
When we look at that broad product line and we look at the customer base, our research indicates
there's lots of cross-sell opportunities. In fact, just in the confident planner portion of our book, we
think there is at least $2 billion of cross-sell opportunities, because we don't have the full book of
every confident planner at Farmers, and this is where the agent comes in and the customer service
comes in as we go forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

The fourth thing is omni-channel capabilities, and what we mean by that is, leveraging all our
channels and that's primarily digital, phones and the agent, in a way that the company goes to the
customer and the customer customizes how they react with us. They don't have to pick a specific
channel, they can go to anyone. But at the core, the agent is the cornerstone providing customized
service and advice to the value segment, and improving the quality and increasing number of
agents should continue to generate growth for us.
So we talked a little bit about customer experience, and we launched as I said last year, a
relentless journey to improve our customer experience, and we think this goes on forever and
ever. I'm going to start at the bottom of the slide and say, we measure the customer experience
by Net Promoter Score, and what we've seen is that focused investment and focusing on key
points where the customers are telling as they want better service or improved service can move
this number. As Jeff will share with you later, moving this number translates to retention, which is
very important to our growth.
I talked about focused investments. There's some of them above the line. There are six things I
listed there, I'll explain a couple just for context. The first would be the Farmers Friendly Review.
When we talk about what a confident planner or a value-oriented customer wants, they want you
to be ahead of the insurance game for them. So the ability for us to actually have an agent meet
with them in advance of their renewal, in advance of any life change and talk them through what
insurance they might need or constantly review their insurance is extremely important. We've
increased our Farmers Friendly Reviews by I believe almost 50% in a single year by focusing on
that.
The second thing we heard from customers was, can you make this insurance thing a little easier.
It's complicated. It's filled with a lot of legal language. It's tons of paper, and if you see – if you read
through that, you could see there is couple projects designed to explain it more crisply. The last
thing I would talk about here is digital transformation. And when we think of digital, it's an enabler
of our whole strategy and it glues things together, and when you talk to customers, they expect
you to have a digital presence. They don't think about anyone in a single channel. They think digital
presence is necessary for virtually in any brand, in any industry and insurance to them is no
exception.
So I've kind of set the stage for what we have; I want to now turn the thinking to, all right how do
you talk to the confident planner and the value segment, in what is a tremendously competitive
market. One of the most competitive and confound markets I've been in since I started in
marketing a long time ago at Procter & Gamble. And first, I will say the strategy with which we
approach the marketplace is that, every time you touched the Farmers brand, you come away as a
consumer smarter about insurance.
So if you're noticing there, we're are not talking about price, we're talking about making it smarter,
because actually when we dig into what the confident planner in the value segment wants, they
want four things listed on that slide. They want insights into how this works through them. They



FINAL

know insurance is not a one size fits all. They think you have their planners. So they want you to be
ahead of them with them, they don't want you just to be dealing with the renewal right now or the
policy right now, they plan, the reason they have assets, they plan. They want you to talk to them
really straight, the more confusing you are, the less they trust you, and they really want a one-stop
shop.
So every time you talk to Farmers, you come away smarter. I thought one of the best ways to
illustrate this would be to show you three television spots which are currently running in the United
States. What I'd ask you to look for or hope that you see is the first, that Professor Berk (36:54) is
the man actually teaching you about insurance and he is a proxy for our agent. The second thing is
the absence of a price message and the delivery of the smart strategy in what we hope is a
humorous and entertaining way.
So with that if we could roll the film, we'll see three spots.

Bloomberg Transcript

[Video Presentation] (37:12-38:44)
So hopefully you enjoy those. We had very good feedback from consumers, and I will also tell you
the advertising shoots are a lot of fun. But if they're fun and they are interesting, it really doesn't
matter unless they work. And as Jeff kind of commented, the thing we measure is what we call
consideration. And consideration is a really key thing for me. We talked about the high awareness
we have which is in the 90s, but being aware of a brand doesn't mean you're going to buy it. For
example, you may be very, very aware of Wal-Mart, but I am guessing, you are not considering
Wal-Mart for your next clothing purchase, maybe some of you, I don't know, but you may be. So
that's an awareness and consideration thing. So in this category with $6 billion being spent,
awareness is high. The key is, are you delivering any message that breaks through the $6 billion in
a way that the consumer is paying attention to you.
And so, we measure this very systemically and have for a number of years. What you can see is
that consideration throughout the general market and the confident planner against two other
exclusive agent companies. Importantly, we've moved this number significantly this year. That's an
achievement we're quite proud of and there is two things I want you to take away; one, it's been
very hard to move this number over time, which is evidence to us that the smart strategy is striking
a good chord with consumers. The second thing, I'd like you take away from this slide is, we're
moving the confident planner group, but as we said, there is a halo there. So while we move the
confident planner group, we're also moving the general market, indicating that this relentless focus
actually has a halo effect as we move forward.
I wanted to shift focus now into omni-channel and kind of define that a little further and really that's
arranging all the assets we talked about, around the customer in a way that the company goes to
the customer versus making the customer figure out, how to use the channels. And historically, we
were set-up by channels, with almost everything going through the agent. And while the agent is
still a cornerstone for us in providing customized service, we are now in the process of rearranging
those channels in a way that the customer can talk to us or meet with us in any specific channel and
then be entered into the system, and also be assigned an agent, where we think our competitive
advantage gets delivered over time.
So as you think about this coming together, customers get to choose how they interact with us. If
they want to talk to the agent, they can. If they want to go on the digital site anytime they want,
they can, if they want to make a call, they can and we're connecting those. So for example, you can
buy now by phone. And that is core, the agent is the cornerstone of this, which is, if you want to
advise in advance of anything, you call your agent. You want to extend your portfolio, you call your
agent. A key to this is that the channels are actually integrated and the data beneath the channels
are consistent. So we've just started this really as a two-year journey so far, but it's an endless
journey again to make sure that the channels wrap around – go to the customer.



FINAL

A core component of this is digital. And historically, Farmers invested in channels and it did not
invest that much in digital. We took major steps and put major investment into our digital channels
in 2013 and 2014. And the research with our customers told us really what consumers use the
digital channels more for than anything, is not buying, but for service. They want to add a car, they
want to investigate, they want to look at different things, they want to pay their bill. And you could
see, if you look at this chart, I want to, almost all those are service. And when we designed and
rebuild the website last year, it was service first, selling second, marketing last, because that's
what consumers told us they wanted.
We also measure this, we try and measure as much as possible through a consumer lens and this
is transactional Net Promoter Score on the bottom. We are highly, highly encouraged by the fact
that in one year, we were able to move the consumer Net Promoter Score on our digital site over
40 points. That's a biggest jump I've ever had in my career anywhere, but that shows how omnichannel has power, because this is just the first step.

Bloomberg Transcript

Where are we going with this? Well, we're encouraged by the results. We still have significant
experience as we can improve on the web, but longer term and in this you'll make a big step
forward is integrating the capabilities across the channels. And this year, our plan is to make a big
move on master database. One of the keys to omni-channel working is to have a master database
that usually is driven by digital and that creates an architecture which you can build off of across all
channels, that's where we're going to next when we talk about omni-channel.
So I told you this wasn't designed for sales. One of the things that has happened though however
is, it's producing a lot of sales. So as we wrap the omni-channel around the customer, what we are
finding, and these are sales, this chart is a sales trend just for this year of policies that originate
non-agent based. This is coming from almost a standing start in 2013, and you can see now we're
writing over 11,000 policies a month in what we call omni-channel. We're not actually trying to
specifically just sell with omni-channel, we're trying to serve as well as sell, but we're quite
encouraged by the fact that we are generating this kind of sales off of omni-channel.
The conclusion to my piece, because I'm going to turn this back to Jeff in a second is that, focus
really matters in this marketplace and we are very, very focused, and that investments based on
customer insights, specific to that target market – customer insights can produce results which are
highly positive to the brand.
So with that, I'm going to turn this over to Jeff who will bring us home and talk about the agent as
the cornerstone of the omni-channel.

Jeffrey Dailey

{BIO 17070898 <GO>}

Thank you, Mike.

Michael A. Linton

{BIO 2053429 <GO>}

Thanks Jeff.

Jeffrey Dailey

{BIO 17070898 <GO>}

Thanks Mike. So let's actually talk a little bit about the agents. So before I do, I would actually just
reiterate a point that Mike said, and the cornerstone of our strategy, if we're going to after value
oriented customers, is we have to deliver value and that really is all about customer experience.
And that leads me really directly to agents because as this chart will show on the top, if we have a
customer who says that they're extremely satisfied with their agent, they have a net promoter
score of 60%. That's actually a good number. If we had a net promoter score of 60%, our
relentless journey maybe closing in on and over. Unfortunately we're in the 35% range. But you can
see that, yes, you don't have – if you say anything other than you're extremely satisfied with your



FINAL

agent, your net promoter score is negative at 43%. So it's incredibly important that we end up
having agents that are delivering great experiences to our customer.
So if you take a look at the bottom chart, that really talks about the number of agents that we have
and where we've been and where we're going. And at the end of 2012, we had something a little
over 14,000 agents in the United States. And if you go back to and you think about the rate we are
taking to actually make sure that exchanges were financially healthy, and you think about us kind of
rebooting our strategy, we're actually demanding more of our agents now. We're demanding
hours, we're demanding signage and brand standards. So we've made the world harder. And as a
result of that, we actually went and ended the year 2013 with slightly less than 13,000 agents.
So some of those agents that we lost, we wanted to lose. And there're of course some of the
agents that did leave, that did not want to be a part of the new Farmers who wished would have
stayed. But we really are down to what we believe as a stronger core agent at the end of 2013.
And you can see we have slowly started building that backup towards the end of the third quarter.
We are over 13,000 agents in the United States. And we've really, the Farmers has been in
existence for 86 years. And just last year, we really have started managing our agency channel
differently.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'm going to you just a couple of examples of that.
The first one is a concept we call retail agent. So if you go back to the 86 years of Farmers, we
have brought on a traditional agent, and a traditional agent had a job somewhere else, I usually
use the example that they were a bus driver. And while they were actually studying their licensing
exams to make sure that they are licensed and whatever state they are going to operate in, they
were still a bus driver, and we call them reserve agent. Once they actually passed the exam, they
became a career agent and we have some tremendous agents who have grown up from that
perspective, but that also creates a huge failure rate with agents.
When you are taking somebody off the street in one job and they're actually doing this as going to
another job, as opposed to thinking about running an independent business. So we have now
coined the term retail agent and we are bringing on agents and they're different. They have
$50,000 in investible assets. When they start, they are going to open an office that is fully brand
compliant with Farmers, as opposed to perhaps working out of their house until they can afford it.
And they're going to bring licensed staff on from day one which again was something that didn't
happen with traditional agents.
If you look at this chart, you can see that in the first 18 months of their existence, we get about two
times the production from those agents relative to the traditional agent over the same timeframe.
In addition, we have better net promoter scores from this group, better retention of the business.
And finally, if you think about just the agent retention over the three years that we have been
doing this, we have the high 90 percentage of retention of those agents. And if I compare that to
our traditional agents, we'd lose about a quarter of them in the first six months. So this has just
been a win for Farmers by actually moving toward this retail agent platform.
The second change in terms of the way we've managed our agency for us is, one of the value
propositions to being a farmer's agent, compared to being an agent at a different company is, our
agents earn what's called the contract value. So when they retire or they decide to leave Farmers
for whatever reason, the exchanges will actually pay them their contract out. It tends to be more or
less one year's renewal commissions, but it can be a little bit more if they've been around for a
long time. And what ends up happening is, if you leave Farmers as an agent, we then take your
policyholders and we distribute those to other Farmers' agents, hopefully in the nearby area. And if
you remember the slide Mike had up, we had an orphan policy problem. That's an orphan policy.
So my agent is no longer with Farmers and I have been assigned to a different agent.



FINAL

So one of things that we did, it was we've now created a marketplace for Farmers' agents. So if
you are a retail agent instead of starting out completely scratch, you can actually come in and buy a
Farmers agency. And that's been a real win-win. It's been a win for the company. It's been a win for
agent and it's been a win for the customer. From the exchange perspective, that contract value
payment that went into our commission line, we no longer pay it because that's being paid by
somebody from the outside. Our agents who've chosen to sell their agencies, on average have
earned 30% more than their contract value was worth. And finally, the customer is no longer
distributed to a completely different agent. They're with the same agency but just under new
ownership, and so the retention of those customers has been very positive as well. And both of
these ideas came out of Eastern Expansion. And I'm going to talk in the next slide about Eastern
Expansion, but one of the things that we've been able to Eastern Expansion for is really to be able
to try out new ideas without putting the entire enterprise at risk, and these are two, we think, real
winners that have come out of Eastern Expansion.

Bloomberg Transcript

So let me talk a little bit about Eastern Expansion. And the map shows you the states that we have
entered, and in the states that we will enter over time. And probably, you don't have to do very
high level math that you can see that in the five states that we are in 2014. We're going to do over
$200 million in premium in 2014. We're growing at over 100% a year in that business. We have
added Connecticut. So as of today, Farmers is now in Connecticut which will be our sixth state. In
the middle of next year, we will also be in Florida which will be our seventh state.
So it has gone from – we've talked about Eastern Expansion and some of you that have covered
Farmers for 15 years or probably heard about this three, four, five times, the big difference here is
we are moving the Farmers brand to the East, and more importantly we're moving the Farmers
exclusive agents to the east, and this year and even next year it's really producing meaningful
volumes for us. And it's been a great test bed for us to try new ideas like retail agent, like agent
acquisition. So it's been very important for us.
So we've talked about a lot about the strategy. Let's talk a little bit about how it's paying off. And
again, as I said the most important thing for us to do is really drive customer experience forward,
and that 4.5 points on the net promoter score improvement that you see on that chart, that's
roughly a 15% improvement year-over-year. And if you remember last year, I showed you the
correlation between net promoter score and between customer retention, not surprisingly, if you
are positive about the company, more likely you're going to stay. You're not so positive about the
company, more likely you'll leave. And we've actually seen that retention that we predicted would
happen, would happen.
So in our auto line, we are up 1.9 points of retention. And just to do the math for you, that's worth
$140 million a year, every year of additional gross written premium. On the homeowner side, we've
moved up 1.4 points, that's worth $70 million a year. And so we feel really good about improving
the customer experience would drive the retention. It did drive the retention. And as Mike said, this
is really a relentless journey. We're not close to done yet. We have a lot of headroom in terms of
opportunity for us to grow, but we're really pleased with the progress that we've made up until this
point.
Now, if you turn that to the financials, how is this actually working on the financials? I'll tell you. It's
much easier to come to Zurich now and talk to my boss with a positive growth rate at Farmers and
it has been for the last year or so. So if you feel really good about that at Farmers and we've
actually been able to change the trajectory and actually grow, albeit modestly in the third quarter. If
you just AAA the things that are really just impacted by the strategy, and by that I take away the
21st Century business which is really not impacted by this strategy at all. And as Mike said, it's
essentially we have moved it to runoff.
And if you look at the Independent Agent operation business insurance, another one that is not
impacted by this business, you can see that the actual turn in the business occurred earlier. It
occurred in the second quarter and the growth is much more significant. So outside of 21st Century



FINAL

and our Independent Agent business operation, we actually grew in the quarter 2.6% and so we
feel very good about that.
From a combined ratio perspective, as I mentioned, we had some work to do to make sure that
the exchanges were healthy from a financial perspective. And you can see almost six points of
improvement in the combined ratio on that top chart. We've been benefited a little bit by slightly
better catastrophe seasons in 2014, but it's really been about driving the underlying loss ratio
down. And so we feel very good about that.
At a 100, are we where we want to be? We're not. So I think I told you last year, we'd like to be
between a 97 and 98 combined ratio. But if you remember our 100 relative to our peers is equal
to about a 93. So we feel really good relative to where we're at, about the work we've done, but
we recognize that we have more work to do on this. But the important part of both of these last
two slides from my perspective, is they demonstrate that our strategy is working. We have ample
headroom in terms to continue to grow and continue to get better, both in terms of our customer
experience, our digital work that Mike talked about, as well as the fact that we have geographic
expansion available to us as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

So as I would wrap it up, I would leave you with, we believe we have a very clear strategy and that
clear strategy means that we are really transforming the entire company whether that's agents,
our digital infrastructure, our people and our culture around serving the needs of confident
planners. If we're successful with that, not only we will write a lot of confident planners that halo
effect will allow us to write a lot of value customers.
So I really appreciate your attention this morning, and look forward to an engaging dialog. Thank
you very much.

Q&A
A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

So we now have half an hour for your questions. Ben, I think you're probably first signed.

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

I have (57:14) – I don't think it's – Is it on?

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

It is, yeah.

Q - Ben Cohen

{BIO 1541726 <GO>}

It is on. Sorry. Hi, sorry. Ben Cohen from Canaccord. I have two questions. Firstly in terms of the cost
of claims inflation, if you like, particularly on the homeowner, so you said that catastrophe
experience has been better this year. Looking forward into next year, what sort of price rises do
you need to put through? And if price rises are slowing, does that have a negative impact on the
top-line growth you were talking about?
My second question was on marketing spend. I wonder, if you could say something how your
marketing spend ranks and how that rank has changed over the last couple of years against the
other very big brands that are out there? And in the environment, the way you're segmenting it, do
you need to sort of continue to grow that spend, and does that have any impact on margins?
Thanks.

A - Jeffrey Dailey

{BIO 17070898 <GO>}



FINAL

So, Thanks. Sure, thanks. So let me address the first question and then I'll let Mike address the
second question. And in fact I'll just – I'll wrap both auto and homeowners in that. So what we're
basically seeing on the auto line is relatively benign trend, low single-digit kind of numbers. And
again, that really is severity outpacing inflation a bit. It'll be interesting though, gas prices in the
United States have really plummeted and that could actually lead to an increase in frequency,
although we haven't seen it yet.
On the homeowners line, it's been interesting. Homeowners has been high single-digit inflation
trend line and that was – in addition to that – and that's been pretty consistent for the last four, five
years. In addition to that, I think at the end of this loss of catastrophes, Farmers, like most
companies felt that we're not getting enough. So we actually have been taking an excessive trend
in homeowners for a while. We think we're to the point where we can take about trend and I would
expect that that's going to be in the high-single digits for the, at least the near-term future.
One of the things the financial crisis did which I think is interesting is, you think about the new home
stock that comes in every single year and really that's been way down. So on average, the home –
the average home in the United States has gotten older over the last several years. And there is a
distinct correlation between the age of home and loss experienced. So I think that's going to
continue to pressure up inflation rate trend.
So with that, let me turn me turn it over to Mike for the marketing question.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Michael A. Linton

{BIO 2053429 <GO>}

So if I – I'd just kind of repeat the question to make sure I got right. As Mike tell me about your
marketing spend and how it ranks versus competition. So we've spent less than our fair share in
marketing, but I think it's enough. And I think when we look at this, so first point I would make out is
the move away from 21st to run-off allows us to take some of that marketing money and put it in
the Farmers, but then also invest in the capabilities that we're talking about earlier. So for me, my
goal is to spend enough marketing money to keep the brand moving forward.
But primarily, I think this is a customer experience game and that the brand highlights the customer
experience. So over time, I would love to grow the marketing money but right now I think the
spending is just about right and our marketing has been actually very consistent within 5% to 10%
year-over-year adjusting for inflation. And that's kind of I think – and that has been enough to move
the brand. And I'd rather be putting the money into the customer experience and the digital space
which is what we're doing.

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Andrew?

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Thanks. It's Andy Ritchie from Autonomous. Two questions for Jeff. The problem in the past with
Eastern expansion, I mean you got the growth but the profitability was socking, especially Florida if
I remember. I think it was a problem on non-standard auto. What was the problem – what's the
profitability now of the new business in the eastern states?
The second question, you almost write it off that you could never be a low cost provider. I
appreciate part of that reflects the fee, but in the past actually, if you look at old Farmers
presentations, you actually emphasized how ex the fee you were quite efficient. And there were a
number of efficiency initiatives at both the FMS level and the exchanges level. Is there anything
going on in terms of expenses, or is there any scope at both levels? I know you can't formally input
into the exchanges that you can kind of guide them. And is the technology having any benefit in
terms of cost?



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Jeffrey Dailey

{BIO 17070898 <GO>}

Sure. And the first question on – so Eastern expansion was, you're talking about on Florida and
non-standard business was really acquired business, that wasn't really Eastern Expansion. But I do
think it is a fair comment in Eastern Expansion times for, not only that we not get growth because
we really didn't get growth, we also didn't get profitability. If you think about what we're doing now
in terms of building up agencies really from scratch, whether they're retailer, traditional, that's an
expensive endeavor. And so what we're really looking at is – so to answer your question bluntly, we
are not profitable in Eastern expansion yet, nor do we expect to be.
What we're really measuring is the loss ratio where it should be given the maturity of the business
and then will grow into the expense structure. So our best estimate is that it'll take a state and will
be closest with Pennsylvania and we're on – which was our first state on target. It will take five to six
years to be actually running a profitable combined ratio in that state, just in terms of the actual
start-up expenses. And again where the loss ratios are sort of higher than we'd expect on the
greening curve, then we're taking right and we're going in and that will affect growth, but we're
really measuring the expected loss ratio and building scale to drive the combined ratio.
On the second question on expense, so we could put up that same chart that we've shown in the
past in Farmers. So if you actually take the management margin out of our expense ratio, we're
roughly equal to State Farm or Allstate, or significantly better than nationwide or American family.
But that isn't going to win the price from our viewpoint, the price shopper anyway because you
need to be seven or eight points below that. And I think if you're going to have – forget a minute –
a moment about the margin, if you're really going to build a business model that's going to go
after the price consumers, you're probably not going to do it with captive agents, right, because
you're just not going to be able to afford that. So I think structurally both from the attorney-in-fact,
management margin and with captive agents that's never going to be our bet.
As Mike said, and he may have said this subtly is that, the first consideration for value-oriented
shoppers is value, but the second one is price, right. So if I can get great value from Farmers or
State Farm, the second thing I'm going to look at is what's the relative price difference, if I believe
the value is the same. So we're working very hard on actually trying to drive down the expense
ratio and the unallocated loss adjustment expense ratio of the exchanges.
If you go back to 2011, we've taken it down about three – if you take those two numbers together,
about three points and our expectation is that we continue to drive that down. Any change that we
make that makes FMS more efficient, actually just translates into a lower fee to the exchanges. So
our goal is to continue to actually drive the expense ratio down but we will never be a low cost
provider.

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Vinit.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Thank you. Vinit from Goldman Sachs. Just on how you look at the segmentation for a moment,
one of the reasons why you were optimistic in the quarter just gone by was the non-standard auto
and the specialty lines. And just both of those lines strike me as slightly discordant with the value
planner, confident planner market. Is that confident planner also covering those two lines which is
quite a sizeable portion and also driving the growth? That's the first question.
Second question is, you mentioned the retail agent was a traditional agent. I'm sorry, I missed. Is
there a number on how much is retail agent in terms of proportion of business or volumes or
numbers of agents, and what you're focusing on to development? Thanks.

A - Jeffrey Dailey

{BIO 17070898 <GO>}



FINAL

So let me answer the – and Mike might want to add something to this the first question. So the
non-standard business, the Bristol West business that we acquired as well as a specialty business
are both incredibly important for confident planners. For specialty, as Mike said, if you looked at
that spend, 17% (01:06:10) of the households in the U.S. are confident planners, but they spend
28% of the insurance spend, a lot of that is because they have more things to ensure like
motorcycles, like boats. And so our specialty play becomes very important. Second homes is
another example or vacation homes is very important for us.
The non-standard one is, it tends you have a confident planner who wasn't a particularly good
planner if they need the non-standard, but that happens, right (01:06:37) the non-standard
business. And so it'll happen if a person has a DUI, they're not going to be in Farmers, but they
could potentially be in Bristol West. But where – it's a bigger deal for us is when you get the brand
new child on the policy. The child isn't particularly a confident planner yet, having Bristol West there
to actually be an outlet for that becomes very, very important.
Still, I don't know if you want to...

A - Michael A. Linton

{BIO 2053429 <GO>}

Nothing to add.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jeffrey Dailey

{BIO 17070898 <GO>}

Nothing to add. So on retail agents, we haven't actually disclosed how many we have. I mean this
was something as I mentioned that we started in the east, and we've got – of our agents in the
east, I would tell you, roughly a third of them are retail agents. We started this year to actually go
back to what we call the Core 29 which is mostly west of the Mississippi River, and we've started
adding. But it will be a very small percentage of our agents out of the 12,500 we saw (01:07:33)
that exist west of Mississippi for a long time, because it's really – we're doing this with new agents
and it could accelerate a bit, if we get a lot of acquisitions, but it will be a relatively small part.

Q - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Thank you. Just – so the growth was 2.6%. I wonder if you can give us a figure for the policy comp,
how big that's growing? My guess is you're still losing market share in terms of gross premiums,
and I just wondered whether you can give us a feeling for when all these initiatives will mean that
you start gaining. And then on the combined ratios, so the (01:08:19) excluding 21st Century and
we're discussing this. So you fed me the question in a way. And the...

A - Jeffrey Dailey

{BIO 17070898 <GO>}

(01:08:28).

Q - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

And when could the figure including 21st Century, so run-off business could actually make your
money. When could we see that and how big could the delta be, just an idea. I know you don't
provide guidance but just sort of feel. Thank you.

A - Jeffrey Dailey

{BIO 17070898 <GO>}

So (01:08:48) all three of those. So first of all, is on policy comp, right? And we haven't disclosed
this specific policy comp, but I'll tell you that, at the 26 (01:08:58) we're actually going growing
policies. And there's clearly rate in there as well, but we're growing policies.
Second question was on...

Q - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}



21st.

FINAL

A - Jeffrey Dailey

{BIO 17070898 <GO>}

...21st. My expectation, and again you have all covered insurance for a long time. If you have a book
of business that's in run-off, especially in auto business, especially a direct business that it is going
to produce significant underwriting profits overtime. It's not the share. We had some adverse
development in 21st Century specifically related to accident year 2013 that we believe we now
have taken (01:09:33) correctly. We believe we had it taken (01:09:35) correctly at the end of 2013
also. But so my expectation is that 21st will be supporting the exchanges from an underwriting
profitability perspective for a long time. How big that number could be, you know I don't want to
actually speculate on that.
Dhruv.

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning. Dhruv Gahlaut from HSBC. Just two questions. Firstly in terms of the change in
distribution as in there's a comparenow.com and you aggregator in U.S. LaunchPad (01:10:10) there
are about 15 odd insurers on their panel. How do you see this developing and how do you see the
risk for your model? And also, I think five, 10 years from today, as in how does the spilt change
between the value and the price-sensitive customer and how does that whole aggregator play-in
in that perspective?
In terms of the second question, you touched on the cross-sell opportunity about $2-odd billion. As
in when can we see this start coming in terms of numbers, there's a slide 23, it's saying we started
doing this but when do we see the bulk coming in and any particular initiatives which you guys are
taking right now? Thanks.

A - Jeffrey Dailey

{BIO 17070898 <GO>}

So, let me address the first question, and I'll turn the second question over to my Mike. So on the
first question, aggregators are nothing new in the U.S. We've had aggregators since probably in
the early-1990s to mid-1990s InsWeb, comes to mind, and there is a number of them.
If you think about how we talk about the market and if you actually look at the data, aggregators
have a very, very small portion of the business in the U.S. and I tend to think of them as nonstandard independent insurance – electronic non-standard independent insurance agents. So that's
really essentially what they've become. Our 21st Century brand actually deals with a number of
them, including Answer Financial, which is now owned by Allstate. And what we end up seeing is
we see lots of price shopping customers, and you don't really see the kind of business that we
would want to write or what we would consider value oriented customers there.
I will go back to – my view on this is that if you think about my comment that marketing is a huge
barrier to entry, you're going to have a really difficult time moving into the U.S., as an aggregator,
unless you prepare to spend a lot of money, trying to derive this price message over value. Again,
they've been around a long time. I know (01:11:53) very successful company here. They've asked us
to be part of their panel. We declined. There aren't a lot of big insurers that are on that for obvious
reasons, because we don't want to be engaged in that price game. You can't break down our
rates unless we give them to you, given the complexities in the U.S. market place. So I don't view
that in the near-term, in the next two, three four years as a particularly big deal. And I think they've
got a tough role to hold, frankly, given the way the market is today in my view.

A - Michael A. Linton

{BIO 2053429 <GO>}

I agree with that. I do not see that changing in that five-year time horizon you put out. You asked
about the – what I'll call cross-sell. And I think cross-sell comes to bear and I can speculate on how
fast we can capture that $2 billion, I can't say, here's how we do it, which is...



A - Jeffrey Dailey

{BIO 17070898 <GO>}

(01:12:43).

FINAL

A - Michael A. Linton

{BIO 2053429 <GO>}

Yeah. The faster we can get the better, but the omni-channel helps a lot. Our ability to reach out to
you and few FFRs – sorry Farmers Friendly Reviews digitally or to schedule calls with you and
everything, allows us to get ahead of the game which allows us to do more cross selling. The more
products we launch, the better because then we have (01:13:02) to sell. And the better we
coordinate the channels, to someone's earlier point about specialty, the more we have an
opportunity to do this.
In the end this comes down to how good is your agent force and the connection with omnichannel. And that's really what we're working on because I think cross sell is a big deal. And I do
want to emphasize one point that was brought up earlier is, when you look at the value customers,
they have an incredible amount of choice. They're more likely to buy life. They are more likely to
need – actually really need an umbrella and not have thought through it. They are more likely to
have itemized coverage. So the ability to get an agent in there to help them think of this through is
really a big deal as you tie omni-channel around that, you open a lot more doors.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jeffrey Dailey

{BIO 17070898 <GO>}

And I'll make one more comment too. Mike talked about the master data warehouse that we're
building. We want – you saw the policies up there actually was mine, and we want to have the
policy actually when you come, and this will be something that master data warehouse will allow us
to do, as Mr. Dailey we recognize that you have a home, but you don't have an umbrella, you
should probably have an umbrella click here for more information or let us connect you with your
agent. So that really will start opening up the ability to drive targeted cross-sell, where we can
actually use big data to predict who should have certain products or not, and that will be – we will
start having that capability next year.

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}

I see.

Q - Marcus P. Rivaldi

{BIO 5739374 <GO>}

Thank you. It's Marcus Rivaldi at Morgan Stanley. So within the omni-channel approach, are you
seeing trends as you improve the online experience maybe the phone experience, trends away
from agents to choose, say, the more the current day way of doing things always is still the agent,
a really big part of the sales process and the renewal process for Farmers.
And the second, just on the net promoter score, there's a bit of volatility between the end of 2013
to 2014, and there's a big jump into 2014 prior to that big four, could you explain a little bit what
was going on there please?

A - Jeffrey Dailey

{BIO 17070898 <GO>}

So if we take the second one, I'll have Mike to handle the first one. So the net promoter score and
we get over 6,000 completed surveys every single month and there is a lot of volatility in those
numbers. So any given month we feel good about the direction, but there is a range around that
value. So the November number that just sort of popped was probably, we happened to find a
bunch of customers who liked this little bit more than we had in the past.
The other thing we found with net promoter score, it's really interesting is that there's seasonal
variation in it as well. So if you remember the chart, you have kind of the decline in the summer and
what's great about this? Net promoter score for me is really good for actually two things. Number
one, as you think about we have limited choices in capital in terms of what we can do to invest in,



FINAL

where really net promoter score allows the customers to actually drive those capital and effort
decisions.
But the second thing is also, so it allows us for the seasonal debt (01:16:00) it allows us actually to
create hypotheses on why that's happening, and our hypothesis and we're in the midst of testing
this now, is that our agents tend to go on vacation a lot in the summer. They're harder to get a
hold of. Therefore, our people are a little bit less happy about the service and now we can actually
test things like that, that we never before we don't even had insight into at all.

Q - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

[Question Inaudible] (01:16:24)

A - Jeffrey Dailey

{BIO 17070898 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

So what's changed between – do you think between 2013, 2014 for all these projects?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jeffrey Dailey

{BIO 17070898 <GO>}

That would be – all of those projects and more. And probably, if I had to take the two biggest ones
on that, number one, the Farmers Friendly Review and this is, literally, if a customer reports that
their agent wanted to sit down and review where their life was and where their insurance, then you
have to do it. Just sit I'm willing to offer you the ability to sit down and talk about where you're at.
We saw a 15-point higher net promoter score for customers who have been offered than those
that hadn't. We had a big push as a company. And as Mike said, we used all of our channels to
actually schedule appointments with our agents. I actually have one, where you think I should be
fairly knowledgeable about insurance. At least I told Martin that all the time. And I ended up buying
40% more homeowners cover that I didn't actually realize I did need, so just on personal anecdotal
basis.
And then the second one was Mike was nice, but our web service, our digital service and people
as he said expect that, was really not very good. It was awful. And we have made it be sort of okay.
We've kind of a long way to go but I would say those are the two biggest things that have really
structurally changed those numbers. And that's actually what I feel good about. I feel good that we
are structurally higher in 2014 than we were in 2013 and we're going to have to be structurally
higher again in 2015. We need the next set of projects to actually move that up further.

A - Michael A. Linton

{BIO 2053429 <GO>}

And I think I'll go back to your question now about, are you seeing trends in omni-channel, is it
moving away from the agent? The answer is no. What and why and how I like to think about omnichannel is an aged customer and then a company expenses perspective. And the more we put
omni-channel in place, the more we are unloading, what I'll call, just pain in the butt things in the
system.
So if you have a problem now and you can't do it on the web, you call your agent or you call the call
center. That takes away selling time. That takes away Farmers Friendly Review time, that takes
away cross-sell time. As we fix the omni-channel, we get a lot more customer self-service which
the customers like a lot better. It frees the agents up to do what they really want to do, which is
sort of customers, and it actually drags expenses out of the system. So the trends that we're
seeing are all highly positive in this way and they're not in any way detracting from the agents. In
fact, they're freeing up the agents to do what we think agents do best which is actually meet and
connect with customers. And that's kind of where we're going with omni-channel, why digital
fundamentally as core as service first, selling second, and marketing last.



Q - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

FINAL

Just a follow-up to that. I mean again, it seems that with the way – you can interact on web, you get
live help overall on the website or on your phone. To what extent, do you need to be having that
face-to-face discussion whether people seeing the real value in that face-to-face sit down
discussions?

A - Michael A. Linton

So I'd go back and – I know we're flipping slides behind us. So I would get back to that slide that I'm
extremely satisfied with my agent and the net promoter score of 60%. I think you're absolutely
right, if I'm trying to change a vehicle and it's 10 o'clock at night and I've worked all day, I don't
actually need the agent to do that. And if I can't sort it out on the website, I'm probably frustrated.
But you can get live chat on the Farmers site that actually is going to help you that. If my son is
going to start to drive and I'm going to think about what kind of car I want to buy and what the
premium might it be, you're much better off talking to your agent on that. So it's really, it's the
value-added services or the planning forward that the agent brings lot of value. The transactional
help we want to get is much of that away from the agent and the company, and frankly outsource
it to the customer as we can.

A - Jeffrey Dailey

Bloomberg Transcript

{BIO 2053429 <GO>}

{BIO 17070898 <GO>}

And I don't think we went into the – how the agent is incented here. If we write the policy in
another channel, it gets assigned to an agent. The agent gets a very small commission. The
incentives are all for the agent to build that customer relationship. If the customer doesn't want
that relationship, okay, the agent doesn't really make any money. If the agent does start crossselling and building relationship, the agent starts getting a lot more commission. So essentially, the
agents like the fact that we actually are giving them a policy and the more of the confident planner
is the better, because that's much more cross-sell opportunity than a pricing churn person. But the
incentives are in place, for us and for the agent both to build that relationship
So with that we'll take couple more questions and then see if there's anything on the phone. Nick, I
think you've had your hand up for a while.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 21515144 <GO>}

Nick Holmes with Soc Gén. This might be a bit of a naïve question I don't know, but wanted to ask,
if you're not going to be a low cost operator, is there any scope for you to go, really sort of up
markets into financial planning, away from your core activity. Is that so? Is that a silly question?

A - Jeffrey Dailey

{BIO 17070898 <GO>}

No, it's not a silly question, we do that. So Farmers does a limited broker dealer where our agents
sell mutual funds, variable annuities, and those kinds of products. Now, it's our best agents they're
licensed in the U.S. to do that, and that really ends up cementing the property and casualty
relationships or the life insurance relationships that we have. Now we won't be go so up market
that you would think that you would get financial planning advice from a Farmers agent, but if you
want to buy an American funds and rollover a 401(k), we do that at Farmers.

Q - Stef an Schürmann
Yes Stefan Schürmann from Vontobel. I've two questions. First one is basically on distribution. Just
can you remind me on your distribution mix on premiums written?
And second one on the surplus. I understand I think that's quite some surplus note out there so
that the situation is adequate, but I mean not really comfortable. So if you really go back to growth
going forward, I mean how much growth can you sustain with that base?

A - Jeffrey Dailey

{BIO 17070898 <GO>}



Okay. So the first question was on distribution.

Q - Stef an Schürmann

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Premium distribution.

A - Jeffrey Dailey

{BIO 17070898 <GO>}

Premium distribution. Rough order of magnitude and James can probably keep me honest here,
but rough order of magnitude. About 70% of our premium is generated through exclusive agents
and that would include us, very small now kind of the omni-channel sales that are getting
associated or intermediated with an agent. The other 30% is roughly 15% independent agent, 15%
drug distribution. And I think as we go forward in the future, the distribution mechanisms outside of
independent agent, which we have another brand, we call Foremost that has relationships with
35,000 independent agents in the United States. That's greater catching, one-off kind of business
and it's very profitable and they do a phenomenal job. But that will be a less and less important
part of Farmers, as we go forward. It's really going to be this omni-channel Farmers brand as we
go forward.
In terms of surplus, we did do a surplus notes offering. I believe, it closed in the third quarter. We
raised $500 million. We retired $300 million of notes. So we ended up with sort of net addition of
$200 million. We are comfortable with, where our surplus is today. In fact it's over the stated range
and our expectation is that we will – the Board of Governors will lower the quota share as we go
into 2015. And I guess, your last question was we feel – again, given the quota sharing mechanism,
that we can really grow it whatever rate we need to grow, if we need to adjust that lever. We much
preferred to do that on an exchange surplus basis, as opposed to have a lever, but that does
provide us with that opportunity.

Q - Stef an Schürmann
So I think sort of one more – one question. It's probably has (01:24:21). How much room is there for
cross-fertilization between the U.S. and UK what works there that would work here and vice-versa?

A - Jeffrey Dailey

{BIO 17070898 <GO>}

That's probably not a great question for me because I'm not much of a UK. I know I'm in the UK,
but I'm not much of a UK expert. I do think if you think that the fundamental difference to me in the
marketplace is I understand it's everybody in the UK, you can correct me although and my
colleague, Mike Kerner here who can – would know for sure is that there is essentially no rate
regulation in the UK, and so you can actually change things on the fly.
For us we have 50 – actually 53 states or governmental entities that actually regulate rates. I have
to be very specific about what I'm going to want to do, and I can't change them. Some things in
California you can't change them forever, it seems like. And so you don't have that sort of freedom
to act that you have in the UK in the U.S. I think that's a big difference. I think another big difference
is there are a lot of proprietary big data tools, credit being probably the biggest one where we
use credit scoring for both auto and home owners, insurance in every state by California where it's
not permitted. And that is not – we don't just use your FICO score and say, predict how you're
going to actually – what kind of risk it will be. We actually go through in painstaking detail and
associate elements in your credit file that they have a propensity to loss and then we model that.
And that is proprietary to Farmers. In our case, it's proprietary to other companies and other cases.
So it makes the aggregator model a lot more difficult to work without voluntary cooperation of
other insurers. So I think to me, those are the two big differences that won't – I don't think you can
translate one market to the other.

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}



Thank you. So now we'll take a 15-minute break. So we'll be back in around about 10 past. Thank
you.

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
FINAL

Mike Foley

{BIO 15880890 <GO>}

Okay. As people are taking their seats, I am Mike Foley, CEO for North America Commercial and
Craig Fundum and I are excited to be here to be able to present the Zurich North America
Commercial story to you today. We'll highlight some of our key components of our strategy going
forward, and in the time we have we can't go deep on all the elements. I'd like you to have a
sense of the pride we have and the progress we've made on our technical discipline and the
strong foundation of technical discipline, as well as the excitement around the opportunity we see
going forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the last couple of years, 2012 and 2013, we've grown 3% to 4% on our top-line. 2014, 2% yearto-date through the nine months. At the same time, we've delivered very solid financial results. So
we're very excited about how we're poised in the marketplace and how we're shifting from the
period of consolidation and reentering in the book to one of continued technical discipline, but
top-line growth as well.
Couple of key things I'd like you to take away from today. First is we've reshaped the business,
delivering strong results, but there's still room to improve. Second, the U.S. commercial insurance
space is undergoing far reaching change, which plays to our strengths. Third, investments in
customer segmentation and predictive analytics position us at the forefront of the industry. And
then, fourth, going the last mile will be critical and by that we mean, getting it to the frontline, to
the transaction level to getting underwriters to interact with brokers and customers, and have
different outcomes as a critical component, so execution will be key.
I want to briefly frame the North American landscape for Zurich North America. Zurich North
America includes, North America Commercial which I lead, but also Global Corporate in North
America. Remember Global Corporate North America is part of a global business unit called Global
Corporate. Within North America, we go to market as One Zurich. So we have a shared distribution
channel. We have many shared services. So the scale of that benefits both Global Corporate and
NAC in the marketplace. That's roughly a $14 billion footprint across North America, think of it as a
$1 billion in Canada, $13 billion in the U.S. roughly.
If we then move to North America Commercial and talk about the businesses that we're in,
commercial markets is about $3 billion business. Craig will go into a little more detail about that,
but think of this as core middle market standard lines, really what you would think of as the core
commercial space. Companies of $5 million to $750 million in size is what North America
Commercial would focus on where Global Corporate focus above $750 million in general. There is
a couple of industries where we go up higher because we have a vertical, in a couple of places the
Global Corporate comes down lower but think of that size dimension is basically NAC versus
GCINA.
Specialty Products, this is directors and officers liability insurance, professional liability, excess
casualty, lower frequency, higher severity businesses in general. Specialty products which require a
very specialized, underwriting expertise, about a $2 billion business. Programs is a unit where we
go to business typically in a one-to-one relationship with the program administrator. So we'll try to
find a partner, they will typically do the underwriting at a transaction level within a defined appetite
and execution that we frame for them. And we work together to build a profitable book and
they're incented both on production but on profitability typically.



FINAL

So it's a unique relationship that we have there, an example of this should be our veterinarian
program. So we work with one program administrator, they target veterinary services across the
U.S. We're a leading provider of that and it would be the standard P&C lines, but also the
professional lines for veterinarian coverage. So that's an example of a program, just to a give a
little context there. Within programs we also would have our group captives unit which is a about a
$1 billion of group captives.
Our direct markets unit is the only place that we go to market with a direct sales force and this
group sells directly to auto dealerships, so car dealers in the U.S. And when we sell them the
standard P&C coverage to cover their physical plans, their inventory, their building as well as liability
insurance, but then we also sell F&I coverage, which is a coverage that would pick up where the
standard manufacturer warranty would end off. And they sell that to their customers. So when you
buy a car and you go into the auto dealership in the U.S., you'll negotiate the price first, but then
you'll talk about other add-ons. And one of those would be this additional warranty that you could
purchase. It's a very profitable business for us and for the auto dealers and we work together to
build a profitable book.

Bloomberg Transcript

So a diverse set of businesses across North America Commercial, generally, in that $500 million to
$750 million size. Another thing I want to highlight is we have the business units that I've been
talking about within the shared services. The shared services are the standard things you would
think of: claims, distribution, marketing, finance. But the interesting thing that's happened over the
last five years here is that, if you went back five years to seven years, many of our people would
be in the business units, so we would have had heavier business units with dedicated CFOs,
dedicated Chief Underwriting Officers, marketing people working in the businesses.
We pulled all of those out into a shared service platform. So now 70% of the people in North
America would be in the shared service platform. This lets us capture scale, lets us build better
capabilities and then share those capabilities across the business units. It also lets the business
units focus more specifically on the marketplace and delivering to the brokers and customers in
the market. That's been a big shift for us and one that's allowed us to actually play more at our
scale and (01:31:59) more to our weight. We think that's one of the things that would be important
in this industry going forward. Scale will matter and larger competitors will have advantages.
I'd like to talk about how we think about our businesses across a nine-box grid that we use on a
regular basis. Typically, twice a year, we have profitability reviews. And we look at it in two ways on
a tactical line box and a strategic line box. So tactical line box is to the left of the slide and it has
two dimensions. The vertical dimension is the one-year forward looking return on risk-based
capital, so it's a return metric. The horizontal is the combined ratio with a better combined ratio,
moving to the right and forward combined ratio to the left.
So what we want our businesses that are delivering higher returns and more attractive combined
ratios on a one-year forward looking view. That's the green region and NAC we see as in that
green section. We've taken off the cut-offs from the grid for obvious reasons. The red would be
ones we want to move away from and avoid. The strategic nine-box does a similar thing, but it
takes a 10-year historical return on risk-based capital. So we remind ourselves of where we have
been and then we take a one-year forward looking return on risk-based capital. So we look to
where we think we'll be going. And so by having that 10-year, one-year view on return and then a
one-year, one-year view on return and combined ratio, we think we balance how we'd like to
manage our book.
So North America Commercial overall is in the green. I can then break that down into commercial
markets, programs, and direct markets, and specialty products. Again, all three are in the green on
both the tactical and the strategic nine-box. We can break that further into sub-business units within
each of those and you start to see a bit more diversity with some of them moving more into the
red. And then, we get down to the level that we really manage at, which is 57 market baskets. And
so this is within the sub-business units, the business units and the overall North America



FINAL

Commercial business unit. 57 market baskets that we think are unique enough that we can make
decisions about whether to grow or shrink and how to actually position them strategically in the
marketplace at a market basket level. An example of that would be middle-market contractors
versus large contractors. And so we might actually have a different perspective on the profitability
of one of those and then decide how we're going to approach that moving forward.
I'm going to give you one example of this that we've talked a bit about with folks over time
specialty auto. This was a book that we actually mentioned had some challenges with adverse
development about a year-and-a-half ago, but I want to go back to 2011. At the time, this book was
a average profitability book. It wasn't in the green. It wasn't in the red. I'm going to play forward
two profitability reviews and we started to see some downward trending in the book and started
to move into the red.

Bloomberg Transcript

We started to take some aggressive actions on thinking about how to reposition it. We had some
ideas on how to fix the book. We gave that sometime to mature. The book continued to
deteriorate rather than moving back in the direction that we hoped it would move. So we then
made a very strong decision to shrink the book aggressively and move to the profitable core of
the book. As a result of that, we shrank that book to about $80 million, we'd started that journey at
$300 million. So we gave it sometime to watch. We tried to implement some actions. When those
actions didn't take hold, we became more aggressive and reshaped the book. That's an example
of how we think about using this nine-box on a dynamic basis to actually manage market baskets
and overall that adds up to the performance of the business.
If I bring it back then to the tactical line box and I'm going to show you a timeframe from 2010 to
today. And what we found is and what you see is 36% of the book was in the green in 2010, now
70% of the book is in the green as of the current profitability review. So a significant shift in the
movement towards the green driven by a regular use of this in our regular operation of the
business. So this highlights one of the tools we use to manage our portfolio over time.
Martin mentioned in his intro that I would talk a bit about us going from red to green. I joined Zurich
in 2006 as COO for North America Commercial and then became CEO for North America
Commercial in 2008. I joined from McKinsey. I'd been at McKinsey for 10 years. The last four years
I'd worked pretty much exclusively with Zurich, though. But one of the things at McKinsey that we'd
get done was a study called The Journey, and it looked at the profitability of various companies
and that labeled companies red that were significantly underperforming relative to the industry
and green if they were significantly outperforming.
And at the time, I was not aware of any company that had moved successfully from red to green.
It's a very difficult thing to change from systematically underperforming to systematically
outperforming. So when I tell the story to all the people at North America as well, when I joined, at
the time, I had a BlackBerry, which has almost become a unknown device, but I did have a
BlackBerry. And I had to put a password into my BlackBerry. And the password was red-to-green or
some permutation of that. And the reason for that was, I came to Zurich because I saw us poised
to be first company in North America to be able to do that to go from red to green.
So that was my password to my BlackBerry. Since we're all addicts to that, it turns out that I'd
probably type that in half a million times over the next 10 years. I've changed my password,
though, this year. And the reason was in that first timeframe from – I'll go back one second – in that
first timeframe from 2005 to 2007, North America Commercial was the blue dot. We were behind
the industry. The triangle is the industry and then the gray dot is an average of the top three
competitors. All of this for commercial books as best we can construct them from reported
financials, okay, and in the U.S.
From 2008 to 2010, we moved to a position of outperforming the industry, but not yet in a point to
declare success, because I hadn't been persistent. But we were outperforming the industry and
still lag the top competitors. If you roll forward then 2011 through 2013, we've maintained our



FINAL

outperformance of the industry. So we're confident now that we've moved from red to green and
that we now – our next challenge is to go from green to best, right. We've said we wanted to be
the best global insurer in the world, we also want to be the best insurer in North America. And to
be the best, we want to be profitable and growing. And so we'd look at those top competitors
and see those as opportunity to close that gap. So we no longer are concerned about whether
we're beating the industry, we're looking forward to closing the gap with the other top
competitors.
So a couple of things about the industry I'd like to highlight. First scale matters more than ever. This
is becoming a place where there will be winners and losers and scale will be one of the ways that
that will be determined. With that scale, though, it's key to invest it correctly. So the largest careers
are investing significantly in predictive analytics. The ones who get it right it will be a key
differentiator for them in the marketplace. There will also be a continued barbelling of the broker
channel. So the large brokers will continue to get larger. They continue to grow until acquire
(01:93:20). There will be small niche brokers that will always be competitive and have a place in the
marketplace. But we think you'll see larger brokers and niche brokers in the marketplace.

Bloomberg Transcript

Industrialization of processes will differentiate competitors. And this is a place that, as an industry,
we've made some progress, but it's really hard to declare that we've had success here, right. We,
as an industry, are so very paper-intensive, very – our processes are not simplified and streamlined
end-to-end. And it's an area that the best competitors will get better at and we're continuing to
work at. We're doing things like moving work from underwriters that can be done by underwriting
assistants or by rate tax (01:39:57).
So we're moving the work to the best appropriate place that frees up time for the underwriters to
focus on the marketplace and higher value underwriting tasks. It also quite obviously moves work
to people who might be better able to do it because sometimes the less challenging and exciting
work isn't covered as well by someone who'd rather be out in the marketplace selling. So getting
that industrialized process, capturing scale, getting the right work to the right people is a critical
push for us. And we think it will be a differentiator for key competitors in the marketplace.
And then finally, the rate environment is challenging, but the industry has remained disciplined. So
while rate has tailed off a bit and you can see that in our reported rate as well. And we'll also talk
about the fact that rate is not in and of itself the single unifying metric. It's a bit of a blunt tool that
is a good top line metric. But you really have to look at what's happening with tearing and the
underlying activity of the book and your actual price to your technical price at a per-risk level and
Craig Fundum will give some examples of how we're doing that to bring it to life within his business
unit as part of North America Commercial.
Okay. So the U.S. marketplace is a $260 billion commercial marketplace, large, highly competitive
industry. The top eight players account for about a third of the industry, the remaining 1,000
competitors account for two-thirds. So there is a story here around scale and people of a much
lower scale and we think that will matter increasingly over time.
One example of that is if we look at our win rates, so one is if we provide a quote, what's our hit
rate or our win rate on that quote when we go head-to-head against the other top eight
competitors, we have a certain win rate. When we go head-to-head against the other competitors
of lesser scale, our win rate is 50% higher today than it is against the top eight. So we win our fair
share when we're up against competitors of roughly comparable size. We win 50% more of the
time when we're up against smaller competitors today.
We think over time that will continue to be, if anything an increasing opportunity as we get more
sophisticated on our predictive analytics and some of our other capabilities. So we think we're
building capabilities that will make us the leader among the top eight. Whether or not we're the
leader among the top eight, we know there's lots of headroom in an industry, but we have a 4%
share to grow against all the other competitors. Top eight, but also the remaining thousand.



FINAL

So how are we investing in North America? Couple of areas. On the customer, I'll go deeper on
this in a minute, so I won't talk too much about it now, but we're doing some really interesting
industry leading research on customer and customer behaviors. I would highlight here that we've
also captured a whole account view. So we've re-architected our data, so that we can now look at it
from the customer view. We grew up as did most of the industry as a product focused
organization. So we would sell a product and we would track that. It was very hard for us to say
what's the total relationship with a customer from the customer viewpoint. We've turned that
around now so we can still track performance by product, but we can now look at whole account
view and look at that customer view to see everything we do with them, which is a very important
shift in mindset and then how you can manage the overall value of the book. So that's the
customer.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the broker, we're investing to understand the brokerage more deeply, understand what they
value to sharpen our value proposition to brokers. We're also in the midst of a select broker
strategy. If you went back five years ago, we would have had roughly 17,000 appointed locations in
the U.S. for broker locations. Today that number is less than 4,000. And really if you move one
step further, there is about a 1,000 locations that we do detailed planning with on an annual basis
and then come back each quarter to check on our progress. And so really of those about 800
locations account for 90% of our sales through the broker channels.
So we have a very focused relationship now. We've decided to focus on the broker locations that
we work well with and want to partner with us to build a better and more efficient dynamic. What
that does is on the broker analytics, so when you hear about Aon GRIP or Marsh Market Connect or
Willis WillPlace and the other ones that the major brokers are developing. Brokers have strong
analytics and they're getting stronger. You have to offset that with equal insight and analytics from
the other side.
So for the largest brokers and the largest carriers, there is an opportunity to work together to build
more profitable books and to remain sort of at parity in that relationship. If you don't have the
scale and you don't have the analytics, there is a real risk that, as brokers build more insight and
capability, you could be adversely selected. We're confident that we're keeping up in that dynamic
and that, in fact, by taking our side and theirs together, we're building more profitable and
stronger relationships at a location level with our major trading partners. That's what we call our
broker engagement model where we're going very deep in understanding what the lead
opportunities flow are at each location and how we're doing there and using data to shift it to a
data-driven discussion with brokers. So lots of interesting work on the broker side.
Predictive analytics, I'll also go deep answering and I skip that for now, and instead, talk briefly
about ops and IT. So all of the major players have legacy systems in place, right. We have data and
systems and the landscape that can be quite cumbersome. We are investing to simplify that. We're
trying to create a simpler user interface for our underwriters and our claims professionals. They can
get in through a single layer. They still can access the functionality and the data that are required to
do their job, but we're trying to make that a simpler process for them. And at the same time,
we're trying to get our data architecture to be one that we can better manipulate and access and
use to drive predictive analytics. So we're reshaping our IT landscape, and at the same time, we're
reshaping our process landscape, trying to focus on simplifying our end-to-end processes. A big
push for us to actually drive for a simpler and cleaner operations in IT landscape.
I'd like to shift now and go bit deeper on the customer work. We've done some industry leading
work, we believe, around customer segmentation. And so we did deep interviews, we looked for
the dimensions, we found two dimensions that we think differentiate how customers think about
insurance. And this is in the marketplace, it's not at Zurich for now, right. So in the marketplace, we
think the two differentiating dimensions are the relative level of engagements. So how much does
the customer want to talk about the insurance decision? How much they want to understand the
risk? Do they want to read white papers and really understand what's driving the risk for their
industry and for them individually? If they do, they're on the higher end of this dimension on the
vertical side.



FINAL

Some customers really don't want to do that. They think insurance is just something they need to
have. They know they have risk, but they don't really want to get deep into it. So they need to buy
insurance to cover off that risk, but they don't want to become personally very proficient at it. So
they have a low level of engagement in the conversion about insurance.
On the other dimension, the relative risk profile, the higher the risk profile, the further to the right
and the lower the further to the left on the horizontal dimension. And this is from the customer's
view point. So how much does a customer believe that they have risk that they're trying to
manage? So we found five segments in the marketplace that we think are interesting. The first one
is strategic engagers in the upper right. This is a segment that believes they face high risk. They
tend to be larger companies and they also want to engage in the insurance conversation and the
risk management conversation, so they're at the upper end of both scales.

Bloomberg Transcript

This segment is actually exactly the segment that we've been targeting in our global corporate
customer space now for over a decade. We did it intuitively because we talked to the customers
and understood their need and understood that they wanted to get engaged and have
relationship leaders and the value added services that global corporate delivers, we now can label
them and understand them better in what's driving them. So that's the strategic engagers.
The busy negotiators are an interesting segment. This is the price value – the price focused
component in the marketplace much like the dark blue component of the Farmers' chart, right. So
these are price conscious consumers. At the end of the day, they don't value any other things
highly, whether it's a relationship, or a tool, or a whitepaper, price is the thing they over-index on
significantly. It's about a third of the market. When we looked at this, we decided to focus on
expertise seekers. So these are people who want to engage in the conversation about insurance,
not quite as intensively as the strategic engagers and they have a moderately high level of
perceived risk.
By the way, this is the North America Commercial target segment for the core commercial
segment. We really will have large corporate customers to be strategic engagers and midmarket
customers to be expertise seekers. So what do these customers value? First, expertise in our
industry. They want to know they're working with someone, a broker and a carrier who understand
their industry and understand the risks they face. Second, strong reputation and strong references.
They want to know it's a credible company that they can do business with that they're making a
good choice. Third is the claims touch points and a carrier who fairly settles claims. They want to
know in that trust-based decision, insurances is the active, making a payment and buying a policy in
the hopes that when you have a claim someone will be there to fulfill that expectation at the time
of the claims.
They want to fair claim settlement process. And then they want fairness and transparency
throughout the relationship, but particularly, during the renewal process. They want to engage in a
conversation about what's changed, what's happening with their risk. And then finally, they do value
both the carrier and the broker. They want a broker they have confidence in and a carrier they have
confidence in. And they would value a tripod-type relationship where that happens.
So when we look at our book, we over-index on expertise seekers. They're 20% of the market, but
they're 45% of our book. Without having focused on them exclusively, we already over-indexed
there, because our value proposition resonates. And if you look also at the busy negotiators, I'm
quite happy to see that whilst 31% of the market is 10% of the North America Commercial book. So
we under-index on the price-sensitive part of the marketplace. This makes sense. We are a value
added provider. We do deliver distinctive expertise. We wouldn't intentionally pursue the priceconscious portion in the market. Of course, if the price is appropriate, we're happy to sell to a
price-conscious consumer still.
We also then stepped back in as part of this work looked at the moments of truth across the entire
relationship and we identified 12 key moments of truth for a customer, points in the relationship,



FINAL

where you can reinforce and cement the value that the carrier delivers in the relationship. We've
blurred out many of these because we don't, for now want, to disclose them and we think that
we've spent some real effort and time to get that right. So we'd like to keep that confidential.
I left two that are pretty obvious ones, just to give you a sense of what is the moment of truth. So
in claims, when you file a claim that's a moment of truth, right. The first time you actually pick up
the phone or go to the website and try to file a claim, how that works out for you actually affects
how you feel about the quality of that relationship. And then another one obviously is when you
receive a claims payment and it get settled, does it actually – did it work out fairly and
appropriately? So those are two moments of truth. The others, for now, I don't want to highlight in
detail. But the key is we know what these moments of truth are and we're building out our value
proposition to better deliver against all of them.

Bloomberg Transcript

An example of that is in the claims first notice of loss. So we do transactional net promoter score
and we do net promoter score just like Farmers does. Actually they did it about a year or two
before us and we've been doing it for a little over a year now. So one of the things we found was
when we did the transactional net promoter score for claims at the first notice of loss, we had
some unique input from the detractors. They said things like the call took too long. So it was just
too long of a process. And we went back and looked at that and you can go back to the individual
comments from the individual people and we realized that what was happening was when we
hired new people, they weren't as well trained and equipped to actually handle a process.
So it was actually a specific issue of when new hires came on, we needed to up our training and
get them more focused on customer service and responsiveness in the call itself. So we
addressed that. Another one was a comment that the website was difficult to navigate and that it
was hard to file a claim. So we went back and revamped the website and republished an easier-tonavigate and easier-to-use website for filing a claim.
A third is that new customers wanted an easy-to-understand process. The first time you were a
customer and the first time you filed a claim, it wasn't clear to them exactly how to do that. So we
developed a claims kit that provides guidance on how to easily report claims and now, as a new
customer, we give you a claims kit before you have a claim to help you understand how to move
forward when or if a claim were to occur.
So relatively simple fixes to the process. But as a result of that, we've seen our transactional net
promoter score go from 67, which was already high to 76, which is quite high on the first notice of
loss. So we think these types of activities and responding to the feedback to the customer will
make our value proposition stronger and cleaner over time.
So let's step back and look at our whole book for net promoter score. At the bottom, you can see
that, in 2013, we had a net promoter score of 37, that's moved up to 40, so we've improved our
net promoter score year-on-year. Also what's interesting is if you look at promoters versus
detractors, we've seen several things that I think also Farmers experienced, but we can now
confirm it in our book.
The first is not surprisingly, but very comforting to see, if you are a promoter, you have a higher
retention rate than if you are a detractor. So in a 11 point higher retention rate for promoters,
people who are willing to recommend Zurich. Also, if you are a promoter, you have a higher
average premium. So it's 45% higher average premium with promoters and with detractors. So as
we work to improve our net promoter score and our transactional net promoter score, this will
drive higher retention and higher average premium per customer, which we think is actually a very
exciting lever for us to pursue.
I want to shift now and talk about predictive analytics. So I'm sure, as you go to different Investor
Days, many of the larger firms are talking about predictive analytics and the fact that they're doing



FINAL

them. And in fact, if you're an at scale (01:54:43) competitor, it's hard to imagine that you're not
either actively doing or trying to figure out how to do predictive analytics. It will be required in this
industry. We've been doing predictive analytics since 2008. In 2008 to 2010, we established a
team of predictive modelers, we built our first six first generation models that actually started to
show predictive lift curves and we had 37 external data sources that we use to augment our
internal data sources.
So 2008 to 2010, our first horizon, we were doing that. The next horizon in 2011 to 2013, we kept
the team in the U.S., but we also established a team in Bratislava, which is a cheaper location and it
turns out math is a global language, right. So if you're trying to update models and do statistics, it
doesn't all have to be done in the U.S., right. So we can actually build a global capability to access
talent across the world and to optimize our model. We built another five first generation models
and then we also started to build our second generation models. We started to improve the ones
that we had already issued to get better insights and better lift. And then we also started to do 58
insight projects. So coming together, looking for insights on books or parts of books and predictive
components of the books.

Bloomberg Transcript

Finally, as you look at 2014 and forward, we're expanding the team further. We're hiring data
scientists. We're investing quite a bit in our predictive analytics team. We're looking to build more
first generation models as well as continuing to augment the previous models with second
generation insights. And now, we're also building out a data lake, which is four to five times the
current capacity of our internal data capability. So really trying to get to a much different scale of
data and analytics and the ability to drive insights. So this is a progression. It's not a cold start. But
we're excited about the trajectory that we're on in improving our analytics over time.
So one thing we're doing here is we're taking internal data, which is structured internal data, it's in
databases and data marts and you can go find it and it's relatively accessible. We're augmenting
that with unstructured internal data. Examples of this would be notes and a claims file, right. So if
you – the claims adjusters have some structured data that we capture, but they put lots of things
into free-form notes. We can now go through and look for free-form notes and look for repetitive
references to issues or that drove that claim and we can feed that back into the underwriting to
have more sophisticated insights into what drives claims and we have with just this structured data.
We're then going to structured external data. So this is weather data from NOAA, it's CAT models,
it's credit history, it's ISO-bureau (01:57:31) information, all the things you can collect in structured
format externally and then that's also moving to unstructured external data, which is things like
class action histories, online forms, trade publications. Taking all that data marrying it up in the data
lake and looking for ways to find insights across the structured/unstructured, internal/external is a
huge shift for us in the industry and the level of insight that we can get.
And what's happening here is that in industry that over time had grown up with the brilliance of the
individual underwriter, the person who could intuit a good risk from a bad risk and price a good risk
and a bad risk is moving to a place where the scale and the level of insights is beyond anyone
person's pattern recognition. There's just too much data, too much information.
So, to show this to our underwriters, we actually pulled them in, we took our best underwriters, and
we said, tell us things that you look for when you're underwriting an account, and I've mixed
together different lines of business here, whether it's auto, or property, or liability. And so is it the
roof age on a property account or the year built? Is it the financial rating? Or the number of
stories? Or is it the number of endorsements on an auto policy? These are all things that some of
our best underwriters look to as one component of how they evaluate a risk. And so we took those
and we pulled them all together, this is just a sample of those, and these were the risk insights
workshops that we did.
We said, let's look at how predictive your insights are or are not. And the interesting finding is that
two-thirds of the time those insights were predictive. So the things they were looking for did



FINAL

actually correlate with a higher loss expectation or a lower loss expectation they thought it was a
good predictor. Even when it's predictive getting the exact quantum of how much it's predictive is
a very challenging thing.
But, regardless, a third of the time, they were actually counter-predictive. The things they thought
mattered didn't matter and, in fact, didn't matter in the opposite way many times. So what you
have is an individual underwriter is right about two-thirds of the time, right. And so by doing this we
can actually confirm to them the fact that they have to move away from their individual pattern
recognition to the broader use of deeper insights driven by data and the analytics. There will
always be a place for underwriter judgment. We will look for underwriters to make balanced calls
and measured calls throughout the process and Craig will talk more about how we're doing that
with 5/5/5. But while we want underwriters with judgment, we also need underwriters to realize
their individual judgment is insufficient, it needs to be augmented by the data and the analytics
that's available to the organization.

Bloomberg Transcript

So let's take an example here of workers' compensation book with roughly 2,000 accounts.
There's data available in the industry around, what state you do business in, what SIC code, or
portion of industry you work in, what type of work your workers do? Are they office workers? Are
they factory workers? And this is readily available information to everyone in the industry as well as
your experience model, what have been your losses, right. So if you take a basic level of
information that's available to everyone in the industry, and I took 10 of the 2,000 risks, you can
spread them out from a low to a high loss expectation, right. By the way, everyone in the industry
should be able to do something roughly (02:00:57).
Now, you can lay on top of that Zurich's proprietary insights, which are the additional things that
come from all that additional effort on modeling and you can add a lift curve to this. So if you look
at the one to the far right that shows it up 25%. So this was the risk that already was seen as a high
expected loss in the industry. We would think it's 25% higher expected loss than the industry would
have thought. If you look at the one sort of in the middle of the curve, this was a moderate to light
risk for the – as the basic level of insight of the industry. We would see it as a 40% less risky than
the basic insight. So what you see here is a real dispersion between what a proprietary model can
deliver in terms of insight versus the basic model what the industry can deliver.
Now let me flow through all 2,000 accounts in there and then break it into 10 deciles. So basically,
that same lift curve across those 2,000 accounts and then we can spread this out into a lift curve
for the book. So what this shows is the first deciles so the first 10% of expected losses, we think
that on average our model would show our insights that it's a 43% lower expected loss than the
basic insight of the industry.
If you went to the other side, we think that there's 10% of the expected losses where we would
see a 44% higher expected loss than the basic level of insight in the industry. So that's a huge
dispersion, right? You start to get a real sense of how much of a difference it can make applying
proprietary insights versus basic insights in the industry. And I know and expect that all of the top
competitors are doing this. They're not all going to come up with the same lift curves, will have
different data, will have different insights. The challenge will be for the other 1,000 companies
that's smaller portion of the marketplace how well can they invest to deliver these insights, right?
So there is a scale event happening here. There will be winners and losers among the top eight.
We think we're well positioned and doing well to do there. Clearly, though, the smaller scale
competitors will be under even more pressure to find these insights and deliver these in the
marketplace.
So we have all these insights, but really it comes down to the last mile, right. So framing this in the
perspective of telecom and the Internet, you can have a T1 line running right outside the front of
your house with lots of information and lots of data running past. If you have a slow speed hookup
from that flow of information to your home, your Internet feels slow, even though just out of the



street, you could have lots of capacity. The equivalent that we're trying to draw here is, we can
have deep insights, other people can have deep insights. What really matters is how do you take
those deep insights and move them to the frontline and have underwriters execute transactions
using those insights on a daily basis with customers and brokers to achieve a better outcome.

FINAL

So that's the last mile, then I'm going to ask Craig Fundum to come up and talk about it.

Craig Fundum
Thank you, Mike. Good morning, everyone. I'm Craig Fundum. I've been at Zurich for 24 years, so
I've had a number of roles in this organization and my current role is that of President of
Commercial Markets and I'll talk a bit more about what does that really mean and how do we
define that.

Bloomberg Transcript

Mike just talked about – and that really fun slide there with all those numbers running across, about
going a last mile. And what he described in the way I think about that is, focused and consistent
execution at the desk level of our underwriters is absolutely critical. The majority of my comments
today are really going to focus on the processes and the tools that we're using on a daily basis
with our underwriters and underwriting managers to help them and prepare them for this new
world order that we're talking about. We want them to learn and improve and really build a muscle
memory so that we can, in fact, deliver not just profitable top line growth, but also profitable
bottom line growth.
So first, let me talk a bit about Commercial Markets. Commercial Markets serves many industries
across North America. We're a large BU. We write, as we said earlier, somewhere around $3.2
billion of premium. We have, as you can see on the left, 300 underwriters, more than 300
underwriters located out in our branch offices close to our customers, close to our brokers, spread
throughout Canada and the United States. Those 300 underwriters are very, very customerfocused. And you can see on the right hand side, we execute upon six customer industry
segments, construction, manufacturing, real estate, financial institutions, technology and
healthcare. Mike talked earlier, just to remind you, our definition of middle market customer in the
United States is, those customers that have revenues between $500 million and $750 million. So
it's a really big part of the market in the United States.
Global Corporate then comes on top of us to provide products and services to those largest
customers across North America. There is two exceptions to that. In construction, we write all sizes
of contractors from $5 million on up through the corporate customer type and in healthcare we
write the healthcare accounts primarily hospitals and we go all the way up through the corporate
customer accounts size.
On the bottom there you see something called pace and that's an internal term we use. It's really
designed. It's a process that we're working on very diligently now so that we could provide
products and services to those customers that have revenues between $5 million and $25 million.
So we're not talking about small businesses here. That's handled by our colleagues the – in
Farmers. We're really talking about the lowest and of middle market. And we know that that
requires a really diligent process, a quick process, the frictional cost there can really be prohibitive.
So we're working very diligently on our internal processes to make that a quick and easy interface
with our brokers.
The other thing, I would talk about is international, now, clearly in Global Corporate, we're focused
on international firms. There are a lot of middle market firms, particularly in the states, but I think
globally that have international exposures. And so we are very actively working on products and
services for those middle market customers whether they're exporting products, they have sales
people across parts of the globe, or they have physical plants located throughout the globe. The
other I think really important thing there to note is that we use both Global Corporate and



FINAL

Commercial Markets, we use the same network and the same systems to issue our policies across
the globe.
So Mike talked about pattern recognition and the individual underwriters' pattern recognition and
how that bias enters into the risk selection and pricing process. And, in fact, we learned and Mike
enumerated on it, a third of the time, they're actually counter-predictive. So one of the things that
we looked at and we said look, it's really, really important that we make sure, we have a consistent
risk assessment and pricing process in our organization. So we set about to measure that. And we
created this thing called 5/5/5. And it's pretty straightforward. What it is, is we take five
underwriting files; we give those to five underwriters; and the expectation would be that those five
underwriters would evaluate the risk and price that risk within a band of plus or minus 5% and we
would then consider them to be calibrated and that would be a consistent risk assessment and
pricing process.

Bloomberg Transcript

So we went out, and not too surprisingly, we found that our underwriters quite frankly weren't
calibrated. In fact, 62% were not calibrated. And we had a pretty wide dispersion of pricing. And
really it goes back to this individual underwriter pattern recognition. I've been an underwriter for 30
years, and I understand risks better than anybody else out there and I know that when this risk
characteristic is there, that's a bad thing. And so I'm going to debit that account or I'm going to
really credit that account, and that really entered into their pricing activity.
So, what did we do? We stepped back, we did a lot of training with our underwriters, we created
new underwriting guidelines, we clarified underwriting guidelines because there was lack of clarity
in some instances, spent time with our underwriters. By the way, we've done this throughout 2014.
And so we went from 62% of our underwriters not calibrated to now 91% of our underwriters being
calibrated, meaning, their price falls within a band of plus or minus 5% of our technical price. So
really dramatic improvement here and now back to this notion of consistent pricing across our
organization.
I would also say that this 5/5/5 process now is a monthly thing that our underwriting managers
spend time with the underwriters, making sure they're calibrated, and it's deep discussions about
why they were or why they weren't calibrated on a particular pricing tool. And we have other lines
of business that we're going to be calibrating on throughout 2015. But this is an ongoing
management activity for us.
So now, let's take a look at another metric that we're driving in our organization. And what we're
talking about here is, tiering. We've been tiering for several years. It's very clear to us this is a
positive thing for us. We will continue to drive tiering results to improve our profitability. If you think
about pricing and rate need, there is multiple ways that a company could do this. You can take a
portfolio, calculate the necessary rate need, and let's make it up, let's say you needed to get five
points of rate for that portfolio. One way to do that would be charge each customer an additional
5%. And we think that's a rudimentary tool, we think that's sort of a bad way to go about it, in fact,
not fair to those customers that don't necessarily need that much rate. And actually, a winner's
curse would occur, those customers that actually needed more rate would get a discount, because
we would only charge them that five points.
So rather what we do is we tear our accounts. So let me describe it for you. You can see on the
left-hand side, we calculate, we take all of our customers for a given quarter, we calculate the rate
need for those customers, and the rate adequacy that those customers have relative to Tier-A,
Tier-B, Tier-C, and Tier-D. We define Tier-A as strongly priced, Tier-B as adequately priced, Tier-C,
underpriced, and Tier-D, severely underpriced.
We then set rate goals. And you can see on the left-hand side, we set a goal for Tier-A to get two
points of rate. We, in fact, achieve two points of rate. You can see all the way across to Tier-D, we
set a goal of 20 point of rate achievement, and we actually delivered 26 points of rate.



FINAL

On the bottom-left, what you can see is, what we like to do is measure how much of our premium
sits in the various tiers. And if you add up Tier-A and Tier-B, both before and after rate, it's about
80% of our business is adequate or strongly priced, which is a really good sign. A 3.4% or 2.7%
after rate falls into Tier D. So it's not a huge amount, but clearly, something that our underwriters
need to act upon going forward.
The other thing then we would do is set premium retention targets. So we expect to get two
points of rate on this particular portfolio within commercial markets. We expect to renew 95% of
those, and in fact, we did renew 95% of the premium and the customers that fell into Tier A.
Conversely on Tier D, we knew that we are going to drive significant rate we expected to only
retain 48%. We actually over-delivered and retained 61%.
And then on the bottom right, what you can see is, again, we think just pure rate is a rudimentary
tool. You can see the percent to target change from rate in the middle there was 5.6 points on this
portfolio. We also picked up another two points just through our tiering for a total of 7.6 points of
rate change on this particular portfolio.

Bloomberg Transcript

So now let me move a bit deeper. So we've gone from sort of all of our underwriters to how we
tier a particular portfolio. Let me take you one level deeper and show you two tools that we're
using every day with our underwriters and our underwriting managers. The first one is PATH and it
really stands for the Pricing Activity Tracking Hub. This really allows our underwriting managers in
real time to sit with their underwriters, go on – by the way, this is a real site, it's not vaporware. I
know it's a bit hard to read, but we wanted to show you, this is a real screenshot of one of our
underwriting teams' performance.
On the top part, you can see all different types of dropdown windows that an underwriting
manager can pull down and slice and dice the detailed information in many ways. In the middle
part, you see, in a chart the expiring premium, the renewed premium and rate change, the percent
to target the amount of premium. And on the bottom you see it's illustrated in some charts.
So let's imagine for a second that you're an underwriting manager. Let's click forward. What you
want to look at here is how is your underwriting team performing. And so what you see on the left
is a list of all of the underwriters, we've changed the names to numbers, but what you see on the
left is a list of all your underwriters and how they're performing in their pricing in their percent to
target.
And as you through that, you see some are doing pretty well, they're above 100%, others maybe
not so well. There's one right there in the middle. It's underwriter 570. That underwriter is writing
their business at a 90% to target. So we would say, let's take a look at that and find out really
what's going on with that underwriter. So we would click through. We would say let's talk about 570.
An underwriter 570 is writing, the premium you see there on the left out of 90% to target, and that
big red bar there, that's the severely underpriced business at 32%.
So we'd say, well, what really is happening on a line-up business basis so you would click through,
get more detail, what's the line of business for you, and you see property as a big part of this
underwriter's book, and we see a severely underpriced to the tune of 37% of their business. So an
underwriting manager – you as the underwriting manager would sit down with the underwriter and
talk through this and say, let's understand exactly what's going on with your book of business. The
other thing that you could do as the underwriting manager that we do every day is find out more
detail about this account.
So we click in, we get on the property the detail and up would come a list of customers and the
property line of business and what the premium was and what the AP/TP and the percent to target
was. And you can see here that these accounts are all written below 100% to target and 100% of
AP/TP. So we can actually drill down even farther and I have to apologize, we drill down and the



FINAL

screenshots got so small we actually created a PowerPoint slide for you, but what you'd find is that
while the property is at a 65% AP/TP, the overall account is priced at 104% target. So I would say to
my underwriter, look, let's be diligent around understanding the property risks that we face here,
looks like we've underpriced it a bit, the great news is this customer is well priced overall at 104%
to target.
All right. So one last tool I want to show you and that's something we use with our underwriting
managers and underwriters on a daily basis. And we talk about accountability and responsibility in
our organization and this tool, the underwriting scorecard is one way that, again the underwriting
manager is spending a lot of time with their underwriters talking through key metrics. We empower
our underwriters, but we also hold them accountable. And this tool helps that underwriting
managers spot trends around the various categories across the top that you see productivity,
broker management, book value, technical excellence and process adherence.

Bloomberg Transcript

And we've shaded out a couple of these because for various reasons we think some of these are
proprietary, but it is really a red, yellow, green report, green being good, yellow being, okay, let's
talk about what's going on, and red being you're less than 80% of your targeted goal. This
underwriter happens to be performing pretty well – most of it green. But one of the things that our
underwriting managers can do then is, go deeper on this.
So let's say we wanted to understand what was going on with our calendar year gross written
premium, the underwriting manager could click on that site, and up would come a customer
dashboard that would show all the accounts, the premiums, the lines of business, the percent of
target, et cetera. So the point of all this is, we were talking earlier about a consistent execution of
our underwriters and their pricing and their underwriting of account. We have tools in place for our
underwriting managers to work very diligently with our underwriters, to make sure in fact we are
delivering on those things.
And I guess in concluding my comments, I would say, execution at the front-line is critical. Setting
clear expectations for our underwriters is absolutely necessary and critical, and we do that and
that's what the goals were on that underwriting scorecard. We need to build and continue to use
the robust tools we have today and build additional tools for underwriting managers, and literally
drive better outcomes at the transactional level, but balancing that with the overall customer
dynamics that we face in the marketplace.
So with that, I'll conclude and turn it back to Mike to wrap it up. Thank you.

Mike Foley

{BIO 15880890 <GO>}

Thanks, Craig. And mine is a quick conclusion, then we'll move to Q&A. But just to step back and
remind you, when we framed at the beginning. So we've reshaped the business, we're delivering
strong results, we're beating the industry, but we have room to improve. The U.S. commercial
space is undergoing far reaching change and we think that it plays to our strengths. Investments in
areas around customer segmentation, predictive analytics, as well as others position us at the
forefront of the industry.
And then finally, as Craig was describing, we really feel quite passionately about the fact that the
last mile would be the critical differentiator, it's execution, it's behavior change at the front-line, it's
getting underwriters to understand the difference of what has to happen at the transaction with
the customer, leveraging the deep insights from analytics, that will be a key differentiator. And
that's a place in particular that we think we're very well-positioned. Having done the Zurich way of
underwriting, our organization has a muscle memory around the ability to act as a team and to
follow a coordinated playbook. So the Zurich way of underwriting, we think really has positioned us
well to go that last mile and deliver at the execution level.



And with that, I think we'd open it up for Q&A.

Q&A
A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

FINAL

Farooq, can go first.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Yeah. Hi there, thanks very much. Farooq Hanif from Citi. I just wanted to talk about PATH a little bit
and also predictive analytics. So I mean, you've had the PATH tool for a while now, and I think one
of the questions when you first talked about it was around price elasticity. So to what extent do you
now have more evidence of where rate is going up or going down that you are able to outperform
because of your tools, (02:23:08) so the distribution between minus 5% and plus 5% has a positive
skew. So can you talk a little bit about that?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Craig Fundum
Okay. So the PATH tool has been out in the field now, the managers all have it and use it on a
regular basis. What it lets you do is have a different conversation with the underwriters on a regular
basis. The calibration is new. So when you say the plus 5% to minus 5% on calibration, that was this
year that we really drove that consistent calibration in the field. But what's really important on the
pricing dynamic is, we've invested to have a technical price to understand at an individual
progressed level what the price is that we think we need to meet our target return. And by looking
at our actual price relative to that technical price, we can tell on a progressed basis whether we're
comfortable with the price we're getting for the risk that we're assuming, the expected losses plus
the expenses and returns on capital. And so with that it changes the conversation from the
relatively simple conversation of rate to one about the pricing of the individual components of the
account and the pricing of the overall account. So rate still matters, but it's not the only part of the
conversation.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

I was just wondering on that, I mean obviously it's a great tool and it gives me good insight. But do
you have any evidence that you're doing better than others and getting more?

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

It's a hard thing to compare because I wouldn't apply on how well they understand their
progressed exposures and whether they're getting the right price. But for instance, if I look at our
actual price to technical price for this year versus last year, we think it's strengthened, while at the
same time the rate reported this year was actually a bit lower than the rate reported last year. So
we think the reshaping of the book at the per-risk level actually drives better outcomes than it
would if we just talked about the top line rate.

A - Craig Fundum
Yeah. And I think the immediacy of the tool, the PATH tool itself, the tool that the underwriting
manager can use with that underwriter on a daily basis, we believe not sure we can compare
across competitors, but we believe that just creates a more robust conversation, and
understanding where an underwriter's book is, is really, really important. So we feel strong. It's a
great tool for underwriting managers to use as we said on a daily basis.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

And so just one question on predictive analytics and your workers comp example, one big risk with
all of that is that, you're looking at industry data, internal data, and then other kind of new sources
of data, but what period are you looking at this over historically to get the rating part because a
risk, I mean you look at other industries or other kind of actuarial errors where this has been done,



the problem is that it's self-fulfilling and you end up not getting that advantage anymore as others
do the same. So I was wondering, can you talk a bit about whether you see that's relevant or what
period you're doing this analysis over historically?

FINAL

A - Craig Fundum
So I don't think I can get (02:26:11) into the period that we're doing over, but I think your question is,
and it's a fair question comment that we're certainly aware of. It's a model, and models aren't
perfect. So we don't want to become model wind. And that's where we still want underwriter
judgment to apply judgment within the marketplace, but it also helps directionally to make sure
that we're actually capturing the best insights we can. So I think a part of your question is current or
historical data predictive of the future possibly, and we have to be aware of those dynamics, but
not ignore the past as well.

Q - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

I just wondered, can you give us a feel for how much better your pricing margin is, as you said it is
better, much better since last year.

A - Craig Fundum
I don't think I can, actually, I'll keep my conscience with me, but we track our actual to technical
price and it's stronger this year than last year, but I don't think we disclose that as a percentage.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Okay. Well, I guess the second question will be the same, what's the ROE, or the return on risk
based capital, your actual and how much better? And then the third one is that, you used to say
red, green, what's the next color, in other words where, how?

A - Craig Fundum
It was red to green, it's now green to best (02:27:42). So we actually want to be in that leading
group in the North American industry.

Q - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

And when will you get there?

A - Craig Fundum
As quickly as we can.

Q - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Okay. That's not very helpful. And the last one, so Jeff, explained that when you do new business
in the East, the first year is rubbish, and then you kind of clean up the portfolio. And I imagine it's a
little bit the same, however, if you're placing tools on commercial. And so I'm just wondering, how
much of the stuff, your good stuff you're getting from the tearing you then giving away in order to
achieve the growth that you also beginning to target now, so this growth, how much is that
costing?

A - Craig Fundum
Yes. So I think it's a slightly different comparison. So I think Jeff is talking about when they expand
to the East, that they actually have a scale issue, to build up to a scale before they can achieve
profitability in the book.

Q - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}



It wasn't scale, it was actually losses as I understand from last night's conversation, it's not just
scale.

FINAL

A - Craig Fundum
I'll get there. But, I think and I won't speak for Jeff because he has a different business, but I think
part of it was actually the scale of the business. I will also tell you that I think, in general, in the
commercial space certainly, and I think you can personalize space people would say, there can be a
new business penalty because the business you know is different than the business you're
acquiring. We do track our percent to target or actual to technical price on new business compared
to renewing business. It is several points lower as a percentage of AP/TP but it is above our target
return.

Q - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

All right.
Vinit?

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Thanks. Vinit from Goldman. Just, it's a two sub-questions for Mike and one maybe for Craig. So on
the similar, the best-in-class, the top three gap. Now, you already missed it so much in the PATH to
the pricing seems to be higher AP/TPs. So where is this gap? So what is missing, does the gap
seems quite wide versus top threes. If you could just give a very quick overview of that. And
secondly, on that slide, which you very helpfully showed the nine-grid and which have already gone
massively from 36% to 70% or something. So that seems to be a story which has done a lot. What
more could it do because it's already improved quite a lot. So that's two questions for you, Mike.
And Craig, I think the question is more, you did mention that you don't want model blindness, but
in the span of 12 months you managed to clip all your underwriters into complying with this whole
calibration thing. How – I mean, could you just talk a bit more about how well it go down with them?
Is it really accepted or was it just a forced process? Thanks.

A - Mike Foley

{BIO 15880890 <GO>}

Yes. So I'm going to give a portion of the first one to Steve as well. And I might have actually
(02:30:45) to Craig. So go ahead.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

[Question Inaudible]

A - Mike Foley

{BIO 15880890 <GO>}

So it was around the gap to the competitors and how to close that, and there's no magic bullet.
There's no single thing missing that I can say if we had this one thing, it will close that gap. In fact, I
think it's a holistic improvement across those fronts that we've framed around customer, broker,
analytics, and ops and IT. We think that actually being easier to do business with, having a simpler
process, having a better IT and process architecture will make our underwriters and our service
people better able to respond to broker requests and customer requests, which will help us. We
do think that as an organization, we've been very focused on technical discipline, and this is the
part I'm going to pass tune a second, and we've gotten very strong in technical discipline. In that
journey, we regressed a bit too where we were focused on, the right answer not always winning
the business.
And so one of the shifts that we're trying to push for our field underwriters is maintain the technical
discipline, leverage the insights of the model, bound your calibrations and your judgments, but
apply additional energy in the marketplace in pursuing opportunities at the right price. And so



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

being more of a sales organization, being a bit more focused on pursuing the opportunity through
to the final win versus being happy to take what we could win, but not necessarily pursuing it
aggressively. So I think an increased emphasis and focus on the market, both broker and customer
and freeing up time of our underwriters by simplifying their processes actually it happens spend
more time out in the marketplace and that's the part of it past year.

A - Steve M. Hatch

{BIO 19439322 <GO>}

Yeah. I think part of simplification of processes is identification of what role within our organization
should complete those tasks. So we have a initiative called team based work where, Mike
mentioned it earlier in his comments, we're moving work that's better done at a different level
away from the underwriters, creating time for them to be out in the marketplace. And I would say,
we're going to spend a bunch of time in 2015 and 2016, training our underwriters to be much
better market facing. I think we've done a fair job of underwriting at that desk level, what we got to
get really good at is underwriting and working with our brokers and – knows to know sort of basis.
But relying upon and trusting the models to produce that technical price, but still using that
underwriting judgment, that calibrated underwriting judgment, I think that's part of the answer I
gave you on 5/5/5, that calibrated underwriting judgment around risk characteristics.
So if I could step into that, you ask about the 5/5/5 and the calibration was it accepted by our
underwriters, and I would say, in the beginning not really, sort of for decades for centuries the
model has been, the individual (02:33:53) of an underwriter. You have to spend a lot of years and
you see risks, and you see accounts, and you evaluate them and bias enters in. And so the first
sort of reaction was, wait a minute, are you trying to create a bunch of robots here, are you trying
to automate my process? And the answer is, no, we're not trying to do that, absolutely not trying
to do that. I'll give you an example. In construction, we want to understand how valuable and
effective a fall safety protection program is with the contractor, maybe they're building bridges.
You can't really automate that. Rather what you can do is say, to our underwriters, and that's what
we have done in our underwriting guidelines is, look, when you see a fall protection program that
looks like this, is it words on a page, does that make it effective? Probably not. That's probably
something you might not want to credit in your pricing process.
Conversely, absolutely active, risk engineer is onsite, the customer is very safety conscious, they
execute upon it, they review upon it, weekly, monthly, whatever the frequency is. That's worthy of
some pricing consideration. And so therein lies that underwriter judgment that we still believe is
necessary, but it's not wide disparity of minus 30 points, plus 50 points, it's within a band of plus or
minus 5 points. So really again, getting back to our underwriters calibrate, they initially walked out
of it, and I think now would say it's great, and all by the way there was clarity, there was training.
And now I'm a better underwriter in the marketplace.

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Ralph?

Q - Ralph Hebgen

{BIO 6297020 <GO>}

Thank you. Ralph Hebgen from KBW. Just talking about this, the 5/5/5 program, and related to that
the AP/TP ratio. So two questions on this. First of all, is it possible to give us an idea of, let's say,
the percentage of overall accounts where the AP/TP ratio is still below one. So this sounds
probably technical or basically I'm asking on how many of your accounts are you actually achieving
your price but you still above the technical price? And I think if memory serves, you've given that
sort of ratio in the past. And I believe it's sort of improved from 60% to 80% or something like this,
but don't hold between these numbers. So it would be interesting to see where you are now.
And then obviously, the 5/5/5 calibration which I think you've introduced this year, what feed into
this? So this final gap from, if the 80% is right, from 80% where you were to 100%, are you
confident that the 5/5/5 calibration will actually help you to close that final gap further, and write
new business consistently at above the technical price? And then, of course, finally this is then



something which we'll be able to audit on a quarterly basis. How is your, if you just share some of
your thoughts of how much these initiatives in the technical, the programs and tools which you
have would help you to sustain reserve releases as you go further into the soft market?

FINAL

A - Mike Foley

{BIO 15880890 <GO>}

I'm not sure which of those require the answers. So the first one on the percent of accounts below
a 100%, I wouldn't want to name a number for that. But I can tell you, our portfolio is above 100%.
So the portfolio in total is above our target return as measured on AP/TP basis. The 5/5/5, I don't
think it's actually a question on the calibration, it's actually a question on how does that play into
our competitive dynamic. We think it's an important part of how we're going to close that gap, but,
again, I would think it's one of the four because what we're saying is, in the predictive analytics,
we'll get better models, but we'll also get better execution by pulling in a more consistent
execution at the front-line. So that's one of the things that will close that gap, but I wouldn't want to
ascribe a number to that individually in closing together. And so on reserve releases, I don't think
we talk about reserve releases at the NAC level. So I don't think that there'll be something we
want to go deep on.

Q - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

[Question Inaudible] (02:38:28-02:38:39).

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Mike Foley

{BIO 15880890 <GO>}

Highly confident, because we – well, but the reason is that, we will always trade profit for premium.
So we're not going to try to grow at the expense of profit. So our underwriters clearly know that,
and I think, keep me honest, Greg, one of the things we say quite often in any group we can get
an opportunity is, please show me an underwriter who is underpricing risks because they want to
meet the top line objective because it's a great example some that we don't want to be an
underwriter at Zurich. So we will always look for appropriately priced business and make sure that
the underwriters are doing that.

A - Craig Fundum
Yeah. And I really think it gets back to, at the end of the day, the deep analytical insights and those
things that we can gain from doing that data diary, putting that into the underwriting process so
that we can understand something in a deeper way about our customer versus our competition,
translates into a different technical price. We can be at or above that technical price. It might be
very competitive in the marketplace. That's, I think ultimately the end-game, that we'll be able to
deliver on.

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

I think couple of more questions. So Andrew?

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Thanks. It's Andrew Ritchie from Autonomous. A couple of quick questions. First of all, is there – it's
not mix issue, as to when we compare NAC with your peers. I mean, I'm thinking, in the past,
you've been a bit longer tail, workers' comp has been a little bit more weighty. And related to that
own workers' comp and you talked in the past about doing a lot more deep dives on that and in
particular, I think you've even mentioned in a presentation either last year or recently, could you just
gives us – bring us up-to-date on your latest thoughts on that book, its profitability and what's
improving there. And finally this is probably a stupid question but, when all the – when you provided
the update on how much of your portfolio is in the green versus the red, and it says current, I'm
assuming, that's accident year, so is it fair to say the calendar year hasn't yet reflected that
because there's a lag, I mean or is it current referring to calendar year? Thanks.

A - Mike Foley

{BIO 15880890 <GO>}



FINAL

So on the mix issue, I would say if you compare our book to the industry overall, there probably is a
slightly longer tail to our book given excess casualty, work comps and the long tail lines we have to
professional lines. So that might account for a point or two. Compared to the top three
competitors, we're little closer in comparability, so it might be a point or so. But we've really
started just around that off as let's take the challenge and not try to sort of argue it away with mix.
But, if anything, we're probably a little longer tail, which would support a higher combined ratio to
deliver the same returns. And so, we might be a little further ahead of the industry and a little
closer to that other competitive set. It doesn't close the gap entirely. By the way, this is a two-bytwo that other than (02:42:01) made this all look prettier. This is the two-by-two that I put up every
quarter to my entire team to talk about how we are doing relative to the industry and how we're
doing relative to our competitors. So we don't want to explain it away with mix, but I think mix does
soften it a little bit more than we might have presented here.
On the work comp book itself, we've had some periods where we highlighted that the industry
had seen shift and we had gone from increasing severity and decreasing frequency. There a
period where we had those going in the same direction and we had to react with reserves to that.
We've reacted to that and actually we would say at that moment that our work comp book is well
priced and meeting our return expectations. The work comp book is a diverse book. It's got
guaranteed cost as well as loss sensitive. It's got a lots of mix in there. But overall, for our work
comp portfolio, we think that it's delivering our target returns right now.

Bloomberg Transcript

And then, the green to red, you're right, it's actually, it's driven off of a forward-looking view. So it is
a bit of accident year, calendar mix that is in there.
So there will be time afterwards for questions. I know there's a few more questions in the room.
But I think with that, we'll hand over to George.

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Afternoon everybody. My name is George Quinn, and I am Zurich's Chief Financial Officer. Mike and
I, I think, are the only things that stand between you and lunch, at least for the people in the room.
So I'm going to take the next few minutes to run through – in fact, have a look through the course
of this year, highlight some of the areas where we think we have the potential to further improve
earnings and then try and bring altogether. At the very end, to try and illustrate, I mean, what we
think we could achieve from an ROE prospect.
So with that, I'm going to start with the results in the first nine months of this year. I mean, overall, I
kind of characterize the results as solid, but with room for improvement. As you can see from this
slide, the BOP is up 7% in the first nine months stage and the BOPAT ROE of 11.8% is close to our
target range of 12% to 14%. But just below the bottom end of the range.
At the same time though, we recognize we've actually had some help this year. So if you look at
the numbers, if you normalize cat losses, if you exclude the one of pension gain that we had in Q1,
we would have – we would see BOP as roughly flat this year compared to last year. And if I could
adjust tax rate to expected levels, the BOPAT ROE would have been just above 11%, in other words
somewhat short of the target range.
I think that this underplays the extent of the improvement that we perceive in each of the
segments through the course of the year and while the current market trends (02:45:51) more
headwinds than tailwinds in the course of next two years, we think, we know what we need to do
to continue to improve profitability and to achieve a 2016 ROE target, and I'll come back to this
later in the presentation.
And related to other targets which you can see here, Z-ECM ratio of a 100% to 120% and cash
remittances in excess of $9 billion over the three-year period, I think, we're in very good shape.



FINAL

Our aim is to move back into the target capital range, over the course of the next 18 months,
preferably through deploying capital on to the business.
And what I wouldn't extrapolate the level of cash remittances that we've told you we expect for
2014 for the next two years, we're very pleased with the progress that we've made so far this
year. And in fact, our capital strength and the cash remittances progress underpins the dividend, I
think, clearly provides us with additional levers to improve the ROE, and again I'll come back to this
at the end of the presentation.
I won't spend too much time explaining the nine months results, as you've already seen the
information, but I'll try to explain at a high level where we see the business. And I'll start with
General Insurance.

Bloomberg Transcript

On a like-for-like basis, our accident year combined ratio has improved by over 2 percentage
points compared to the first nine months of 2013 as a combination of 1.5 percentage point
improvement in the underlying loss ratio as well as a more normal level of large industrial losses
compared to what you saw in 2013.
Now, improvement in a current year profitability is particularly important and it's a trend that we
expect to continue not through rate increases and excessive loss costs – we've talked already
about the market conditions, but through further underwriting actions and through some portfolio
improvement. PYD has declined to some extent. As expected, it was slightly below the indicated
range of 1% to 2% positive PYD for the nine months, but this doesn't change the 1% to 2% that we
expect to see in future. In terms of other components of the result, the investment income has
largely stabilized and slightly lower hedge fund gains and higher non-technical expenses compared
to 2013 results that was also boosted by a number of one-off positive impacts. It's pretty much in
line with what we expected and also in line with what we'd indicated back at the time of the full
year results back in February. So summarizing GI, good progress, not all of it yet fully visible and the
results that are in here is to continue the momentum that you've seen so far this year in GI into
2015.
Global Life. In our Life business, we are growing new business value in a number of key retail
markets for example in the U.S. We also continue to see good progress in bank distribution
particularly through Zurich Santander and through the joint venture that we have with Sabadell.
In terms of operating profits, the last few years, as you can see in the chart, have shown a
declining trends due to combination of a lower investment margin and the cost of start-up
investments. But as you can see in the first nine months of 2014, Life BOP is more or less flat in
comparison to the prior period. Although again as with GI, I think this underplays some of the
progress that Global Life has been making towards improving profitability and we continue to
target a significant improvement in the Global Life BOP contribution by the start of 2016 and we
expect Global Life BOP to be in excess of $350 million.
In order to help you understand the moving parts of Life business more clearly and as I mentioned
at the time of the half year results, we intend to further improve our Life Reporting and I'll touch on
this now briefly on the next slide.
Our NDA was trying to align the reporting more closely with the strategic priorities that we have for
the different parts of our Life business. And while we're still working on the details and the
structure and exactly what we'll report, the aim here will be to segment the Life business into
several components. So namely manage for value, which will include most of our European Life
operations; bank distribution; and then our growth businesses both in the developed and the
emerging markets. This I think would enable us to show you the key metrics that we think are
particularly relevant to each of the different parts of the business in the different stages of
development.



FINAL

So for example, we primarily focused on cash extraction for manage for value operations, EV and
IFRS for bank distribution and for a growth businesses, the main focus would be on MCEV related
metrics, even of course cash consumption and IFRS are important too. We think this will be a big
step forward and in fact, will enable both of us to track execution of strategic initiatives across the
different parts of the portfolio.
Turning to the financial impact of the three cornerstones of our strategy. The investments that
we're making naturally don't have – and it's the payback. In other words, in the near-term, these
investments have a negative impact on our earnings. This is most evident in our 2014 results in the
GI business, where a step up in investment was added around 50 basis points to the expense
ratio and components in the 2013. This is very much as we expected and we do expect to see a
continued relatively high level of investment in the next two years in both GI and GL, albeit with
signs of positive payback in IFRS terms by 2016.

Bloomberg Transcript

A further rate of investment relates to distribution agreements. This year, we've extended the joint
venture with Sabadell and as you've probably seen, we've recently entered into an agreement
with Via Varejo in Brazil regarding extended warranty insurance. Please note that the agreement
that we are in with Via Varejo will adjust 2015 BOP by about $50 million as we incur some upfront
costs. But overall, very pleased with the transaction and we expect to generate steady profits and
be accretive to earnings and targets by 2016.
Overall, the aim in this three-year cycle is to accelerate development in key corporate commercial
and select retail markets and leave us better positioned and on a faster growth trajectory, when
we come to the end of the cycle. While the full benefits of these investments will likely to be seen
beyond 2016, the costs are completely factored into the plans and the targets that you've seen
from us already.
I'll move on now to manage for value. In General Insurance, our focus is on improving the
profitability of what we describe as turnaround businesses. And as we highlight here, delivery on
this objective would have a meaningful impact on our overall GI results.
And to quantify this, in 2013, our operations in Russia, Middle East, Latin America excluding Zurich
Santander, and South Africa generated underwriting loss of $467 million, adding about 1.6
percentage points into the group combined ratio. In the first nine months this year, the
underwriting loss was $221 million, about 1 percentage point of the group combined ratio.
We said that some of these operations are in markets where inflation is obviously a much higher
than we see in the U.S. and in Europe. And therefore we expect to generate higher yields, noninvested assets than we do in developed markets. So running a combined ratio above a 100% is
not on its own a sign of low return business. But this doesn't change the fact that we have
significant room for further improvement in our performance in these markets.
In relation to Global Life, the half year, we talked already about the enforced management
initiatives that are designed to increase BOP by up to $100 million by the start of 2016. And we've
also talked about structural options designed to unlock some of the capital that's invested in these
businesses. We expect to see tangible progress here in 2015 as we take the first steps to shift
capital from manage for value to priority markets.
I'll turn now to a third strategic cornerstone, growing drilling operating earnings. As we explained
one year ago in terms of business positioning, our main objectives for 2014 to 2016 are to step-up
the pace of investment in priority markets and shift the pie chart that we showed you in December
this time, last year. We showed one-third of our allocated capital generating an ROE of around 5%.
But we want to do this while we grew operating earnings.



FINAL

And this is probably the piece of the slide that gets the most attention, I mean, from you. And it's
an essential part of the goal that we have of improving the overall ROE for the company. And in
terms of the steps we've taken in 2014, there are some encouraging signs. I mentioned before the
improvement in the GI accident year ex-cat combined ratio and in part the Life business for
example and the contribution that we have from Zurich Santander.
And although FMS BOP, Farmers Management Services' BOP is broadly stable compared to the
prior year, the outlook for future years, as I think you will agree following James presentation, is
much stronger than it was 12 months ago. In addition, we've taken two key steps to help increase
our earnings. We've largely completed a simplification program above the business unit level which
we expect to generate $250 million in savings by the end of this year – end of next year. We've
implemented actions to take more risk in the investment portfolios and the benefit of those steps
will be largely felt in 2015 and 2016.

Bloomberg Transcript

But as Martin mentioned earlier, as I've already mentioned at the Q3 conference call, we need to
do more. We need to continue to drive down the accident year and loss ratios through further
portfolio optimization. We need to push harder to achieve the improvement in life profitability and
we need to continue to focus on efficiency across all parts of the group. To articulate, what this
means in a more tangible level and how we look, how we kind of achieve the BOPAT ROE target,
I'll take you through an (02:57:46) walk of how we believe we can get from our current starting
point to where we intend to be in 2016.
I'll start with the nine months BOPAT ROE of 11.8%. And as I mentioned earlier, if you take cat losses
and expect it to our planned levels, exclude the Q1 Swiss pension gain and normalize the tax rate,
the BOPAT ROE would have been 11.2%. I mean there are obviously lots of different moving pieces,
there are many other items that you can normalize too, but I mean, broadly, these are the ones
cancel each other own and those (02:58:24) haven't made any adjustment for the level of PYD at
our nine months results. So this is what we would view as the starting point. The levers that I
outlined before around manage for value on improving operating earnings are expected to
meaningfully add to our GI and Life profitability. And as you can see here, we quantify that as
between 1.5 percentage points and 2 percentage points on the ROE by 2016. Everything else
simply stays the same. This would point on ROE level of around 30% by that time.
But we need to reflect the fact that we would expect (02:59:06) to grow over the period and all
things being equal, we would expect this would probably drag down in the ROE by about 1
percentage point and take this back to 12%. I mean you would appreciate that we're not now
simply going to sit here and simply add to equity or capital over the next two years without taking
advantage of the options that we have to deploy in it. As I said preferably within the business, but
if we can't do within the business, we'll return it to investments, particularly given that we have a
very strong starting position.
To the purpose of the walk, (02:59:42) you could see on this slide, we assume that the additional
capital we deployed in the business and this is beyond what needed to support, organic needs
that's taken care of elsewhere in our capital calculations. And then this capital will generate a
minimum return of 10%.
Today, we estimate that that additional capital is of the order of $3 billion. This would get us back
to an illustrative overall ROE in 2016 of around 13%. It's not a new target. It's now not in the
earnings projection and I'd be very surprised if I stand – hopefully stand in front you in two years
time and put up a walk that would be exactly like this one. But I think – I hope what it does show you
is the opportunity that we see to improve profitability from its current levels and this includes
everything that we know about the current environment, market, economic, everything.
So in summary, we believe we're making good progress. Our operating earnings are solid and our
cash and capital flexibility is excellent. The external environment has it challenges but not only for
us. I think we know what we need to do to deliver on the cornerstones that we set out last year



and most importantly to deliver on the three financial targets that we set out last year. Thank you
for listening. Martin and I look forward to your questions. Do you want me to move?

A - Martin Senn

{BIO 3241585 <GO>}

FINAL

Just in case they don't know who you are.

A - Unverified Participant
Just in case.
No, go on.

A - Martin Senn

{BIO 3241585 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Before you start, James, moderating the session, I also want to take the opportunity to welcome
Mike Kerner, the Head and CEO of our General Insurance business who is with us; and also Kristof
Terryn, the CEO and Head of our Global Life business. It's very important that they are with us
today as well.
And I would like to reinforce to give you at least the confidence, George, that you're going to
stand at one point again with full weight on both your feet. It's not going to take three years.
Obviously, I must admire you – ever since you joined the team that you have been handicapped on
your crutches and I must admire you and to congratulate you on how you just endure that because
you don't show any signs of distress or not being able to meet the expectations with not being
able to work and with that I wish you obviously continuous speedy recovery. I would now handover
to James.

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

So, who wants to go first?
Hi. I had just one question actually on slide 71 on the – on the walk. I guess there probably be
others. Just to be clear in terms of this sort of – the right hand side where you talk about the
growth in equity and then the investment – the 10% return, is that the additional equity that you're
going to retain in the business that you would then look to invest as a 10% return or is there some
other relevant that is giving that? I.e. if you were to say return capital to shareholders rather than
reinvest that, would that be incremental to what you are showing here if that makes sense?

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Not entirely actually, but to the – I'm tempted to try and answer it anyway, but that would be the
wrong thing to do. If I try to interpret the question, what you – what I think you're asking me is, so
the equity growth is that simply the rollup of equity over the period or is there some other
assumption behind that number.

Q - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Yeah, and then is the 1% kind of earning that back is that then just the reinvestment of that equity
growth?

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Yes. So I guess two things on this. So, I mean the 1% is not entirely pure equity rollup. I mean we
start in – as you can see, we have a very strong position from all the metrics you've seen already,
but of course even with the relatively high payout ratio we have we're not going to pay out all the
capital we expect to generate over the course of the next 24 months.



FINAL

On the investment of 10% return, I think the challenge of this type of thing is when you can judge
for yourself how likely you believe that we can't (03:04:36) invest that 10% return, though what we
try to do to set a level for an inorganic investment because that's what that really is. A level that's
slightly higher than what we've been perceiving cost of equity to be. So that at least that we
cannot – if we cannot invest the capital, if I give it back to investors I'll have roughly the same
impact in the walk.
So I think hopefully all the roads lead to the same place, but just in different ways. Again
(03:05:04) the priorities, priority would be to invest it for growth and earnings for the future if we
can. But we've set a clear target and if we can do that in line with the priorities we would be
repatriate it.

A - Martin Senn

{BIO 3241585 <GO>}

Maybe I just want to reinforce what the George has said. When you look at this walk that the target
is unchanged, just want to make sure that everybody leaves this session with that understanding.
The 12% to 14% target, that's unchanged. Those are for all the folks on the phone, I want to make
sure that nobody sort of walks away believing that we're setting a new target of 13%, that's an
illustration as George has described it. It is underlying and undermining our confidence that from
the starting point here the 11.8% normalized to the 11.2% is for us achievable to get into that range
by 2016.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi there. Farooq Hanif from Citi. You may have talked about this last night and I wasn't there, but
just in terms of – one of the things that's ignored and – or maybe not so obvious in the walk is the
sharp drop in yields that we've had. So, I was just kind of wondering – I mean you talk about
stabilization of investment income and it's a recurring question, can you remind us about why
you're so comfortable about that especially if we get a wide European ECB action going forward?
And then secondly, just give you time to write that down. Just in terms of your Global Life business,
when we talk about being above $350 million on just the growth in the Life business, to what
extent do you see the interplay due to in-force management and actual growth? What is going to
be the more important driver beyond 2016? Thank you.

A - Martin Senn

{BIO 3241585 <GO>}

Let me take the first question, then George takes the second. On our confidence on the impact of
the continuously low yield environment, you're right it is significant on how it has changed again
with new record low, so many currency payers. So, for us in General Insurance if rates already are
now, (03:07:26) our expectation is clearly that it's not going to sort of drag further down
investment income within General Insurance. I think it's going to sort of flattening out, stabilizing.
Also keep in mind that we have a long duration in the book, intentional long duration. So with that
we do not expect significant headwind from lower investment income or potentially low
investment income with current yield levels. Clearly, our expectation is that the yield is going to
stay low for a significant amount of time at least in Europe. Now the other part or the other side of
the equation is obviously Life business, there we have to continue to expect some negative impact
and you see that on the investment margin and that's probably to lead into the second question.

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

(03:08:18). First the – I think also I want to point out is that we haven't tried to guess the future
economic track and make assumptions that the ECB does X or Y, so we haven't assumed that
rates go up or go down. Maybe have views on what scenarios could be and we test them in
stresses. We take a relatively neutral market view of what's going to happen on the things that we
don't control.



FINAL

On the GL side, if you go back to the Q2 presentation, we've given a walk there that sets out the
different components of where we see the improvement coming from. I mean, if you look at it inforce is a very important part of it. Growth is also there in a fairly large way. I think growth you need
to be a little bit careful with, because the – I think you often associate growth with something as
highly speculative that hasn't been found yet, that point never is found because you guys are also
a bit cynical.
A large part of that growth element on that walk is the leverage that we have, for example, on the
Santander agreement. So as you know, we amortized the cost of the agreement straight line. The
thing has been growing at a double-digit rate for – from about as long as we've had it. And of
course, we're going to get an increasing contribution from that piece and that's in that growth
element. So I think the views that we have, I mean we've got – Kristof and team have got a lot of
hard work to do on the in-force management, but the growth is not quite what growth might be
ordinarily perceived to be.

A - Martin Senn

{BIO 3241585 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Just an additional thought Farooq on the investment impact. We have been telling you with nine
months results announcement and today that we have completed the re-risking already in the first
six months. What is – and that obviously, as we take more risk, we have to have a – we have to
have a high return expectation. That one's part of the assumptions we're making here on this
waterfall slide George has shown you. What has continued to happen is and that's pretty significant
and important is that as rates go lower, the convexity of the book goes up.
So in other words, there's a – the lower the rates, the more the need to go long in duration. And
what we would have to do and what opportunity we have is without taking more risk to go for
more liquid assets into less liquid assets. And the less liquid assets naturally have a much longer
duration. That's a process which is ongoing. That will frankly on go for years to come, because as
these assets are (03:10:54) to exit, we take our time to make sure that we truly have a yield pick
up without using more risk against that. And so far, we are on good track as well this initiative.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 21515144 <GO>}

Nick Holmes with Soc Gén. I just wanted to ask a question on expense control, which is to ask why
the $250 million of cost reduction target seems quite modest. If you think that your expense ratios
don't look particularly low compared to payers, I know this is a horrendous area throughout with
difficulties in comparability, but when I look back 10 years Zurich had the lowest expense ratios in
the sector by a very long way and today it certainly doesn't. And so, $250 million, why is that so
modest? Could you do more?

A - Martin Senn

{BIO 3241585 <GO>}

Let me start and then George might want to. As the objective of this exercise has been threefold,
first, to simplify the organization in terms of decision making and the empowerment of the
organization as we felt that the decision making was way to concentrated at the top of the
organization i.e. the headquarters and some of the regional areas. So that was one objective was
to deal with that.
The second was, as we face increased substantial regulatory constraints, we felt that this is an
opportunity to combine that with sort of right-sizing the governance of the organization. That's still
ongoing and which means that in principal we empower the markets facing units much more we
give and much more autonomy than they have before. And the third aspect, that was of course to
as well become more efficient altogether and to reduce costs. And the sum of that was leading
then to expense reduction. If I now focus on the expenses of some, I think, 720 headcounts from
initial sort of 800, and those headcounts are predominantly being reduced at the corporate center
and in the regional functions.



FINAL

And if you take our 55,000 people around the world and that the upper level, say, less than
probably is now around 3,000 people, we have reduced 700, 750 of 3,000. So with that that's
pretty significant related to the short period of time. We have not touched the rest of the
organization, i.e. the market facing units, you might recall we had the respective expense
programs two years back at the time, we defined Zurich cost base against 2010, that $500 million.
We have significantly exceeded at the time that program.
Now, without now leading into any sort of expectation of a program ongoing now, it's absolutely
clear that the industry as a whole is still not as effective, as efficient, as it should be, and Zurich is
part of that. It's very clear. And that's why we're stressing as well and that's why you have also seen
on the chart that we will continue to look on how we can become much more effective and cost is
part of that drive to become much more effective.

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

There's not much to add to that. Martin gave you the head count numbers and if you look at on a
cost basis, it's the $250 million cut comes out of a part of (03:14:47) about $1.5 billion, so it's not
such a small number when you look at the particular part of the group that was targeted.

Bloomberg Transcript

And I guess the second thing would be on – if you look back the $500 million, I guess we get
criticized from time to time that the $500 million is quite hard to see and especially if you look at
the expense ratio. I think if you look at what we done on top line, we have – we've given up top line
to protect profitability and that has hurt the expense ratio over the period, but as Martin said, we
have firmly the belief that's more that we can do and that would be part of what we do in the
future.

Q - Atanasio Pantarrotas

{BIO 5933123 <GO>}

Atanasio Pantarrotas from Kepler Cheuvreux. I have two questions which are both follow-up
questions actually. The first one is again on the slide number 71. So I wonder if your main goal is to
try to reinvest in the business rather than to return back the money to the shareholder, so if your
priority is to invest the money in potential acquisition.
The second question is on Global Life. Given the size of the results of the European Life business, I
wonder if you can provide some color about what could be the impact on the very low interest
rates given that a significant part of your European Life book is mainly in Germany and Switzerland
that are even more than affected than other countries by the issue of the low interest rates. Thank
you.

A - Martin Senn

{BIO 3241585 <GO>}

Want to take this?

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Yeah. So on the – so I guess the question is what's the priority around this $3 billion. I mean the
ultimate priority for the entire group is to grow operating earnings and to pay our shareholders a
higher dividend. That's the number one priority of all. So, what would enable us to do that by
investing in the rate initiatives, so we can find things that can add to the return and improve the
overall ROE of the group that will support the ability to pay higher dividends.
So if we can frame that that would be number one for us, but we have to find it at the right levels.
If you can do that, we don't want to spend the money because that will depress the ROE over
time. And of course we made the commitment we told you already in Q2 and Q3 that if we cannot
find the investment, the alternative is capital repatriation, but if that's order, but with that hurdle.



FINAL

On the second piece, the Global Life is also – what's the impact of interest rates. I guess the
challenge for this is that it probably requires you to look at beyond 2016 into 2017, 2018. And I think
some of the interest rate changes that we've seen, particularly in Germany in the way they impact
some of the (03:17:34) requirement is not going to help the Life business. But I think if I look at it
we still have the ability to offset it partially with what we do with policyholders and we have this
secondary benefit, I mean we have a shrinking book, so the impact for us will actually decline as
time goes on. So, I mean it's – I mean I think we prefer to be in the other direction, but I don't think
it's a drama for us with the (03:18:00).

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Thomas?

Q - Thomas Seidl

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

Thanks. Thomas Seidl, Sanford Bernstein. First on capital, the 127%, George, how comfortable do
you feel about this level given that spreads could rise and hence take out a good portion of
apparently strong part of the year? And the other thing is on Life, have you already started
seriously marketing some of the Life books and if so how do you assess is there enough interest
to buy run-off portfolios outside the UK for example in Germany or in the U.S.?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

So I apologize in advance, I will not answer the second question for obvious reasons. I mean all I do
as we stated during the presentation that – over the course of the planning period, so that – we
made a three-year commitment, we showed you how the capital was allocated, and we're doing
our absolute utmost to shift the capital allocation. That's not entirely in our control, but we'll do
everything we can to change it.
On the first one on the spreads, I mean the – we're not so sensitive to interest rate rises from a ZECM perspective and if you give me a choice today, would you like interest rates to be a bit higher,
I'd absolutely say yes. So, I don't worry about interest rate in the context of the capital. I have a
much big much bigger impact on reported IFRS equity, you see it drop rapidly from start to see the
interest rates rise even though it seems reasonably unlikely from this stage. We're more exposed
to – sorry – interest rates as opposed to spreads, so interest rates were not so exposed. If you
have spreads widening, it will have an impact on us for sure. But of course the reason we have a
target range for capital of a 100% to 120%, already contemplates the risk of that taking place. So if
the question is, would we run at 126% or more because of a fear about spread impact or even
other asset side impacts on capitalization, the answer is no.

Q - Thomas Seidl

{BIO 17755912 <GO>}

Just wonder – because some of the companies report for a 100 bps rise in spread, a 20
percentage point fall in economic capital, and so that would essentially take out your capital buffer?

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

So I don't have the precise number in my head, but it's not 20% of our cap – that's going to be a
massive number for a 100 bps rise, that wouldn't be the impact on us. So...

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Sorry – Thomas, we can discuss this afterwards, but the sensitivity we show is very conservative
one, because it goes much beyond just corporate bonds and it covers almost all government
bonds as well. So I think the way we show it is quite different to the way many other people show,
but really going to pick it up.

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}



FINAL

Just to also to reinforce what George has been saying, and back to your question, Thomas, on the
confidence, that's exactly why we have to trade, right, 200%, 220% and keep in mind (03:21:05)
that we calibrate then against the AA rating. I still remember at the peak of the crisis, back 2008,
when you remember probably when we were trading on our economic model at 95% with a lot of
stress across all asset classes.
So with this – I hope we're not getting there, that sort of (03:21:22) away because we have finetuned it, we got much more sophisticating in (03:21:26) yes, it's still got a bit more stringent on it as
well. And by the way, we also at the time we did stress test, you might remember that if you will
take a haircut in all government bonds of 20% in our main markets in Europe that we will still be
operating, not with a AA rating frankly, but you'd still be operating. So with that, the confidence on
the portfolio and even now with the rates still where it is at the 127% after de-risking investment
portfolio is very, very strong. And on the back of that, we also recognize that the S&P has changed
our outlook from a stable to positive, recognizing an extraordinary strong balance sheet and an
exceptional liquidity.

Bloomberg Transcript

Michael?
I wanted to start with a nice question. So what would get you dancing well than just standing in
2016? So I'm really kind of hoping that you might say these levers which could pull or which would
get us to the 14% range – end of the range and then more in terms of numbers, I think – I'm not
sure if it's traditional, but in previous years, we've seen the splits of the cash flow at this stage of
the year. I wondered maybe if you could some indications. In the previous meeting, you'd said that
capital management, if it were to come, you would already be thinking what kind of format, maybe
you could pronounce that magic word buyback a little bit. And then finally, what is the e-base you
calculate the 11.8% or 11.2% on just the number? Thank you very much.

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Oh, boy. The – I mean, it's such a nice series of questions. I'm going to give disappointing answers
to most of them. So, I can't imagine you'll ever see me dance, Michael. I mean, we'll see where we
end up on ROE. But, I mean, I think, no matter where it is in the range, at the end of it, we want to
achieve more in the following period. So, I mean the dancing thing, it can only be the drugs. It could
be nothing else.
On cash, I mean, I don't have an update on cash flow for you. I mean, we're doing very, very well in
cash. But you saw the figures that we published at the half year. Even though I don't smile a lot, I'm
very happy with where we are in cash. The – I mean, it's – I mean, if you look at the challenges we
have on the metrics, I mean one of them is dealing with excess capital, which requires good
fungibility in the group, so we can actually tackle the issue. I mean and we're in a really good place
on both of these things.
So, apologies, I don't have an update, but the – I mean, I don't have an update in the other
direction either, I mean we are on a good place, I don't see that reversing anytime soon.
On the – what's the capital number, I don't have them in my head, so – do you have in your head?

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

I do.
Excellent. Thank you.
So, it's the average shareholders' equity over the course of this year, excluding unrealized gains
which is about $30.6 billion.



FINAL

George, just going back to that famous slide, I'm trying in my head, since I saw that slide to work
out a number which I'm not very – so maybe just I need some clarification. So, equity growth of 1%
is around $300 million, but on – even a back of the envelope calculation, just the retained earnings
would have added couple of billion over two years. So, I'm just trying to understand that one bit
first. And then obviously, this 1.5% or 2% is what $600 million or so and maybe Life is a $100 million
and non-Life is $500 million and that is 1.5% of the attritional, and I know you can't comment. I'm
just trying to understand these numbers. How much of that 1.5% is the – so in other words, in the
turnaround slide, you did mention that those are high-inflation markets. Do you actually assume a
zero when you did this or do you just assume that there is still some loss? And I'm sorry, the slide is
visible, so we're trying to understand the numbers as well in dollars which is going to help a bit
more. Thanks.

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So no objection from me. So, again going back to the comment I made in response, I think, it's to
Farooq's question, we haven't made any assumptions about massive deviations in the economic
conditions. So, we're assuming that that part stays relatively flat for us. On the equity growth, I
mean the challenge of putting that piece together is that – I mean go back to what we said – we
actually assume some growth has to be funded in the model, so there's a piece of that behind it,
which is maybe why you're not seeing quite (03:26:31) expect to see, but we're absorbing some
capital elsewhere and supporting some of the 1.5% to 2% that's going on.
I think if I break these two things down – I'm going to resist temptation too much because as we
said, it's an illustration. I don't want to say a new target for the group, that's not the intention of
this. This is really intended to show you, I mean, seeing from today, what do we believe we can
achieve. Then, if you break it apart, the – you can see that we expect obviously a higher
contribution from Mike's business than from Christoph's, given the relative scale of the two
operations.
I mean, on GL, it happens already that we're looking for an improvement of – in BOP of up to $100
million or basically more than $350 million, so you can calculate the range for yourself, but it's more
than $100 million per annum. And on the GI side, it's a combination of – you saw the turnaround
piece. So turnaround is about 1% in the nine months, I mean you need to back off – this idea was
partly in there (03:27:32), so maybe – and cat overall for the group is roughly in the right place for
the nine months, so rather than 1%, I'd now get back to say 0.7%-ish type of range.
And then the remainder of it is some growth, I mean, and a lot of what Mike Foley has just
described, I mean, tearing the portfolio, looking at the parts, I mean you asked the question about,
I mean where are you, APTP, where is the line? Move the line. And I mean that's what drives us – for
us and then (03:28:04) to efficiency. So get back some of the commentary we've had before, I
mean that Christoph clearly has it in his targets for in-force management and that would be part of
what Mike does on GI too.

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Maybe just to add something, (03:28:19) I mean one of the things that comes out, there is no
Farmers' piece here. So just to highlight the fact that I mean, it's not that we don't have confidence
in what we expect from Farmers. I mean, we do and I hope you feel that from the presentations
you've had most of the day. But at the same time, we're expecting, as Jeff highlighted earlier, to
reduce the quota share. That will release capital over the course of the next two years. That's why
you don't see Farmers (03:28:44) They don't produce an important contribution. They produce an
extremely important contribution in the next two years.
Marcus?

Q - Marcus P. Rivaldi

{BIO 5739374 <GO>}



FINAL

Hi. Marcus Rivaldi, Morgan Stanley. So, actually, it's a follow-up question on Farmers, in that walk
again, on the assumption of how you're assuming the reduction in the quota-share of Life
(03:29:05) through to earnings as well in the quota-share within your forecast? And then secondly,
there has been a lot of stuff coming out from regulators recently, seems to be working up to this
rest of the low-yield environment. We had a (03:29:17) study, also European stress test where you
showed the (03:29:21) around the low-yield environment. Are you worried about what that means
for cash and capital fungibility within the group to support your cash flow expectations and what
that means also for some of the back-book restructuring that you're hoping to do as well?

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

Okay. Let me take the second question first. As it stands, we have no concern in terms of the
impact of the actions you're describing to our plan to the current reduction within the plan. George
has mentioned that we talk about cash that is very comfortable on where we stand, not updating
on that number but for this year the projection is clearly, generally more than $3.5 billion, and as
well as the medium term outlook from the point (03:30:11) is well within our overall plan of more
than $9 billion to be generated by the end of 2016.

Bloomberg Transcript

The regulatory pressures, which are ongoing and the respective action, obviously, we are
following. We are looking into it. We are in all discussions, proactively participating. And if you just
take equal important discussion, which was the question of systemic designation, which over – and
the review of that as we are ongoing which potentially will lead to higher capital expectations for
companies are not concerning as item for two reasons.
First, as we are already on the Swiss Solvency Test, which is a fairly higher metrics in the balance
sheet or the solvency measurement, in principle, even more stringent than Solvency II to be
introduced. We are well within that range. So, I will not expect even though, we would have a
designation, which I do not expect, right, and the fact that we are even as a bigger company, not
having been designed means that the arguments which we have always portrayed that an
insurance company which focuses on traditional insurance activities only is not subject to systemic
designation is as it stands proving out our point unless the FSB and the respective national
regulators would change the methodology and the criteria. So, all this in summary is not changing
in any material way our outlook on the targets we have for the impact on the capital as it stands.

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

So, it's broadly on the Farmers space, the – maybe challenge with this part of market is a
requirement to give you a view on the growth trajectory and give you a physical number – or a
natural number on the quota-share reduction and I can't do either that today. I mean, obviously you
can't see – yes, I mean broadly offset. Having said that, there are number of things that you don't
see on here, which also help to bring things to flat. I think if I look at Farmers, I would say the
priority for the exchange is to grow to the right level of price as you heard from Jeff and Mike
already today. And at the same time, given the improving composition of exchanges, there's a firm
intention to substantially reduce the quota- share.
I mean, you see the first step we take once the board of governors made a decision and we'll –
you'll see that what – either from the Farmers or from us in February. But we intent to make a
meaningful step towards reducing the core share, but at the same time we want Jeff to give us
the capital bond. That will take a slightly longer, but I mean over the course of next two years,
that's the trade. We will remove a relatively volatile profit stream and we'll recover the capital that
we support in and that capital will be available for us to do other things.

Q - Andy D. Broadfield

{BIO 7273415 <GO>}

Hi. Andy Broadfield from Barclays. A few questions on GI actually and I don't know if I can ask Mike
a question afterwards on NAC as well, if no, I can wait till afterwards. But the first question is,
you've given us some areas where you see clear potential for improvement on slide 69. So I
wonder if there's any areas where you feel you are over-running right now that would be naturally



FINAL

putting to – putting some sort of power on the other side, just to sort of think about that being
offset.
Second question, if I look at slide 65, your target has been well documented your decline in
reserve (03:33:59) to a low level. Given we've had improving market conditions, your – what gives
you the confidence that the 2 percentage points – and I just take the numbers on the slide, the 2
percentage points improvement in combined ratio, in accident year combined ratio is not just
being offset by lows, I think, levels to (03:34:19) reserve releases given that you add also the fact
that you've had a tailwind with markets the last two or three years. I guess, we certainly would be
able to say, they're offsetting each other, one of the same thing.
And then, the final question just NAC, talked a lot about scale, there is a 5% market share there, or
thereabout. What does scale mean going forward? What you need to have? Do you need to grow
that 4% to 5% to 6% to 7%, to 10% to 15%, what does that mean for the North America
Commercial business?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

So we'll try and cover all three, Andy. So the – on the first one, and are we over earning in some
areas, that's probably a negative way of describing competitive advantage. So I mean, do I expect
in some part, (03:35:08) someone will try and take a piece away from us, because they see a very
attractive piece of business, I mean, almost same, that's just normal, normal rough and tumble,
wasn't it? I don't see a piece that's where we are incredibly exposed, where we had just
immediate risk of losing it. I mean, in fact, you go back to make this presentation, I mean you saw
the high retention levels that we achieve on the past, the portfolio that mean the matter – that
mean the most to us. So I mean – the short answer to your question is, almost certainly yes,
somewhere but we have to defend that and try and hang on to it. And I mean given the strength,
the position the firm has, I'd expect this to maintain most of that. Can we kind of quantify the
impact of it? I cannot.
On the second question on reserve releases and essentially are you reserving less in the current
accident year and paying it back by having less reserve releases in future, I mean you know the
answer before I even open my mouth. I mean we're certainly not trying to do that, we're trying to
do everything we can in the system to prevent that from happening. I think the way you've seen on
the reserve release is simply the – I mean the natural impact of a more competitive market
combined with our information. So I mean I think we have a good system. I mean we look, I'd say,
very closely at reserves in a very regular basis. And we don't see evidence that we are reserving
lower in the current accident year to claim an improvement. I mean that would be a year or two
before that would be back to pay us. We won't try to avoid that, but we possibly can. So that's the
answer, no, we don't do that.
Mike, do you want to take? Can we have microphone for Mike Foley, please?

A - Mike Foley

{BIO 15880890 <GO>}

So I think the simple answer is that, we think are at scale. We think we are of sufficient scale. So we
don't need to get bigger to have enough scale to invest in analytics and do the things we need to
do. We think the challenges for the smaller competitors would be very difficult for them to achieve
the appropriate level of scale. So we don't need to get bigger to win.

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Andrew, I think this is going to be the last question and I'll then – I'll let Martin.

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Hi. It's Andrew Ritchie from Autonomous. I've two very quick questions. I think you've still got $1.5
billion maybe $2 billion of capital or at least IFRS equity, maybe not capital tied up in non-core. Just



update us on, is that sort of drifting out still or I mean there was an expectation that that would be
a top potential ROE uplift drivers you take capital out of that. And second just a clarification. The
$250 million cost save, just to be clear that that is an absolute numbers, I shouldn't assume that's
offset by reinvestment and/or inflation.

FINAL

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

So on the first piece on the $1.5 billion to $2 billion, I mean you need to be careful with the capital
measure that you use, may be you read it, let me explain it you. I don't really expect non-core to
be a massive contributor to physical capital release over the course of next two years. I mean,
you'll see a number of things from us that will reduce risk, that remains in our portfolio, even
though it's not particularly high at the moment. But I don't expect that to be a big part of the
overall change in the pie chart, it will deliver something. But, I mean I don't expect a material
contribution.
And on the second piece, on the $250 million, it's an absolute target. So we set this absolute
target for the above the BU, but at the same time – and you've seen it already, we've given –
we've approved various growth plans in some of our businesses. We expect some offset, not in
the same places, but for example is, Mike and Christoph in both GI and GL invest for some of the
growth, and that's part of the reason for example why you see the 50 bps increase on the GI
expense ratio.

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

But I should see the corporate center cost (03:39:17)

A - George Quinn

{BIO 15159240 <GO>}

Yeah, but you can't see that, Andrew, because the, I mean what really changes is the charge out
(03:39:22) to the unit. So that falls, there is a benefit in the unit, but you don't see the
indiscernible] (03:39:27) piece reduce because it's the charges that (03:39:29) passes over and
reducing.

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Okay. And then non-core is running off of the business, so it should be releasing capital, shouldn't
it?

A - James Quin

{BIO 18345789 <GO>}

(03:39:37) what's in non-core today. So we've got a combination of some of the old Dunbar Bank
assets. We got a GI portfolio in the U.S., we got some small unusual GI portfolios and we've just
moved part of the A&E portfolio into non-core. I mean, if you look all of these, my best case is that,
I mean the Dunbar banking bit will run-off, I mean to the extent the market allows us to accelerate.
It's going to be a really stake exposure, so we can accelerate that, we will do it, (03:40:13)
beneficiaries of the market maybe, so our property exposure is mainly in secondary and tertiary
markets, UK and Ireland. So we haven't seen quite same benefit that you would have done if the
portfolio is (03:40:24) at least here in England. The GI part of the portfolio I think that's going to be
pretty sticky for us. I mean I've had a close look at that since I've arrived. I'd love to try and find a
way to accelerate it, but there are various – that's a reinsurance relationship because (03:40:40)
and there are various warrantees and other obligations that we've created around it and we'll
make it very, very difficult to do anything other than a lot of run-off. And it's not short tail either, so
that's why I'm a bit more cautious on the capital contribution from non-core.

A - Martin Senn

{BIO 3241585 <GO>}

All right. So in closing, I hope that we have been able today to give you a useful and interesting
way to better understand two of our key priority businesses in terms of their (03:41:14) operations
are today, but also why we see good and meaningful opportunities in the coming years for us to



FINAL

leverage these operations and also that we feel that we are very pleased in order to do so. Now
for Farmers, this is about continuing the transformation that has started in the 2013 and to – we
thought this will continue to translate completely revamped customer of experience into back topline growth.
And for NSE, it is about moving from a period of reshaping the business to a more outwards focus
strategy, designed to position asset forefront and let me be very clear, an industry revolution. And
we talked so much more about data, the significance of that that's really what is happening. Now,
more broadly, we have made good progress on each of our three strategic cornerstones and we
have a very clear view of our 2015 priorities. We are more than on track with obviously targets,
namely our two – our three targets, namely the Z-ECM capital position and our cash remittances
and we have given you an indication, a clear indication of the actions we are taking to deliver on
our main target, which is to improve our ROE within our target range of 12% to 14%. And we will
report back to you in February on our 2014 results. We will then also update our report cards and
we will give you a comprehensive update on our strategic progress at our Investor Day in May
2015.

Bloomberg Transcript

And with that, for those of you in the room, I want to thank you for attending. Everybody dialing in
and which have participated with the phone, I also want to thank you for your interest that in Zurich.
I want to take this opportunity to all wish you a very happy festive season, a Merry Christmas, a
Happy New Year, last but not least, as well good luck in the markets for the end of the year and of
course, as well for the next year. Thank you very much and all the best. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

