Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-03-04

Raymond James Financial Inc Institutional Investors
Conference

FINAL

Company Participants
Albert Benchimol, President, CEO
Unidentified Speaker, Analyst

Presentation
Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good afternoon, everyone. As is normal, every time we make one of these public
statements, we do have the safe harbor line which, as I am sure, you are familiar with. The
details are all found in our 10-K. Let me tell you a little bit about Axis Capital. Axis Capital is
a global speciality insurance and reinsurance[ph] company providing a broad range of risktransfer products, substantial capacity. And unquestioned financial strength. We have the
hybrid model where as we write both insurance and re-insurance across the globe. And
this model provides us with substantial operational strength flexibility given that it gives us
access to every kind of risk almost literally all over the world.
In 2013, we were at $4.7 billion worth of gross-written premiums, $2.1 billion on the
reinsurance[ph] side. And $2.6 billion on the insurance side. I will talk ore about that. I am
very proud of our management team, deeply experienced average of 29 years of
insurance industry experience for our Executive committee members. We have excellent
financial strength. We have $6.8 billion worth of capital, a strong rating, A+ from S&P, A. M.
Best, And Fitch, A2 Stable, Moody' s, high quality insurance investment portfolio. And very
prudent reserves. One of the things that is not on this slide. But which I think actually is an
important part of our culture is an entrepreneurial culture. I think that throughout this
presentation, I hope to be able to demonstrate to you how we invest in the growth of our
Company.
By way of background, we were created as I mentioned in 2001. If you look at our entire
history, 2002 through the end of 2013, all together we run about $41 billion worth of
gross-written premiums. And delivered underwriting profits of $4.1 billion combined ration
of 89 which for industry is actually a very attractive result. I will give you ore detail about
the insurance and reinsurance[ph]. But you can see that over time 56% of our grosswritten premiums were the insurance side, 44% on the reinsurance[ph] side. We have
(inaudible) 2002 expanded our global presence to insure that we stay close to our
markets, close to our distribution sources. And close to our clients in risks. We currently
have 29 offices across the globe over 5 continents. And you can see of course vary strong
representation in the UK and London. We are in Zurich, in Europe very strong
representation in the US. We have a Canadian office. And also presence in Latin America,
Singapore. And 5 offices in Singapore which we acquired through the acquisition of an
MGA to establish our international/Australian operation a few years ago.
Page 1 of 10



FINAL

Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-03-04

Let us start with the insurance company which you see on this chart. As I mentioned
earlier, in the last 11 years $22.8 billion worth of gross-written premiums with a combined
ration of 84% which is one of the best combined ratios you will find in the insurance space.
Although this is a business which as you can see writes property, marine, terrorism,
preferred, professional lines, a number speciality classes some of which may be prone to
volatility, this insurance business has never reported a combined ration in excess of 100.
You can see that over time the distribution of our premiums has gone up and down and
that really reflects the responsiveness that we have taken advantage of opportunities and
responding to market conditions to either increase or reduce the writings of our book of
business.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the pie charts you will notice two very big areas. One of the obviously property, 26%
of our 2013 book. Another large area is 35% n professional lines. We do have significant
leadership capabilities in the professional line and also on a number of speciality lines
which we write both in the US and at our London office in Singapore. This is actually a busy
chart. But I think it is worth speaking to. This shows you our underwriting profit margins. So
it is one minus the combined ratio through our inception today results for our insurance
business. As you can see, at 15.4% we have the second highest underwriting profits over
that period of time and significantly in excess of all the other classes. It is in the small print
that we have used as our peers here of those that I believe make the most sense. And
these are speciality insurance companies, US insurance companies. And Bermuda
insurance companies with whom we compete on a daily basis.
An important part of what we do in Axis is always look for new market opportunities,
develop new initiatives for growth. And one of the most visible ones for us for the last
several years has been developing a global Accidents and Health franchise. This is a
business that we started from scratch in the Fourth Quarter of 2010. Last year it wrote
$260 million plus of premiums. This is a very concerted effort to build a global franchise in
Accidents and Health. It takes a long time to build it. It is not cheap. In fact, we expect that
we need to reach at least $300 million of earned premium to achieve a break-even in this
line of business to support the infrastructure that we have built across the world. This like
the other parts of our business is going to be a hybrid approach writing both insurance
and reinsurance[ph] in both the US, domestic. And international markets. As you can see,
there are a number of opportunities for us to grow both in insurance and reinsurance[ph]
globally.
To give you a sense of the scale of this opportunity there are really two global leaders in
Accidents and Health, AIG and Chubb; Sorry AIG and (inaudible) both of whom write in
excess of $1 billion a piece. Zurich and Chubb write between $600 million and $8 million
and there is really nobody else. There is really nobody else in the states in terms of large
players of any size. the rest of the market is very fragmented. And we see this as a real
opportunity for us to build the 5th largest A&H franchise in the world. It is something that
we have been focused on for three years now. It is moving right on schedule.
Moving on to our next business line, it is reinsurance[ph]. Here again, you can see that we
written about $18 billion of gross-written premium inception to date with a combined ratio
averaging 88% throughout that period of time. Here again, there is only been two years in
which we have reported a combined ratio in excess of 100%. And as you might expect,
Page 2 of 10



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-03-04

FINAL

those were in 2005 with Katrina, Rita. And Wilma. And obviously in 20011 when we had the
largest international catastrophe ever.
You can also see on the chart the growth and diversification in the portfolio. We think of
ourselves as having market-leading capabilities in five key areas. One of which is probably
catastrophe. the second is professional line. The third is trade credits and bonding
business. The fourth European motor. And fifth our most recent area of focus in our
reinsurance[ph] business is the global Agricultural reinsurance[ph] area. Just to give you a
sense of that, we brought in a team in 2012. That book of business was $15 million in 2012.
It was $120 million in 2013. And we are really looking to expand that. We think that the
food agriculture is a growing vertical globally. And we absolutely want to develop the kind
of expertise that will see us grow with this vertical as we go forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

Here again, you can see the combined underwriting results of our Axis reinsurance[ph]
bushiness. It is in blue with an 11.3% margin. You can see that we are not the most
profitable re-insurer as measured on third chart by combined ratio. And that is because
most of the people who beat us are catastrophe reinsurers[ph] and when there is no
catch here they have outstandingly low combined ratios. But if you compare us to the
diversified re-insurers around the world, you can see again that our performance stand
very favorably compared to them. This strong underwriting performance that I have just
discussed with you in addition to intelligent balance sheet management, good investment
results has allowed us to deliver to our inception to date growth in our book value per
share with (inaudible) dividends as grown at a compound rate of 13.1% over the last 11
years. I do believe that is one of the strongest records in the diversified insurance space.
Dive growth and capital has come with an incredible prudent reserving philosophy.
Reserves are obviously the largest liability of insurance companies and it is very important
for us to insure for us that we establish prudent reserves, take the bad news early. And
wait until the reserves develop favorably over a period of time before we actually
recognize the favorable development of those reserves. What this chart shows you is the
composition of our reserves by IBNR (inaudible) which is funds we set aside for future
claims to be reported to us and then case reserves which are claims have been reported
to us and you can see that in the short to mid tail lines, medium to long tail lines. And long
tail lines we have had a significant components of our reserves is an IBNR. And in fact in
the totality of our portfolio over 62% of our reserves on the books are IBNR.
I mentioned to you that our philosophy with regards to reserves is one of establishing
prudent reserves up front, taking the bad news early. And waiting for a while to release
favorable results. And you can see on the bottom of this chart the favorable development
that we have delivered in every year of our existence. Although, obviously it has tapered
down a little bit over the last couple of years it is still in the $200 million plus range of
favorable development in each year. And I think this speaks to the prudent that we put in
the establishment of our reserves.
Obviously, the past is no guarantee of the future. But I think our reserving philosophy is
well presented on this slide. Another strong component of our balance sheet is obviously
our investment portfolio. We have in excess of $15 billion of invested assets, 82% of which
are investment-grade fixed income securities and cash. And the balance is invested in a
Page 3 of 10



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-03-04

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

diversified portfolio of high yield, equities, hedge funds. And other alternatives to give us
the diversification that we want and need. As you can see from this chart, it is a high
quality, highly liquid portfolio with an average rating of AA; an average duration of 3.2
years. I will say that although it is a high quality, highly liquid portfolio we actually have no
need for liquidity. We generate on average in excess of $1.1 billion of operating cash flow
annually. So we have been adding cash flow to our portfolio every year since our
inception.
We have got a very strong and stable balance sheet and canalization in which you see on
this slide. It is the composition of our capital over the last several years. Obviously, the
largest part of this is the light-blue common shareholders equity. As of year end, we had
approximately $5.2 billion worth of common equity, $628 million worth of perpetualpreferred stock providing a very low cost component of our capital. And about $1 billion in
debt, $6.8 billion of capital in total. And as you can see the total capital that we have has
been relatively stable for each of the last several years. The reason for that is that we
have in fact been giving back to our shareholders in the form of dividends and stock
repurchases essentially all of our operating income over the last several years. In fact as
this chart shows you, we have since 2008 given back 104% of our operating income back
to our shareholders through dividends and stock repurchases. The fact that we have bee
able to grown our portfolio by over 38% since 2008 without having to grow our total
capital also peaks to the fact that we have been making significant strides in providing
diversification and balance in the portfolio and the growth in diversifying the line has
actually allowed us to grow the portfolio on the same capital base and achieve muchenchanced capital efficiency.
As we go forward, we are continuing in our stock repurchase program. We have
announced to the street that it continues to be our intention for this year to continue to
return substantially all of our operating income to our shareholders in the form of share
repurchases and buy backs. So that is the past. What about the future? Well our goal is
absolutely to be a top quintile performer in terms of financial results for our industry
whether you look at the ROE or you look at growth to book value adjustments for
dividends. We also hope to achieve that with slightly lower earning volatility that we have
in the past. And we believe that if we can deliver top quintile performance with industryaverage volatility it will give us a substantially improved sharp ratio equivalent in terms of
our returns.
We have four specific strategic imperatives to achieve and sustain that goal. the fist is to
continue to invest in our people and our culture. the strength of our Company is in our
underwriting culture, the skills and relationships that our underwriters have. They have
contributed significant guide to our organization and continues to be an important part of
our strategy to continue to bring in talent individuals on board them, develop them, retain
them. And motivate them to achieve the kind of results that have made us a leader in the
industry.
The second is deliver diversified growth. I have just discussed with you how in the last five
years or so we have grown our top line maturity % which does not require any additional
capital. that is because of the benefits of diversification and the construction of our
portfolio. And as I will show you in a second, we have had significant successes in growing
Page 4 of 10



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-03-04

FINAL

in lines that do not add to our chief exposures in adding lines that are balancing our
portfolio both by line of business and by geography.
The third goal is to optimize our risk of adjusted returns using improved data and
analytics. There is an incredible amount of data valuable to us. There are more tools
available to us on a daily basis. And we think that we can add significant value by
extracting more out of our portfolio by managing the portfolio by doing a better job of
determining how much risk we keep, how much we see to reinsurers[ph]. And so on. We
have already started to see significant benefits coming out of that. And I really do believe
that it is important. I have got a comment her which is really critical. And that is that we
want to be informed by models not ruled by models. At the end of the day, models are
simply mathematical approximations. Nothing replaces the judgment and the experience
and the insight that our underwriters bring to the decision. But what we have now is a
combination of that experience that was insight and the analytics to support the decisions.

Bloomberg Transcript

And finally, to enhance operational excellence to make sure we have the right platform
with the right tools, the right IT, to optimize the efficiency and the effectiveness of our
staff and ultimately to deliver a lower cost operating platform. We have made very big
progress on each of those areas. And in fact in 2013 maybe was not a great year for us
with a 13% ROE. But it was still a very good year for us. And last year we grew our grosswritten premium by 13% including significant contributions from new businesses. I point to
two of them here. A large part of that growth last year came from the Agricultural
reinsurance[ph] unit which was a new business unit from our Accident and Health unit
which we established as I mentioned in 2010. We also have a number of other initiatives
that will contribute to our profitable growth as we go forward.
Last year we established for the first time in our history a Lloyd syndicate which started
writing at 1-1 of this year which is going to significantly expand our access to international
speciality lines. We re-entered the Us primary market which has improved in recent years.
This was a line of business that we actually determined to exit in 2010 after reducing it for
several years because we did not believe that conditions were attractive at the time. We
now believe that now is a good time to re-enter the market and we are back in US
primary casualty. We have always had an incredibly successful excess casualty franchise in
the US. Historically it was more in the umbrella and excess. But ENS markets are now
going to the retail markets with excess casualty.
We have expanded. We have taken the talent that we have in professional liability in
Marine and Property energy. And we have expanded those talents to the Singapore
office, to the Australian offices so that we can take those same talents and speciality lines.
But get closer to those risks in the Asian/Australian markets. We have also expanded in
Canada and a number of other areas. We recruited from a large bank and established
Weather and Commodities Market unit to provide additional coverages to utilities, to
energy companies, anybody whose business is actually at risk with changes in extremes in
weather. That has already started quite well. It is already profitable in its first year. And
these are individuals I have worked with in the past that Jay Nichols the Head of our
Reinsurance[ph] business has worked with in the past. So these are people that we have
known. We have been in these businesses before. Now is a good time to get back into

Page 5 of 10



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-03-04

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

these businesses now that the bank are no longer allowed to be in these businesses
because of Dot Frank.
We have established a Third-party Capital Management unit. You will hear. And you will
have heard I am sure about a significant amount of third-part alternative capital from
pension plans from investment funds, from hedge funds that are entering into the
reinsurance[ph] business. They have the capital. But they do not have access to the risk.
And they certainly have the underwriting skills that we do. We see this as an opportunity to
match our underwriting, our book of business with sources of capital that perhaps are
better suited for some of the risks that we have access to. We have also recruited very
recently a new Healthcare and establish healthcare liability teams. Six people who have
joined us very recently. And we expect to start writing healthcare liability some time in the
summer of this year.
So we are very active in developing and promoting these new intimates which ultimately
are going to provide tactical optionality to us and opportunities for profitable growth. And
again, last year we still delivered a 91% combined ration almost $700 million worth of
profits and an ROE of 13%. There has been some talk that the second derivative of pricing
has turned negative. We have had three years of quite attractive pricing improvements in
speciality and speciality lines, property lines, energy lines, Marine. And so on. It is actually
quite rare in our industry in the absent of a capital crisis of the past three years of pricing
improvements that we have. and that really was due to the fact that the industry needed
to sustain a higher level of profitability at a time of lower rates. It is true that where we are
right now in many cases, we expect to see a leveling off of pricing especially in some of
the speciality lines and some of the property lines. We continue to expect modest
improvement on some for the lower primary professional liability lines in the DNOA for
example. We expect to see continued improvement in the casualty lines in the US. I think it
is fair to say that 2014 is likely going to be a flatfish year.
I think there a significant difference between what the second derivative tells and what
the market conditions actually are. What this graph is meant to show you is where the
pricing is. In many of our books of business, as compared to what was at 100-2004 which
was a very profitable year. As you can see, in many of our lines of business, we actually
have pricing today which is well in excess on a risk-adjusted basis from what it was in
2004. So there are still substantial opportunities for writing good business, substantial
opportunities for growth and notwithstanding the fact that perhaps the pace of pricing is
not as favorable as it might have been a year ago. the market still has significant
opportunities for us. That is really where I wanted to finish my presentation and prepared
remarks. And really open the floor to questions so that I can respond to your more
specific questions.

Questions And Answers
A - Unidentified Speaker
I will ask a couple of questions. First off all thank you for your presentation. You talked
about Accident and Health. And we have heard some other companies talk about
Accident and Health. It seems like a broad description that could mean a lot of different
Page 6 of 10



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-03-04

things. Perhaps you could provide come clarification, give us some granularity to what
exactly your Accident Health business looks like.

FINAL

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

Absolutely. Well the first thing I want to say is that what we are focused on is more
Accident then speciality health. We are not in the health insurance business. We have no
desire to compete with the Aetnas and the Cignas and the various health insurance
companies in the world. where we do provide health insurance or reinsurance[ph] is either
on excess of loss basis or on a primary basis on some real specialty program., volunteer
firemen for example, student travel programs, sports team travel programs that are very
contained (inaudible) assignments. That is part of the health area that we are prepared to
deal with. But in terms of just general affordable act kind of coverages, we have
absolutely no interest in being in that area.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Where does the large ticket premium volume come from or is it all small premium policytype of business that you are writing?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

Currently our sources of business are two-fold. One is through the reinsurance[ph] area
where we write a fair amount of reinsurance[ph] globally. As I mentioned, we have a
hybrid approach. We will write reinsurance[ph] on accident health primary carriers on a
quota share basis excess or catastrophe converges basis. We will do the same thing on
the healthcare area. In terms of size of contracts, our reinsurance[ph] contracts are
currently the largest contracts.
We also provide individual coverages. And for the moment a lot of these coverages are
actually arrangements that we have through managing general agents and managing
general underwriters who again have access to a speciality book of business. And they
are looking to partner with a carrier who has both the filings, the ratings, the paper. And
the ability to service and support their growth. So for the moment, the largest part of our
business is through the reinsurance[ph] and these MGAs and MGUs. that is an entirely
expected source of revenues for a start up business because that is how you start by first
going to where the volume is easily available.
As we are doing that, we are also becoming increasing more active in quoting individual
risks for companies that have benefit programs whether it could be your own employers
who are providing you with travel accidents and so on. And we are working with
institutions to provide their own coverages there. Those are obviously a little more difficult
to break into initially. But we are growing our level of success in that area. In fact, I expect
that this year we will get very close to a 50/50 split between writing insurance and
reinsurance[ph]. And that number Joe, correct me, I believe was close to 70/30 just over
the last couple of years. We are continuing to make great progress at establishing a
primary business base

A - Unidentified Speaker
Page 7 of 10



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-03-04

FINAL

You have talked a little bit about the reinsurance[ph] pricing. But again maybe a little
additional color; the amount of noise coming; Obviously the latest thing to emerge in the
last couple months is that the property cap pricing on reinsurance[ph] is now bleeding
over to the casualty side. What is your perspective on what is going on? How much further
does it have to fall?

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

That is fair. We should; if you do not mind I am going to take a couple steps back and put
the whole context. The capital markets have started to participate in a very small way in a
cap markets as early as the mid 902. But it has really picked up after Katrina, Rita, Wilma
with the issuance of cat bonds. It kind of made sense to see this growth over the recent
years because of the absence of other attractive opportunities for investment and return.
One of the things that really came through in the financial crisis is the cat binds did
supremely well. And they really demonstrated the resilience of the asset class and the
fact that they were not correlated with other economics risks.

Bloomberg Transcript

That increased the level of interests for pension funds from hedge funds and increasingly
from asset managers to go through that. In a low-interest environment, a cat bond
providing a risk of lass which is generally less then that of a Junk bond providing returns
that is equivalent to or even better then a Junk bond seems to be attractive as an
alternative to Junk bonds. There is growing interest in that. That really drives the supply of
that capital. If we look at the pricing for cat business globally, historically the cat business
globally was a relatively competitive market because in most markets there is substantial
amount of capacity available from the industry and relatively limited demand from most
geographies in the world.
The one place that is an exception of that is really he United States where the capacity
required in places like California, Florida for example to a lesser extent you find a little bit
of that in Japan. Clients were paying not simply for the expected loss plus the cost of
capital. But they were paying a very high marginal cost for that last dollar of capacity. So
the high pricing that was available in Florida and the East Coast and California was really
drive by the fact that there was more demand then capacity in the industry. All of this new
alternative capital what it done is really rebound the supply/demand equation and of that
extra pricing that was required for that for that ultimate capacity; that last dollar of
capacity was no longer required because there was so much money coming in.
So that extra access profit that I call that was available in the US was no longer worth
paying for with the all the excess capacity. The world has certainly seen in the last year or
so on the cat side on average anywhere from 15% to 20% and in some cases even 25%
reduction in cat pricing. Pretty much every where in the world that is pricing that came
from excess technical pricing. Even after all this pricing reduction we find out catastrophe
pricing id actually adequate. Most of the world uses pretty much the same models to
predict expected losses in the region. Most of the world pretty much has the same
expected cost of capital that they add on to that.
So where we are right now is we have lost the is we have lost the excess profitability but
we have adequate profitability. Most of the people in the industry that I speak to certainly
Page 8 of 10



FINAL

Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-03-04

expect that the June/July renewals may see some pressure. But certainly not to the
extent of what we have seen in the past. So that is what is happening in the cat world right
now. Obviously with those reductions in cat pricing with a lot of the cat demand being
serviced by this alternative capital, a lot for reinsurers[ph] are writing less cat business.
And now they are looking to use their capital. If they cannot use it in the catastrophe side
they are saying, well could we utilize that capital somewhere else which has caused s
number of reinsurers[ph] to look into the casualty area and try and write more bushiness
in the casualty area.
This sudden increase in capacity available in the casualty market has cost competitive
pressure in the casualty market. And what has happened there is that a lot of
reinsurers[ph] have been willing to pay, two, three, maybe four points of higher seeding
commissions to get access to that business. Now those two, three, four points of seeding
commission need to be viewed in the context of the fact that a lot for the liability business
has been seeing pricing improvements whether it is 2%, 3%, 4% and so on. So what is
really happening is that the reinsurers[ph] are paying a little bit more seeding commission
for better price business. And so their profitability again is staying reasonably stable.

Bloomberg Transcript

It is not like their immediately giving up that profitability, they are just not getting the
benefit of the pricing increases that the primary companies are getting. the net of it all is
that in the January 1 renewal; when we look at the business that we renewed in January 1.
And we look at the technical ratio which is (inaudible) ratio plus the acquisition expense
ration, the book that we renewed through January 1 we believe probably has a technical
ratio that about 1 1/2 points higher then it was last year.
So yes, we have given up a little bit of profitability. But not that much profitability. and
again when you consider the fact that last year we reported combined ratio below 90 in
the reinsurance[ph] book, yes we are giving up a bit. But again the demise of the
profitability cycle has been greatly exaggerated.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Any other questions? If not, thank you very much. There will be a break out after this. So
thank you for your participation.

A - Albert Benchimol

{BIO 2023727 <GO>}

Good. thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
Page 9 of 10



Company N ame: Axis Capital H oldings L td
Company Ticker: AXS US Equity
Date: 2014-03-04

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 10 of 10

