Q1 2014 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Patrick Gerard Flynn, Chief Financial Officer
Ralph A. J. G. Hamers , Chairman-Executive Board & Chief Executive Officer
Wilfred Frederik Nagel, Chief Risk Officer

Other Participants
Anke Reingen, Analyst
David Lock, Analyst
Farquhar C. Murray, Analyst
Matthias de Wit, Analyst
Omar Fall, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for holding. This is Yvonne welcoming you to ING's Q1 2014
Conference Call. Before handing this conference over to Ralph Hamers, Chief Executive Officer of
ING Group, let me first say that today's comments may include forward-looking statements such as
statements regarding future developments in our businesses, expectations for our future financial
performance, and any statement not involving a historical fact. Actual results may differ materially
from those projected in any forward-looking statement. A discussion of factors that may cause
actual results to differ from those in any forward-looking statement is contained in our public filings,
including our most recent annual report on Form 20-F filed with the United States Securities and
Exchange Commission and our earnings press release as posted on our website today.
Furthermore, nothing in today's comments constitutes an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to
buy any securities.
Good morning, Ralph. Over to you.

Ralph A. J. G. Hamers

{BIO 3253692 <GO>}

Thanks very much. Good morning, all. Welcome to ING's first quarter 2014 conference call. As you
are used to, I will walk you through today's presentation. Patrick Flynn and Wilfred Nagel are here
from the Executive Board; and Delfin Rueda and Doug Caldwell, CFO and CRO of NN Group, are
here with us as well to answer specific questions on NN Group as well.
Let's go through the presentation then. I think it's about month ago, March 31, that we hosted our
Investor Day on the bank side where we basically laid out our bank strategy as well as the financial
ambitions 2015. The foundation for improving the client experience and achieving our target is
clearly there. We have to deliver. I've traveled around both talking to you and investors as well as
internally and specifically talking to many of the people in the organization in the past few weeks.
I'm confident that we will be delivering. In the meantime, we've made a lot of progress on the
group restructuring to become a pure bank, and furthermore the underlying businesses, both on
the insurance and the bank side, have a good set of quarter results. So in summary, ING Group
posted an underlying net profit of €988 million driven by good results both on bank side as well as
the insurance side.



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Turning to slide 3, the update on the group restructuring. Many things that you have known already
but we've made a lot of progress in the first quarter, and that's important in getting into the end
phase of restructuring. We made the penultimate payment to the Dutch State, Voya has been
deconsolidated, and NN Group is now fully on track in its preparations for the intended IPO 2014.
NN Group has finalized its capital structure. As of today we secured an investment of €1.275 billion
in NN Group by three cornerstone investors which can clearly be seen as a confidence in the
prospects of NN Group as an independent company going forward.
So let me go through some of these developments in more detail. Turning to page 4. Last week
we announced this transaction with three investors that will invest ahead of the IPO. We will issue
€1.125 billion of subordinated notes to these investors and these will be mandatorily exchangeable
into NN Group shares in three tranches through 2016. We will also sell shares in NN Group to each
investor at the intended IPO totaling another amount of €150 million. Now today we announced
that ING Group will inject a further €850 million of capital into NN Group prior to its IPO. And we
have agreed with the Dutch Central Bank that we can proceed with the base case IPO, although
formal approval will only be given upon pricing. Now NN Group will use these proceeds for
reducing its leverage by €200 million, increasing the cash position by another €200 million, and
improving the NN Life solvency by another €450 million. But I will come back to that further on in
the presentation.
If we then go to the group situation and the double leverage, so what's the impact of all these
announcements on the double leverage. A starting point, the fourth quarter 2013, the double
leverage was at €4.9 billion. The sale of the 14% in Voya decreased that by another €0.9 billion. And
the sale of 11% in SulAmérica brought it down by another €200 million, decreasing with that the
double leverage to €3.8 billion at the end of the first quarter. Now following the capital injection of
€850 million in NN Group, the core debt would increase but this would be more than offset by the
investors coming in. Then the remaining piece of leverage is then comfortably covered by the
value of Voya, 43%; the value of SulAmérica that we still hold; and the remaining piece of NN
Group. As a consequence of all of these, basically we expect that the intended IPO will comprise
only of secondary NN Group shares being sold by ING Group.
If we then look at the capital position of NN Group, the IGD ratio of NN Group decreased slightly in
the first quarter but will be positively impacted by the successful issue of the external hybrid, the €1
billion that we did in April, and the capital injection of €850 million. So you basically see the 9%
increase of the hybrid issue; that is the net improvement of €400 million versus the repayment of
senior debt by the hybrid. And then you see the 19% improvement which represents the €850
million, and with that the IGD comes to 277%. Now as I said, €450 million out of the €850 will be
used for NN Life. Now in the first quarter we have already seen the NN Life solvency ratio
improving from 223% to 235%, but that will then increase further ahead of the IPO because of the
€450 million coming in, representing a 16% improvement and therefore the pro forma solvency I
ratio of NN Life will then be at 251%.
If we then take a look at the leverage side for NN Group and the cash capital, NN Group issued in
April this €1 billion subordinated bond. €600 million were used to repay subordinated debt of the
group and €400 million were used to repay senior debt to NN Group (sic) [ING Group] (00:08:31).
So the first quarter pro forma gross debt will decrease ahead of the IPO also because of the use
of €200 million of the €850 million in order to decrease the leverage to €3.7 billion. On the cash
capital side, debt at the end of the first quarter, that was standing at €600 million but that will
improve by the process of the sale of bank between Life and IIM Taiwan. But also by using another
€200 million as part of the capital injection from ING group to be kept as cash, and therefore the
cash capital will increase in total from €0.6 billion to €0.9 billion pro forma end of first quarter.
Now then let's take a look at the capital situation on the bank side. I'm now on slide 8. The fully
loaded CET1 ratio remains strong at 10.1% but the waterfall is as shown on the phased core Tier 1
effect. So here you see that CRD IV phased-in effect, the phased-in remains strong at 10% and that
is despite the implementation of CRD IV, it's despite the dividend upstream for the group in order
to repay the state, it's despite the impact of the deal on the closed defined benefit pension



FINAL

agreement, and it is offset by solid profitability and risk-weighted asset reductions. And therefore
you see it going down from 11.7% to 10% on a phased-in basis, but on a fully-loaded basis it is 10.1%.
Last week the Dutch Central Bank announced that it intends to impose an additional capital buffer,
and this systemic risk buffer will be 3% of risk-weighted assets for ING Bank, and that results in a
minimum core Tier 1 requirement of 10% by the end of 2019. On the Investor Day we already
indicated that it's our ambition to be beyond 10%, actually growing to 11% over time. And at this
moment we're already meeting this in new increased requirements because the fully loaded core
Tier 1 is already at 10.1%. On the leverage side, you see the leverage ratio at 3.7%, and that's also
brought in line with our ambition. But also on this one, we are waiting for final regulations.

Bloomberg Transcript

If we then turn to page 10, we see that the strength of the bank on the savings side continues with
net funds entrusted growing by another €8.3 billion in the first quarter, and that leads to further
improvement of the funding profile of the bank. But we're also happy to see that on the loan
growth side we see net loan growth of €5.1 billion in the first quarter which is a nice improvement
but too soon to say that this is a sustainable development. I'll come back with more details on the
development on the loan side later on in the presentation with a little bit more details.
So after all of this and the impact on capital structures, let's take a look at the first quarter results.
Turning to page 12 now. So for the first quarter of 2014 ING Group posted an underlying net result
of €988 million. The net result however was minus €1.9 billion and that was due to the negative
impact of the deconsolidation of Voya that we have announced earlier already of almost €2 billion.
The pension agreement also earlier announced, total effect of €1.1 billion. The levy, the SNS levy as
we call it, €100 million around it, and all of this is a bit offset by the deconsolidation of Vysya which
has a positive effect of €200 million. And the Vysya deconsolidation we can go into later, but this is
basically a step to further align with preparing (00:13:42) regulations. And we have brought the
number of directors down in line with the ownership percentage, and as consequence of that we
needed to deconsolidate.
On the bank side, then turning page 13, we see an underlying result before tax of €1.176 billion in
the first quarter. That's roughly flat from the first quarter 2013. It's up 30% from the fourth quarter
of 2013. Basically if you exclude the swing on the CVA/DVA side of €114 million versus the first
quarter last year, the gross result was up as we had higher results in Retail Banking but a little bit
lower results in Commercial Banking mainly due in financial because of financial markets, so
partially the CVA/DVA impact but also some lower fixed income business volumes. Risk costs on
the bank side were down from both the first quarter of 2013 and the fourth quarter as we see that
economic conditions are improving across.
Then the net interest margin, the net interest result increased versus both the first quarter of 2013
and the fourth quarter of 2013; the latter certainly driven also by Financial Markets. Net interest
margin actually is increasing from 145 basis points in the fourth quarter to 150 basis points in the
first quarter, and that's driven by financial markets and a lower average balance sheet. We see the
savings margins and the impact of the reduction in the client rates being offset by lower
reinvestment yield as the higher yielding assets in the replicating portfolios are running off. So on
the savings margin itself, we see a flat development, and so the improvement is really as a
consequence of Financial Markets. However, as a result of that we expect that interest margin will
edge down in the coming quarters from the current level because we know that the contribution to
the net interest margin from the Financial Markets business is more volatile and seasonally high in
the first quarter as is also depicted in on slide 14 for your information.
If we then take a step and we look at the lending growth, the lending assets were slightly up and
that's despite the deconsolidation of Vysya, the transfers of some of the mortgage business to NN
Group, and negative currency impacts. The waterfall I think speaks for itself. Net lending in Retail
Banking increased by €2.6 billion because of higher net lending in Retail Belgium that's both on the
mortgages side as well as on the business lending side, higher net lending in Retail Germany and
Retail rest of world, and a bit lower net lending in the Netherlands. The net lending in the



FINAL

Commercial Bank increased by €2.4 billion and that's driven by higher net lending in Structured
Finance and General Lending. Specifically on the latter two, some of the lending increase is shortterm-related, so the first quarter cannot fully be seen as a new trend but we're happy that we see
the growth and we have to work on seeing whether this is sustainable.
If we go from the balance sheet and the income development to the cost development, on the
operating expenses – I'm now on slide 16 – reported expenses were down from the fourth quarter
but up from the first quarter 2013, and that's particularly because of the Belgian bank taxes that we
took fully in the first quarter whereas these taxes have been largely spread over the four quarters
in 2013. If you look at the real expenses, you see them going down from the first quarter 2013 to
the first quarter of 2014 and also going down from the fourth quarter 2013 during the first quarter
2014, and that is basically as a consequence of the successful implementation of the restructuring
programs that we have announced in the past and that we basically ensure that that
implementation were continued. So cost down 0.7% against the first quarter 2013, 1.6% down
versus the fourth quarter 2013. Restructuring plans are on track and we expect them to deliver
€880 million of savings by 2015 and €955 million of savings by 2017. Fully on track, so we'll continue
to focus on those.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then we move to the risk cost. Risk cost was down both versus 2013 first quarter as well as the
fourth quarter of 2013. In total, the risk cost decreased to €468 million and they were basically
down in all product segments except for General Lending. The risk costs in General Lending were
impacted by a few specific files. We'll come back to that later.
Now on the NPL ratio, slide 18, we see that the NPL ratio has remained stable at 2.8% in the first
quarter. The amount of NPLs increased by €300 million, and that's mainly due to higher NPLs in
Retail Banking, and that's more specifically even in Dutch mortgages. Then if we then look at the
risk costs in the Netherlands, slide 19, we see that the risk costs in Retail Banking Netherlands have
declined both 2013 first quarter and the fourth quarter but they remain at an elevated level,
reflecting the relatively weak economic environment in the Netherlands still, so lower than 2013 but
still an elevated level. For the same reason, we see that the NPL ratio for both the business lending
part as well as the mortgages in the Netherlands are still increasing. And although we do see signs
of improvement in the economy in the Netherlands and the Dutch housing market, we expect risk
cost to remain at an elevated level although slightly lower than last year. So Dutch situation.
If we then go to the risk costs in the Commercial Banking, we see that the risk costs in the
Commercial Banking have continued on their downward trend, and that's driven by lower risk costs
in Real Estate Finance. But the downward trend as you can see on this slide can be lumpy quarteron-quarter. You see Real Estate Finance going down but quarter-on-quarter you see a bit of a
lumpy development for example in Structured Finance, the orange bars; and General Lending, the
light blue bars. So trends going down but with a bit of shocks in that downward trend.
Then if we take a look at the specific Retail Banking results, we see strong results up from both
first quarter 2013 as well as the fourth quarter 2013. Underlying pre-tax result was strong at €771
million, and that's driven by higher income and lower risk cost. Underlying income rose 7.4% yearon-year, and that's driven by improved savings margins and lending mainly in the Benelux and
Germany. As you know that in the strategy that basically we focused on the further improvement of
client experience and that we really want to deliver a differentiating client experience, then you
realize that an important indicator for us to track and follow improvements is the ranking in terms
of Net Promoter Score, and you see on the same slide where we are in that one. So we remain
number one or number two in Net Promoter Score across the countries in which we operate.
Certainly see room for improvement because I think we should be number one, but the fact that
where we operate either number one or number two is a very solid sign that we're doing it well
and that we have the right client experience. And that is the starting point for improving our
business and increasing our business and therefore better financial results.



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

If we then go to Commercial Banking, I'm now on slide 22. Underlying result of Commercial Bank
was €471 million in the first quarter; that was down from the first quarter in 2013. And as I've
already indicated specifically, as the consequence of lower results in Financial Markets, partly driven
by negative CVA/DVA impacts, and it was also as a result of lower results in General Lending &
Transaction Service, and that was more because of higher risk costs in the General Lending area.
Now compared with the fourth quarter 2013, the underlying result was up as the negative
CVA/DVA effects then we're offset by higher results in Financial Markets and Bank Treasury.
So much for the banking results, let's now turn to the insurance results. Now I think it's a very strong
results on the NN Group side. We see the operating results for the ongoing business improved
significantly to €274 million, which is up 61% from the first quarter of 2013 and up 28% from the
fourth quarter of 2013. The year-on-year improvement was driven mainly by higher visibility and
excellent results in NN Non-life, a higher investment margin in NN Netherlands Life business, and
lower administrative expenses which is kind of a key sign for the successful implementation of the
transformation program on the insurance side. I will come back to that later. The result before tax,
however, was a negative one, minus €372 million, but that is basically reflecting the one-time
impact of €470 million, making ING's defined benefit pension plan in the Netherlands financially
independent. Further good news on the insurance side is that the new sales, the annualized
premium equivalent, it rose 20.6% versus the first quarter 2013, and that was mainly driven by
higher sales in Japan Life, Insurance Europe, and Netherlands Life. And versus the fourth quarter,
sales rose actually 53% at constant foreign exchange, and that's also driven by the seasonally
higher sales in Japan and pension renewals in the Netherlands.
If we then to turn to page 25, we take a closer look at the different segments that we have started
to report on. On the insurance side, we see that in all of our segments that almost all of our
segments have improved operating results versus the first quarter of 2013, and that basically
shows that the improvement plans that we have developed and are implementing for all of these
areas that they are working across these segments. So good news there as well.
If we again go one step deeper and when we take a look at the administrative expenses, the
administrative expenses for the ongoing business were €437 million in the first quarter, down 5% a
year ago, and that's despite higher NN Bank expenses as a result of the partial transfer of
WestlandUtrecht to NN Bank. If you would exclude this, then you see the real impact of the
transformation program that the insurance management is implementing. Then you see that the
administrative expenses actually fell 7% from the first quarter of 2013, and that shows that the
transformation program is really successful and the strong cost control that is adhered to in all
business lines on the insurance side. So good results here.
Restructuring program that is also delivering these cost savings in the Netherlands specifically is on
track with an amount of €163 million of savings achieved by the end of the first quarter. And we
expect by the end of this year to deliver €200 million of savings, and this is specifically the
restructuring program in the Netherlands. So both in financial results as well and specifically cost
and sales results, good performance on the insurance side so a very strong commercial and
financial quarter there.
So if we then wrap up and we go to the final slide on page 28, I think on the strategic side, on the
financial side, and on the commercial side we are making a lot of progress. The first quarter shows
that we're working on all of these elements and showing progress in all of these elements as
expected. We're happy with the underlying results and we are working on the final steps of our
restructuring plan. So good first quarter on all accounts. And with that, I'd like to open the call for
questions.

Q&A
Operator



Thank you, sir. The first question is from Farquhar Murray from Autonomous. Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Farquhar C. Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Good morning, gentlemen. Two questions, if I may. Firstly on the surprisingly strong Basel III ratio.
The €8 billion reduction in RWA coming from the change in calculation method seems to be driving
around about 30 bps of that, and I wondered whether you might give some more detail around
what changed that specifically, which lending books are involved, and was there a particular change
in the risk weights there. Secondly on NN Group, should we regard the 277% IGD ratio for the
group as the kind of capital target for the future? What specifically drove the change there versus
what we were talking about at 4Q? And can we regard this as a level from which dividends can be
paid in the future? Thanks.

A - Ralph A. J. G. Hamers

{BIO 3253692 <GO>}

Farquhar, the first question will be answered by Wilfred Nagel and the second one will be
answered by Patrick.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Wilf red Frederik Nagel

{BIO 1827973 <GO>}

Yeah. So on the reduction in risk-weighted assets, the 30 basis points you're referring to, that is
mainly comprises two things. One is the next step in developing our master skill (00:31:24) which
links BDs ultimately to risk weights where we have extensively disclosed actually on page 395 of
the annual report what we were planning to do there, and that is what we have executed on. So
this is replacing essentially external data with our own internal data as per the Basel ambition. That
is about 12 basis points of the 30 basis points that you're talking about. And then there's another
10 basis points linked to part of the law that puts CRD IV into implementation in Europe which
provides specific risk weight reductions for SME exposures. And then there are some smaller
things.

Q - Farquhar C. Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Patrick Gerard Flynn

{BIO 16360820 <GO>}

Okay. On the capital for NN, the €850 million that we've injected, that does boost the IGD ratio as
well but it also is primarily aimed at improving the NN Life solvency ratio up to 251% as you see in
slide 6 and also increasing the cash buffer and reducing debt. With this capital injection, we do
obtain regulatory approval, the regulatory green light to go forward with the IPO. We have
approval for the capital structure which is very significant. That means now that we're into the end
phase of preparation for the IPO and the remaining pieces are within our control. Obviously we
need to have a maintained and continue to have a receptive IPO market. So dividends, I can't really
talk about in too much detail about dividends or the lawyers will put me in jail. We are in the
process of I'll just say preparing for the IPO, and I think it's fair to say that dividends will be a
feature prominently in the IPO equity story which you'll hear more about that soon. But in
conclusion, yes, we have regulatory approval of the capital structure to go forward with the IPO

Q - Farquhar C. Murray

{BIO 15345435 <GO>}

Okay. Thanks (00:33:30).

Operator
Thank you. The next question is from David Lock from Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.

Q - David Lock

{BIO 16145046 <GO>}

Morning, everyone. Two quick questions from me. The first one is on your EM exposure. So I note
in the back of the presentation book you've given some helpful disclosure on Ukraine, Russia. I just



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

wondered if you could give any color on what you're seeing there at the moment. Obviously it is a
difficult time when we look at the news but what are you really seeing in the exposures that you
have there? Is there anything that really concerns you from your exposures? And if you could also
just update us on the goodwill balance in the Turkish business. And then my second question is on
net lending reduction in the Netherlands. Clearly, when you had the slide in the fourth quarter the
net lending reduction is slowing. Just wondering when you expect that change to really trough. Is it
going to be in the next couple of quarters or could it be longer? Thank you.

A - Ralph A. J. G. Hamers

{BIO 3253692 <GO>}

David, let's first answer the last question because I will take that one on the net revenue reduction
in the Netherlands. But basically on the mortgage side, on the mortgage side we see a net
reduction coming in on the mortgage side of €1 billion but we see a decrease of the portfolio of
€1.3 billion. So you see that basically the engine is working, new mortgages are coming in, and we
see a transfer of mortgages from the Dutch banking book on the bank side to the NN Bank side,
so you see a transfer from the bank to the insurance company there. So net-net, you see a
decrease but you see that basically the engine is running, the mortgage business is doing okay.
And if you look at the business lending side in the Dutch market, you basically see that on the
smaller SME businesses that you see that the repayments are still a little bit higher than in new
production. Although we've seen new production, we see higher demand but that's off by €300
million for the first quarter so a bit of a decrease. If we then look at the larger companies
announced, we actually see a growth in net lending. So I think that most of these are now positive
signals that demand is coming in, and in the end that should increase the loan books although on
the mortgage side we will continue with a transfer of some of the businesses at reset moments
from the bank to the insurance company. So that's...

Q - David Lock

{BIO 16145046 <GO>}

How much remains of that to be transferred? Sorry to interrupt. How much remains to be
transferred to NN Group?

A - Ralph A. J. G. Hamers

{BIO 3253692 <GO>}

That's €7 billion, €7 billion.

Q - David Lock

{BIO 16145046 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Ralph A. J. G. Hamers

{BIO 3253692 <GO>}

Yeah. Then we go to the emerging market exposure. I'll transfer to Wilfred for that.

A - Wilf red Frederik Nagel

{BIO 1827973 <GO>}

Yeah. Obviously Russia, Ukraine is a bit of a developing story. Maybe to dwell briefly on what our
business is there, it is a pure Commercial Banking business. We don't do Retail or SME. The focus is
really on the top local names, mainly exporters of energy and essential metals for the world
economy. We've been in both of these countries for over 20 years. We've got a long history with a
number of our clients there. If you look at what at the moment is going on in terms of exposure,
then the lending exposure, the breakdown indeed is at the back of the presentation, but it's
hovering between €7 billion and €7.5 billion. We're obviously in daily contact with our clients there to
keep track of what's happening and discuss their next steps and our next steps with them. We try
to continue to support our clients to the extent reasonably possible. Obviously this is a balancing
act between managing risk on one side and supporting the franchise in these long-standing
relationships on the other side. We have pruned our exposures where we can both in coordination
with our clients as well as by reducing the number of counterparties on the financial institution side
that we deal with.



FINAL

We do feel that our clients are taking generally a very prudent approach. They're hoarding cash,
not our cash, but the cash that comes back because of a reduced business volume. And they're
using that opportunity to strengthen their balance sheet. So at this point, if you look at the quality
of the book in Russia, it is very good. We've got a 0.1% NPL ratio and virtually no provisioning there.
Ukraine is a little bit weaker. There's a bit of detail on that in the presentation as well. But there
also we've got a long history. It's mainly exporters that we're dealing with. It is reasonable to
expect some more provisioning at some point there I believe. But at this point there's not a lot of
detail to give you.

A - Patrick Gerard Flynn

{BIO 16360820 <GO>}

Yeah. The goodwill number of which we are very comfortable in Turkey is €600 million; unchanged.

Q - David Lock

{BIO 16145046 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. The next question is from Omar Fall from Jefferies. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Omar Fall

{BIO 20138121 <GO>}

Hi. Good morning. Two questions, please. Firstly on the NIM, just on your comment around high
yielding assets maturing and that impacting the reinvestment income. I thought that most of that
process was largely behind us in terms of the mix shift in the reinvestment portfolio particularly on
peripheral debt. And given that Financial Markets boosted the NIM materially I guess this mix shift
had a pretty substantial effect. So could you give us an indication of how much more of this yield
shift there is to come, please?
Secondly, and I know it's just one quarter, but the capital position seems to be ahead of most
people's expectations, and, yes, you've benefited from a model update. But are you tied to the
guidance you gave at the Investor Day around the pace of dividends on ordinary shares or if the
capital position is ahead as it seems to be tracking you can revisit that pace of dividends? Thanks a
lot.

A - Ralph A. J. G. Hamers

{BIO 3253692 <GO>}

Okay. Patrick will answer the NIM and I will take the one on dividends.

A - Patrick Gerard Flynn

{BIO 16360820 <GO>}

Yeah. In respect to the NIM, I think there's a couple of questions and I'll try to answer them. Yeah,
the NIM is up 250 basis points in the quarter which is primarily due to financial markets which can
be somewhat volatile. Also, with Vysya coming out which is 2 basis points, I think it's more likely to
ease back towards the year end position of 145 basis points. Interest margin on funding increased
marginally on the back of the modest base rate cuts we had in Q1 but was offset a bit by the lower
rate environment of which you refer to.
Yeah, the lower rate environment, it's influenced by the duration of our reinvestment of deposits
which is around the three-year piece but it's a little bit more complex than that. And I'll try not to
get into too much complexity, but there's other factors at play. We also have our capital
investments which are longer dated, 7 to 10 years, which is a drag effect. And actually the
mechanics of how these works, which is the piece I don't want to dwell on too much, is that we
actually use internal transfer rates to reflect the yield on deposits and they don't exactly link with
the timing of the lower yield in reinvestments. So a bit of a complex answer but it comes to the
point we think that maybe 10 bps could be a drag in the Netherlands and maybe 20 bps in Belgium
over the course of this year from a lower rate environment.



FINAL

However, there is still scope on deposit rate reductions. So our guidance on this is that, yes, it
could drop back from the 150 bps to the 145 bps level about because of the volatility in FM. But
longer-term, we still maintain our ambition to get to the 150 bps, 155 bps which we announced
only a month ago. And that's going to be executing on what Ralph referred to, higher-yielding
asset deployment, SME, consumer finance, industry lending. This is an ambitious target. It's going
to take time, so it will be gradual.

Q - Omar Fall

{BIO 20138121 <GO>}

Sorry, just a very quick follow-up to that. Have you cut any savings rates this quarter to-date?

A - Patrick Gerard Flynn

{BIO 16360820 <GO>}

No.

Q - Omar Fall

{BIO 20138121 <GO>}

Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Ralph A. J. G. Hamers

{BIO 3253692 <GO>}

Okay. Yeah. So we did cut in Belgium for (00:42:35) but it's only in April I think we did, only in April.
So it's not in the first quarter results. Now on the acceleration of the dividend payments, clearly
that (00:42:49) is first and foremost on the repayment of the Dutch State as we have indicated at
the Investor Day. So if this year we have a successful IPO of NN and we see the results of AQR and
stress test as I've indicated in the past, clearly we will consider acceleration of the repayment of
the state but that one has to be – if we can accelerate that one then we can accelerate also
dividend payments. So we will see it when we get there so let's first focus on the IPO of NN and
then we'll take another look at that.

Operator
Thank you. The next question is from (00:43:39) from Barclays. Please go ahead.
Yes. Good morning, guys. I'm just trying to reconcile 5, 14, and 15 (00:43:46) in terms of the
balance sheet and loan book because your loan book looks largely static but you've added €17
billion to the balance sheet. So is it fair to say that it's Financial Markets that's driving the growth
this quarter? And related to that, is it fair to say that your risk-weighted ratio is potentially more of
a constraint for you shorter-term than your leverage ratio looking at where both those ratios are at
the moment?

A - Ralph A. J. G. Hamers

{BIO 3253692 <GO>}

(00:44:14), I'll give the question to Wilfred, but could you repeat the second part of your question?

Q - Operator
Yeah. In terms of I guess linked to earlier questions about earlier accelerating repayment, is it fair
to say that the (00:44:32) 11% risk-weighted requirement is more of a constraint for you than your
leverage ratio which when I compare to a lot of your peers, when I look at other French banks,
you're in the high 3s. Is it fair to say the leverage ratio is kind of pretty secondary in terms of how
you think about capital and your constraints?

A - Ralph A. J. G. Hamers

{BIO 3253692 <GO>}

Okay. Well I'll come back to that after Wilfred has given the answer on the first one.

Q - Omar Fall

{BIO 20138121 <GO>}



Okay.

FINAL

A - Wilf red Frederik Nagel

{BIO 1827973 <GO>}

Yeah. I think the question on the loan book and the fact that the two don't immediately seem to
reconcile, although they do in the end, is mainly related to two things. One is the deconsolidation
of Vysya Bank and the other one is the loan transfers that Ralph already mentioned that we're
doing from the mortgage book in the Netherlands in ING Bank to NN Bank.

A - Ralph A. J. G. Hamers

{BIO 3253692 <GO>}

And then on the leverage ratio versus the core Tier 1, both are important clearly. On the core Tier
1, you basically see that the capital generating capability of the bank actually can kind of support
further growing core Tier 1 ratio to 11% and have growth and have dividend payment as we have
shown to you and told you on the Investor Day. Now on the leverage ratio itself, on one side you
can come to the conclusion that since we are far ahead on the 3% itself, certainly that's currently a
European requirement that we are managing on but there is also debates in the Netherlands as to
wanting to increase that to 4% over time. So which one is more restrictive than the other, we don't
know yet. The core Tier 1 for the moment that we are able to make, we're able to grow it as well in
line with our own ambition. Leverage ratio for the moment is not a point but we have indicated
already also in the Investor Day that we want to manage it at around 4% anyway.

Q - Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Understood, that's very clear. Thanks.
Thank you. The next question is from Matthias de Wit from KBC Securities. Please go ahead.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

Yes. Good morning. Two questions, please. Just to come back on the leverage ratio of the bank.
Just wondered whether you see a possibility to reach the 4% target by issuing AT1 capital now that
the tax deductibility of coupons for these instruments has been confirmed in the Netherlands? And
then second question on insurance on NN Life. Investment margins are increasing despite a low
yield backdrop. It seems that you're rerisking the portfolio but just wondered whether you're
seeing an ability to continue that rerisking process and whether or not we could expect any further
increase in investment margins going forward in the quarters ahead. Thanks.

A - Ralph A. J. G. Hamers

{BIO 3253692 <GO>}

Leverage ratio, Patrick. The second one I'll take.

A - Patrick Gerard Flynn

{BIO 16360820 <GO>}

Okay. On the leverage ratio, yes, AT1 does play a role in the leverage ratio and it's positive that the
government has announced its intention to address the tax deductibility piece, but I haven't done it
yet. So we want to see that actually implemented first but, yes, we do see AT1 as a key piece in
the leverage ratio computation and we'll be looking to avail of the tax deductibility once it is
confirmed in legislation.

A - Ralph A. J. G. Hamers

{BIO 3253692 <GO>}

On the second one, the investment margin, so basically you see the increase now because of
rerisking. Specifically in this one, you see the income from the mortgage transfers now on the
insurance side and so therefore you see that book building up so you can expect that to grow
further. The further rerisking beyond that depends on the capital build up, and clearly when capital
is being released and produced we can further rerisk on the insurance side.

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}



And what's currently the binding capital constraint for NN Life? Is it Solvency I or is it 1.5 or Solvency
II or any other economic capital metric you're using?

A - Operator

FINAL

Yeah. Indeed, as Ralph has mentioned, the explanation for the increased investment mortgages is
related to particularly the increase in mortgages that were performed during the last

Q - Matthias de Wit

{BIO 15856815 <GO>}

That's very helpful. Thanks.

Operator
Thank you. The next question is from Anke Reingen from Royal Bank of Canada. Please go ahead.

Q - Anke Reingen

{BIO 3535491 <GO>}

Yes. Anke Reingen here from RBC. I just had one follow-up question on the net interest margin.
Yeah, I mean, if you say that the reinvestment portfolio drag could be about 30 basis points for
this year, I just wondered if you – not probably in terms of numbers but just directionally – how
much of the benefit you expect from an improvement of the savings rate as well as on the lending
rate? Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Patrick Gerard Flynn

{BIO 16360820 <GO>}

It's not 30 basis points; it's the average of the two. So it's 10 basis points in the Netherlands, 20
basis points in Belgium but this is not (00:51:16). Yeah, I mean, it is a bit of a drag. And as I said, we
have potential in the savings rate. There's headroom there as I said before. And as we have
reduced rates, this is something we look at very carefully, any further steps that we might take and
we have to be aware of competition and obviously customers. So this is a potential that we have
but we will be careful in how we execute it, and certainly the pace of reduction which you've seen
in the past will be slower in the future.

Q - Anke Reingen

{BIO 3535491 <GO>}

And on the lending rate?

A - Patrick Gerard Flynn

{BIO 16360820 <GO>}

Again, core to our strategy is to deploy customer deposits in higher-yielding assets as I mentioned
earlier. Margins on lending have remained stable-ish although there is plenty of competition out
there for the growth. But as Ralph said, we're pleased that we're able to achieve some growth. So
yes, we'd like to see margin improvement but I think it's more about deploying customer deposits
which we have an excellent capability of generating another €8.5 billion this quarter in higheryielding assets as where the boost will come from.

Q - Anke Reingen

{BIO 3535491 <GO>}

Thank you. Just to clarify. So the drag from the reinvestment portfolio, the 10 and the 20 basis
points, that's not at the group reinvestment portfolio, that's on the local level so, i.e., the impact on
the group net interest margin would not be the 10 and the 20 basis points? It would be much lower
if I compare this with the group investment portfolio?

A - Patrick Gerard Flynn

{BIO 16360820 <GO>}

I think that's right.

Q - Anke Reingen

{BIO 3535491 <GO>}



Okay. Thanks.

Operator

FINAL

Thank you. We have a follow up question from Omar Fall from Jefferies. Please go ahead.

Q - Omar Fall

{BIO 20138121 <GO>}

Hi. Just quick. You mentioned the AQR and stress test. Given where we are in that process, could
you highlight any areas of concern, what remains an early stage, please, particularly with regards to
the Dutch mortgage portfolio? Thank you.

A - Ralph A. J. G. Hamers

{BIO 3253692 <GO>}

Omar, Wilfred will answer the question.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Wilf red Frederik Nagel

{BIO 1827973 <GO>}

There's not a lot to say at this point for two reasons. One is the stage of the process that we're in
is we're still delivering data. We're working with DNB and ECB on putting together what we need
to do in terms of executing the stress test. It's a lot of work. The progress is good. We've been
able to deliver on time and completely what we needed to do, so we're pleased with that. It's
much too early to speculate on any outcomes also because, yes, we have seen of course what the
inputs for the stress test are going to look like. But one very important input nobody knows yet and
that is the output of the AQR which determines the starting position for each individual banks. So
there's not a lot to say. We also have clearly an agreement with both the other banks as well as
ECB to not communicate about anything until we are there which means until we have concrete
results. What we can say is that you asked specifically about Dutch mortgages. I think if you look at
our quarterly numbers, and this quarter is not an exception, they behave as predicted. We said
before it is a large book but it's behaving fairly well. We're not overly concerned about it. I think
we've been able to also get that across to DNB. And DNB, by the way, has shown confidence in
general about the ability of the Dutch banks to come through this whole process with a positive
outcome, and I'd like to leave it at that.

Q - Omar Fall

{BIO 20138121 <GO>}

Very clear. Thank you.

Operator
Thank you, gentlemen. There are no further questions.

A - Ralph A. J. G. Hamers

{BIO 3253692 <GO>}

Okay. If there's no further questions, then I'd like to close this call. Thanks for attending this
morning and thanks for sharing with us your questions and your queries. It's always appreciated to
show the keen interest. We have a good quarter on the strategic front, on the restructuring front,
on the financial performance, and the commercial performance. So thanks for your attention and
have a good day. Bye.

Operator
Thank you, sir. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This does conclude today's presentation. Thank
you for participating.



FINAL

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

