Q2 2014 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Delfin Rueda, Chief Financial Officer
Doug Caldwell, Chief Risk Officer
Lard Friese , Chief Executive Officer

Other Participants
Cor Kluis , Analyst
David Andrich, Analyst
Farooq Hanif , Analyst
Francois Boissin, Analyst
Frank Kopfinger, Analyst
Jan Willem Knoll, Analyst
William Elderkin, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for holding. This is Peter, welcoming you to NN Group's Second
Quarter Results 2014 Conference Call.
Before handing this conference over to Lard Friese, Chief Executive Officer of NN Group, let me
first say that today's comments may include forward-looking statements, such as statements
regarding future developments in our business, expectations for our future financial performance
and any statement not involving a historical fact. Actual results may differ materially from those
projected in any forward-looking statement. A discussion of factors that may cause actual results to
differ from those in any forward-looking statement is contained in our public filings, including our
earnings press release that's posted today on our website.
Furthermore, nothing in today's comments constitutes an offer of sale or a solicitation of an offer
to buy any securities.
Mr. Friese, go ahead please.

Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

So, thank you very much. Good morning everyone and welcome to this conference call to discuss
NN Group's second quarter 2014 results. Obviously, this is a special occasion for us as we present
our results for the first time as a stand-alone company.
What we will do is, I will kick off today's presentation by looking at the highlights of this past quarter
and the progress we are making on implementing our strategy and delivering upon our targets.
Delfin Rueda, who is with us, the CFO of NN Group, will then talk you through the financial details
of the second quarter results. And I will then conclude the presentation with a wrap up, after which
we will turn it over to you for your questions. We also have Doug Caldwell, Chief Risk Officer of NN
Group, with us here to answer any questions you may have.



FINAL

So, let's go to slide number 3, which are the highlights of the 2Q '14. For the second quarter of
2014, we report a solid set of results, posting an operating result of the ongoing business of
EUR257 million. This is down 6% on the second quarter of 2013, but year-to-date, the operating
result is up 22%. The net result for the second quarter of this year improved significantly to EUR252
million, driven by positive hedge results at Japan Closed Block VA and higher revaluations.
Our focus on reducing administrative expenses in the Netherlands is already showing results. In the
first six months of this year, we reduced expenses in the Netherlands by EUR75 million.
The net operating return on equity for the ongoing businesses of NN Group was 8.7% for the
second quarter of 2014, which reflects the higher equity base following the debt-to-equity
conversion and the pre-IPO capital injection from ING Group. We further strengthened our capital
position in the second quarter, with our IGD ratio up at 272% and our holding cash capital increasing
to almost EUR1.2 billion. This was supported by dividend up-streams from the subsidiaries to the
holding company.

Bloomberg Transcript

Excluding non-recurring items in connection with the pension plan -- making the pension plan in the
Netherlands independent, and fair value accounting at the Japan Closed Block VA, we generated
around EUR500 million of capital in the first half of this year. We are obviously pleased with this, but
as we have noted before, capital generation can be volatile. And last but not least, one of our main
tasks during the past few months was to prepare for the IPO, which we successfully completed just
after the quarter-end on the 2nd of July.
So, let's turn to slide 4. I'd like to say a few more words on the IPO of NN Group. This event was
obviously a major milestone for us; after 23 years, we are back, we are listed again on the
Amsterdam Stock Exchange. There was substantial investor interest in the offering of NN Group
shares, also from retail investors in the Netherlands. The books, therefore oversubscribed quite
heavily. So, together with the exchange of the subordinated notes by the three anchor investors,
we now have a broad investor base in NN Group shares and ING's interest has been reduced to
68.1%. We also completed two successful subordinated debt issues in the past few months, raising
a total amount of EUR2 billion. The proceeds of these debt issues have been used to repay debt
from ING Group.
On slide number 5 let me recap our investment proposition and then I will update you on where
we stand on our strategic priorities. As we've -- the starting point of ours is a strong business
position in the various markets where we are active, as well as our solid balance sheet. Building on
this strong foundation, we are transforming the businesses in the Netherlands with a focus on
reducing expenses.
For Netherlands Life, we are also gradually shifting to higher yielding assets, releasing capital and
de-risking liabilities. In Non-life our focus is on restoring profitability by improving underwriting
performance. And in the other regions we aim to achieve profitable growth
and create scale with our operating leverage. These actions are geared to improving earnings and
generating capital.
In June we announced our intention to pay a dividend over the second half of 2014 of EUR175
million, which will be payable in 2015. And ultimately, we aim to pay out an ordinary dividend of
40% to 50% of the net operating result of the ongoing business and return excess capital in a
form that is most appropriate and efficient to our shareholders.
On slide number 6 we have recapped for you the targets set for the overall company. Our
strategic priorities are to reduce expenses, improve earnings and increase the return on equity of
the ongoing business. To measure how we are delivering on these priorities, we have set
ourselves the following targets.



FINAL

Firstly, to reduce administrative expenses in the Netherlands units, meaning Netherlands Life,
Netherlands Non-life and the holding company, by a total of EUR200 million by 2016. Secondly, to
realize an annual growth rate of the operating results before tax of the ongoing business of 5% to
7% on average in the medium term. And Lastly, to increase the net operating return on equity of
the ongoing business in the medium term, measured against the pro forma 7.1% for 2013.
Aligned with these targets, we expect over time to generate free cash available to shareholders in
a range around the net operating result of the ongoing business. And this assumes, obviously,
normal markets, the current regulatory framework and no material special items.
If we move to slide 7, even though it's early days and we have more work to do, we are making
encouraging progress on delivering on these targets. In terms of administrative expenses, we
have already realized EUR75 million of cost reductions in the first half of this year. Our target is a
total reduction of EUR200 million in expenses at the Netherlands units by 2016, half of which we
expect to realize in 2014. So we are off to a good start.

Bloomberg Transcript

The year-to-date operating result before tax of the ongoing business of EUR551 million represents
a 22% increase compared with the same period in 2013. Please bear in mind that there may be
quarterly fluctuations in this number and we will measure our target of an average annual growth
rate of 5% to 7% over the medium term. We have reported a net operating return on equity of the
ongoing business for the first six months of this year of 9.3%. This is higher than our 2013 pro
forma return on equity of 7.1%.
Looking at capital generation, this has been driven by the good operating performance, as well as
economic variances year-to-date. The holding company cash capital increased to almost EUR1.2
billion as subsidiaries up-streamed EUR446 million in dividends to the holding company during the
first six months of the year.
All in all, we have made encouraging progress and we will continue to focus on delivering on our
strategic objectives.
So, finally, on slide number 8, let me show you the results so far of the execution of our strategy
and our disciplined capital framework. The capital position of NN Group has strengthened further
with the IGD ratio increasing to 272% at the end of the second quarter. The Solvency I capital ratio
of our biggest unit, NN Life, increased from 235% at the end of the first quarter of 2014 to 250%
at the end of the second quarter.
The cash capital position at the holding company increased to almost EUR1.2 billion following
dividends received from various operating entities and pre-IPO capital transaction. And in terms of
leverage, the gross debt position went down by EUR200 million to EUR3.7 billion in the second
quarter. The proceeds of the subordinated debt issuances that we did in April and in July were
used to repay debt to ING Group. Our fixed cost coverage ratio went up to 6.5 and the leverage
ratio improved to 24%.
So, with that, I am handing over to Delfin Rueda, our CFO, who will take you through the financial
details of the second quarter results.

Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Thank you, Lard. NN Group posted an operating result of the ongoing business, which excludes the
Japan Closed Block Variable Annuity business, of EUR257 million in the second quarter. This is
down 6% on the second quarter of last year mainly due to lower operating income at Netherlands
Life. This was partially compensated by a reduction of head office expenses and funding costs.



FINAL

If we look at the first six months of the year, the operating result is up 22% compared to the same
period in 2013. The net result improved significantly to EUR252 million, driven by positive hedge
results at Japan Closed Block VA and higher revaluations, mainly in private equity.
The comparable periods contain some non-recurring items. The first quarter of 2014 included a
EUR541 million charge to the P&L in order to make ING's closed defined benefit pension plan in the
Netherlands financially independent, while the net result for the first half of 2013 reflects the capital
gains achieved on the sale of our insurance business in Hong Kong and Thailand.
Our target and progress on reducing expenses is shown on slide 11. Our target is to achieve an
absolute reduction of the administrative expenses in Netherlands Life, Netherlands Non-life and in
head office of EUR200 million by 2016 from the level of 2013. Of this, we have

Bloomberg Transcript

realized total cost savings of EUR75 million in the first half of this year. Our progress in the first half
of this year is encouraging, but of course there is more work to do and we will continue to keep
focused on managing the expenses down.
I will now go through the results of each segment individually, starting with Netherlands Life on
slide 12. The operating result of Netherlands Life decreased to EUR153 million from EUR204 million
in the second quarter last year, mainly due to a lower technical margin and lower fees and
premium-based revenues. This is attributable to a number of factors, including the run-off of the
individual life closed book, a structural lower fee incomes on the unit-linked portfolio and adverse
movements in the unit-linked guarantee provisions in the technical margin due to decreasing
interest rates. In addition, the second quarter of last year including relatively strong mortality
results in the technical margin and some positive non-recurring items pushing fee and premiumbased revenues higher.
Administrative expenses went up 1.7% year-on-year. We did realize cost savings. However, these
were offset this quarter by higher employee benefit provisions due to lower interest rates. Yearto-date, total administrative expenses stayed flat.
As Lard mentioned earlier, our priorities for Netherlands Life are to de-risk liabilities and to
gradually shift to higher yielding assets. Together with higher invested volumes, this is expected to
offset the drag on investment margin due to the current low interest rate environment and the
interest expenses on the subordinated debt of NN Life.
On slide 13 we have Netherlands Non-life. The operating result for Non-life decreased to EUR39
million from EUR42 million in the second quarter of 2013, while the operating result for the first six
months of the year went up 56%. The results for Property & Casualty were impacted by large claim
events in the Fire portfolio in the Netherlands and weather-related claims in the Belgian Motor
portfolio. Results
in Disability & Accident continued to improve. The management actions taken to restore
profitability as more stringent underwriting criteria and premium rate increases, are visible in the
results for this segment. Expenses reduced significantly reflecting the success of the
transformation program.
The combined ratio of 98.5% is essentially flat, compared with the same quarter last year, but is
down from 100.2% in the previous quarter and down 3 percentage points on a year-to-date basis.
So we are heading in the right direction.
I'll turn now to slide 14 on Insurance Europe. The operating result of this segment fell to EUR44
million from EUR53 million a year ago. This partially reflects the impact of a lower investment
margin due to the low-yield environment and lower investment volumes, following dividend
payments to the holding, as



FINAL

well as the pension reforms in Poland. New life sales were higher across the region, building on our
strategy of growing in markets with low penetration of life and pension products. Pension sales
were down. The lower income was compensated by a 6% decrease in expenses, and, as a result,
the cost income ratio remained essentially stable.
Looking now at Japan Life on slide 15. The operating result was EUR24 million for the second
quarter of 2014, down about 14% excluding currency effects on the same quarter last year. The
investment margin was lower, following reinvestments at a lower yield and the technical margin
was impacted by higher surrenders.
Fees and premium-based revenue growth was strong, up 12% year-on-year excluding currency
effects. That reflects solid underwriting business development which can also be seen in the sales
numbers. The Japan Life segment reported a substantial increase in new sales on the back of the
continuing economic recovery in Japan, higher agency productivity and channel diversification.
Moving on to slide 16 on the Investment Management segment. What we can see here is that the
total assets under management increased over 5% during the quarter to EUR177 billion. This
increase was partially driven by a positive market performance, but there were also good inflows
of assets in the third-party and proprietary businesses.

Bloomberg Transcript

The operating result came to EUR38 million, down from EUR41 million last year, although the higher
assets under management were beneficial for the fee income. Administrative expenses were also
up this quarter, reflected some investments to further build and broaden the capabilities of this
business.
The segment Other, which comprises the holding, the reinsurance business and NN Bank, is set
out on slide 17. The total operating result of this segment improved from a loss of EUR97 million in
the second quarter to a loss of EUR42 million in this quarter; I meant, the second quarter of last
year. This improvement was mainly due to lower holding expenses and funding costs.
In the holding company, interest costs on hybrids and debt went down following the refinancing of
external and intercompany debt, while interest income increased as a result of the subordinated
loans issued by NN Life to NN Group in the first half of this year. Holding expenses were down by
EUR17 million year-on-year. The operating result of the reinsurance business improved to EUR15
million in the quarter. NN Bank continues to expand its position in the mortgage and savings market
and reported an operating result of EUR2 million.
In the near-term, interest costs on hybrids are expected to trend slightly higher, following the April
and July issuance by NN Group of subordinated debt, which were issued to repay subordinated
and senior debt to ING Group.
Let's have a look now in page 18 to the Japan Closed Block VA. The result of these segments are
largely driven by hedge results, which were positive in the current quarter, due to favorable basis
risk and lower market volatility, leading to a result before tax of EUR79 million. The portfolio
continues to run off, which is reflected in a decreasing number of policies and account value,
excluding currency effects. The net amount at risk was EUR694 million at the end of the second
quarter, versus reserves of more than EUR1 billion.
I would now like to talk about our capital position, starting with the movement in the cash capital at
the holding company in slide 19. The cash capital position improved by more than EUR0.5 billion in
the second quarter of 2014. This includes EUR373 million of dividends up-stream from subsidiaries,
as well as a net amount of EUR200 million from the pre-IPO capital transactions. We certainly feel
comfortable with the current capital levels.



FINAL

On slide 20, you can see our capital generation in the legal entities. Let me briefly introduce this
slide as this provides a new disclosure. The graph on the left shows the change in the excess of
available capital over the minimum required capital level over the first half of the year for all the
legal entities, excluding the holding company. The minimum required capital level is typically set
based on the minimum required from a regulatory perspective and does not represent
commercial capital levels. Until Solvency II is more clearly defined, we intend to report on capital
generation following this format on a six months basis.
Year-to-date, we have generated over EUR500 million of capital, excluding the non-recurring
impact of the pension plan and the move to fair value accounting for the guaranteed minimum
death benefits portfolio in Japan Closed Block VA. This was driven by operating performance and
favorable markets offset by negative model and assumption changes and other variances.
On the right-hand side, we can see that our largest unit, NN Life, generated capital of EUR163
million during the first six months of the year. That is excluding the EUR231 million negative impact
on available capital due to the pension agreement in the first quarter. Together with the pre-IPO
capital injection, this led to an improvement in its Solvency ratio to 250%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Finally, slide 21 shows the changes in our funding position. As you know, we issued two
subordinated loans in January and July this year, both for an amount of EUR1 billion each. The
success of this issuance demonstrates the healthy investor appetite for NN Group debt. We used
the proceeds to repay hybrid and senior debt previously received from ING Group. Consequently - as a consequence, reducing our dependency on ING for our funding and strengthening our
financial flexibility. Our leverage ratio improved to 24% and our fixed cost coverage ratio went up
to 6.5 times, as we increased our result before tax over the last twelve months.
And with that, I pass you back to Lard for his final remarks.

Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Yeah, thank, Delfin. So, to sum up, we're very -- and this is slide number 23. We're very pleased to
be able to report a solid set of results for the second quarter of 2014, our first as a stand-alone
company.
While the operating profit of the ongoing business was down 6% compared with the same quarter
last year, on a year-to-date basis, the operating profit went up 22%. And the net profit increased
significantly this quarter to EUR252 million. We showed a solid commercial performance with higher
new sales in the current quarter. Total administrative expenses were down and we have made a
good start on achieving our target expense reduction.
In addition, we have been successful in further strengthening our robust capital position. And our
funding position is stronger and less dependent on ING Group, following the two hybrid debt
issues. Excluding non-recurring items, we generated around EUR500 million of capital in the first
half of the year. We're, obviously, pleased with this. But as I said earlier, please bear in mind that
capital generation
can be volatile.
Finally, the execution of our strategy is on track and we are making encouraging progress towards
delivering upon our targets.
So, with that, I would like now to open the floor for your questions that Delfin; Doug Caldwell, our
CRO; and myself will be ready to answer for you.



Questions And Answers
Operator

FINAL

Ladies and gentlemen, as said, we will start the question-and-answer session now. (Operator
Instructions). The first question is coming from Mr. Farooq Hanif, Citigroup. Go ahead, please.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

I hope you can hear me clearly. I have just two questions. Firstly, on the cash that was paid up from
the operating subsidiaries to the holding, the EUR373 million, can you talk about the timing of this
over the year? So, should we expect this to be a kind of a run rate or what are the missing items
that normally are paid in the second half of the year? That's the first question.
Secondly, can we read anything into the ratio? Let me take, for example, the 373 that you paid up
and the 507 of cash that you generated, roughly 70% or just over 70%. Is that the kind of
remittance level we should expect going forward? Thank you.

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Thanks, Farooq. I'll ask Delfin to take this.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Farooq, thank you very much. So, your question was about the dividends to the holding company
and what to expect for the second half of the year. During the first quarter and second quarter of
the year, I mean, we have had a good level of dividends, of EUR446 million. You have to take into
account that for particularly in Europe and Japan, the dividends tend to be in the first half of the
year. So, it will be wrong to assume that, the dividends, as you know, will come in the second-half in
the same direction.
And the second question was?

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

I was just asking -- sorry, I may have got my numbers wrong, but you paid up 446 to the holding
and you generated 507, so you are paying roughly 90% of what you generated. Is that a good
principle going forward in terms of your remittance ratio to the holding?

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yes, I understand your question. So, it's -- obviously, there is no, an automatic one-by-one
relationship between the capital generated in the regulated entities, because that will fluctuate.
So, sometimes it will go up or down and that won't be reflected immediately into a dividend to the
holding, as everyone can understand.
Obviously, the main driver for the capital flows between the holding company and the subsidiaries
will be driven by that capital generation. But, you should not take any particular percentage; some
quarters will be higher, some quarters will be lower. And Also, in some occasions, the driver would
be to wait for the finalizing your financial accounts and have a sometimes dialog with your
regulators before the dividends are up-streamed.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

And, may I quickly ask while I've got you? I know this is a bit bad for -- I meant off to. But, what is
the difference between the 373 and the 446? So, you paid up 373 and 105 [ph] and then you took
about 446 from operating subsidiaries to the holding.



A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

The difference between the 373 and the 446 is only, that 373 is the first quarter and 446 is the six
months of the year. So, in terms --

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

FINAL

Thanks very much. Thank you.

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

When I said first quarter, I meant the second quarter. And the 446 was for the six months, because
the majority of dividends were concentrated in the second quarter of the year.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
The next question, Mr. Cor Kluis of Rabobank. Go ahead, please.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

My question -- first question is about the capital generation of 507. Glad that you disclosed that.
Can you indicate which part of that is due to the positive market effects? Could you at least
highlight what is basically the recurring element there?
And second question is about the operating results in the Dutch Life entity. The fee and premium
based revenues were declined somewhat, and are somewhat on the low side. You mentioned
structural lower fees from unit-linked business. Can you explain that a little bit further, and what
could we expect going forward in this specific revenue line?
And maybe, one last one is on SNS REAAL. The sales process started from the government's point
of view. Question is basically, are you in looking to this party?
Those were my questions.

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Thanks, Cor. This is Lard Friese. I will start to take the last question and then I will hand back to
Delfin to take care of the other two.
So, our focus, as we have mentioned, I think, before, our focus is really our existing footprint, our
existing businesses and delivering upon the strategic and financial objectives that we have across
the markets in which we currently operate with the current business set. So, that's really our focus
in our -- on that. And obviously, we monitor everything that happens in all the markets in which we
operate, but our focus is really on our existing business.

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Cor, on your question on what is driving the capital generation, without being very specific about
each amount, you should consider that there is around EUR300 million of generation coming from
the operations. The economic variance has been quite positive during the first half of the year, and
that was also compensated by some negative changes. The net of the two were on the range of
EUR400 million.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}



Okay.

FINAL

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Your question about the drivers on NN Life fees are premium-based revenues, the main driver, of
course, is in the 100 increasing of the Individual Life book. Also, there is lower fees for the unitlinked income, also as part of some of the flanking measures taken in the past to limit the
maximum cost. But, there were also some non-recurrent effects that had some importance. But,
going forward, I think the two main drivers are the decrease in the Individual Life book as that runs
off. To just remind everyone, that will decrease by 2018 by approximately
25%.

Q - Cor Kluis

{BIO 3515446 <GO>}

Okay. Great. Thanks.

Operator
The next question, Mr. David Andrich, Morgan Stanley. Go ahead please.

Q - David Andrich

{BIO 15414075 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi, good morning. Thank you taking my questions. I was just wondering if you could give a brief
update in terms of the transfers going from the separate accounts to DB and then also from DB to
DC, and how that's developing over time.
And then, my second question is, I was wondering in terms of returning excess capital to
shareholders, how are management incentives aligned with that? Thank you.

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

On the transfer of the separate accounts to the general account in the Netherlands, this happens
primarily once a year, as these are pension accounts that are negotiated and agreed and then
usually happen mostly on January 1st. For this calendar year, we had about EUR2 billion transferred
from the separate accounts to the general accounts and to the separate account, the amount of
liabilities that we have in terms of these pension contracts is approximately EUR8 billion.
In terms of management compensation and incentives, senior management including ourselves,
part of the remuneration is variable compensation, which is linked, obviously, to the financial and
non-financial objectives that we have set for the Company, which are aligned with the strategy and
the investment proposition that we have put forward and that I recapped earlier.
So, about the key metrics that we need to improve. And that will drive it. So, that's how we operate
across our senior management incentivization and KPI measurement.

Q - David Andrich

{BIO 15414075 <GO>}

Can I just follow up on that? Would you be able to be more specific in terms of the financial
objectives?

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

I mean, the financial objectives differ, of course, for every manager. So, I mean, if you are in a
growth business, your KPIs are measured -- are in a different -- are different, let's say, than if you
are in a non-growth business where the focus is really on expense reductions, et cetera. So, it
differs per unit, but it is aligned with the core financial and non-financial KPIs of that particular unit.
And obviously, for the Board, so, for me and for my colleagues, it is the integrated view of that,



which, again, the KPIs are aligned with the main KPIs that we have set for ourselves and that we are
reporting regularly progress on also to you.

Q - David Andrich

{BIO 15414075 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Thank you. And sir, can I just follow up on my earlier question about the transfer from DB to
DC as well? Do you have any commentary around that in the second quarter or first-half ?

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

I think, in general, this is -- I don't have a specific number here at this point. But, in general, this is a
very gradual process. So, the pension businesses in the Netherlands, usually, their renewal
processes are taking place every year, but it's usually contracts that are five years out at minimum.
And we are helping our clients to move from defined benefit to defined contribution, but that is a
very gradual process.

Q - David Andrich

{BIO 15414075 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
The next question, Mr. Francois Boissin, BNP. Go ahead please.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Francois Boissin

{BIO 16045021 <GO>}

Good afternoon, everybody. Two questions, please. First one is with regards to your reinvestment
yield currently. Could you just highlight what level you are able to achieve on new money being
invested currently versus the running yield you have on your backlog? And maybe some details on
the asset allocation currently would be useful.
And second question is on the run rate of profit we can expect for the Other division and namely a
split across the holding, reinsurance and the banking business would be useful. Thank you very
much.

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

So, on your first question on the reinvestment yields, let's say that our average currently annualized
yield is approximately 4% for the total general account. Obviously, that yield varies by assets, so I
am not going to be specific for each of the assets. But, basically, during the first half of the year we
have reinvested around EUR3 billion of assets out, if you like, from government bonds and also the
new cash coming into the Company, very much, more or less between one-third in corporate
bonds and some asset-backed securities, approximately one-third in mortgages and private and
commercial loans. And around 25% of this EUR3 billion in equity and real estate. From there, you
can have an estimate of approximate yields.
And on your -- I don't know if that answers your question, Francois.

Q - Francois Boissin

{BIO 16045021 <GO>}

It does in terms of asset allocation, but in terms of, kind of, blend yield, are we talking about
something like 3% or below?

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

As I said, it varies depending a bit on the yields. I think that -- I don't know, to give you an example,
I mean, in mortgages, they are of course the highest is more around 4%, and for private loans it
will be around 3% or so.



I terms of -- I think, you also asked about the allocation of investments. And I think that we're still -we are very much government bonds representing around 50% of the total.

FINAL

Your next question was about what to expect, I believe, in the holding with NN Bank, reinsurance
and the actual holding. Obviously, NN Bank has evolved from being a very small, but after the
integration with WestlandUtrecht Bank in 1st of July, we have already seen positive results, 2 million
in this year. You can expect, for the next quarter, this profit will increase.
In terms of reinsurance, there is, in the quarter, some positives, non-recurrent. And in relation to
the holding, obviously, some of the expenses that reduction in expenses that have already been
achieved, this will be maintained going over time. In relationship to the first half of the year you
have to take into account that the holding is now receiving dividend from NN Life to approximately
EUR1 billion EUR1.050 billion of debt. And that obviously is going to be an income in the holding and
an expense for NN Life, dragging the investment margin there.
In addition to that, when you compare the funding costs in the second-half with the previous time
before, you have to take into account that in the -- with issues that we have done are in fixed
interest rates and that will replace some debt from ING Group that were floating. And that will
increase somehow interest charge over that period.

Q - Francois Boissin

{BIO 16045021 <GO>}

And what is the order of magnitude of the increase in funding costs?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

For the interest expenses, around 10 million a year.

Q - Francois Boissin

{BIO 16045021 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much.

Operator
(Operator Instructions). The next question, Mr. William Elderkin, Goldman Sachs. Go ahead please.

Q - William Elderkin

{BIO 3349136 <GO>}

Good afternoon, everybody. I've got a couple of questions, please. First of all, on NN Life, slide 20,
where you showed the EUR163 million of capital generation. Could you give us a breakdown of
how that splits between operating capital generation, financial markets effects and then the
change in the required capital at the underlying business?
Secondly, obviously, the holding company cash position has improved very substantially for various
reasons. Can you give us a framework for guiding us in terms of how much cash you actually want
to hold?
And then, thirdly, in terms of your leverage, you described it as comfortable, I think the figure is
24%. Could you give us an idea at what point that leverage starts to become lazy or inefficient
from your perspective?

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Thank you very much, William for your three questions. First, in terms of the specific breakdown of
NN Life, I think that's something that we don't -- I'm not planning to disclose on a quarter or on a
six-months basis. But, to give you some indication, a significant part of the capital increase is



FINAL

coming from economic variances on that basis, but the operating result also contributed to the
results in -- to the capital generation in the first-half.
When we look at the holding company cash and what guidance to give, we commented at the
time of the IPO that with a pro forma level of 900 million, we felt comfortable. But, we made very
clear then, and I repeat now that there is no fixed cap or a floor on which there is an automatic
remittance of dividends or where our regular dividend will stop because of drop in, from that level.
We are very pleased with the performance in the first six months. And obviously, that capital
generation in the quarter has been very healthy. We will see variance from quarter to quarter and,
as a consequence so far, we can only confirm our target of distributing a dividend of 175 million in
2015.
In terms of leverage, I would say that the current level of leverage is a very healthy level for, also
taking into account our fixed charge coverage and also our ambition to stay comfortably within the
Single A rating by the standard credit agencies.

Q - William Elderkin

{BIO 3349136 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
The next question, Mr. Frank Kopfinger, Commerzbank. Go ahead please.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Frank Kopfinger

{BIO 16342277 <GO>}

Thanks. Hello, everybody. My first question is on your expense reduction of 75 million. Comparing
this to the 200 million into the segments, which you have on slide 11, it looks like that the
Netherlands Non-life and corporate holding is well on track, maybe even ahead of the plan. It
seems that Netherlands Life is lagging behind. Could you comment on this, also on the phasing in
of these costs savings, what we should expect going forward?
And my next question is also on Netherlands Life. As a part of the business case, there was an
increase of the re-risking of the assets. Whether you could comment on how you feel in this
respect, as interest rates went significantly down since the last quarter, and whether you see this
as comfortable with re-risking and whether this has some effects?

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Yes, Frank. So, I am going to take the expense reduction question and then I'll ask Doug to
comment on your question regarding the re-risking issue going on the asset side.
So, on the expense reduction of 75 million that we did versus the 200 million target, et cetera are
the following. Our target is to reduce expenses by EUR200 million by the end of 2016 compared
with the end of 2013 in the areas of the Life segment in the Netherlands and the Non-life segment
and the corporate holding entities.
Now, the timing of the expense reduction differs per segment. As you rightly, I think, pointed out,
that we are seeing good progress made on this -- from the overhead centers from the corporate
and the holding entities, and also good progress for the Non-life company, which contributed
mostly to the 75 million expense reductions.
Now, because of the nature of the programs underpinning the expense reduction in Netherlands
Life, expense reductions are expected to be more back-end loaded. To give you an example of
that, we also replace portfolios from current legacy systems into new systems. That is a more



elaborate process and therefore, let's say, in terms of the timing in, that's inversely, let's say, more
back-end loaded.

FINAL

So, that's what I'd like to mention on that. But, please note that the 75 million, I think, is well under
way for the 100 million that we expect to do this year of the 200 million in total by the end of 2016.
Now, Doug, I'll hand over to you for the assets discussion.

A - Doug Caldwell

{BIO 17900909 <GO>}

Thanks, Lard. And I think, on the interest rates falling in some of the related questions, I think, it's
useful to point out that we are quite -- we're reasonably cash flow matched (inaudible). So, we
have quite a bit of long-term government bonds and swaps, which have very well offset the
interest rates falling and then continue to keep our investment margin in good shape.
At the margin, we do have re-risking and I think, we mentioned we had several -- we had some
new money coming in from the separate account pension funds and from the capital injections.
That, we have been in the process of re-risking. We say re-risking on the some of the assets it has
been more challenging also as the spreads come in, but we continue to look for pockets. Dutch
mortgages have continued to be a good opportunity in terms of return. But, we will continue to
look at the best way over time. We have quite illiquid liabilities especially on the pension side. So,
so over time generate good returns and generate capital.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Frank Kopfinger

{BIO 16342277 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Operator
(Operator Instructions). The next question is coming from Mr. Jan Willem Knoll, ABN AMRO. Go
ahead please.

Q - Jan Willem Knoll

{BIO 18247722 <GO>}

A bit of similar questions earlier, but then on the capital ratio. Can you provide us with a bit more
guidance as to what your targeted IGD ratio is at Group level? So, what is a comfortable ratio in
your view?
And maybe, secondly, can you give us an update on the pricing levels in the Dutch motor book?
And lastly, some detail as to the net inflow and outflow in asset management will be quite helpful
as you have been struggling in the past and the recent quarters in asset management, and maybe
also in what products? Thanks.

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Delfin, can you take the first, capital ratio, if we have any targets there, et cetera?

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Yeah, absolutely. So, thank you, Jan Willem. We don't have any specific IGD target. And I think that
over the last period of time, fourth
quarter of last year we were at 250%. This quarter it was 272%; the previous quarter, the first
quarter it was 245%. I mean, all these levels are equally reasonable for our Company. More
importantly, I think, a starting as from next year, when more clarity on Solvency II is established, I



think that more than an IGD target or ratio itself, the absolute level of capitalization of the Group
and each of the subsidiaries is going to be driven by the Solvency regulation to a large extent.
I don't know, you answer the second one.

FINAL

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

On the motor book, so you can see some pressure in the motor book this quarter, but this had
really to do especially in the Belgian market with -- you may recall that actually, it was, I think,
Whitsunday where there was a hailstorm, so that led to higher claims in that area. So, if you look at
Netherlands, the motor book, we have -- we feel that we need to get the combined ratio down.
That's also is one of the -- underpinning one of the programs that we have for the target of the
Non-life segment to get to a 97% combined ratio overall. That will be done by a number of ways.
First of all, the expense ratio, we want to get the expenses down and you can see the progress
that the Non-life company has already done on that basis in the first half of this year. That will help
to get the combined ratio also for the motor book in a better place. And then, secondly, we want
to make sure that we start pricing slightly differently, but then really per segment in that motor
book. So, this is going to be a quite refined process, that is starting, but that will take time before it
emerges in improving the combined ratio.

Bloomberg Transcript

But, so far, I would say, overall progress has been made on the combined ratio improvement,
98.5% at this moment. And you can see that the quarters, over the last three quarters have been
markedly improving this.
So, with that, I hand over for you, to you, Delfin for the inflows and outflows for IM.

A - Delfin Rueda

{BIO 7032761 <GO>}

Well, there were an increase of approximately 10 billion of assets under management.
Approximately, 60% of that, 6 billion will be due to market appreciation and EUR4 billion from
inflows. And approximately 50-50, so, 2 billion each for third-party and proprietary.

Q - Jan Willem Knoll

{BIO 18247722 <GO>}

Excellent. Thanks.

Operator
There are no further questions. Back to your host.

A - Lard Friese

{BIO 17008174 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much for your participation on this call. And to wrap up, I'd like to make a
couple of remarks. So, to sum up, we are very pleased to be able to report an overall solid set of
results for the second quarter of 2014, our first as a stand-alone company. We showed solid
commercial performance with a higher new sales in the current quarter. In addition, we have been
successful in further strengthening our robust capital position. And our funding position is stronger
and less dependent on ING Group, following the two hybrid debt issues. And finally, the execution
of our strategy is on track and we are making encouraging progress towards delivering on our
targets.
With that, I would like to thank you for your attendance and for all your questions. And I wish you a
very good day.



FINAL

Bloomberg Transcript

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

