Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

Q2 2014 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein, Chief Financial Oﬃcer & Executive Director
Paul Robert Geddes, Chief Executive Oﬃcer & Executive Director

Other Participants
Andreas E. Van Embden, Analyst
Andrew J. Crean, Analyst
Andy Hughes, Analyst
Dhruv Gahlaut, Analyst
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Greig N. Paterson, Analyst
Oliver G. Steel, Analyst
Ravi Tanna, Analyst
Sami Taipalus, Analyst
Thomas M. Dorner, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

William Hardcastle, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Okay. We will – we'll make a start. Thank you very much. So good morning, everyone.
Welcome to our First Half Results Presentation, to everyone in the room and to lots of
people we have on the phone. You're all very welcome.
I'm Paul Geddes, CEO, joined, as always, by John Reizenstein, our CFO, and several key
members of the executive team, including a new arrival, Mike Holliday-Williams. He joins
us running our Personal Lines business, formerly, of course, running the Scandinavian
businesses of RSA. So, Mike, very welcome. And I'm sure you'll have a chance to chat with
him if you haven't already afterwards over a cup of coﬀee.
So normal format today. I'm going to run through the key messages, hand over to John
on the numbers, and I'm going to come back on strategy and, of course, our observations
on the U.K. Motor and Home markets.
So let's turn to highlights on slide four. First half of 2014 has been another period of good
performance, and we're on track to meet our 2014 targets. Despite the weather, our COR

Page 1 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

of 96.6% is within the guidance for the year of 95.7%, and we are also on track to achieve
our £1 billion cost target. Our annualized RoTE of 15.8% is ahead of our 15% target.

FINAL

We have remained disciplined in the highly competitive Motor and Home markets,
maintaining our focus on rising business where we see value. This approach together with
the work we've done in pricing and claims helped us report a current year attritional loss
ratio 2 points lower than the ﬁrst half of 2013.
Whilst our value over volume approach is leading to a reduction in GWP for Motor and
Home, our Commercial business continued to grow GWP and IFPs and it's done this
whilst improving eﬃciency and delivering improvements to its customer propositions.
Commercial remains on track to deliver a sub-100 COR this year, with the normal caveats
around weather and large losses. Furthermore, Green Flag, our Rescue business, had a
good ﬁrst half, increasing premiums by over 5% and increasing proﬁt by 19% year-on-year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Taking all of this together with the improvements we've made to the business for the past
few years, we are able to announce a regular dividend of £0.044, representing a growth
of 5%, and a special of £0.10. This is in line with our policy to raise the regular dividend
annually in real terms and to return capital where it is excess.
Finally, in the ﬁrst half, we initiated a strategic review of our International businesses. As
I'm sure you've read, we are in discussions around a potential disposal. And I'll come back
on this a bit more later. So, all in all, another half year (02:43) good progress on our
strategic initiatives.
But with more detail, I'll hand over to John.

Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Thanks, Paul, and good morning, everyone. Let's turn to the ﬁnancial highlights on slide
six, and I'd say a decent set of results to talk about today. As Paul said, the U.K. Motor and
Home markets have remained competitive in the ﬁrst half. This reﬂected the lower GWP
and IFP, although that was partially oﬀset by growth in Commercial and Rescue.
Headline underwriting proﬁt was down due to the weather. But if you skip that out,
underlying performance has improved, which can be seen in the reduction of the current
year attritional loss ratio. This is a result of our disciplined approach in competitive
markets. Together with the actions we've taken across the business, but particularly in
pricing and claims.
Investment return is a bright spot following the actions we've taken to improve yields.
Investment return for the ﬁrst half is up 19%, with higher income yields and higher gains
primarily from capital growth on our proﬁt portfolio. That brings to ongoing operating
proﬁt of £249 million which is £38 million lower than last year but remember this includes
£64 million of home weather and £16 million of commercial weather in the ﬁrst half.
Page 2 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

FINAL

Despite the weather, the COR was 96.6% which was within the expected to range for 2014
which we set at the beginning of the year. On the segmental basis, Motor, Rescue and
other product lines, and Commercial, despite the weather, all grew operating proﬁt in the
ﬁrst half versus the same period last year. International was broadly ﬂat while Home was
impacted by the weather events in the ﬁrst quarter and I'll come onto that in the
segmental update.
Turning to GWP and IFPs and starting with IFPs on the left hand side, overall it's down
about 4% in the ﬁrst half. At segmental level, the ﬁrst thing you'll notice is the large
reduction in Other Personal Lines. This is due to technical change in the travel policies in
packaged bank accounts and is not material to our performance.
With separated Rescue, which on the same, grew IFPs by 2.3% in the ﬁrst half. Motor was
down 1.9% in the ﬁrst half; reduction of 0.7% in the second quarter was a bit lower than
the 1.2% drop in the ﬁrst quarter. In Home, IFPs were down 3.4% in the ﬁrst half as the
home market has become increasingly competitive.

Bloomberg Transcript

Commercial continues to grow IFPs, up another 2.9% in the ﬁrst half with steady growth in
both quarters. International grew 3.8% in the ﬁrst half due to strong German year-end
business. And moving to GWP on the right, GWP of £1.875 billion in the ﬁrst half was down
5.1% versus the ﬁrst half of last year.
U.K. Motor and Home GWP were down 9% and 5% respectively in the ﬁrst half of the year.
Note that in the second quarter, reduction in motor was less marked, and Paul will tell you
more about that later. The reduction in Rescue and other personal lines was skewed by
the sale of the Life business. On a like-for-like basis, GWP was up by 2% in the ﬁrst half.
Commercial grew GWP by 4.6% in the ﬁrst half of growth accelerating slightly in the
second quarter. International was down 3.4% in ﬁrst half, mainly due to exchange rate
movements. The underlying line trend in local currency was broadly ﬂat as growth of
Germany was more than oﬀset by traveling conditions in Italy.
If you go onto slide eight, you look at the current year attritional loss ratio. Starting with
the blue column, there was a two percentage point improvement in the current year
attrition loss ratio, reducing from 73.8% in the ﬁrst of half of 2013 to 71.8% this year. This
reﬂects recognition of progress on pricing as well as claims initiative and a disciplined
approach in competitive markets.
First half major weather in Home was £64 million in the ﬁrst quarter this year, added 3.8
percentage points to the overall loss ratio compared with nothing last year. Prior year
releases of £218 million or 13 percentage points in the ﬁrst half were lower than the prior
year. We have released across all segments since we continue to recognize beneﬁts from
our claims transformation and pricing initiatives, which brings us back to the overall
reported loss ratio of 62.6% in the ﬁrst half versus 60.3% for the prior year. Note that no
adjustments we made in respect to commercial weather, which was £16 million for the ﬁrst
half of this year and that's included in the attritional loss ratio.

Page 3 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

FINAL

Turning to expenses on slide nine, as Paul said, we continue to make progress on our cost
saving initiatives in this period. We took the cost down 5.4% to £496 million. Against the
backdrop of lower premiums, we were able to reduce the ongoing expense ratio by 0.5
percentage point to 22.5%. We are below the £500 million mark for the ﬁrst half and
remain on track to achieve the £1 billion target for 2014.
As the chart on the right shows, we made consistent progress on costs over the last two
and half years. And Paul will talk about how we see that going forward.
To talk about the segments, starting with Motor, the good half year for Motor, with
another increase in underwriting proﬁt. As I mentioned earlier, IFPs and GWPs both down
versus the prior year, albeit with slightly slower rate of reduction in the second quarter.
The current year attrition loss ratio is broadly stable versus prior year, at around 87%,
good results in the competitive markets and underlying our focus on the value.
Prior year releases were in line with last year at £149 million, as we continue to experience
positive run-oﬀ across bodily injury but also damage claims. We remain prudent in our
reserving assumptions. Underwriting proﬁt at £42.4 million was £11 million higher than
prior year and COR improved by 2.2 percentage points to 93.6%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Instalment and other income was down 25% due to the impact of lower volumes on
instalment income, the banning of solicitors' referral fees and the sale of Tracker. After
taking to our higher investment returns, operating proﬁt was £164 million, 4.6% higher
than the same period last year.
Going on to Motor claims, as I said, Motor recognized £149 million of prior year reserve
releases in the ﬁrst half, which is evidenced of our continued prudent approach to
reserving. The booked loss ratio chart at the top shows the favorable development in
recent accident years as you have seen in previous presentations. As with prior years,
there is an element of conservatism in our initial pick for 2014. Again, based on past
experience I would expect 2014 to develop favorably.
The updated BI capped severity position on the bottom left shows the diﬀerence between
inﬂation observed on the ground versus what we booked. As you can see, we continue to
take a more conservative view of deﬂation trends in our reserve versus loss settled. And
LASPO has not yet been given full credit in the reserve data for 2013 versus 2012.
The indexed ﬁgures in the bottom of that past table show the cumulative eﬀect of the
pattern of conservatism. Obviously, we need to remember that this is only one peril, albeit
an important one and actually in the ﬁrst half we also had releases from damaged perils.
In terms of current frequency, there has been no meaningful change to overall Motor
trends in the ﬁrst half of the year. The BI capped frequency improvements we saw in 2013
post LASPO appears to be slowing. Although overall frequency is still below pre-LASPO
levels and our performance continues to be better than the industry.

Page 4 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

FINAL

We saw a slight uptick in accidental damage claims in the ﬁrst half, we believe this is
linked to weather events in the ﬁrst quarter. We remain watchful on macro trends and
continue to monitor the eﬀects of driver miles and economic recovery on claims trends.
And I'd say on severity it's quite early in the year and that we have nothing signiﬁcant to
add on that.
As we said a number of times but just to remind you again, we take a contemporary view
of all this data and trends in pricing rather than the more backward looking reserving view
which is more conservative.
Turning to Home on slide 12, the Home result was impacted by higher weather costs,
although the underlying performance was good. GWP and IFPs were down as a result of
the competitive market where we continue to see premium deﬂation and where banking
partners adjust the distribution model and customer journeys.
We are pleased with the current year attrition loss ratio which after adjusting for the
weather is better than the ﬁrst half of last year and that's a good result. Prior year releases
in Home of £33 million in the ﬁrst half came from a range of perils and accident years,
again evidence of conservatism in our reserving.

Bloomberg Transcript

The reduction in the commission ratio is largely due to weather impact where we share
cost of that with our partners, being oﬀset by some one-oﬀ adjustments to proﬁt shares.
Operating proﬁt of £34.8 million, is down £52 million, that's half of the £64 million of
weather trends.
And moving on to Rescue and other personal lines, I'll start with Catastrophe as a whole
and then maybe move on to Rescue itself which is the bulk of the proﬁt of this division. So
overall, Rescue and other personal lines, GWPs and IFPs were down against the previous
year. If you exclude the Life business, which was sold last year, GWP was up 2%. The COR
of 90.9% is 1.3 percentage points better than last year. Operating proﬁt of £25.8 million is
£3.9 million or 18% higher than the ﬁrst half of last year, despite of sale of Life which
contributed £3.4 million in the ﬁrst half of last year.
Within this result in this half year we've seen high proﬁts in Travel due to one-oﬀ reserve
releases.
Moving on to Rescue. Rescue had a very good ﬁrst half. GWP of £77 million was up 4%
versus the prior year. That follows our successful new marketing campaign and
improvements to our website which has driven high levels of cover.
First half COR of 78.2% is 3.3 percentage points better than last year, mainly as a result of
favorable claims experience. This brings us to operating proﬁt of £22.5 million tracking
extremely better than the ﬁrst half of 2013.
Moving on to Commercial, good start for the year to Commercial, which continues to
grow topline and improve eﬃciency. GWP grew to 4.6% with results of growth in all three
Page 5 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

FINAL

areas of commercial, eTrading, Direct lines of business, and Regional Broker. The
strongest growth was in eTrading and in Direct lines of business which is excluding the
Van business and those two parts of commercial grew by about 13% year-on-year in those
channels.
So that's a good result across production channels, oﬀsets the pressure in Commercial
Van, where we see similar trends to the U.K. personal lines Motor market. Commercial
overall improved the current year loss ratio by 1.4 percentage points to 1.6 percentage
points as a result of improved risk selection and rating actions public product.
The COR of 104.6% is better than the prior year despite additional weather cost in H1 and
expense and commission ratios also show improvement. If you normalize for the weather
and large claims, the COR would have been around 101%.
Operating proﬁt £10.8 million was 3.8 million higher in the same period last year despite
lower levels of PY releases and higher weather cost. Overall it's been a good half for
Commercial which as Paul said remains on track to achieve a sub 100% COR this year
assuming a normal level of weather and large losses.

Bloomberg Transcript

Move on to International, a broadly stable result for International in the ﬁrst half. IFPs were
up 3.8% since the year end which includes growth from the 1st of January German
renewal season. As I said earlier, GWP was broadly ﬂat in local currency terms.
The COR of 101.3% is 1.4 percentage points higher than last year mainly to lower prior year
releases and high commission on partnership business. The improvement in expense
ratio needs to be looked at in conjunction with commission ratio. Taking the two together
the trend's been broadly ﬂat.
We've seen a signiﬁcant improvement in the current year attritional loss ratio and much of
this is due to reduction claims frequency in Italy. Operating proﬁt of £13.4 million is slightly
below last year although in euro terms it's pretty much ﬂat.
That's all for this segment. I'm going to move onto to investment. We are pleased with the
progress that we are making on investments. The actions we've taken to diversify the
portfolio and mitigate yield pressures continue to deliver higher returns. Investment
results in the ﬁrst half was £116.5 million, up 19% on the same period last year, and gives us
investment return of 2.8%. We made further purchases of property in the ﬁrst half of the
year bringing the allocation to 3% closer to our 5% target and we also increased the
weighting for securitized credit.
Income yield in the ﬁrst half was 2.3% versus 2.1% last year – for the same period last year –
we actually increased allocation to property, securitized credit and BBB corporate debt
securities. AUM at the end of June was £8.2 billion, 4% lower than December. We saw
higher investment gains in the ﬁrst half of £23 million, most of which was due to capital
growth in our property portfolio.

Page 6 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

FINAL

If you turnover, we can look at the yield outlook and where that – we think that's going.
The chart on the right hand side shows an improving outlook. We continue to implement
our investment strategy. We recently approved a couple of new assets classes, named
infrastructure debt and short-dated high yield with allocations of 6% and 4% respectively
which we will look to implement in the second half of the year. Taking into account the
movements in the full yield curve, ameliorating actions including achieving our 5%
weighting in property we should deliver a yield of 2.5% by the end of 2015.
Just look over to the bottom half of the P&L on page – slide 18. The Run-oﬀ segment
reported a proﬁt £20.4 million in the ﬁrst half as a result continued favorable prior year
releases. Restructuring and other one-oﬀ cost of £28 million, a £42 million loan in the ﬁrst
half of last year which included very signiﬁcant costs related for separation from RBS and
up-front costs associated with our cost savings program.
We aim to substantially complete our IT migration program by the end of this year, albeit
some may move into Q1. And we reiterate our guidance of £80 million of total
restructuring costs in 2014.

Bloomberg Transcript

We made £2.3 million disposals gains from the sale of Tracker. The eﬀective tax rate for
the ﬁrst half was 22% close to the U.K. standard tax rate. This brings us down to a reported
EPS of £0.117, that's 15.8% up on the same period last year, as a result of lower
restructuring costs and a higher contribution from Run-oﬀ. Adjusted EPS which is based
on ongoing proﬁt net of tax was slightly down due to higher weather costs in the ﬁrst half.
If you look to at the balance sheet and TNAV, the table on the right shows TNAV and
TNAV post NAV and TNAV per share were broadly ﬂat year-on-year – I'm sorry – since the
year-end, broadly ﬂat since the year-end. Including dividends paid in the ﬁrst half
underlying TNAV increased by 8.4% mainly as a result of proﬁt in the period. It's also
worth noting, we've got a £20 million increase in unrealized gains net of tax as credit
spreads on bonds have tightened. The assets currently stand at £79 million net of tax.
Then moving on to our capital positions. This is the slide I shared with you in February
which shows the headwinds, tailwinds, and uncertainties which we take into account when
deciding how much capital we need to hold. The main update is that we completed the
ICAS+ process with the regulator in the ﬁrst half and the outcome of that has had little
impact on our overall capital position. However, the other capital headwinds, tailwinds,
and uncertainties are still there. We continue to move towards a Solvency II environment,
we're still operating in competitive markets while investing in the business and our
investment strategy includes new asset classes which will in turn require some additional
capital.
Overall, we feel still feel it's appropriate to hold capital at the top end of our range, as you
can see on the next slide. So yes, our capital position remains strong with risk based
capital ratio of 148.8% versus requirements, broadly similar to where we were at the yearend. These numbers are post the regular dividend of 4.4p per share, which is a 5%
increase and also the 10p special dividend announced today. Usually, I'd say people in

Page 7 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

FINAL

this room and on the phone are ahead of us on most of the things we do but just for once,
we thought it would nice to get ahead of you on one thing.
And ﬁnally, just to say that leverage remains low at 16.1%. Before I pass it back to Paul, I'd
like to clarify by looking at the key ﬁnancial metrics over the last few years, so we can put
the ﬁrst half performance into context. Over this period, we improved the current year
attritional loss ratio, consistently reduced expenses and managed to turn the tide on
investment income yield. And we've not only grown the regular dividend but also
declared special dividends totaling £270 million.
And with that, I will hand over to Paul.

Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, John. So I'm going to start with an update on our strategic priorities and
targets on your page 24. Hopefully, a refreshingly familiar slide, which acts as a reminder
of our ﬁve strategic priorities, which we've been focused on for a while. These, in turn,
underpin the targets we've set out on the right hand side of the chart. Initially, I'm going
to talk to you through the next slide, each ﬁtting with those ﬁve clear priorities. Starting on
slide 25, this summarizes our 2014 strategic initiatives which I told about at the full year.
Against the backdrop of a highly competitive market, we need to keep up momentum of
our self-help agenda, if we're to maintain and improve our performance and that is
exactly what we are doing.
Over the next few slides, I'm going to give you an update on Telematics, Digital, costs and
Commercial. But before I do, let me give you a brief update on two extremely important
levers for us; pricing and claims.
On pricing, we said we do about 30 pricing projects this year and we are largely half way
through delivering these initiatives, which cover both Motor and Home. These projects
spanned technical pricing, margin pricing, and initiatives to reduce application fraud.
These improves capability builds on the large data assets which we already have.
As John mentioned, it's partly improvements in technical pricing that have contributed to
maintaining our current year margins in the tough UK Motor and Home market in the ﬁrst
half. In claims, we've made further progress on fraud initiatives. We continue to improve
our customer's claims experience with the use of smartphone technology.
We are making further enhancements to data fraud solution to build on a market leading
fraud savings and rolling out the system to Commercial. We also launched our legal
services earlier this year. In summary, we've had a very busy ﬁrst half and I'm pleased to
say we have made good progress in all areas.
So let me take you through some more details starting with Telematics on page 26. You
can see the timeline on the top, how we developed our whole loan approach over the last
two years to meet our strategic claim of being a leading operator in Telematics. It's still
early days and we continue to grow in scale and to develop our analytical capabilities.
Page 8 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

FINAL

Let me now focus on the new news in Telematics space. We've seen further increases in
take up rates post the launch of self-installed Telematics. We love our box so I'll show you
quite how small it is and elegant. With rates now, where we can speak to a young driver
on the phone above 50% on Direct Line for new young drivers which we get on the
phone, which I think is a very impressive statistic. And we think that highlights the
potential where we can talk directly to customers and therefore we're looking to increase
take up rates across other channels.
In addition, we are expanding to other business areas having recently launched
Telematics pilots into Commercial where we have two pilots running. Secondly, analysis of
data gathered to date and we have over 50 million driver miles and mounting steadily. So
on average, Telematics drivers do drive better. But among these drivers there is still a
wide spread between the best and worst drivers and this is supporting now our renewal
pricing. We are oﬀering up to 40% discount for the safest drivers versus price derived
from traditional rating factors alone.

Bloomberg Transcript

Finally, we recently announced that we have invested in The Floow, with two o's, a
technology company, has a wacky name. A team of specialists U.K. based Telematic
experts with links to Sheﬃeld University. Looking ahead we will continue to build
momentum in this area whilst further reﬁning our customer propositions and our
analytical capabilities.
Now that is our promise – it's a few times but we can now state for those of you that would
like to try one of these self-installed device you will ﬁnd a form in the back of your
presentation pack, please complete your details and we'll arrange for device to be sent to
you and you don't even have to insure with us. We can just tell you how well you drive and
the downside is obviously we'll know. I might put up a league table, which could be quite
fun, so we'll see if that works out.
So turning to slide 27 for an update on our digital initiatives. In January 2013 we began
transforming our digital capabilities. We completed the rollout of our smartphone and
tablet optimized websites, for the Motor in the ﬁrst quarter which was actually an amazing
ﬁgure, the ﬁrst overhaul of our customer quotes and by journey for nine years.
These new websites are operating from our new digital platform which is supported by
our new data centers. This new infrastructure has delivered improved analytics around
customer behavior which enables us adapt to changing customer needs.
With right people and technology now in place we have the ﬂexibility to adapt and
optimize our websites now with the touch of a button. These improvements we've made
to our customer journeys had a positive impact on our sales performance. We saw
double-digit increase in quotes from mobiles and tablets which now account from around
20% of our online Motor new business sales.
In Direct line we saw about 18% increase in online start quote to sale and in addition
we've seen positive uptick in high levels of cover within guaranteed Hire Car, Fire and

Page 9 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

Theft, Motor, Legal, and Rescue. We will continue to progress with our digital agenda and
use the data insights to further optimize our website.

FINAL

So slide 28 shows the breakdown of our total cost base as John said earlier, we remain on
track to achieve our £1 billion cost target and deliver a 50 basis point reduction in the
expense ratio in the ﬁrst half obviously despite a shrinking top line and inﬂation.
We've reduced complexity and improved eﬃciency particularly in our head oﬃce
functions. Our cost program has delivered a 17% reduction in staﬀ costs year-on-year.
Marketing we've improved – eﬃcient more targeted use of marketing spend, particularly
important as the market is heavily competing for new business sales.
Looking ahead, we are going to continue to imbed our cost culture in the business and
optimize our cost base within our existing systems. Longer term, we've seen opportunity
in creating more digital business which allows customers do more things for themselves.
This will require continued investment in our systems and the potential beneﬁt for these
improvements may take several years to fully realize.

Bloomberg Transcript

The deﬂationary remarks are like the one we've seen, our focus on reducing costs will
allow us to not only defend, but improve our cost ratios, and I do not intent to lose this
focus.
Finally, Commercial on slide 29, very good start to the year, but Commercial which
continuous to focus on improving customer propositions and further driving eﬃciency.
We launched several new propositions in ﬁrst half including Churchill Van as you can see
from our logo Churchill with a hard-hat at on, two telematics pilots and a property
management app for our Direct Line to business landlord customers.
We continue to grow in the ﬁrst half of the year particularly in eTrading and Direct line for
business and this follows our investments in those areas over the last couple of years.
We now have a comprehensive eTrading product suite and have recently migrated Direct
line for business on to a new platform which allows customers to access their documents
online. We have further product and usability enhancements plans across these channels.
The ﬁrst half, or the half year results as John took you through show an improvement in
the current year loss ratios, expense and commission ratios which demonstrate the good
progress that Commercial has made and gives us conﬁdent that Commercial is on track to
achieve a sub 100% COR this year with all the usual caveats. I'm excited about the longterm plans we have for Commercial.
So, before I move on to an update on Motor and Home markets, I would like to tell you
about our plans for International, where we are very heavily prescribed of what we will say
today. So I will read this out very carefully and we have my friend from Slaughter and May
in the front row, who will run up if I say anything diﬀerent. So please bear with us.

Page 10 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

FINAL

You read today's announcement that during the ﬁrst half we've initiated a strategic review
of our International businesses. This review conﬁrmed the growth potential of the Direct
channel and also the International division's strong market positions. These businesses
have clear paths to succeed and to reach our target returns. However, other companies
may have abilities to create further values in these operations, which are harder for us or
will take more time. So we are investigating a potential disposal.
Discussions are now taking place with a number of parties, but there is no, of course, no
certainty whether disposal will happen. We'll update you in due course, but at this stage
understand that's all I can tell you.
In terms of half year performance, International delivered a number of new initiatives in
2014, whilst progressing further eﬃciency improvements. To take into the whole, in
summary, we've maintained momentum in our self-help agenda, improving our
competitive position against the backdrop of competitive markets. So with that in mind,
now I'll update on the UK Motor and Home markets on slide 32.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, the Motor markets remained highly competitive in the ﬁrst half of the year. As I said in
Q1, the year started with further price deﬂation. Although, in Q2, we did see some
stabilization, albeit pricing remained bumpy week to week. I believe it's too early to say
whether this stabilization will continue, or indeed whether this marks an inﬂection point
for the market.
While the commonly quoted reasons for the market price reductions is the fall in
frequency since the LASPO reforms, recent data points indicate this improvement is
slowing, although our data shows that we continue to outperform the market. We use this
and our other claims trends to support our pricing decisions and in the second quarter,
we reduced our prices by around 2% versus same period last year.
The CMA published its' provisional remedies in June, details are included if you want
them on page 41 of the appendix. There's been a proportionate response and in
particular, we support the removal of car repair from the remedies.
Regulation remains a key area focus for us and we continue be engaged in regulatory
matters and supportive of a level playing ﬁeld. Overall, we will continue to be disciplined
on pricing while focusing on improving our pricing capabilities and customer
propositions in Motor.
So, that is Motor, turning to Home, so while Motor is showing some signs of stabilization,
Home has become increasingly competitive with further market price deﬂation in the
second quarter. There are number of potential factors behind this, small and new
business is now being written through PCWs and competitors appear to be moving from
Motor into the more proﬁtable Home market.
Our response, as with Motor, is to adopt a disciplined approach, and we have reinvested
some of our pricing claims beneﬁts to maintain our strong position in Home. These
pricing and claims beneﬁts are evidenced in numbers. The improvement in the current
Page 11 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

year loss ratio is due to improvement in risk selection and technical pricing, and despite
new business pressures, Home continues to improve retention rates.

FINAL

All positive outcomes for us in the ﬁrst half, however, I don't want you to underestimate
how competitive the Home market currently is. We will continue to make daily trading
choices.
So, Slide 33, outlook. A brief reminder of where we are versus the targets with the usual
caveat on weather and Commercial large losses. As I said up front, we are on track to
achieve our full year targets, which we are reiterating; ﬁrst half COR of 96.6% is within our
aim of 95% to 97% for the year.
Commercials reported a further improvement in COR, remains on track to achieve its sub
100% target. Our ﬁrst half cost of £496 million, obviously, put us on a good path to
achieving our £1 billion. And ﬁnally our annualized RoTE in the ﬁrst half of 15.8% is above
our long-term target of 15%.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, to sum up, page 34. We continue to improve the underlying performance of the
business and we are busy driving the next wave of strategic initiatives. UK Motor and
Home markets have remained highly competitive, but we've seen a divergence in trends
in the second quarter with Motor stabilizing, but Home deteriorating further, maintaining
a focus, underwriting business where we see value.
Our Commercial and Rescue businesses have grown top and bottom line by developing
new customer propositions and improving eﬃciency. Our performance means we can
grow the interim dividend and pay a special whilst remaining, retaining and maintaining a
strong capital position.
Finally, we remain on track to meet our full year target. So thank you for listening ladies
and gentleman. I am going to hand back to Operator to brief the people on the phone
about questions. We're then going to start in the room and if people can try and stick to
two questions so we can get a fair spread of questions. Over to you operator.

Q&A
Operator
Thank you.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Okay. We're going to start in the room. We'll do the second row, we'll work along and
we'll get to you Andy in a second.

Q - William Hardcastle

{BIO 16346311 <GO>}

Page 12 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Hello, guys, Will Hardcastle, Bank of America. Quick one on reserve margins, could you
give us any idea of where that is versus the full year, if I look at page 11, it would imply that
Motor could not have increased cause you looked like you booked your proﬁt ratio higher
than you said on the slide before, that current year is broadly stable? And then second
one could you discuss in terms of Solvency II capital indications. It sounds me that ICAS+
is now done, no real movement from that. I guess the next leg of Solvency II – what are the
key moving parts and what are the uncertainty elements that they're looking at?

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Sure, thanks William. Taking the reserve margin question ﬁrst. What I'd probably say is
overall our reserving strength is, as it was, pretty strong. And yeah, we are quite
conservative in our ﬁrst pick because if you are conservative and actually look at what's
happened this year you will see more deﬂation in pricing and yeah you guys tell us – you
are improving your loss ratios but we are on – we haven't seen enough yet, we're on a
long term trend so we're not going to give you the beneﬁt of that so that's why we
probably got that pick which we expect to come down. So, yeah, message may be
change still, strong reserves.
On our capital move to Solvency II. Yeah, I mean, there are – ﬁrst of all we don't have any
particular reason to think things will be worse under Solvency II. There could be some
upside because Solvency II model is less onerous than the ICAS we have been operating
to. But we don't really know how that's going to work out in practice. The regulator is not
going to let people you know – release huge amounts of capital and there is lots of
debate going on and question being asked and maybe not so many answers received
about how that's all going to operate. It's worth saying that we probably won't operate on
the internal model from the very ﬁrst day. We'll probably take a few months to transition.
And so we're probably be on standard formula for a while, but there's nothing about
Solvency II that worries us. And yeah longer term it could be some ups and positives from
it.

Q - Thomas M. Dorner
Hi, it's Tom Dorner from Citi. The ﬁrst question I have is on costs. I'm sure you won't be
too speciﬁc, but can you give a sense of where you are on the journey to improving the
eﬃciency of the business and can you say whether or not you'll give an update on the £1
billion target that you had set for this year -- at the end of the year. So, will you be
changing that?
The second question was on capital, so this time last year, the statement that you issued
included a phrase that was that you would look for capital -- before you return capital, you
need it to be signiﬁcantly ahead of the guidance that you've given for a long period of
time.
Now, you're paying a special at the interim stage which is good, but – so are we to take
from that that whenever the business dips above the 150 RBC ratio that you'll be looking
to return capital?

Page 13 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Good. I'll let John answer the second--

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein

FINAL

Give me some time to think about it.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yeah, I will. So, I think there's two concepts on lowering costs. The ﬁrst is that we walk a
ﬁne line in a people business about how far you can cut – the pace you can cut, the staﬀ
with which you cut, and 17% reduction in staﬀ costs is going pretty quick. That's with
systems that haven't changed much and I think our motivation and engagement scores
are pretty high and I really want to keep them that way because having people on the
phones to our customers who then feel good about business with our fairly unbeaten
pricing. This is -- there's another measure you have to keep – take account of and I think
we've done a good job to take 17% of costs out of business at the same time as keeping
morale up.
The second thing is clearly, there was a destination which I'm not going to share, but we
have a notion of a destination of where a fully digital business where it's really slick to
operate internally and could be.

Bloomberg Transcript

And we're investing despite the special, we still got capital to invest heavily in the
business, to make it a much simpler business for customers to use and for our people to
operate, giving our people great tools.
And that will unlock more cost opportunity. It will take several years to realize, our systems
are – there's a long way to go, we've got a lot to invest in and we think we're backing all
the right horses on systems. It will take a bit of time.
So, that said, yes, I'm not going to put any numbers behind it, just in case you're
expecting any, just to foreshadow that.
Now, that then gives you in the meantime how do we -- what can we expect therefore
since it's been a couple of years to get a big step change at the backend and I think we've
enough track record now hopefully with you guys to say we're pretty focused on costs
and we'll continue to squeeze and drive cost out of the operation. And so I do want to
numbers keep falling but as I said, to balance a) the need for motivation of our staﬀ, the
big splashy cost targets would be nothing for the motivation of our people. And secondly,
we will only be as good as I want to be on costs with consistence, which will take a bit of
time. But in the meantime we'll do our very best to just to keep that number coming
down. And in this market environment you have to and I am actually quite proud of that
the fact that we improved the expense ratio at this point in the cycle and in this sort of
market conditions.

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Page 14 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

FINAL

Yes, on the capital side ﬁrst of all there is nothing automatic that we hit 150 and bingo. We
could be at 155 and full 155 Q on a day like today but we see it coming down below 150
or whatever. And I will be saying, I explained it you, I'll be saying we are at 155, but I can't
give you anything because we are growing that will be great, wouldn't it? We are growing
or we are investing whatever the reason is, it's going to come down.
So we look at this very frequently. And this time we looked at it and this time – okay it's not
actually 150 where it is right now, but it certainly would have been for a long period. So
we would have – it would have passed that test and did past that test. I mean we looked at
it and we go forward and we have forecast and everything else and it was going to be
above 150 for long period, therefore we've taken (40:19).

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Okay, yes.

Q - Dhruv Gahlaut

{BIO 16209870 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Dhruv Gahlaut, HSBC. One in terms of the capital only as and ﬁrstly as you ﬁnished the
ICAS approval process et cetera. Now has that actually less to a reduction in capital
charges as well as in, I see you gave a pie chart at the end of last year where you said
what's the counterparty risk, what the market risk, and the underwriting risk has, those risk
in actual numbers changed?
Second question is on intangibles; that's been ﬂat since the end of year. In past year you
said, as an expense this number will to go up, could you just quantify it as an – how much
could it actually go up for example this year?

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Yes. On the ICAS I would say that process has not resulted in any change to what you saw
before. On intangibles, I am not going to give you a number, but it is on rising trend and
it may be little bit lumpy. But yes, it's on rising trend for not just this year but into next
year. There will be a period – there will be a point and I won't call it too precisely, but in
two to three years where it does level oﬀ but we are not there yet.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Right, we'll get that one row. Sorry. It's a very systematic ordering.
Mark (41:43), Morgan Stanley. I appreciate you're very restricted on what you can say
about the International businesses. But perhaps, just factually speaking, when you look at
your economic capital model, what – how much capital is consumed by those businesses
and how much, what's the resources as well in that ratio?
And then secondly the question, you talked about this is very signiﬁcant price discount
you could give moving to a Telematics approach on Commercial. Could you describe little
bit about what's very diﬀerent -- I'm assuming it's sort of in renewal or will get a new piece

Page 15 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

of business. What were you able to really -- that drove that material for, in the pricing
there?
Sure.

FINAL

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Yeah. On capital, the international business standalone, separate legal entity reported net
assets in the annual report last year on a standalone, so that's probably where I'm going
to stop. They entirely don't get proportion from the parent. (42:52)
They are -- no -- what was that one?

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good. So I'd say its evolving science and (43:05) Gus you can take out in the break and
anyone in the room and quiz him on Telematics and see what discount you're going to
get when you sign up. So I -- there are couple of things which we thought would be true,
seem to be true, which is, if you take up a Telematics box that says that you are better
driver, by having it you get scored and once owned, kind of gameiﬁcation instincts say
that you'll keep driving better and better and better and get a higher and higher score.
Despite those things being true of all people who take Telematics boxes we're then still
ﬁnding a signiﬁcant range of driving behaviors and that is giving us the conﬁdence to give
a range of prices where just kind of on top of your conventional rating factors up to 40%
discount. So two identical twins of same age are doing same job in the same house, with
their identical cars, we would see stuﬀ in the Telematics space which would give us a 40%
price or support our view of giving a 40% price diﬀerential.
So I think that's quite signiﬁcant. I think that's quite a big deal. And as I said, the other
thing before, I think 50%, once you get a young driver on the phone and explain to them,
in fact over half take it. I think you're going to see signiﬁcant deal. Now, it's still emerging,
it's still new. We are just doing our ﬁrst renewals now. But I think all of those facts are
exciting enough for us to back as a trend which we want to be at the leading edge of,
hence our investment in The Floow as well.
Just anymore, I am at the limits of my expertise here and probably beyond this, so Gus
can help you at the break if you want. Yes.

Q - Andreas E. Van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Andreas Van Embden, JP Morgan. On the U.K. Motor rates, could you really maybe talk
about your book in Q2 versus Q1? What have you been doing with your U.K. Motor rates?
Could you also comment on Q3, what are you seeing? So far you mentioned Q2 was
bumpy, is Q3 bumpy as well? And ﬁnally should the market stabilize, going into 2015,
would you be thinking about growing your portfolio then?

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}
Page 16 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

Will I think about?

Q - Andreas E. Van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

Growing your portfolio.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

First thing to say is that we'd love to be, as I think John said, it's not a strategy to strength,
right. It's as an outcome of markets and our competitive position. In more favorable
markets as we improve our competitiveness particularly on pricing, on PTWs, on
distribution, and get our marketing working better that would be fantastic outcome. Let
me give you a bit of a sense of the ﬁrst two quarters though. Page 15 – the Motor page –
yeah you can see here our own pricing action Q1 we took our prices down 4% and we lost
1.2% of policies, Q2 down 3% and we lost 0.7% of policies and that is because the market
was broadly stable in the second quarter and by bumpiness -- it is just you go one month
it's better and then it goes back a bit. July is looking I think on trend to also support a
stable position. So I am just -- what I am really being assiduous to avoid is any big
forecasts. Clearly the other thing that matters is not only pricing, but what are the claims
trends and what we are saying is our claims trends we think probably are slightly better
than the market, and I hope so because we invested a lot – all the benchmarking says
we'll go claims, our last data said we're a bit better. And that we think is justifying our
pricing decisions of minus 2%. So you can make your own observations about where
other people might be. But it will be great outcome if we could stabilize, but it's not an
objective in itself because we are a value driven business. And to put a group objective
and publicly share it would be potentially to destroy value which we don't want to do.

Q - Andreas E. Van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

(46:40) year-on-year?

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Andreas E. Van Embden

{BIO 1795530 <GO>}

What happened Q-on-Q?

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Q-on-Q prices – I think it is pretty good but we can, if you want -- we can follow up and
see what we can say. Okay, let's keep moving. So we will come back to this side in a
second. We'll just complete this side and then we can know where we are. Behind you,
one more.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Thanks Gordon Aitken from RBC. Pulling levers to boost the return on tangible equity and
with the specials and one lever you haven't pull its leverage. It's still lower at 16% and just
talk of the scope and you desire to do that? And secondly on just talk about capital. I
Page 17 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

FINAL

mean, there is various factors, or stakeholders and would determine the right level of
capital. You've got your own analysis you talked about your internal model possibly I
mean using standard formula initially and Solvency II comes in, you've got rating agencies
you've got regulators you've got customers, albeit you don't have a big, large commercial
business. Can you just talk about the balance of those and what determines your level of
capital?

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Sure. I think on leverage, yeah, 16% is not – is fairly conservative. I think we see that more
as a source of ﬁnancial ﬂexibility than as a thing you necessarily want completely and
never often exploit. You know, if you do it too much then you haven't got that ﬂexibility. Is
there any particular reason why I need that ﬂexibility at this moment? No. But I think if we
did another ten year issue and then you got it stuck there and so on – so and for it to
count as capital it has got to be of a certain maturity. So I think I prefer to have that
ﬁnancial ﬂexibility. We do want to grow and some day that will happen.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of the balance, I mean, we deﬁne our capital for ourselves. We don't have it
dictated to us. I think we deﬁned it before the IPO that we wanted to be able to issue
debt, and to have that ﬁnancial ﬂexibility. And to be able to do that with conﬁdence over a
long period having an A rating was a right thing to do. And so we – that is an anchor. I
mean, actually, the S&P model would show us being stronger than A at the moment, but
that was an anchor.
And for the rest, it's more about our modeling of stresses and tail risks and so on and in
our discussions with the regulator, but we take the decisions and obviously we want to
have a relationship with the regulator which is constructive. We don't have surprises and
we haven't had any. And I'm sure there are healthy debates, but – in general, we – I think
we have a good relationship and we ensure that we don't get surprises.
And if you roll that together, we end up where we are. But most of it is driven by our own
risk appetite and where we want to be and that often takes into account what those
stakeholders think. You're right, there aren't – those are the two main stakeholders, more
kind of internal. But we don't have any – there are no concerns by – our commercial
customers don't really. I mean, given the point where we run by RBS, some of them were
worried that we're BBB, some of the brokers there and that's gone.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Okay. We'll we're going to go to the other side of the room for a bit.

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
And it looks like Andy's missed his opportunity.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Right. So we'll get him. Sorry.

Page 18 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Very tough our boss, got to get in there.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

FINAL

Trying to have some system, that's why.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Thanks guys. So slide 11 the gross loss ratio is now – it's ﬂummoxed me every time. Is that
representative of the actual – where the actual reserve releases are coming from, so as I
get into that £75 million from 2012 and about £25 million from 2013, is that roughly where
the reserve releases from the Motor book are coming from. Is that how we should think
about it?

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
2012 and 2013 were the biggest release years, and we've had some from all the years that
you can see as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

Okay. And so – well, I guess then certainly, there's 2012, it was coming out now, sort of 75ish, it doesn't feel like there's a huge amount that is (50:50) than 75% loss ratio from 2012.
And indeed, if you knew the best estimates for 2012 was going to be sub-75, with the
pricing discipline you've shown, do you – would you have took a diﬀerent decision if you
had known at the time that you're going to come out at 75% for 2012? Because,
presumably, you could have written more business and made signiﬁcantly more proﬁts,
had you known it was going to end up like this.
And the second question is on International. So whatever proceeds that are obtained, will
they be returned via a special dividend? Just to conﬁrm if that's possible or not, if that's
possible. And the third question, I guess, on...

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Three? Hey, three?

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

And the third one a quick one. How expensive is Telematics box? Is it about £30? And is it
actually a real-time device? Is it connected real-time to – are you collecting data real-time
basically?

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

So the last one is easy, which is...

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Page 19 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

Free to you.

FINAL

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yes. A lot cheaper and certainly lot cheaper installed than an installed black box. Our
price is falling all the time, obviously it gets better with volume, but we're not going to
give a quantum because this is commercial sensitive. Yes, it does give us the facility
should we wanted to keep all of your data live and feeding where you are and how fast
you're driving and in what conditions. So, it's a smarter box for example than the
Progressive box to top that.
And if you get one, I expect some of you will break into it and see what's in it. So, we're
also (52.15).
I think the key concepts on pricing is we do have a pricing best estimate, which is a tool
which we have in the business to work out looking at the same data, but taking more
credence to current trends and that's how we price. And therefore we don't think that our
conservative reserving approach is therefore stopping us writing appropriately proﬁtable
business at the moment.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
And that bridging is something we work on all the time to make it better and better. So,
I'm sure in retrospect there's always things you wish you done, but it's not the point – it's
not actually the point that you're worried about there, Andy, it's not that reserving
conservatism would do that. We could maybe feel – we can study all the opposite with our
pricing method, and that you know, we test that afterwards, but you never know in
advance. But the main point to point that Paul's made. On the possible proceeds of any
possible disposal we are not going to comment at this point. Let's see what happens.

Q - Andy Hughes

{BIO 15036395 <GO>}

I guess my question on reserve proﬁts and try to work out where the reserve buﬀer is in
terms of the chart. When I look at the chart we're releasing from 2012, it feels like 2012 has
got the best estimate so the reserve buﬀer probably in 2013 and 2014 is probably quite
high but we are roughly where across that chart would you say you reserve buﬀer lives?

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Well, yeah. You – I would certainly say that 2013 – my expectation in 2013 and 2014 will
have a lot that will come out later, sure, and less if you go back. That's what I would have
expected. Obviously, on larger bodily injury you can get them from early years and that's
a lumpy thing and we'll be doing some of that exercise in the second half and you could
get a bit of lumpiness from some of those old years.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Page 20 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

I will cross – we are going to cross the row again and work right forwards and leave a bit
of time for people on the phone. I say if we can try and keep it to couple and we will try to
keep our answers short as well.

FINAL

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

Thanks its Ravi Tanna, Goldman Sachs just two questions please. So ﬁrst one is on
dividends policy. Now clearly specials are as has been mentioned specials can be a lever
for the return on tangible equity. But just broadly how do you think about how the
discussions went when it comes to considering special dividends versus a more
sustainable uplift in your payout ratio. Can you perhaps talk a bit about what the factors
that they considered and can we expect the same pattern to continue going forward? And
then secondly, the question on the regulatory environment and speciﬁcally on automatic
renewals there has been some discussion in the press around ABI recommendations on
automatic renewals pricing, can you just give us a sense of the direction of Travel in the
latest, on the situation please?

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Sure. So, let me start with the regulatory question. So, we were supportive of the ABI
saying that as an industry level we think it would good, to have more transparency on
renewal pricing. We think that's done as an industry rather than each individual players
doing it to ensure consistency and a level playing ﬁeld. It may take little bit of time to
execute, because it's not something everyone's system can do, including ours.
But we think that is the right response to the fact that the market have a characteristic
which is it tends to be have promotional prices in the ﬁrst year. And if we are kind of
thinking that that's a good remedy and I think elsewhere I'd stick to the point which is,
strong regulation, we think is a good thing for us. And some of the regulation in the ﬁrst
half has been what we want and some of it's been proportionate, some of it we would
have pushed a bit further if we had our choice. On that speciﬁc point we are, I think we
are at the forefront of that thinking, and I think we are pro-reform on that assuming it
works across the industry. And I don't think anyone beneﬁts from, I think, a patchy
adoption.

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Yeah. On dividend policy, I think the critical thing for us is that we have a regular dividend
policy that we can sustain and that we don't let people down. And so far I think that's
been ﬁne, and we set it less than two years ago. I'm sure we'll review it at some point, but
for the moment we are happy with that. We want to beat inﬂation and we are beating
inﬂation.
So, yeah, you are right, Ravi, the special is a way to correct excess capital. And on balance,
I think that's proved, don't use your sustainable regular dividend for excess capital,
because it probably won't be sustainable use of special for that, so that's kind a point one
and two. At some point we might reconsider that, there is still quite a lot happening
below the line, run-oﬀ restructuring costs, Solvency II, and so on, I think it will be a while
before we come up with anything diﬀerent from that, that strategy.

Page 21 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you. Right, we have couple more here. We need to be, people on the phone.

FINAL

Q - Sami Taipalus

{BIO 17452234 <GO>}

Hi. Sami Taipalus from Berenberg. Just ﬁrst of all, one of two questions. On Motor, all else
equal, how much would price have to rise for you to be start – to be able to start building
IFPs again?
And then second, on claims handling, I know claims handling costs were stable year-onyear, but claims frequency and claims trends seem to have improved a bit. Is there some
potential in reducing that number, stable or was ﬂattening just down to the web?

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Very good. John on the second one?

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, there's – underlying claims expenses are coming down steadily. There is some
bumpiness in them because we do periodic reviews of the claims handling provision and
the claims handling provision I believe essentially follows the pattern of claim costs and
the reserve, the current size of the book. That comes down something in it each year and
it's likely to happen in the second half. So I think you get a bit of improvement in that in
the second half.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

And I suspect you're not expecting an answer on the ﬁrst one. It kind of depends – it
depends who you have, which channel, which customer group, how our models look
versus other customers' models. But it would be a nice day and when we get there we will
celebrate it. But don't really draw on that, because it is more complex than that and it's a
pretty unmodelable thing. I think I'm right, looking at Gus with the mic, is that the right
answer, yes. Good. Otherwise I would have held them to that something else, so that's
satisfying. Okay. Right. Yes, Andrew. Oh, it's Oliver.

Q - Oliver G. Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel on the line. I don't want to disturb your order. Oliver Steel with Deutsche
Bank. Two questions. The ﬁrst is, you used to talk about keeping the solvency ratio at the
top of the 125%, 150% range. I think you previously sort of talked about another 12 or 18
months, I think that phrase has dropped, I was just wondering what sort of timetable you
are still thinking about?
Secondly, I've not yet worked through what's happened to your claims reserves – what's
driven the reduction in solvency cost rate, I guess I missed this, but is there anything
exceptional in that ﬁrst half reduction in the solvency requirement or is that sort of run rate
we should be thinking about?

Page 22 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein

FINAL

Yeah I can't remember the precise things I need. I worry about saying something that may
be proved wrong. I think, to answer your earlier question, the one to go with which is we
talked about a long period of time and we didn't tell how long that was. I don't think we
ever said how long that is given the credit for judging that at a time in relation to the risks
there are.
And yes we put something for that. They would have been above 150 at the top of the
range for a long period of time. So I think I'll kind of answer the question as much as I can.

Q - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

The 125% to 150% range?

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein

Bloomberg Transcript

Within that. Well, I think I've said on that one. Given the risk and uncertainties we got we
want to be at the top end of the range. So those things are not going to change from
December to June. You take the ICAS for the one oﬀ thing we have to do that process.
And we haven't done it before, the ICAS+, we probably won't ever do it again now. But so
that was bit of a one-oﬀ but there are other tailwinds and headwinds, we gradually work
through them. But we continue to invest in the business. The markets are still competitive.
And we still do have below-the-line costs and so on, so I think – in terms of the dynamics
of reduction, two things, that means, yeah we got shrinkage in the book and yeah, but we
also have modeling, our modeling improves as we go forward, we challenge the models
and so on and sometimes we get the beneﬁt from that. I wouldn't say there was a trend
that we could follow.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Right ﬁnal question I think the room for Ken.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Andrew Crean with Autonomous. I am tempted to ask a commercially sensitive question,
if you really do get all of this data from us about how we drive, I want to know whose
scored worst in the management team – or we can leave that aside for later. Two
questions, ﬁrstly why you do special dividends not buybacks which tightening the balance
sheet and tightening earnings per share? And secondly can you talk a bit more about the
household market which you gave – given fair warning on, really around I suppose two or
three issues, one what kind of returns is that business making. Two what's the split
between Bank and Direct business. And three what is actually happening to pricing? You
said it's competitive, but what is happening to pricing?

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Okay. Well I give John a bit of warning on the specials. So Home market, also in Q2 is the
Motor market kind of stabilized and the Home market mark went down again. So

Page 23 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

probably year-to-date we reckon the Home market is down about 5% versus the whole of
last year it was down somewhere between 5% and 10%.

FINAL

So it's kind of so it's gone down and we priced less than that and we've made trading
choices in the ﬁrst half which resulted in us keeping or slightly improving loss ratio and
having a consequence on the premiums and that's particular on new business because
actually our retention has gone up.
I think we've been on record before about saying about half our book is kind of
partnerships roughly. I don't think there's an out fee on that. In the sense again, we
haven't -- we don't do divisional disclosure, but I mean it's – the terms are attractive. I think
is it suﬃcient, John. Yeah, ﬁne.
The dynamics are our return to ﬂexibility to make diﬀerent trading choices. We have a
very good set of cards on Home. We've got great brands. We've got a fantastic book.
We've got loads reserve. We've got quite a lot of pricing projects are on Home. We have
lots of claims project on Home. We have obviously got cost savings program which will
beneﬁt Home. We have claims initiative to make our Home claims really swift and easy.
We've got lots of marketing propositions coming down the track.

Bloomberg Transcript

So I don't want to dress up that it is a competitive market, but our response is going to be
competitive, but not to prejudge or make any forward looking comments which I can't – I
can't make. And yeah.
Yeah, on the ﬁrst question, Andrew. We had some debate about buybacks. We – it's a
divisive issue, some shareholders like them, others shareholders don't like them – maybe
we will hear after this one some more feedback from some them as we go around. There
are other issues we debate such as, you know, is it right that we put a price on the shares.
What price would we put on the shares? What does it mean? What happens if you get it
wrong and it changes? Then the question of volatility that it might engender, so a special
dividend is a simple beast. We understand it so that helpful. And so I'll probably develop
– we'll look at further and see what feedback we get but if you think it's really, really great
idea, maybe we should think about it.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Worst driver?

A - Anthony Jonathan Reizenstein
Worst driver? It's classiﬁed. Yeah.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Yeah, with a little feedback, performance always improves, doesn't it? I do genuinely hope
you will do and we would put up a league table. I think that would be quite fun. So that's
not for now. Sorry everyone on the phones, you waited a long time. I'll ask the operator
for any questions.
Page 24 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

Operator
We have a question from Greig Patterson. Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Good morning, gentlemen. Just on the commercial market, I wondered if you can talk
about the market environment and sort of on a product line sort of basis, whether we're
having a softer market or we are seeing some hardening there, just so we have some
context? That's it.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Okay. Can we get all of your questions Greig?

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

That's it, one question. All the others were answered today. Surprisingly.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

The market which we're calling a sub segment of commercial which we're saying is very
competitive is Van – about as many of the characteristics of the Motor market place, but
we have many of the assets of the Motor market place. So we're not giving up on that
market, in fact we want to do well in it, but it's a tougher market place. I think what we're
saying is we quite like – these are competitive markets, but we quite like the small end of
SME, we think that's a great market place for us which beneﬁts us.
Some people ask us with the international announcement there's been absolute clarity
this is a very deeply integrated and very synergistic business for us. We're using the same
rating data to help us from Motor and Home, which most of our policies are based upon,
we use the same brands in Direct line. And we have transfer of people and many of our
thinking and our systems approach we think is meeting the commercial market it's going
to be more iterated and will drive business. So we are opportunistic about our
commercial business and we'll talk more about it in the future.

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Around the same area, we're seeing a hard – I mean, other say with a support base in
place, we're seeing a hardening environment. So are you seeing that?

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

My commercial MD is giving a hand gestures which implies, sort of, ﬂat.

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

So generally your rates have been ﬂat recently?

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}
Page 25 of 26



Company Name: Direct Line Insurance Group PLC
Company Ticker: DLG LN Equity
Date: 2014-08-01

Yeah. I mean, we are achieving some modest single digit increases in most classes,
banding the exception. The market is nowhere as soft as the personal lines. So I generally
characterize it as kind of bumping along at the moment.

FINAL

Okay, thanks Greig.
Thank you.
Right. Operator, any more?

Operator
There are no further questions on the phone line at this time.

A - Paul Robert Geddes

{BIO 2474781 <GO>}

Okay. Well, thank you very much for coming in and come back next time to everybody
scores on the doors. Thanks for coming. Cheers.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

That does conclude the conference today. Thanks for participating. You may all
disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 26 of 26

