Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

Y 2014 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Adrian Gore , Chief Executive Officer
Mike Brown, Analyst
Unidentified Speaker

Other Participants
Unidentified Participant

Presentation

Bloomberg Transcript

Mike Brown

{BIO 16160535 <GO>}

Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. If we can get the proceedings going. I think, this is
on, I seem to be hearing myself in an echo. I'm Mike Brown from the Investment Analyst
Society. We're being hosted this morning by Discovery Limited for a presentation on the
Annual Results to 30th of June. Discovery, I think as we all know, is listed in 1999, it's now
the 30th, I think, biggest company on the JSE and it keeps on climbing just about every
year. A company like this is -- has an increasing reach across the different products and
services that they deliver and globally. So it's a complex company I'm sure to many, but it's
a complex company, I think, also to report on.
And so we are very grateful, Adrian and team, as the Investment Analyst Society for the
amount of work that goes into, I think, producing the results just two months after your
year-end, but also the effort, I think, that goes in from your whole team, from your
accounting and financial people upwards to yourself and doing a presentation of this
nature.
So on behalf of the Society, I'd like to thank Discovery for hosting us this morning and for
the presentation we'll get from them and also the chance to network with the -- I'll see,
Richard and the whole management team is here in the front row afterwards.
So with no further ado, if I can hand over to Adrian Gore, CEO of Discovery. Thank you,
Adrian.

Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Mike, thank you very much. It's always an absolute honor and a pleasure to present our
results for the year end to 30th June 2014. I've chosen a very tall podium. When you're
my height, this is problematic. I hope you can see me, right. So I must say upfront it has
been a tremendous year, I think. A very complex year, but I think a very good year. And to
Page 1 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

FINAL

an extent, I think it's framed by three distinct things that I hope I get across in the
presentation. The first is strong financial performance and I think you'll see that
throughout the businesses. The second is a extensive and broad focus of the Group
across different geographies, across different markets, different industries, insurance
versus life insurance, et cetera.
But despite that, which I think you'll see the third framing for me is ironically, the business
model is more disciplined and if that -- it collapses down, I'm going to make -- I'm going
to try and get a bit of depth from this here. It collapses down into a very focused model
that, I think, is highly applicable. And to an extent, I think our focus now is in three phases.
A primary market here, a second primary market in the UK, and a partner market that
we're trying to globalize. And so to an extent, while we've been relatively broad and
extensive and you'll see that, I think the focus is now careful and I think the business
model is well established.

Bloomberg Transcript

So let me start by just talking through the financial performance. Of course, I've seen your
pack and I'm not going to go into too much detail, I hope it's there in great detail. But you
can see the normalized operating profit has grown strongly by 23% to 5 billion. New
business up 15% of a pretty hard base annualized to 12.2 billion. Embedded value
reflecting the kind of actuarial progression of the business growing by substantial 21% to
43 billion, just over 43 billion. And I think is very important is illustrating the performance of
the Group against expectations, the actual expectations up a substantial 45% with
experienced variances, up to just over 1.4 billion. So across the board, I think the
performance has been strong.
A few comments, if you look at new business progression, it is strong, up 15%. I made the
point earlier, but if you look at it across the kind of the long-run growth rate, it's kind of in
line, we've been at about 14% a year over 10 years, slightly higher this year. So I think
we're very pleased with the ability to grow of what I think is a very, very high base. Looking
at earnings, the operating earnings up 23%, a long-run growth rate. We've managed to
grow earnings by 22% a year for the last 10 years. So we're kind of in line with that again, I
think, a better year than average and you can see that climbing.
The normalized headline earnings up 24%. Headline earnings themselves up 49% and
there's kind of a distortion from the last year. And you may recall that, it created all kinds
of confusion, I want to clear that up very quickly, but it's kind of working through the
system, but effectively the growth environment we're in is around the 20% to 24% level.
On the back of that, we've kept the dividend policy about the same. So we'd be carrying
a dividend of 151 cents, up by 21.3%, very much in line with the increase in diluted headline
earnings per share. So that's effectively kind of how we've progressed over the year
financially.
Just briefly on this distortion, just to clear it up, I hope it is clear. In the 2013 year, we had
this restructured reinsurance financing, we revalued the Prudential put option and this
created a once-off charge. So what we did in 2013 was to show normalized headline
earnings of 2.78 billion as you can see versus what that charge reflected, which is a onceoff of 2.062 billion. The effect of that from 2012 to 2013 was, in effect, a decline of 3% in

Page 2 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

FINAL

headline earnings and what we showed was an increase of normalized headline earnings
by 20%, as I hope you can see.
That now is working its way through the system, so now what really is happening on a
normalized basis is the 24% growth year-on-year. But if you look at it versus the once-off
reduction, it looks like a 49% growth. So essentially I hope that's clear, which is working its
way through the system from the distortion in 2013 and the right way I think to look at the
accounts is certainly not a 49% increase, but a 24% increase. And I hope that makes
sense.
Let me turn to the embedded value and again this, I think, is very important for us. It
reflects the actuarial progression of the business from year to year and effectively you can
see that has climbed by a substantial 21% to over 43 billion. I think that is very, very strong.
But I think the real issue for us is the experience variances that have climbed by 45%, as
you can see, to a substantial 1.4 billion. That really reflects the fact that the business is
outperforming the mortality assumptions, the morbidity assumptions, lapse rate, expense
rates, et cetera.

Bloomberg Transcript

And to a large extent, I think the trend has been upward over the years, but I think it has
accelerated in the period under review and to a large -- in my mind, to a large extent, the
power of the business model is really driving better selection, better performance, better
behavior and it is fundamental to a large extent to, I think, everything that we are trying to
do.
So what I'd like to do is move off the kind of narrow financials and move on to the themes
and on to the strategy that, I think, is critical for the business. Let me say this, I think and
we believe very strongly that insurance is going through a profound destructive phase.
Most of the industries are facing destruction from technology, but I think in the context of
our industries, the destructive force may be slightly different. The first point is, I think that
opinions about society on institutions, on insurance and banking has changed and is
changing, the financial crisis, rising inequality, intergenerational change, our customers are
changing. So the millennials have a very different view, a very high civic mindset. They
believe very strongly in social awareness that a company should be a force for social
good.
So to an extent, the mindset of Milton Friedman, the business of business is business, that
has passed. Businesses have to have what Michael Porter of Harvard called shared value,
a business has to be a force for social good. It has to do what's good for it, must be good
for its customers, must be good for society. And to a large extent, I would argue that
institutions like ours have to make sure that we're in line with that kind of paradigm, else
we will not be relevant and attractive to the customers we're trying to serve.
At the same time, I think the second trend or the second fact is that we are highly relevant
and that's important to know. The industries we're in are big and substantial financially and
socially. So if you look at the profit pools of insurance industries around the world, these
are virtually trillions of dollars. From a social perspective, I would argue that health
insurance or healthcare is the biggest industry in the world.

Page 3 of 26



FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

Life insurance and long-term savings are fundamental to everything that's important to us
at our retirement. Short-term insurance covers all of our possessions. So whether it's
financially or socially, these are massive and relevant industries. So when you bring
together this idea of -- the importance of shared value and you look at the relevance of
what we do, it's pretty clear that there's an impetus for change and we must be aware of
that in the life to that. What I think is exciting is that the nature of change may be different,
because I think we're seeing across the world industries being disintermediated and
changing through the power of technology. I would argue that in the case of insurance,
the force for change is the awareness that it is behavior that drives risk. So the nature of
risk is changing from pre-existing conditions to behavior, and the understanding that
behavior of humans is irrational. And how we build our products and how we build our
systems is fundamental to understanding that.

Bloomberg Transcript

We see that across virtually everything we do and I think you've seen this from us in many
different ways, in the context of health and life insurance, we now know that three
conditions, three behaviors, smoking, poor nutrition, poor physical activity lead to four
conditions that drive 50% of the mortality. In fact, if you add alcohol in there, you get to
60% or even higher of mortality. So this is pretty fundamental. At the same time, people
don't change their behavior easily, they need to be incentivized or nudged or regulated to
change their behavior and people are overly optimistic about that risk.
So this is an amazing statistic that in our data, if you look at people with one chronic
condition, two chronic conditions or five chronic conditions and you quiz them about how
good is their health, you can see that the percentage showing their health is good, it's
actually quite constant. I'm amazed by the five chronic conditions, more people think their
health is good in that group than the people with no chronic conditions, right. And it kind
of illustrates to you the bias of how we -- what behavior you call over-optimism.
So a healthy -- a health in our morbidity-mortality is driven by behavior, yet we seem to be
unaware of our own state of health and that's a critical issue. In the context of driving, for
example, we are more and more immersed, it's fascinating that 90% of accidents are, of
course, caused by human behavior. But you get the same paradox that while people -I've never yet met or personally caused an accident incidentally, right, and you see this in
the statistics. When you survey people, 81% of people said they're good drivers, our
statistics show the opposite, 30% are good, in fact, that flips around in terms of bad
drivers.
So you have the same kind of behavioral paradox and you have the same casualty [ph],
it's behavior that drives risk. When you embrace this, you understand that the insurance
markets have to understand this deeply. So in the context of life insurance and I need to
make this point and it's fundamental to what we're doing, the idea of underwriting
someone at a point in time, doing all the medicals and the checks, of course, that's
critical, but thereafter charging them the same right throughout their life is completely
inconsistent to a world, where more than 60% of the risk is based on behavior during
occurrence of the policy. If you don't have a dynamic rating process, you're simply not
matching price and risk and that's not sustainable. It's not a great value of money to our
customers.

Page 4 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

FINAL

In the context of health insurance, we're seeing more and more that societies are
rebelling against risk rating, you're not matching price and risk, quite the opposite. So we
have in this environment, our medical schemes have to use a community rate. If you go
the US, the Obama Care is exactly the same thing, getting away from pre-existing
conditions towards actually posing a much more community system. Yet health systems
around the world are embracing behavior and wellness and trying to price them into
those models.
So once again, I think there's profound change. And any short-term insurance is quite
amazing, how competitive these markets are for margin, for rating factors. If you look at
markets like the UK, the driver efficiency, there's every single issue in those rating. If
they're trying their best on that efficiency front here to understand behavior, usage-based
insurance and getting towards -- they're kind of there with telematics.

Bloomberg Transcript

So if you look across the entire industry, I would argue that there's profound change
taking place. It's enabled by technology, but fundamentally, this the essentially of behavior
and prevention rather than just pre-existing conditions. And so the nature of risk is
changing.
Our service with -- hope to get some humility, but I do think that in the context of
Discovery, we have become global leaders in this particular space. A very simple idea of
making people healthier has taken us on the journey of trying to understand how do you
make people healthier. How do you change behavior and on that journey, we've learned
about mortality, mobility, healthcare costs, driving, how all these things change and in
essence, the model is quite a unified one, so the idea of underpinning our businesses
with behavioral science.
And I think over the period under review that model has solidified. We've invested
considerably in it to this idea of including behavioral science into every single thing that we
do. So the businesses, I think, are brilliant. They're built carefully with exceptional people.
But at the same time, the entire underwriting models, pricing models, technology is
founded in behavioral science and tries to change behavior and price it into the products
that we do.
I think getting back to the discipline of Michael Porter, the idea of shared value, I would say
to you that the Discovery model is exactly shared value model. Think about it, that's
exactly what we're doing. Changing behavior, if a change in behavior throws at actuarial
savings, the savings then are used to fund incentives that change behavior or they fund
discounts to premiums, and they share it with us in the sense of high embedded values
and VNB, et cetera. And so the cycle goes around.
So to an extent, if we get it right, I would argue what we're doing is creating a shared
value model, it's better for society, because people are healthy and doing the right
things, it's better for our customers and better for us. And to an extent, I think in the
period under review, we spent a lot of time trying to make sure we understand the
discipline of this model and to an extent what it can do.

Page 5 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

FINAL

I do think that it looks like the Queen Mary from here, I don't know why it's come up that
way, but essentially I do think that the business model has evolved quite substantially
where the Vitality chassis, which is the proprietary nature what we're doing is being built
out substantially, but more and more we understand you, the actuarial clinical links
between the behavior and the insurance businesses that we build. And the chassis has
become a tremendous, tremendous asset.
If you break it down and we speak a lot around the world about what we're offering, the
asset base is substantial. So if you look at all the things that, I think, the customer journey
is simple. Get a Vitality Age, get a Personal Pathway, do these activities, earn points and
statuses and get rewards, that's pretty simple and colloquial. I think you will get it. We're
seeing it all the time, but the clinical and actuarial and behavioral underpinnings are
substantial and we keep learning more and more about them and continue to improve
them, I think, over time.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the data side, we have 17 million life years of data. We're understanding more and
more, what incentives drive engagement, what engagement drives lower health care
costs, mortality costs, sickness costs, driving behavior. And then how that affects stuff in
an integrated, composite way and I think that's powerful. We're learning about the pricing
engines to do that in the long term, as how to codify mortality, morbidity of our status.
And then we're learning about the valuation models needed to make this stuff
sustainable. And I think it's very important, I think, for me kind of in the (inaudible) about
our thinking about this is, Vitality and what we're doing there, we are in a world of
considerable change and competition. You don't open up a newspaper or go to an Apple
launch where there isn't something about the quantified-self. We have the new iWatch
that may come up Fitbit, measuring all these issues, the world is going kind of mad about
people, they need to grips with how they are managing their wellness and their health.
We are not competing in that space. It's important I tell you that. We are a translator of
that activity into the insurance markets. And we're not trying to outdo Fitbit and iWatch,
(inaudible) chassis. So we're making sure that chassis is compliant and fit for purpose as
the world evolves and as these things come about, we will do the layers and devices to
make sure we can measure that behavior. We can take that data and we can price it
actuarially and clinically into premium rates, into incentives, et cetera.
So we are in a sense the translator, a translator of all these chains into the insurance
market. And I think -- this was in the thinking I've had to make sure that our resource
allocation, our focus does exactly that. It generates a science necessity [ph] to interpret
into a -- in a non-discriminatory possible way into the markets of insurance. And that's
really the kind of focus that we're doing. So on the back of that, if you look at the
businesses, while they're disparate in many ways, they're across many different industries,
in different markets, but all are actually identical built. Whether we're the carrier or we are
partner in some way, for example, with an AIA, that's exactly what we're doing and more
and more in a disciplined way we're talking that model and injecting it in.
And I think it provides three powerful competitive issues. First is the pricing capabilities,
the correlations between all of this in claims and lapses, the integration dynamics, which is
the composite of the model. It's best in South Africa, I'll touch on that briefly and then
Page 6 of 26



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

huge amount of data and so it's coming from the data. And that stuff is incredibly rich and
powerful, I think good for our members, good for society and I'd like to touch on that
briefly. In terms of correlations, I do this in every results, but I do need to tell you again,
we're getting fantastic results out of this. So in terms of the reliability of claims and lapses
changing by engagement, that is at the core, the kind of the secret sauce of the model. If
you can bring claims down through engaging in Vitality, that health insurance, life insurance
are driving through Vitality Drive. We can bring the lapse rates down, we can codify that
process and translate it into other markets and I think that is critical.
In terms of integration, I think this is interesting that we find that this kind of the power and
the composite nature of the model. So without going through the whole slide, if you look
at the top right-hand side, if you look at Discovery Life, we find the more products that
people have with us, the more sticky they are with us. The low their claims tend to be, it
could be just a function selection or behavior, it doesn't matter. But it manifests in other
claims and it manifests our lapse rates. And so when you real Discovery (inaudible), you've
got five or more products with us, your claims levels and lapse levels are remarkably low
and that's a critical thing for us to build on.
So the composite nature of the model, I think, is important. And then finally the data is
fascinating. We have data all over the press and I think we're doing very well at analyzing
that. But I thought I'd share you a few interesting things that are kind of different cuts of
the data. So, for example, we're seeing cross-correlations, people who manage their
health tend to drive better, right. We're seeing that all the time. We found that smokers
are worst drivers than nonsmokers, right. We find that people manage their health on the
right-hand side manage their credit. So there are cross-correlations between these
industries. And I think it's kind of (inaudible) if you have discipline in one area, it probably
flows into other areas as well.
But the ability to see that statistically in the process, I think is a very powerful thing. At the
same time, we kind of -- we're learning about -- (inaudible) but let me mention it. We're
learning about things that, I think, are of excellent value for the public good. So this
debate about nutrition, which is a massive thing. Do you follow a low-carb, high-fat diet?
Do you follow Mediterranean diet? It's a hugely important thing. We have a massive data
set and we have partnership with Hoovers and Pick n Pay, for example. We have the data
and the standards. So we have all -- we track every single thing. We track every basket of
food that our customers buy, what they're buying, we know their demographics, we know
their cholesterol readings, their BMI readings, et cetera.
And therefore, we can correlate these diets to the outcomes of BMI and cholesterol. And
so we're starting those studies to understand what diets lead to what kind of outcomes
and try and get rid of the often anecdotal of small sample sets that are used kind of diet
offer a very big sample set. These are complicated issues. I don't pretend that we have
any results or answers yet, but the data is incredibly rich and we need to use that not just
to further the business, but to make sure we can add to the public discourse on this
critical thing. So I think the data set is powerful.
So essentially, if you think about our business that's outlooks. But to an extent, I think in
terms of our focus, we see three distinct areas of focus in terms of focus, resource
Page 7 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

allocation and capital allocation. Our primary market, which is South Africa, I think is doing
remarkably well. We've continued to grow, push hard, invest a lot of capital in. We remain
optimistic about it, growing into different adjacent industries like Discovery Insure and I'll
show you a bit later, I think that's had a tremendous period.
The second primary market is UK and I call that primary market, a market where we ought
to insure it effectively. So we're not simply just providing certain capabilities. We are the
carrier in the majority. And so to an extent, the UK is a second primary market. I think that
is in a way trying to replicate the composite Discovery model in the UK.
And then to an extent, I think we've applied much more discipline to this idea of how do
you globalize the capability that we've got. I think we had this almost dilemma within
Discovery or I do think we're leading this space. How do you capitalize on this
environment in the right way? We simply can't be an insurer in many markets at the same
time. We don't have the bandwidth, we don't have the capital. So how do we use this
capability to generate value for society and for us in a way? And in a sense, thinking about
this is more franchise kind of approach. Can we partner great companies in their markets
and get value out of that by, in essence, restructuring their business and doing that in a
way that shares value with us. And to an extent, that's a third category of this partner
franchise market. I think, AIA to an extent is (inaudible). I think if you look across the growth
on the vertical, you can see that, I think, the growth is strong. Our primary market
continues to grow strongly by 21%. The safety market in the UK has its strong growth, up
33%. A very short tailwind from the currency, but still I think the growth is strong. The size
of earnings is now not insignificant, and then we're investing in these markets. They're
fairly capital light. I think the potential upside is substantial, I'll touch on that a bit later in
the presentation.
The other point I wanted to make on our strategy is that very few companies and I think
very few institutions start businesses all the time. One of the manifestations of our
business model is, in effect, we continue to start new businesses in a way that we think is
appropriate. So if you look across the portfolio in these different markets, you have a
range of established businesses like Discovery Life and Discovery Health, you have
emerging businesses like our UK business and then you have really new start businesses
that I think offer great growth for the future.
My experience and you may disagree is that it takes five years to get a business doing the
financial scale. It takes 5 to 10 to get in the emergence and then 10 on is to get really
institutional scale. And that's certainly my experience what I see. You'll know in the first
three years whether you're going to succeed or fail. You'll know in five years whether you
have something of value. And if you do, it's going to take 5 to 10 years to get that to
scale. If you do reach the 10-year mark, you then have a real potential to build institutional
power and I think that if you look at this portfolio of our businesses across the spectrum, I
would argue that we have a bit of everything there.
And I think it gives us the ability to grow strongly, to grow organically, and to try and keep
our growth rate at this 20% level, despite the fact that we're in a very difficult
environment. And to large extent, I think the performance this year illustrates how this
process keeps rolling on. So this is not an easy thing to do to grow at this rate, but I do
Page 8 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

FINAL

think given the kind of crispness and competitive nature of the model, I think we have the
ability to do that and we'll see that going forward.
Let me go the businesses themselves and make a number of comments. I can't touch on
everything just because of the scale of the Group, but I hope it becomes clearer what
we're trying to do. Discovery Health, I think, had a very robust period. The company
performs remarkably well. The Discovery Health Medical Scheme continues to perform
remarkably, regardless of the difficult environment. New business is up 4% off a very hard
base up to 5 billion on an annualized basis, earnings up 10%. Every aspect I think of the
Discovery Health Medical Scheme is performing well and new markets are opening up. I'll
touch on that.
Discovery Life grew by a fairly modest 6% new business, but a strong focus on quality.
The operating profit really I think is the issue for us. The quality of the business and I think
the quality of lapses, mortality, really is a pure example of how the model works and I
hope I'll get that across to you a bit later.

Bloomberg Transcript

Discovery Invest had a great period, illustration of getting to scale, it has a slightly
different strategy, I think, to competing businesses in this space. But I think the hypothesis
that we started out with is working and the products are being well received. So earnings
up 50%, strong growth in assets under management, strong new business growth.
Discovery Insure is a relatively new company, two or three years out of the gate. As I said
to you, it take five years for a business to scale, this business is doing well. I think it will be
profitable in two years, we've invested about 170 million in it that is now turning. And you
can see new business is tremendous, up 73% to over 600 million. Every aspect of the
business, I think, is checking better than we'd expected and we are very excited, I think,
by its potential.
In the UK, I've made the point of scale up, new business up 35% to 2.1 billion, earnings up
33%. We really are building a composite Discovery model in the UK, that's what we're
setting out to do. And the year under review really was foundational. We've spent a lot of
time in a number of fundamental things to build an institutional, integrated business in the
UK and we are excited about what we think it can do.
And then turning to the partner markets, I think we're seeing really exciting potential here.
Things like AIA, certain things we're doing in the US offer, I think, great potential. China for
Ping An Health has been a tremendous year. We've been very cautious at these results
announcements to make clear that while China is massive and growing and all the things
that it does. The truth is that we've been careful about, this is complex and health
insurance is complex and we've been careful to be cautious about what we can do.
Having said that, I think the caution is still right, but I think we have seen tremendous
traction in certain areas in green shoots that, I think, starting to emerge in Ping An Health
and I'll touch on that a bit later. So all in all, I think a very strong year across our businesses
and I think offer great potential for growth. Let me talk to the actual businesses

Page 9 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

FINAL

themselves. Turning to Discovery Insure, new business up, as I said, 73%. The in-force API
up over 1 billion now and we've invested about 173 million over the period under review.
The actual model is identical to what we've done elsewhere. So it may look to the
customer different. This is about driving and driving DQ points and getting fuel, it's exactly
the same intellectual idea, incentivize behavior change, reward people with the right kind
of things. It works on the right side of their brain, it gets behavior change. In our view,
that's giving significant discounts of the fuels every time they fill up at the garage, they're
thinking about how they drive and we're now doing a whole lot of things around
enhancing that and then pricing that in a shared value way. I think it's working incredibly
well. You can see the receptivity, new business over the year, I think, fired from the start.

Bloomberg Transcript

The new business has just literally grown exponentially. You can see on the top-left graph
that both the broker and DTC channels are firing really well. So I think we're doing well on
the DTC side, we invested heavily in advertising focus -- and I think it's paying very nicely.
Cars covered by the end of the financial year were about 77,000, that comes to 95,000
now. So we're getting close to the 100,000 mark. The in-force premium has grown by
85% over the period. So the growth, I think, has been quite staggering of Discovery
Insure.
All of the correlations, I think, were working well. So we're incentivizing better driving
means what we think is better driving. The key issue is at better driving, is what we
incentivize, we're needing to lower claims and lower lapse rates. And what you can say
there is absolutely. So in term of loss ratios, heavily down-sloping. By driver status, lapse
rates heavily down-sloping again by driver status. I think we're getting the right kind of
behavior.
And then what I think is very appealing is, in fact, most of any health is that people change
behavior quickly while driving. Once they sign up to the program, they get the tools, they
get the measurements, which their behavior changes quickly. So you can see on the righthand side of the chart, following a group of new policyholders through one year, so
longitudinal study through one year, you find them and they join us, on our measures,
80% are not driving well, in the orange. But just 10 months later, you can see that shifted
to 50%. So the change is quick and I think that's very exciting for where this may go.
At a portfolio level, we're seeing the lapse rates come down nicely, even though the
mean duration of the business is actually very young. Given the rate of new business, the
mean duration, in fact, is getting shorter, because we just -- people are joining at a rapid
rate. In the long run, loss ratios are declining nicely. So this is a new start business. But I
think the fundamental measures are doing very, very well.
It is important to say that this is a technology business, because checking driving and the
kind of data that you need is complex. Now the industry has gone through a phase of
development. We've had the traditional insurers that simply look at static underwriting
factors. We now have the insurers in the US like Progressive looking at usage-based
models. Almost pay as you drive, where they look at exposure and they price premiums in

Page 10 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

FINAL

that basis. I think where we're leading is behavioral-linked insurance. And to a large extent,
that is what we do. That's the entire model.
So the Discovery Insure model requires a whole range of measures, measuring g-force,
its acceleration rate. All of us seems to understand what is the performance envelop of
the car and how is an individual driving inside that. And the ability to incentivize that in the
right way is critical. So we've acquired a very complex (inaudible) worked very well, this
kind of black box installed.
But we felt about a year to 18 months, strategically with the -- obviously the strength of
smartphones and mobile telephony is their way to do this in a way that offers the ability to
do it on the phone. Not a simple thing to do, because phones are not stable, they move
around in the car, batteries die out. How do you know the person driving the car actually is
insured with the car they're driving? It's fraught [ph] with complexity.

Bloomberg Transcript

Having said that, a number of organizations around the world are forming in this way and
they're starting this bit of a land grab, Progressive is linked with Snapshot, we've seen in
the UK Direct Line is linked the flow. We're lucky to work with a company called CMT out
of MIT, they really are quite remarkable at this. And I think during the period, just a few -- I
think a few weeks ago, we announced the transaction, we acquired a small share in CMT
and we launched together with them a driving application and I think it was remarkable.
We have made this available across all South Africans as a test run to understand it and
now from November, it will be the core part of -- along with the Digicore [ph] offering,
people have a choice. But essentially, that it can be the insurance offering where it tracks
how you drive it, tells you how you drive and we get the data to do all of the
stratifications, incentives, et cetera. It's a remarkably powerful application, because what it
does is it allows us to scale quickly. You don't need necessary deep installs that it gives us
a really fun, consumer-friendly way of actually doing this and provides tremendous,
tremendous power.
But the obstacles of overcoming it are not simple. We have to make sure it doesn't burn
people's batteries. We've pioneered a tag facility on the right-hand side that links the
phone to your call. So the opportunities, I think, are quite tremendous. I wanted to -- if you
hadn't seen it, I thought maybe a quick video to give you a sense of CMT itself to see it
being test driven around (inaudible). Have a look at this.
(video playing)
So this is quite amazing, I mean it's a lot of fun, it's a lot of science, I think it opens up a
whole range of opportunities for us. On the serious side, one of the things that we're
doing and I think really having a powerful effect is this crash alert that when people have
an accident, there's a certain g-force that triggers and we know about it before they tell
us about it. So we'll know probabilistically, you've had an accident, even though you
haven't told us, we pick it up in the g-force. And we save lives in that process with people,
we find out and we find out there's been a terrible accident, have an ambulance
dispatched.
Page 11 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

FINAL

On a case of my own daughter, who drinking coffee in a car, driving to the corner and
fainted there. And she got a call from Discovery Insure. So I said her, what did they say?
She said, well, they said don't drink and drive. There's some really serious stuff. On the
other side, it's a fun and exciting role I think and we're learning more and more about
driving and how to incentivize, how to understand things.
So, for example, we're seeing in the data that whatever you think, women drive better
than men and we're seeing that come out in our data. We're seeing certain kinds of
drivers by certain kinds of cause. So there is a correlation in certain car makes and how
people drive. So these are, of course, expected things, but I think the ability to codify
price and understand it, I think, is critical.

Bloomberg Transcript

We're learning also about speed and some of the issues around how you deal with
speed. These are all (inaudible) go down in the future. I really am always by this wellknown Solomon curve, you may know this that speeding is not just the only issue, it turns
out that accident rates are based on delta to the average. So going 20% faster than the
average is as dangerous as going 20% slower than the average, you follow? That's why
it's a parabola, right. So no justification for speeding, but simply saying that the idea of
speed itself is not the issue, understanding the delta to the mean is something it provides
a bit more granularity.
And then we're trying to understand g-forces, it's really g-force per unit of speed that is
important. Turns out I can hit a ball as hard as Roger Federer, I just can't keep it in the
court, all right. So you could put your foot down like Sebastian Vettel, but you won't make
the turn, all right. So it's ability to manage your g-force per given unit of speed, that's why
when you watch Formula One, they make straight lines though corners to minimize gforces. So trying to understand the science of driving is an important pursuit of Discovery
Insure and ability to build that into what we're doing is fundamental to making South
Africans better drivers.
We're also seeing some amazing stuff on the data side, so given our data, we know when
people park at the Cartrain [ph] right, so we've done analysis on people using the
Cartrain and of course, you would guess their loss ratios are lower, because they're using
the train, they're not driving right. So the exposure is lower. So now we've added to our
network Uba [ph] and Cartrain, they're now members of the Vitality drive network. You
get 25% to 40% discounts, if you remember of Discovery Insure, Uba or with Cartrain, but
pulled in the same Vitality rate, simply to use, easy funding for our customers. But the
truth is, it's very much like (inaudible) public transport is to driving it, simply minimizes the
risks and brings it down.
And I think that's exciting. So this is a very exciting business in kind of just an evolution
that's starting out now and I think the potential for it is substantial. I want to deal with what
I think of the new businesses in the evolution first and I'll get to the other business, I want
to turn to China, which I think had a very, very interesting year. We've been clear, as I said,
that China is complex, cautious, it's going to evolve, no doubt about it.

Page 12 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

FINAL

The question is, can we capitalize on it? In the period under review, new business grew by
nearly 120%. Loss rations, I think, were under control, about 70%. That is the key issue.
Can you do the scale of business and if you do it, can you control the claims level? These
are early days, I'd like to do. We built a lot of capability, I think, into that business with the
team. We've invested about 65 million into the business or 25%. I think that's an
investment that's low and easy to do, given the scale -- the potential scale of what we're
doing in China.
But I do need to say this, there is no doubt that East China really wobbles. Health
insurance, private healthcare is going to just really grow. This is a country whose middle
class -- emerging middle class is bigger than the US. That's a country that currently spends
about $300 billion on healthcare, 50% of that is out of pocket. It's an obvious insurance
market. That's likely to grow to $600 billion by 2020.

Bloomberg Transcript

We're seeing already on the supply side of the market massive amounts of M&A, private
hospitals emerging with projections of 20% or more quite quickly of delivery will take
place in private hospitals. So this is really a marketing considerable flex and excitement.
And there is no doubt that as a health insurance business, the potential is massive. A
central question is, can we capitalize on it?
I think that our partner Ping An is the best of the gold standard, they have scale, they have
distribution have it all. It's how we work through Ping An to build the business that's
important. We see two distinct markets and a number of distribution channels to get to.
The first is kind of the group insurance market that companies buying health insurance
and our challenge there is to work through Ping An P&C there, property and casualty
company and the annuities company. We've been working through their distribution
channels to get to that market and I think quite successfully.
In the period under review, we, in fact, both it sounds like directly to the big corporate
brokers like Mercedes, Aon et cetera. I think that has been successful. You can see the
growth in business strongly in this scope of market, up 37% and we are now by, I think,
quite a long shot the number one health insurer in their corporate market. So Cigna, I
think, was kind of neck and neck with us over the last 18 months or so, we're growing
quite a bit faster than and are now quite a bit bigger.
I think also gratifying is the nature of the business. As you can see, it's across China, great
clients, Goldman Sachs, McKinsey, Accenture, PwC, et cetera. And I think what's important
as well is, if you look at the pie chart to trying to show you there in the blue, those are
companies that have always bought health insurance, but in the orange, a large
percentage of companies coming into the market and for the first time buying health
insurance. So it's a market where there are a lot of customers are already there, but at
the same time, I think the market is likely to grow quite significantly going forward. And I
think that offers great, great potential for us. So there's real organic growth, but I think has
potential.
The real strategy or the real dilemma has been how do we get to sell health insurance life
by life through the individual Ping An life channel. Now Ping An Life has 0.5 million agents

Page 13 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

FINAL

across China. It's still a most remarkable asset. And the agents are of considerable quality.
We have been trying to work our way through how to actually get them to sell Ping An
health insurance to their customers. Not a simple thing, these are first time buyers of
health insurance and critically the Ping An health product is not a life product.
So the incentives are on, and they have KPIs and all kinds of targets that have to get in
China, that are very fixating. It is not in their KPIs that undo it. So it's a very disciplined
structured approach. What I think has happened over the last year, it's taken us 18 months
to get that done. It's a process of essentially white labeling the products. You put the Ping
An health insurance products on to the Ping An Life balance sheet, right. So effectively
these are now Ping An life products. We manage them in the back and take the revenue
out the back, but the power of it is substantial.

Bloomberg Transcript

The most important thing is part of the growth of the broker, agency KPI. So selling it
(inaudible) with the other products. From our perspective, the massive capital strain of
sending individual business falls on Ping An life all is there, capital-rich country gives Ping
An health that access. So it really provides a very powerful capability. This is not a simple
thing to do from a regulatory standards, financial, et cetera, but our view we did manage
to get it done. And in fact, what we have now is a distribution channel across not all of
China, because we'll do it in phases. About 120,000 of agents across that you can see
the Eastern Coast where we're trying to -- I think, it's obviously a lot of business.
We have carefully constructed the products to make sure that we are across every price
point. So at the top end, (inaudible) different ranges. That really, meeting about 15% of
disposable income in those areas. They're very much getting the price points right and
starting to change the agents to do that. I think the performance has been remarkable.
We're trying to get to about 100 cases a day. You can see over the calendar year now,
we've been at about 50 to 100. So we've actually started to get some penetration. These
are lot small premiums or not insignificant, so that's a fair amount of business per day. But
we launched this new white labeling in May and in June, we did the training. So it's actually
post the reporting period. But I wanted to show you, the traction we're starting to get,
that we're starting to see now 300 to 500 cases a day, close to RMB1 million a day of
new businesses starting to flow in. So these are early signs of growth, but I do think that if
we can hold the line here and I do think that if we can continue to meet the needs of the
agency force, the ability to use their assets and spread it out and do -- get health
insurance to literally hundreds of thousands of Chinese, I think, is a real potential. So this is
early days. I'd like to keep cautiously optimistic. But I do think the potential is substantial.
Let me tell into Discovery Invest and move sort of quite quickly. I made the point about
the growth in assets, up 39%. New business very strong up on an annualized basis to 1.4
billion. Strong growth in operating profit. Of course, the markets lifted and helped to act in
that regard. But in addition, the scale that I think we achieved has been also a good thing.
But the key thing about Discovery Invest, it's a different business model. The traditional
long-term savings model is of our distribution and asset management. We had the
hypothesis of could we add value in the middle. Could we bring our products that would
add value in a different way in the value chain?

Page 14 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

FINAL

And to an extent, I think the hypothesis have been proven correct. So things like upfront
integrator that gives people, investors a 26% boost on the way and by using tax efficiency
in the structures, both inside the integration of the Group. The Discovery Optimizer that
really lets people use life cover (inaudible) your time and savings, our classic flexible
investment plan that wraps certain kinds of protections around our list [ph] platform have
been well received. So all of this, I think, has driven an incredibly good result, not just in
terms of quantum, but in terms of value to customers and value to us.
So this is a bit of a complicated slide, but I did want to show you on the left-hand side
there, you can see that nearly 50% of assets under management are through these
value-added wrappers. And on the top side, you can see that nearly 90% of them are in
unique Discovery funds where we have more control, better volume -- better margin. And
therefore, in total, when you look on the right-hand side, the contributions to our VNB is
very, very high.

Bloomberg Transcript

So I would argue, offering products that, I think, offer value to customers in a different way
that are driving the new business margin and the profitability in a way that, I think, is very,
very strong. So we haven't yet -- the asset management is still outsourced, this part of the
value chain we are not really participating in. We're in the center of it. But, of course,
opportunities going forward remain. I think we're excited about the potential for Discovery
Invest.
I want to turn to the existing businesses, they are big and complex, right. And I'll try my
best to just give you a bit of a kind of a tree top view of the stuff that we're doing.
Discovery Health has performed well, despite the complexity of the environment, there's
kind of a paradox in healthcare. No matter how complex it is, it is here to stay. And we
have to make sure that we fulfill our social obligation of bringing down the price of
healthcare as far as we can, maximizing quality, building the environment. And I think
Discovery Health in that regard is doing well.
New business continues to grow. Operating profit has grown off a high base. Large capital
moving towards the 3 million level. I mean you can see in terms of growth, the growth
continues of large under management in total. So the growth does continue and I think
the quality of growth has been substantial in the period under review. So one of the
markets that we're starting to get really good traction is not just in traditional Discovery
Health medical scheme market, but closed schemes like Anglo-American or finding that if
they bring their medical scheme on to the Discovery Health strategy, they get all kinds of
benefits, better prices, better quality, all the technology.
So to an extent, for the first time we're pushing hard into this closed scheme market and
there's a range of businesses, we think, that are coming our way in that regard. So there
is a different channel, I think, of growth going forward in addition to the existing channels.
In terms of the Discover Health medical scheme, I did want to show you the performance
continues despite the complexity. The lapse rates remain low. The loss ratio inside the
Discovery Health medical scheme has been excellent, claims experience continues to
perform well and slightly better than previous years.

Page 15 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

FINAL

And then if you look at the surplus buildup, it is remarkable. The surplus in 2013 inside the
Discovery Health medical scheme is close to 900 million. We expect that to grow
significantly in 2014. When you compare it to the industry on the left-hand side -- on the
left-hand graph, you can see the rest of the industry, in fact, is making losses.
So the Discovery Health medical scheme grows while that was tend to shrink and make
losses. And I think it is an interesting industry. Someone pointed that the simple fact that
the mind share of Discovery Health is remarkable. If you ask people who is second, they
generally don't know. We get different answers. It really commands a huge amount of the
mind share. And you can see they're playing out in this financial footprint.

Bloomberg Transcript

So if you look at the reserve buildup in the middle of the graph, you can see that the
reserves inside the Discovery Health medical scheme are climbing strongly to that 12
billion. So the scheme is sitting on 12 billion of cash or near cash. When you compare it to
the next nine medical schemes, you can see just a slight difference in size. Also from the
solvency perspective, we expect the scheme to get to around the 25% level by the end
of this calendar year. So the scheme, which is a separate entity, as you know, I think it's
performing remarkably well.
Let me just say on Discovery Health, I don't have the time to tell you the scale of what the
team is trying to do, but essentially we are building an integrated brilliant healthcare
system for our members. It offers a broadest range of benefit options. It has the broadest
range of delivery assets. I believe with 90% of doctors locked into our DPA networks, we
have -- all the risk management capabilities, I think, are carefully lined up and now we're
focusing not just on vitality, but on corporate wellness and making sure the promise to our
customers is we can make you healthier.
And if you're not healthy and you're sick, we can offer you access to the best healthcare
system. And so the idea is to build up a very rigorous integrated system underpinned by
technology. I had the courage at one of the previous presentations to do the health ID
[ph], I'm not doing it again today, that aged me like 50 years, right, but underpinning that
or mainly applications, health ID that really controlled the data flow, the information and
therefore, we're offering our customers I think something very, very special.
At the same time, I think we're dipping into the healthcare system in years we think are
critical. So we've built a PBM Med-Xpress that really allows us to get into the supply chain
of the pharmaceutical side. So we have a delivery or courier system where we can actually
dispense and control drugs through that process. For the first time now we're looking at
high-value, lower-volume drugs on the oncology side.
The ability influenced that, to understand quality and cost better, getting drugs directly to
doctors. So the intervening years that I think will have a leveraging effect across the
system for our members. (inaudible) system for example, home care, there are critical
gaps in our healthcare system for people with chronic illness. So building a home care
capability to get out to our members and offering them maybe something a Discovery
Health is doing. So careful strategic dips into the healthcare system.

Page 16 of 26



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

We remain of the view that we are not on the delivery side. There is a clear divide
between it. We're buying a manager and we manage it for the best of our customers. But
in areas where we think there are quality issues or we can create a leveraging effect, that
is what we will do. At the other end of the spectrum, we are working hard on this simple
idea of bringing wellness formally into the healthcare system. So 360,000 of our
members of chronically ill. We know that these 360,000 members actually drive over
40% of the total spend. So what we're trying to do now with the power of Vitality and
Health ID, the ability to have GPs at the center of the healthcare system, letting them
prescribe effectively (inaudible) people of chronic illness.
So we developed pathways and programs, where depending on chronic illness, you get
this pathway given to you by your GP, they can track it, they can use a network of
(inaudible) and dieticians to help in that process. Health ID will bring it all together. So the
doctor can see not just medical records, but wellness records and can track the two
together. And I think critically doctors will be remunerated for doing this. So for the first
time, making GPs center of the healthcare system or managing wellness and healthcare in
a coordinated way and we expect to have that out in the marketplace going into 2015. I
think that has great, great potential.
We're also focusing hard on corporate wellness. It is important to say that Discovery
started after the very individual mindset, that is how we think. So using centers through
Vitality to get individuals to take accountability for their healthcare, but what we're seeing
more and more is, can we do a top down as well through the employed. And we built this
healthy company capability where we're offering employers the ability to manage
employee health in a very coordinated way. It's a remarkably powerful capability that
works from wellness days, we've always done that in companies, but in a much more
maximum sophisticated way to offering tools, reports, consultations and make sure we
don't just drive healthcare, but we actually make a company's employees healthier.
I wanted to show you, just a wellness day being done, a quick video, because it's a very
slick piece of technology that we can move around the country to different companies.
This was done (inaudible) a great company and a great customer of ours, but just to show
you a wellness day is okay.
(video playing)
So we're moving around the country with a, I think, very sophisticated, a key new
technology, deploying it and having hundreds of thousands of people suffering through
there. And the ability to suck up the data, inspire them, get their companies to understand
where they need to head, I think, is very powerful. And then taking that and integrating
that into a healthcare system, I think, offers tremendous potential for Discovery Health
and for our members. But essentially, what I think we're doing getting back to the shared
value idea is we're building a system that is better for all parties, members get better,
cheaper healthcare than they get elsewhere, doctors are paid more for doing the right
kind of things and companies offer better productivity in a much more integrated system.

Page 17 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

FINAL

And I think the ability to grow on that, not just in our traditional market, but in to big
corporates like an Anglo, et cetera that bring the scheme to us, I think it's a great
potential for Discovery Health. So, I think it's robust and has great potential for growth.
Let me turn to Discovery Life. Its performance, I think, has been absolutely tremendous.
The real standout issue is the operating profit growing by 23% to 2.6 billion and I think to a
large extent, Discovery Life really personifies the power of the vitality model that is
scalable and to an extent repeatable, and I think that's what we're focusing on. You can
see the earnings growth, over time, it's had very strong earnings growth over the last
number of years and in fact this particular year has seen earnings growth at 23%, bit of a
step change to previous years were driven really on the quality of the experience.
So if you look at the value in-force, also growing strongly over the period. One thing that I
must just clarify and make clear to you is that, we are strong believers in Discovery Life in
the return on capital inside Discovery Life. So, whenever we talk about Discovery Life, you
need to understand this is a capital heavy business and we invest a lot of cash into it
happily because of the return on that capital. But I wanted to show you the kind of capital
or the cash, the cash flow, how it plays out.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, essentially, if you look over the period under review, premium income of 7.3 billion, we
paid out 3.3 billion in claims. I should just point out here that the amount we paid in claims
despite the growth in this year in rand amounts is lower than the previous year. So, the
experience at Discovery Life, just at a kind of at the local level is quite remarkable. We've
spent about 1 billion on expenses and therefore cash thrown out was about 2.9 billion of
the existing business.
We then spend 1.8 billion on acquisition costs, investing in new business. Now, that is the
key issue, an explicit decision we make, we see the return on capital at a risk free plus
12.5%, we think that's remarkable and so we're pushing hard and driving business I think
very, very hard. After all the other movements in capital, it still throws out about 100
million of cash where it's obviously very small relative to the scale of the business. So this
is a business that is, is of considerable scale but I think of considerable quality.
What is important is looking at the business from a customer perspective. And I want you
to just get back to the quality of the shared value model in the context of life insurance. I
have shown this in previous presentations, but I do want to say it again that the Discovery
Life construct is a very simple interplay for the customer coming at a discount, if you're
engaging your health through vitality, you maintain the discount, if you don't, over time,
your prices go up, if you really engage, your prices go down.
It really is the simple personification of this idea of dynamic pricing. It provides us with
really a dynamic pricing ability rather than just an upfront underwriting tool and really talks
to the point I made at the outset that if you understand that the risk is behavioral over
currency of the contract, what this model does is it matches price and risk better, provides
a better financial result and gives our customers better value for money.

Page 18 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

FINAL

And so we can quantify mortality by vitality status and I think that's critical. In the period
under review, we've seen that play out remarkably well. The claims experience, you can
see, continues to go down way ahead of expectation, Letra [ph] has continued to come
down and the key issue here is the selective lapsation is positive because we're pricing
better lives down, we're keeping the better lives and that's a critical issue in making the
models sustainable and successful.
It's interesting that from a customer perspective, the shared value works well. We get
value from better lapses and better claims, our customers get value from better health,
but they get paybacks, they get a lot of premiums, they get all kinds of benefits out of
vitality and if you quantify that collectively, you can see in the middle of the chart that
shared value in total between us and the customers about 1.1 billion of value that we've
thrown out over this year.

Bloomberg Transcript

You can see how we shared it typically in the past, the sharing has been about 85-15,
we've kept 15 to customer through discounts and paybacks has had about 85% of that
value. In this, particularly on the right hand side, as shareholders, you've got
proportionately more, we're still a long way of what our customers get, but because the
claims experience and lapse experience really has done well, you can see the sharing is
slightly different.
But I do think that actually when we look at the shared value model, it's working
remarkably well. I think that offers the ability to grow Discovery Life in a way that I think is
different. I wanted to just tell you as well that the model is complex and we're learning
more and more about what it can do. So, kind of the actual idea of shared value is played
out in a very simple identity, I hope this is clear.
If the embedded value per status is even, right, it means that we're sharing value equally,
is that fairly clear. So in other words, regardless of our people engaged, if the value to us
is the same, it means they're getting the benefits of their own behavior. And so one of
the identities we're trying to understand is keeping that embedded value per status flat.
You can see what's happening in reality is diamond members are doing better out of us,
so the (inaudible) slightly less for a diamond member but we see value also China doing
that, they are inspiring, they're sticky et cetera. So we tolerated that more like inside of
the chart, I don't want to get into this in too much detail, but we're learning about how
people move between statuses over time. So these are things as a dominant member,
who stays there, and move up and down over the life time. The ability to model that and
value that it is critical to making this model sustainable.
So relative doing a lot of work on the idea or shared value and creating sustainability, then
important earning for growth we've rolled out in a number of, I think very exciting
products going into -- now going into 2015. There's a whole lot of different ideas, one I
think it's interesting we've spoken about is making our people drive to the mortality cost
and giving incentive to drive better, one of the most powerful things, of course, I said is
fuel, if you drive well in Discovery Insure you get 50% of your fuel back, if you manage to
drive well in Discovery Life, you'll get other 50% back, and so we're trying to get this
simple value proposition. And if you drive well, you can have all of your petrol money back.
And I think that's going to change behavior.
Page 19 of 26



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

So we really are pioneers, we're going a number of very, very exciting fronts, and I think
we remain remarkably optimistic about Discovery Life. And you turn to the UK, and talk
about PruHealth and PruProtect, running of time I want to move quite quickly. This has
been a I think, right year for our UK business, it released foundational, we are trying to
build a composite Discovery business in the UK. I've mentioned the growth rates, we
cover about 800,000 lives. If you look at the JV, it really is well positioned, the UK is
coming out of recession. We've done all hard [ph] during difficult times. UK is a massive
life insurance market. So we believe very strongly that the capability, we both, we've got
to capitalize on.
And so we got to push very hard into the UK going forward. The business itself in total is
impressive, I've made a point months ago, 800,000 lives, we are the third largest
(inaudible) new business in total in the UK in the life insurance market. We have 10% of the
health insurance market. I think the brand in the Vitality brand is getting recognition in the
UK. Our distribution footprint is about 8,000 brokers, we're gaining more, more traction
on the direct to consumer sides. And we're building I think the chassis there, that is
tremendous, tremendous capability. And therefore, it offers a great potential for growth
going forward.
Two things I wanted to mention about the business. So I just to show you graphic, we're
having new business is growing. And our operating profit is growing quite strongly over
the period not just the year under review. But the two foundational things if you've done,
we continue to invest in Vitality in the partners, in the structures, we've restructured for
PruProtect to make it simple purpose. I think it's done remarkably well. You can see on the
bottom of the slide that we survey our people, they are responding to Vitality, so people
said, very quickly the Vitality inspires and to do more exercise make time to relax, lose
weight, etcetera. So we're getting the right kind of responsibly, we're getting the right
kind of engagement to the Vitality model.
We are also the second, what we're looking a lot at the brand and the Vitality brand we're
finding resonates remarkably well in the UK. So you will notice on Sky News, I think in
previous presentations I did show that. We are doing a lot of work in different focused
areas using the vitality brand and I think that's playing out well. The intellectual leadership
level, we work with the Telegraph and Britain's healthiest company survey, I think,
remarkably well. We're taking an additional step in this particular year to work with the
premiership around being official performance partners of three of the Premier League
teams, (inaudible) of three of the teams, and the idea here is to get Vitality well known in
a way that is exciting positive and powerful.
So we are the performance partner with these three teams, I want to give you one insert,
how this just works. Patrick Vieira is just talking here very briefly.
(video playing).
So, I think ignoring kind of the ego power of what football does, I think, it's direction very
powerful for us in terms of our DTC campaign. So we can start using these teams and I
adverted out there. So we've done very well with Jessica and his idea about Vitality and

Page 20 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

FINAL

best use of advertising for health insurance and life insurance against DTC channel to
work, but I think looking it up again positive change of using these, this kind of exposure
offers us great, great potential for building the Vitality brand in a simple ideas, same thing
health insurance might better life insurance might better, and offering the benefits
through that process. I think the potential is quite substantial. So there's a lot of
foundational stuff I think we're doing.
On the performance itself, PruHealth, I think is performed well and new business up
strongly, operating profit up strongly. If you look at the actual loss ratios and lapse rates
are remaining very strong, industry leading in every respect and we continue to focus on
the issue of quality. But one point I did want to mention about PruHealth that I think is
crucial is that PruHealth's challenge is profitability. We made this point over the last
number of years as we acquired the Standard Life healthcare book, we've been -basically been laboring under three different technology systems. And over the last two
years or so, we've invested ZAR0.5 billion in building one combined administrative
infrastructure.

Bloomberg Transcript

So what we see happening on the top of the slide there, it's just going from three
different systems. In the middle of 2015, the first change over to two happen, and then
ultimately to one. From a financial perspective, that will mean that from April 2015, GBP8
million or thereabout will drop out. And so the critical issue of the PruHealth story is
making sure we get those systems in place and getting that profitability. We are confident
that PruHealth plus PruProtect in the next year or so will be close to 1 billion of profitability
and I think that is exciting.
Talking about PruProtect, I think it had an exceptionally good year and quite a foundational
year. New business up, of course, it is a strong tailwind from the currencies I mentioned
that both operating profit and new business up, went up 12% of the new business market
share in life insurance. The profit itself has grown strongly despite the fact there is a
change in the tax basis that brought the margins down. So I think performance year-onyear, I think is notable for that.
Claims experience remains ahead of expectation. Lapse rates have continued to come
down, and I think that is important. But I think the most notable thing of the year and this is
critical for us in what we're trying to do, was taking the Discovery Life product in a very
sophisticated way and getting it deployed into the UK. So towards the end of last year, we
rolled out the Vitality Optimizer that does exactly what we've done here, offer discounts,
if you engage your prices come down, if you don't engage your prices go up, codify the
mortality and offer the shared value model into the UK. I need to tell you the performance
has been absolutely tremendous.
On the back of new business what's more important is the right hand graph that if you
look at the growth kind a six months by six months, you can see that the last six months,
the growth is 55% versus the previous corresponding period. So the receptivity to this has
been absolutely tremendous. And I think if you look at the actual penetration, 40% of our
policies now have this Vitality link. And from a distribution standpoint, we have like 200
brokers understood Vitality. We now have 800 people actively selling and that will grow
up I think over time. So the actual optimizer has done I think remarkably well.
Page 21 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

FINAL

If you look at the actual distribution channel in the UK, it's quite -- this looks like vivid
(inaudible) let me explain this. This is really the distribution channel. We're trying to show
you there is where we're getting sales in total and in blue with optimizer sales, these
Vitality links are taking place, trying to make the point that in fact the distribution channel
as across UK everywhere, not just in the Southeast and at the same time we're seeing
fantastic sales or the Vitality-linked products across the UK. So I think it offers great, great
potential for growth.
It is quite remarkable how PruProtect has taken market share. In 2010, we're like number
10 in the market. You can see by 2014 quarter one, we third behind two of the other very
large institutions that I think is important. And then critically that the VNB margin is higher
on this business and the previous business. So in effect this Vitality Optimizer has been I
think a fundamental change for PruProtect. So collectively, I think the business offers great
potential in the UK.

Bloomberg Transcript

I want to end briefly. Just talking about our partnership model, and this is the embryonic, I
don't know where this will take us. We're trying something that I think is exciting, is growth
potential, is relatively long-term capital, high intensity on IP and our ability. But effectively it
is based on the simple idea that most of the large insurers around the world want to do
what we doing in the context of Discovery Life and Discovery Health. And so what we're
trying to do is really take the model as it is and build it into these markets. It's not just
about Vitality, it's entire insurance product, the pricing, the valuation engines, all of that
stuff in both Life and Health Insurance.
And so the idea is simply this, the economic, the business case simply works like this. If
you're going to a typical life insurance product, sorry just follow from left to right, the
value of new business is that little blue bar right, what's the vitality optimize does? It
creates value uplift through better lapses, through offering more new business, through
better claims experience, right, so you get a value uplift. But then to the shared value
model, we give money back to the policyholder, lower prices, incentives, vitality, et cetera.
In total though, the net sum of it is a value (inaudible). Is that fairly clear?
So our value proposition to customers like an AIA is to share the VNB uplift with it, right. So
to say this thing, let's put this together in effect the VNB uplift we will share with you
(inaudible) way. And to an extent that's what we've set up to do so. AIA really is the first of
these if you're doing in a very substantial way. I do think it's going well, we're built in two
markets now in both -- in Australia and in Singapore, we've built out the Vitality chassis,
we've rebuilt the product and I think the products are going remarkably well. I think from
AIA's perspective, it's doing exactly what we've seen here. It's taking them from just
being a life insurer to one where I think that actually, part of society debating health
issues. I wanted to show you a video from Australia from, I think, a news clip around some
of the stuff that AIA are doing in Australia that actually gives a sense of that excitement.
(video playing)
So ignoring the outcome of it, kind of depressing conclusion, right. The point I'm trying to
make is that the model changes for a life insurer from kind of a detection execution to

Page 22 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

FINAL

product society and I think our ability to do that in many markets is real. So if you look at
the penetration levels, in other words, the percentage of policies attaching the Vitality link,
if you kind of benchmark against true that I think for us has been one of the most
successful things we've done.
In Australia, we're kind of getting there and in the case of Singapore, in fact, the
penetration is even higher. So I think the potential is remarkable. The real issue is, can we
do this successfully in a number of insurers across the world and I do think that we're built
in the capability of what we built, has the ability to build a global Vitality network with a
number of insurers sitting on their capability.
I do not know it will play out, but I want to see the insight in what we're doing in a way that
captures the leadership position without the capital and the acquisition risk, because I
think that offers potential. Let me end up by saying, I think it has been a very, very good
year. The entire business is broken up into a primary market, second primary market in the
UK and I said a franchise partner market, we've had good performance financially, we're
focused on building out our business model. And fundamentally, we're focused on making
people healthier in a different way.

Bloomberg Transcript

Appreciate you listening. Thank you very much. Now, I'm way over time here, I know it. So
all of our key executives are here as you heard. Maybe Ricky come up here for a few quick
questions, I think. I'm sorry that this has taken longer than we thought. If you have
questions, I'll channel them, so that we can answer and if not, we are. Please take the
microphone.

Questions And Answers
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you, Mr. Gore. Before I raise any questions, may I congratulate you and your team
on, as you call it, a strong result. Now, I turn to the review on pages 18 and 19 of the
report, which give details of premium income and also the profit realized. Now, under
premium income, as we've seen before, Ping An has gone up 119%. On page 19, we do
not see the profit/loss of Ping An especially, but elsewhere you've stated that it was a loss
of 65 million. However, under development in other segments, there's a loss shown of
466 million. Now, are the other segments, including Ping An and also developments in the
United States and if so, could you just split them up, please?
Could I give you my other two questions now or --?

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

I think two does.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Okay. On page 10, the balance sheet, there's an item 512 million purchase of intangible
assets, could you give us some detail on that and then also the balance sheet shows that
Page 23 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

your cash has now gone up to 3.65 billion. And I'll say this correctly, which is a 74%
increase on the previous year and one could easily argue that this amount of money is
surplus to any current requirements. So have you even thought to deploying this money in
a more profitable way?

FINAL

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Those are three very good questions.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Sure, I'll start.

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

I think, you should.

A - Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. All right. The development other segments is, you're quite correct, Ping An is sitting
in there substantially. Also sitting in there, the biggest single part of Discovery Insure and
as Adrian said, that's about 173 million. The balance is made up, there is a little bit for the
US, there are some expenses for Vitality, some of the costs that we can't recover and
there is some evaluate costs relating to new market developments and other ideas of
Group story. As I said, the biggest single piece -- the two probably biggest single pieces
are Discovery Insure and Ping An.
The purchase of the intangibles, it's not really a purchase, it's actually a money we've
spent on software development. Adrian spoke to them in the presentation, we've been
building a new system in the UK for PruHealth and that's the software we've developed.
And then your final question is on the surplus cash. Insurance companies always are a little
bit deceptive from a cash point of view because of the reserves and the requirements
that it has to write new business. Now, the cash looks very strong, but what we really try
and do is and we manage our dividend policy is to make sure we've got enough cash for
the business or the new business volumes that we'll be writing over the next couple of
years.
So as we saw in the slides, we're spending a lot of money, particularly in new business
costs and acquisition in broker commissions, et cetera in South Africa. We're also
spending money in Discovery Insure and in other businesses. So I can't see that for the
moment we are going to change anything in terms of dividend payout or something. And
we'll look at new ideas as they come along, but I think the cash is probably about right for
the business that we currently want to do.

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Thank you. Any other questions? We'll take one down there and then we have to wrap up
and take it up outside. Thank you.

Page 24 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

FINAL

Q - Unidentified Participant
Data from the US suggest that every life expectancy is probably going to go somewhere
like 90 years now and it could be even a lot more than that in another decade or so. Is it
going to be possible for beneficiaries of these services to be able to maintain the cost,
bear the cost of what medical costs are going to accelerate by, because if we look at
recent acceleration, it's just getting out of sight? Will it, in fact, go out of sight? Will
Discovery be able to offer a cost-effective people -- a cost-effective service to an
increasingly aging population?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Sure, that's a great question. I mean -- I would -- I think the problem is maybe beyond us. I
have the same concern you do, you have like a negative gearing problem. Medical
inflation goes up at CPI plus 1% or 2% at least and unfortunately retirement income at best
is at CPI. So you've got this negative gap forming. So you'll find that even if people can
afford medical schemes in retirement, I think, in a long space of time, that compounding
difference becomes really problematic.

Bloomberg Transcript

Again I mean -- and Johnny [ph] might want to comment, I think the ability to make
medical schemes applicable for more low income people, ability to bring price points
down through a number of different maybe regulatory dimensions over time may help.
But I think this is an issue of accumulating it over a period of time and I think that is an
issue. We fundamentally understate the mortality risk of living too long and I agree with
you.
Johnny, is there comment for that?

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Can I wrap it up? We're way over time. Is there any -- did you want to ask a question. I'll
take one more question and then we will shut it down.

Q - Unidentified Participant
Excuse me. Would you like to comment on the National Health Insurance situation and
where you see that going?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Of course. I think this is -- Johnny, I think you should make some comments.
I think that most of what we can say is what's in the public domain and to be honest, that's
not a huge amount recently since these plans were first announced several years ago.
What we do know that is more recent is that the Department of Health did publish a short
booklet on its website some weeks ago. And the National Treasury made some
comments in its medium term expenditure of both of which address the NHI. And really
what they say is that the plans are still on track to establish a fund that can collect
government revenues and potentially an additional tax for National Health Insurance. The

Page 25 of 26



Company N ame: Discovery L td
Company Ticker: DSY SJ Equity
Date: 2014-09-03

FINAL

levels of that tax and the nature of it are not major. We still don't have a white paper that's
been published.
And the Minster's most recent pronouncements have been that there's a still a 14 year
implementation timetable. So our sense of it is that the vast majority of work around the
NHI remains and will remain around reform and improvement of the public healthcare
system. And that's far into the future we can see, we envisage a public health care system
with the private healthcare system operating alongside it. And hopefully a growing
interface between the two and which the public health system can utilize private sector
expertise assets and so on to improve healthcare delivery and efficiency. So I think in
short, it's still a very long, slow rollout. And we don't see any dramatic impact on the
private healthcare system in the foreseeable future.

A - Adrian Gore

{BIO 3068929 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Johnny, thank you. We'll now wrap it up and just thank you for your time. Sorry, we are a bit
late, there is drinks outside. All of our executives are here. So you can prod them outside.
Once again thank you and it's a really a pleasure as always to have you and to present our
results. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 26 of 26

