Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

Q4 2014 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Alan D. Schnitzer
Brian W. MacLean
Doreen Spadorcia
Gabriella Nawi
Jay S. Benet
Jay S. Fishman
William H. Heyman

Other Participants
Brian Robert Meredith
Jay A. Cohen
Jay H. Gelb
Josh C. Stirling
Larry Greenberg
Michael Nannizzi

Bloomberg Transcript

Randy Binner

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the fourth quarter results
teleconference for Travelers. We ask that you hold all questions until the completion of
formal remarks at which time you will be given instructions for the question-and-answer
session.
As a reminder, this conference is being recorded January 22, 2015.
At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Ms. Gabriella Nawi, Senior Vice
President of Investor Relations. Ms. Nawi, you may begin.

Gabriella Nawi

{BIO 2211991 <GO>}

Thank you, Tina. Good morning, all, and welcome to Travelers discussion of our fourth
quarter and full year 2014 results. Hopefully all of you have seen our press release,
financial supplement and webcast presentation released earlier this morning. All of these
materials can be found on our website at www.travelers.com under the Investor section.
Page 1 of 26



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

FINAL

Speaking today will be Jay Fishman, Chairman and CEO; Jay Benet, Vice Chairman and
Chief Financial Officer; Brian MacLean, President and Chief Operating Officer; Alan
Schnitzer, Vice Chairman, Chief Executive Officer of Business and International Insurance;
and Doreen Spadorcia, Vice Chairman, Chief Executive Officer of Claim, Personal
Insurance and Bond and Specialty Insurance. They will discuss the financial results of our
business and the current market environment. They will refer to the webcast presentation
as they go through prepared remarks, and then we will take questions.
Before I turn it over to Jay, I would like to draw your attention to the explanatory note
included at the end of the webcast. Our presentation today includes forward-looking
statements. The company cautions investors that any forward-looking statement involves
risk and uncertainties and is not a guarantee of future performance. Actual results may
differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a variety
of factors. These factors are described in our earning press release and in our most
recent 10-Q filed with the SEC. We do not undertake any obligation to update forwardlooking statements.
Also in our remarks or responses to questions we may mention some non-GAAP financial
measures. Reconciliations are included in our recent earnings press release, financial
supplement and other materials that are available in the Investor section on our website,
travelers.com.

Bloomberg Transcript

And with that, Jay Fishman.

Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

Thank you, Gabby. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. As you've
already seen from our release this morning, we closed out this year with record results.
We achieved record levels of net income per diluted share for both the quarter and the
full year of $3.11 and $10.70 respectively. Our return on equity and operating return on
equity were also very strong in the quarter bringing our full year return on equity to 14.6%
and operating return on equity to 15.5%.
But just as important is what's behind those numbers. Across the organization we couldn't
be more pleased with how we've executed on our business strategies, including our
approach to the marketplace in domestic business insurance, the introduction of Quantum
2.0 and moving our Personal Insurance business to be better positioned, the continuing
evolution of our International footprint and our exceptional positioning in Bond & Specialty
insurance. Just as important is our capital management strategy. In 2014, we returned
over $4 billion in capital to our shareholders through dividends and buybacks while still
maintaining our significant balance sheet strength.
In reflecting on our performance over the last 10 years, now a decade since the merger, a
few things stand out. When we introduced our long-term financial strategy in 2006, that is
creating shareholder value by producing superior returns driven by building meaningful
and sustainable competitive advantages, generating top-tier earnings and capital
substantially in excess of our growth needs and maintaining a balanced approach to

Page 2 of 26



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

FINAL

rightsizing capital, and growing book value per share over time, we were confident that it
has been successful in the broader sense beyond our expectations.
Over these 10 years our cumulative operating income has been approximately $31.6
billion, and we have reduced our share count by more than 61%, returning $30.7 billion to
shareholders through repurchases and dividends, an amount exceeding the then market
capitalization of the company. And we did this while still making investments that were
important for our business and acquisitions that were opportunistic for us along the way.
Consequently we've produced a very strong average annual operating return on equity of
13.3% over that time. Our shareholders have benefited from superior total returns as
shown on page four of the webcast, where you can see the 1-year, 5-year, and 10-year
performance of Travelers compared to other U.S. financial companies. Obviously we've
posted top-tier returns, but even looking globally we've identified only a small handful of
large financial service companies whose 10-year performance exceeds ours.

Bloomberg Transcript

We remain optimistic about our ability to successfully execute these strategies. Our own
observation is that the markets in which we do business remain fairly stable. For the last
several years, we have shared with you that while we recognize that we could be wrong,
we were skeptical of the concept of the old-fashioned severe insurance pricing cycle
where a bell would go off and there'd be a few years of very high price increases, and
then another bell would go off and there'd be significant price declines. Our view was and
remains that there are now substantive differences in the way business is conducted that
have and we believe will continue to change the characteristics of our markets.
We've talked about the stability of the market as evidenced by the high levels of
retention, the fact that we are not the only company returning significant amounts of
capital as well as the focus of the industry on returns on capital. Advanced analytics and a
more demanding regulatory and oversight environment have also meaningfully
contributed. While there will always be changes in pricing, both increases and decreases,
in response to changes in loss costs, expense loads, interest rates or changes in real or
perceived risk, as there are in many industries, we continue to believe that the amplitude
of the cycle has narrowed substantially.
Beyond the insurance market dynamics we have real confidence that our organization is
well-positioned to successfully navigate whatever set of challenges the external
environment may throw our way. With our relentless focus on execution, deep and
talented management team, highly analytical approach to underwriting and investment
risk, and a very high respect for our shareholders' capital, we remain well-positioned to
continue to deliver meaningful shareholder value.
And with that, let me turn it over to Jay Benet.

Jay S. Benet

{BIO 2456473 <GO>}

Thank you, Jay. By any measure our fourth quarter results, record net income per diluted
share of $3.11, record operating income per diluted share of $3.07, operating ROE of 17.7%
Page 3 of 26



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

FINAL

and a combined ratio of 85%, were very strong. As has been the case all year these
strong results were built upon very solid investment and underwriting performance.
Within underwriting, we continue to earn rate increases in excess of loss cost trends,
which was the driver of the 100 basis point improvement in our underlying combined ratio
this quarter versus the prior-year quarter, while experiencing only a modest level of cat
losses and very strong net favorable prior-year reserve development. Pre-tax cat losses
were $41 million in the quarter, down $12 million from last year's fourth quarter and pre-tax
net favorable PYD was $351 million, up $92 million.
While each of our business segments contributed to the favorable reserve development,
it was primarily driven by Bond & Specialty Insurance's contract surety business for
accident years 2012 and prior, and by Business and International Insurances general liability
product line for accident years 2008 through 2012.

Bloomberg Transcript

As I've been doing in recent periods, I'd like to provide you with a preliminary view of what
our combined 2014 Schedule P is expected to look like when filed on May 1. On a
combined stat basis for all of our U.S. subs, all accident years developed favorably.
Looking at the data on a product line rather than on an accident year basis, all of our
major product lines developed favorably in the aggregate across all accident years except
for relatively small amounts of unfavorable development in CMP and in personal auto
liability.
CMP developed unfavorably by approximately $68 million pre-tax on a reserve base of
approximately $3.5 billion spread out over several recent accident years, while personal
auto liability developed unfavorably by only $20 million pre-tax on a reserve base of
approximately $2 billion, driven by development on a small number of large PIF claims
from accident years 2005 and prior. I should also point out that for personal auto in total
combining liability and PhysDam reserve development was essentially a wash as physical
damage developed favorably by $18 million pre-tax.
We've taken advantage of the recent evolution in aggregate cat reinsurance products to
restructure our cat cover, further focusing on severe events than on a single or cumulative
basis could impact capital. Effective January 1, we replaced our previous gen cat treaties,
our $400 million cat aggregate excessive loss treaty which expires as scheduled on
December 31, and our $400 million get cat treaty, which our reinsurers agreed to
terminate early as of that date, with the new aggregate XOL treaty that provides
coverage for both single events and accumulation of losses for multiple events. It's a
simpler structure that provides $1.5 billion of coverage, part of $2 billion excess of $3
billion after $100 million deductible per occurrence.
It has the same broad apparel and geographic coverage as the former gen cat and XOL
treaties and it positions the coverage layer to provide a significant buffer between
earnings and capital. As an aggregate cover there's a single limit with no reinstatement
provisions. The cost is essentially the same as the previous program, but it provides
greater potential recovery after the higher retention. Our Northeast gen cat treaty, our cat

Page 4 of 26



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

FINAL

bonds, earthquake and international covers remain unchanged and I refer you to page 21
of the webcast for a brief description of the new treaty.
Another subject I'd like to touch upon relates to the recent drop in the price of oil. While
this is not the first time that oil is trading at $45 a barrel, it was at today's levels as recently
as 2009. We thought it would be helpful to provide you with the information appearing on
page 22 of the webcast showing how much of our investment portfolio is invested in
below investment grade energy bonds and energy-related equities. And as you can see
the sum of these investments is relatively small and we believe the exposure to be quite
manageable.
We continue to generate capital well in excess of what is needed to support our
businesses, and consistent with our strategy, we continue to return very significant
amounts of capital to our shareholders. Operating cash flows were in excess of $500
million this quarter inclusive of a $200 million discretionary contribution we decided to
make to our qualified pension plan bringing, total operating cash flows to almost $3.7
billion for the year.

Bloomberg Transcript

We ended the year with holding company liquidity of almost $1.6 billion after returning
almost $1.2 billion of excess capital to our shareholders this quarter alone through
dividends of $182 million in common share repurchases of a little over $1 billion. And for
the full year, we returned almost $4.1 billion of excess capital to our shareholders through
dividends of $735 million and common share repurchases of over $3.3 billion. One final
note about share repurchases. Since we began in 2006, the average price we paid for
our shares was $57.56, approximately 60% of our current stock price.
Once again all of our capital ratios remain at or better than their target levels. Our debtto-total capital ratio of 21.7% was well within its target range, and during the quarter, book
value per share increased 1% and adjusted book value per share which excludes net
unrealized investment gains and losses was also up slightly. For the full year, book value
per share increased 10% and adjusted book value per share increased 7% while net
unrealized investment gains were almost $2 billion after-tax at the end of the year as
compared to $1.3 billion at the beginning of the year.
So now let me turn things over to Brian.

Brian W. MacLean

{BIO 4679150 <GO>}

Thanks, Jay. Alan and Doreen are going to go over the individual segment results, but
before they do, I want to make a few comments about our business and I'll start with the
significant progress we've made in Personal lines. Three years ago, we discussed with you
that we would be aggressively pursuing improvements in our financial returns in both auto
and homeowners, primarily due to weather and auto severity trends. As we close out
2014, we couldn't be more pleased with the progress that we've made. We've taken
necessary rate in both our home and auto products while maintaining strong retention
levels, and we've tightened underwriting guidelines and made changes to terms and
conditions in our Homeowners' book.

Page 5 of 26



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

FINAL

We also discussed that the increased utilization of comparative raters by independent
agents has resulted in a need to improve our competitive position in the auto market. To
that end, we announced our expense reduction initiatives that would support the rollout
of our new more competitive auto product, Quantum Auto 2.0. We've now achieved our
expense reduction goal, and Quantum 2.0 is live in virtually all Quantum states.
The impact from these bold actions on our results has been significant. Our Homeowners
returns are in line with our target range and our top line trends are improving. In Auto, our
returns are operating in a range that is acceptable to us given current market conditions,
and importantly our Auto business is growing again and the higher new business is
creating long-term value. So overall, great progress in the independent agent channel.
In the direct-to-consumer business, our decision to enter that channel reflected our belief
that a large segment of the Personal Insurance market empowered by increased
transparency of product and pricing information would choose to buy insurance via the
direct channel. While certain customer segments of this market have quickly embraced
the direct channel, the customer demographic that Travelers targets has moved more
slowly.

Bloomberg Transcript

With that said, we remain committed to the strategic channel and expect that over time it
will become a more significant portion of our Personal business. It's important to note that
as we've invested in this channel, we have consciously targeted that investment to help
strengthen our independent agent channel, which we believe will continue to be a
significant channel for our customer demographic. and so we feel very good about this
investment.
The final point I'd make in Personal lines is the growing importance of the home product.
Our industry is built around protecting consumers against risk. The greater the risk, the
greater responsibility and opportunity we have. In that vein, the extreme weather volatility
has added risk to the home exposure, making our industry-leading capabilities in the
homeowners line an even more significant competitive advantage and critical with the
customer segment we target. Accordingly, we are continuing to invest to make sure that
we maintain and leverage our industry-leading product as a part of a total customer
portfolio solution.
So all in, we feel great about the progress we've made in this business. We're proud of
the many employees that have had a hand in executing these initiatives, and we're
grateful to our agents who have supported us throughout.
In our commercial businesses, we're equally pleased with our progress, specifically seen
in the steady improvement of our product returns, which have been driven by our
consistent execution.
As Jay Fishman mentioned in his comments, we're encouraged by the continued stability
of the market, as evidenced by the strong retention levels we continue to see both in our
book and across the market. When we analyze our results at a very granular level, we see
that we continue to be successful executing our basic pricing strategy, which is to retain a
Page 6 of 26



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

FINAL

high percentage of our business that is meeting target returns, improve profitability
where needed, and quote on and write new business that meets our target returns.
You'll see in our results that we've had a bit more success last quarter in new business,
but I would emphasize that that is a function of the improved returns on accounts we're
seeing, and not a change in our appetite for new business, and Alan will comment on this
further. So overall great results in 2014, with stable market conditions, very strong
underwriting results.
And with that I'll turn it over to Alan.

Alan D. Schnitzer

{BIO 3529437 <GO>}

Thank you, Brian, and good morning. For Business and International Insurance, our fourthquarter performance capped off a very good year with operating income of $630 million
in the quarter and more than $2.3 billion for the full year. In terms of our production
results, in the U.S. retention rates increased throughout the year, the stable renewal
premium change reflecting gradual declines in renewal rate gain and improving exposure.
We're very pleased with our execution in the field and I'll comment some more on that in
a minute.

Bloomberg Transcript

For the full year, the underlying combined ratio was a strong 92.8%, a 0.5 point
improvement from the prior year. While earned pricing in excess of loss trend contributed
favorably to full year 2014 results, it was also a negative impact of about 1.5 point from
non-catastrophe weather and large losses relative to the prior year.
The underlying combined ratio for the quarter was 93.9%, up 40 basis points from the
prior year. The underlying loss ratio improved 40 basis points driven by the earned impact
of price increases exceeding loss trends, partially offset by large losses in non-cat
weather. The impact of large losses was about 1.25 point, arising out of our International
business. We see this as a normal level of large loss volatility. The expense ratio was a
little higher year-over-year due to the effects of some favorable expense items in the
prior-year quarter.
Turning to production. We had a very strong quarter in BII with net written premiums up
over 6% from the prior-year quarter driven by our middle-market business and the
inclusion of Dominion for the full quarter. In domestic BI, retention increased 83% while
renewal premium change increased somewhat from recent quarters and new business
was up about 6%.
These production results reflect what you've been hearing from us for the last year or so.
That is given the rate gains we've achieved over the past four years, more of our
business is achieving adequate return and for those accounts or classes, our primary
objective is retention. Importantly in our domestic BI business, we are on average still
achieving flat-to-slightly-positive written rate gains on our better performing business
segments. And for the lesser performing segments of our business, we are on average
achieving written renewal rate gains in excess of estimated loss trends.
Page 7 of 26



FINAL

Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

Let me comment on the growth on new business in middle-market. Both Jay and Brian
commented on the stability in the marketplace. As a consequence of that stability, the
number of requests for quotes on new business has also been relatively stable. However,
given the cumulative impact of rate gains in the market broadly over the past four years, a
modestly increasing percentage of the new business requests that we did see in the
quarter were at return levels that met our threshold. As a result, in the quarter we were
able to quote successfully on more accounts. The new business growth in the quarter
does not reflect any changes of our return thresholds or more aggressive new business
pricing.
Looking at the production statistics, I'd like to highlight some further detail. In Select,
retention was over 80% for the second consecutive quarter with total renewal premium
change of a little over 8%. In Middle Market, retention was above 84% for the second
consecutive quarter and renewal premium change was strong and increased slightly from
the third quarter, a great result.
In our Other Domestic BI business, we were pleased that both rate and exposure
increased from the third quarter, resulting in a 100 basis point increase sequentially in
renewal premium change. Also our retention increased to 81%, the highest level in more
than two years.

Bloomberg Transcript

Looking at our production results for International, retention was strong at 82%, slightly
higher than recent quarters. Renewal premium change was higher than the third quarter
as exposures improved. New business was down year-over-year primarily because the
new business we saw didn't meet our return thresholds.
In December, we were pleased to announce that our joint venture with J. Malucelli in Brazil
agreed to acquire a majority interest in Cardinal, a start-up surety provider in Colombia.
The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2015 subject to regulatory
approvals and customary closing conditions.
To sum it up, we're very pleased with our strong operating income and production results
for the fourth quarter and the momentum we feel going into 2015. In terms of execution
going forward, we intend to pursue more of the same.
With that let me turn it over to Doreen.

Doreen Spadorcia

{BIO 4883600 <GO>}

Thank you, Alan, and good morning to all. Bond and Specialty Insurance had a great
quarter, rounding out a strong 2014. Both the fourth quarter and the full-year results are
record earnings for the business and we're very pleased with the financial returns in this
segment.
For the fourth quarter, operating income was $216 million, 24% higher than the fourth
quarter of 2013, while full year income of $727 million was 27% higher than 2013. The
increases from prior year were predominantly driven by the higher levels of favorable
Page 8 of 26



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

prior-year reserve development that Jay Benet referenced earlier. The underlying
combined ratio for both the quarter and full year were strong at 84.1% and 82.2%
respectively.

FINAL

The quarter was slightly higher than 2013 due to a modest re-estimation of prior quarter
losses. The full-year result was 2.5 points better than 2013 due primarily to benefits from
exiting our management liability excess-of-loss treaty.
So while there will always be some ups and downs in the year-over-year variances, we
can't emphasize enough just how terrific we feel about the results and in particular the
underlying fundamentals of how we achieved them. As with all of our businesses at
Travelers, we remain committed to superior underwriting performance of our portfolios
through aggressive management of risk and limit, including enhanced segmentation,
underwriting analytics and claim management.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to production. Net written premium for the quarter was $525 million, a decrease
of 5% compared to the prior year due to the exit of our management liability excess-ofloss treaty in the fourth quarter of 2013, which increased that period's net written
premium. The nonrenewal of this treaty in 2014, together with higher surety volume,
drove a 4% increase in net written premium for the full year.
Across our Management Liability businesses, retention of 84% was consistent with recent
period in the prior year, while new business premium of $36 million was generally
consistent with recent period. Renewal premium change, which can be somewhat lumpy
due to variations in things like limits written, liability attachment points and policy duration,
was 5% for the quarter. In sum, I'd like to reiterate one more time just how great we feel
about the business and our ability to continue to produce superior financial results.
I'll turn now to Personal insurance where I'd first like to reiterate Brian's comments about
the progress made in the business and how great we feel about our ability to have a
vibrant consumer business that generates appropriate returns.
We had a great fourth quarter rounding out a strong 2014. Operating income for the
quarter was $242 million, up slightly from the fourth quarter of 2013, while underlying
income of $254 million was up 18% for the quarter from the prior year, driven by strong
underwriting results. The underlying combined ratio of 84.3% in the quarter was an
improvement of 4.5 points from 2013, while the full year underlying combined ratio was
86.4%, an improvement of about two points from 2013. The improvement in underlying
results from 2013 for both the quarter and full year reflects continued benefits from
earned pricing exceeding loss trends and our expense reduction initiatives.
Before addressing the specific results for Auto and Homeowners, I wanted to give some
detail on our expense reduction initiatives. You'll recall that our plan was to achieve pretax savings of $140 million on a run rate basis by 1/1/2015 and we're pleased to tell you
that we have achieved that goal. As we've discussed in the past, about half of these
reductions relate to claim management expenses, the impact of which shows up in the
loss ratio. Since we started the program in the third quarter of 2013, there's about $100
Page 9 of 26



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

FINAL

million in cumulative pre-tax savings already in our earnings through the end of 2014. For
the remaining $40 million, initiatives have already been executed and they will earn
through in 2015. With this specific initiative met and now behind us, please rest assured
that we will continue to manage expenses diligently as we always have.
Looking at Agency Auto, retention remained strong and consistent at 83%, while renewal
premium change was about 5%. Quantum Auto 2.0 continues to drive improvements in
production, with new business premium of $161 million in the quarter, 87% higher than the
fourth quarter of 2013 and overall net written premiums increased 4% for the quarter.
We've also seen increases in policies in force on a sequential basis for two consecutive
quarters now.

Bloomberg Transcript

Turning to Agency Auto profitability. The underlying combined ratio for the quarter was
97.9%, an improvement of about four points and was 95.9% for the full year, an
improvement of just over a point and a half for their comparable 2013 periods. These
improvements were driven by benefits from the expense initiatives and earned pricing
exceeding loss trends, partially offset by the higher impact of new business volumes. In
addition, the quarter included approximately 2.5 points of favorable prior quarter reestimation. Lastly on Auto, our current view of overall Auto loss trend remains at about 3%
with no meaningful change in the underlying texture.
Looking at Agency Homeowners and Other, production was strong in the quarter with
retention stable at 84% and renewal premium change of about 6%. New business
premium of $83 million was up almost 40% from the prior-year quarter and we remained
focused on maximizing our market leadership position in the Homeowners line to provide
broad consumer solution. From a profitability perspective, the underlying combined ratio
of 69% was an improvement of more than five points over the fourth quarter of 2013,
driven by earned pricing exceeding loss trend and favorable losses, including non-Cat
weather.
So overall in Personal Insurance, a terrific finish to 2014 and we feel great about our
momentum heading into 2015. Finally, I'd like to echo one of Brian's earlier comments and
this applies to all of our employees in all the businesses. We are very proud of the hard
work of all of our employees and grateful for the partnership with our agents in achieving
these results.
With that, I'll turn the call back to Gabby.

Gabriella Nawi

{BIO 2211991 <GO>}

Thank you. Tina, we are now ready for Q&A and I would ask you all to please limit yourself
to one question and one follow-up. Thank you.

Q&A
Operator
Page 10 of 26



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

Thank you. One moment please for our first question. Thank you.
Our first question is from Randy Binner of FBR. Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Randy Binner

{BIO 15145081 <GO>}

Great. Good morning. Thank you. I wanted to touch on the commentary around rate
increases now moving below the increase in exposures. And I appreciate the commentary
that I think you feel like you're getting rate ahead of loss cost and you're more focused on
retention there. But a couple of questions. One, I assume there's going to be a
competitive process to keep retention, so any new initiatives there or any more color on
how you plan to keep retention higher. And then as far as the absolute rate increase
number we all watch so closely, I guess that means by definition, we have to see that
continue to moderate if you are achieving the rate adequacy.

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi. This is Jay. Alan and I, I think, will tag-team this a bit. First, just to be clear that about
rate gains, first I assume you're speaking about our Business Insurance segment. I think
what Alan said was in our best-performing segments of that business – talking really about
the Middle Market predominately, but it goes even beyond that – in our best-performing
business, we continue to experience, let's call it, flat to up a point in terms of rate. Now
relative obviously to an overall loss trend for that segment, it is not keeping pace with it. I
will tell you that we're not attempting to. That's not our principal focus. Alan also said that
in the poorer performing classes that rate gains there continued to exceed loss trends. So
that's where we are.
The reason I say we're not uniquely focused on that is that we are a return-driven
organization. And we ask our folks who have managed this just excellently (31:37) to
remember its agency relationships, its customer relationships. And it's how you manage
your business over time that matters. We start off with returns over time. That translates
to account management over time. So if an account has had – and I'm speaking very, very
broadly here – that if an account has had three years of increases and they've been a
good account and we value them, we tell our people that there's nothing wrong with
renewing that flat. It doesn't mean that if there's an opportunity to do a little better
because circumstances suggest it, claim activity rising or otherwise, that they should
attempt to do it, but that we manage our relationships and returns on accounts over time.
So I suspect – and it is just a guess on my part that if we're right about the cycle dynamics
that you'll see more of a stair-step in rate gains more than sort of a constant trend line.
And ultimately, I suspect with it, the granularity of our discussion, our best-performing
accounts versus our poorer performing accounts will become more relevant in perhaps
the way you see the world. So now that's the first part.
The second, you spoke about retentions. We're not doing anything differently with
respect to retain business than we ever have done. And I'm sure Alan can give you more
color and will. But the way generally business is renewed, if the agent is satisfied, the
customer is satisfied, if the market is satisfied, the discussions take place pretty early, well

Page 11 of 26



FINAL

Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

in advance of the renewal date. The account gets resolved at whatever it is and it gets
renewed, whether it's down a point, zero, up a point or differently. And so, it's not as
though the retention discussions have become, as you described, more competitive. I
don't – that simply isn't how the business is done. Those conversations take place given
the data and the analytics we have in the context of long-term account management and
doing the right things for the customer and the agent for the long term. So I'll let Alan give
you some more color on that, but there isn't anything in the world of retention that we're
doing differently.

A - Alan D. Schnitzer

{BIO 3529437 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Randy, it's Alan Schnitzer. Let me also address both of those quickly. Industry observers
tend to focus very narrowly on rate change and the long-term estimated loss trend we
give you. And I would remind you of the comments we made last quarter, which is, there's
a component of price change which includes exposure that from a return perspective and
from margins, acts like rate. So we don't look at the narrow gap between rate and loss
trend maybe quite as precisely as industry's observer do, and there's always variations
from quarter to quarter in weather and large losses and all those sorts of things that
create volatility, plus or minus within an expected range. So we're really in a pretty tight
band.
In terms of retention, I would have given you the same comment Jay did about our
efforts. It's – we're – and I would highlight a real competitive advantage that we have. This
isn't us needing to do anything else. We've got an extraordinarily field capability. We've
got great presence in the field, we've got great tenure in the field, we've got great
relationships, we've got great related services like our risk control. And it's those sorts of
things not developed this month or this quarter but over many, many years that give us
the ability to manage retention in a way that we think is most productive from a
profitability perspective.

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

And I would add again that that's exactly right. It's not uniquely a price discussion. It's
important, but it is only one element of long-term relationships and management. And
lastly, at least through the third quarter, obviously we're the first one out in the PC
business this quarter, retentions at, what I would, consider all the quality companies,
they're all high. It's not that we're describing a set of circumstances that are unique for us.
We think we manage it better than anybody else and maybe there's – that's sort of our
own pride in it, but the fact is that it's not our business that's been stable, it is broadly
speaking the industry that's been stable. And that's what's so important.

Q - Randy Binner

{BIO 15145081 <GO>}

Very helpful. Just one quick follow-up, and this is for Jay on the – Jay Fishman -- on the
stair-step comment on rate. I didn't quite follow how that fitted into the conversation. But I
think you're saying is the good part of the book becomes more rate-adequate, the places
where you're trying to seek rate increases may have a kind of a bigger impact on a
quarterly basis on what we see for rate change. Is that what you meant by the stair-step
versus the trend?

Page 12 of 26



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

FINAL

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

Yeah, I did; but the second part of that is that at the account level, you may see a year,
two years where an account renews flat and then there's an attempt to recover, if you will,
some of that lost margin relative to loss trend on that account. We are not – we're not a
company, we haven't issued an edict to the field that says get trend on every account.
That would be a dumb thing to do. We say to them, manage the long-term return given
everything you know about the agent, the account, the risk profile of that account and
manage it thoughtfully. And if that means that an account's going to renew flat for a year
or two, that's okay. So that's really the comment about that stair-step that I was speaking
to.

Q - Randy Binner

{BIO 15145081 <GO>}

All right. Very good. Thank you.

A - Gabriella Nawi

{BIO 2211991 <GO>}

Thank you. Next question, please.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Jay Gelb of Barclays. Please go ahead.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Jay H. Gelb

{BIO 21247396 <GO>}

Thank you and good morning. Jay, I know this is somewhat of a sensitive topic and I hope
you're feeling well, most importantly. If you could update us on the health condition that
was disclosed several months ago along with any update in succession plans, that would
be helpful initially. Thank you.

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

Sure. And I appreciate the question, there's – I have no sensitivity about it, by the way,
none at all. So first, thank you. I do continue to feel okay. I'm here, I'm on the job, I'm still
mobile, it's a little clunkier than it was and everybody here is helpful beyond – above and
beyond the call of duty in making sure that not only I can continue to do my job, but
everybody here can continue to do theirs. The – as I disclosed, and someone asked me
why did I disclose it? And the answer is, is because I needed to to continue to do the job
effectively. It was becoming apparent for those who were around me a lot that something
was amiss, and it was either leave people in confusion and doubt or provide some clarity
with respect to my circumstance.
I've chosen not to be specific about the ailment really in respect of my privacy and my
family's privacy and just don't think that it really matters a whole lot. Its relevance is I'm 62,
there isn't anything about my circumstance that causes me to change my view of my
ability to continue to work here; if it did, I'd have something else to say. So the horizon is
unchanged in that regard.

Page 13 of 26



FINAL

Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

We've been an active succession planning company for a long time and pretty
transparently. If you look and see what we've done and what we've announced, it doesn't
take a real genius to sort of see what we're doing and what the next generation of
leadership here is. I chuckle, you know, we're – 62 is kind of a magic number here. Brian's
62. I'm 62. Jay Benet's 62. Bill Heyman is 62-plus. And so, it's just – that responsibility falls
on us to make sure that we do this seamlessly, seamlessly. I would tell you that a) the
board knows virtually everything. I have been completely transparent to them. And to the
extent anyone really is interested, I have already begun to cut back fairly meaningfully on
my non-Travelers commitments and I will continue to do that so that I can focus
exclusively. Maybe there's some philanthropic things I'm not going to give up but to focus
relentlessly on what matters here. So that's the news of the day.

Q - Jay H. Gelb

{BIO 21247396 <GO>}

I appreciate that. Thank you. Switching gears for Jay Benet. The capital return in 2014 for
Travelers was 112% of operating income, including dividends and buybacks. How should
we think about that for the years going forward?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jay S. Benet

{BIO 2456473 <GO>}

There's really no change in the philosophy. There's no change in what we've said in the
10-Ks and Qs. Earnings are going to drive what we're able to return subject to the number
of items that we list, pension contributions being one of them. And when you look at a
particular quarter you're going to see the ebbs and flows of what's taken place in terms
of earnings from prior quarters, making the determination as to how much in particular in
that quarter we'll be able to return to shareholders. So there's no change in philosophy,
no change in the kind of basis upon which it's done. All you're seeing is some excess
capital actually that we ended the prior year with working its way into the share
repurchases of 2014.

Q - Jay H. Gelb

{BIO 21247396 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Gabriella Nawi

{BIO 2211991 <GO>}

Thank you. Next question, please.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs. Please go
ahead.

Q - Michael Nannizzi

{BIO 15198493 <GO>}

Thanks. Hey, Jay Benet, I was wondering if you could follow up a little bit on the
development. Maybe give us a little more color, maybe the breakdown between surety
and GL. I'm more interested in GL, but on the surety piece, how much is the non-renewal
of that management liability treaty? How much of the impact of that has already come
through? And then on GL, just trying to get some idea on that 2008 to 2012 accident
Page 14 of 26



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

years, where are the most recent ultimates on those books of businesses compared to
where you're booking that business today? Thanks.

FINAL

A - Jay S. Benet

{BIO 2456473 <GO>}

I think some of that is a level of granularity you'll probably see when we file the Schedule
P, and we're in the process of summarizing all that data. So to give very detailed
information at this point in time I think would be a bit of a mistake. What we're trying to do
is give the overall picture as to how things have developed. And in terms of the individual
products, the individual accident years, what we're trying to communicate was, yes, there
was no major shift in anything that affected PYD.
As far as to your specific question on the surety reinsurer, that has no effect on
development. That's a contract that was in place that was looked at in terms of its costbenefit and we decided that it wasn't really something that was achieving the objectives.
And from a profitability standpoint and a risk standpoint, we'd be better off not having it.
But that really had nothing to do with PYD.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Michael Nannizzi

{BIO 15198493 <GO>}

Got it. Okay. Thanks. And then just on expenses, the ratio in BI kind of dropped in the back
half of last year and kind of stayed at that level first part of this year. And we've risen now
to 32.5%-ish range. I mean where should we expect to see – or I should say 32% and
change. Where should we expect to see that? I mean is that where – and I'm thinking
about whether it's a Dominion or something else, I mean is there an opportunity to kind of
bring that back down to what we are seeing over the sort of trailing 12 months in the
second quarter? Or is that where you expect to efficiently run? Thanks.

A - Alan D. Schnitzer

{BIO 3529437 <GO>}

It's Alan again. If you look at the full-year expense ratio, I think it was 31.5% and that had a
benefit in it from the first quarter that we disclosed then that was on the year worth about
half a point. So if you adjust that first quarter event and have that half point back in, round
numbers that's sort of what we feel like would be a fair run rate.

A - Doreen Spadorcia

{BIO 4883600 <GO>}

Sorry. And the benefit, just to remind you all, is the workers' compensation state
assessment liability that we talked about.

A - Alan D. Schnitzer

{BIO 3529437 <GO>}

We had a reduction in estimated liability that we announced in the first quarter and we
quantified it, so you'll see it in our press release and 10-Q for the first quarter. So that
really was the anomaly this year. So if you add that back in and look at the full year, round
numbers I'd say it's always going to be up or down a little bit for one thing or another but
that will give you sort of a ballpark.

Q - Michael Nannizzi

{BIO 15198493 <GO>}

Page 15 of 26



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

FINAL

Got it. Okay. And then just last one for Jay Fishman, is there anything that you think could
happen in the reinsurance market as far as evolution or innovations that would allow you
or cause you to consider pursuing more growth in catastrophe-exposed areas utilizing
reinsurance? Or is that something at this point it's still not something that you foresee?
Thanks again.

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

Sure. And it's a relevant question of course. So first, we're engaged, involved and looking
at lots of different things. The specific question you ask is are you prepared to build
primary exposure and rely on a reinsurance profile that may or may not be permanent to
produce an effective loss profile. And there's the potential of mismatches there are
substantial, meaning on the primary side very difficult to nonrenew, reinsurance obviously
can be nonrenewed instantly. And when that happens, even if you do pursue a primary
nonrenewal strategy, you've at 12 months where you're out of sync where the primary
exposure sits and the reinsurance is simply not there anymore. So that's an arbitrage that I
think has a potential mismatch to it that's concerning.
Now if reinsurance pricing were to drift low enough, and in my judgment it is not there yet,
you might sit there and contemplate doing that. But I would say that the risk, the mismatch
risk there has real shareholder value attachment to it as well as regulatory. I mean imagine
trying to nonrenew a significant enough book of business where you would actually do this
as a strategy as opposed to an operating tactic.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Michael Nannizzi

{BIO 15198493 <GO>}

Right.

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

It would be very disruptive. So I think not in that regard but it doesn't mean that there
might not be other opportunities and we're sure pushing it around. It's not obvious to us
yet. It's pluses and minuses. These things all have certain complexities to them, but it is
not obvious to us yet that there is some magic dynamic there that's happened that
changes the fundamental underlying economics of being in the primary business. Now
maybe it'll keep going in that direction but at least not yet.

Q - Michael Nannizzi

{BIO 15198493 <GO>}

Great. Thank you so much, Jay.

A - Gabriella Nawi

{BIO 2211991 <GO>}

Thank you. Next question, please.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Josh Stirling of Bernstein. Please go ahead.

Page 16 of 26



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

Q - Josh C. Stirling

{BIO 17463087 <GO>}

FINAL

Hi. Good morning, Jay. Glad you brought up the St. Paul-Travelers deal. I think it's a really
interesting topic for us to talk about today. Going back 10 years, people weren't sure
about the deal but it's obviously been a fantastic success, and as we're seeing a new
wave of consolidation, I'm curious to hear your perspective on the M&A we're seeing in
the market today? When you think about the opportunities you guys are presenting, I'm
sure you've had a lot of opportunities to consider and debate this.
And I'm wondering more specifically, you've made a couple of smaller investments in the
past couple of years. Should we expect you to do more of these as stock buybacks
become more expensive than your multiple runs? Or alternatively should we expect you
guys potentially to be more of a material consolidator in the small mid-cap consolidation
wave that seems to be starting? I'd just love to get a sense of how you think about capital
priorities here.

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It's a really good question. So let's break it into a couple of component parts. First on the
international horizon, to the extent, and the Columbia situation was a pretty good one I
think. Dominion, even though it was a $1 billion trade, but to the extent there are
opportunities to do things of that nature where a business is either relatively new or
underperforming and we think that collectively locally and what we bring ourselves we can
improve it, we'll continue to look for those opportunities. They're increasingly harder to
find, driven in some measure by the economics, much of the economic environment
outside the U.S. as well as the general competitive environment that exists outside the
U.S.
There are lots of areas where you'd say, God, the last thing you want to do is be
competing there. And that list is not an insignificant list, but nonetheless to the extent that
opportunities present themselves on the international front, we will most certainly look at
them. I wouldn't contemplate – by the way, I could be completely wrong here, meaning
you asked me for an outlook. I'm giving it to you today. That doesn't mean that we (49:34)
couldn't change, but I wouldn't contemplate that those would be large transactions. I
don't know how one would look at Dominion. I don't think of it as a large transaction;
meaningful but I wouldn't contemplate that the international front would be that.
We really have no interest in the reinsurance business in the broader sense. So to the
extent that there are things happening in that arena, Bermuda or otherwise, we largely
don't pay attention to it, and I don't really have a view on the value that's created there.
I'm not knowledgeable. I'm not close enough to it to have a thoughtful view.
We've always said about acquisitions, and this hasn't changed, it's very, very much the
same. We are a return-driven organization. The principal view that we would take through
looking at anything is what would it do to our return profile over time? Would it potentially
improve our return dynamics and that could be either in magnitude or in volatility? So to
the extent there is diversification, geographic expansion, and providing lower volatility
against those returns, that could meet the threshold also.

Page 17 of 26



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

FINAL

The challenge for us in that regard is that when you do something small in our business,
you take all the risks of whatever it was, whatever undisclosed liability, whatever policy
was written 20 years, 30 years, 40 years ago, you've got it. And in many cases the
controls and procedures and knowledge base that exists in small companies just is not
sufficient to warrant the risks that you take to getting into it. They just don't have the
database that gives you a sense of comfort when you're spending your shareholders'
money that it's wise.
And in the larger transactions, given that we are such a high return organization relative to
the industry, it's hard to find at a price that can be achieved a transaction that would meet
that return threshold. They would all make us bigger for sure, but that's interesting but not
entirely relevant. We're big enough. We don't need to be any bigger, but we are driven
about returns, driven by them.

Bloomberg Transcript

So if something significant were ever to be available, we'd look and we'd look hard. I do
think that we are really good – by the way, at the front-end and the back-end, meaning
the analysis that goes on when we look at something and then once we decide to
proceed, the execution strength in a very complex and complicated transaction, I think
we're pretty good at that, and I'm speaking out for what people know in the marketplace,
but also what you don't know.
The things that we've looked at, the things that we've walked away from because our
own due diligence suggested, no, that's not for us. And so it's good, but I think the
challenge will be meeting all those standards. That doesn't mean we won't roll up our
sleeves and dig in and we'll continue to try. Again, that's my – as fulsome answer as I can
give you.

Q - Josh C. Stirling

{BIO 17463087 <GO>}

That's helpful, Jay. Thank you. If I could sneak in a quick one on pricing. So, look, I get that
it used to be a very cyclical industry and become much more data driven and the
companies are more disciplined. But if you're in the trenches and you're an actuary and
underwriter, should we be expecting that generally good companies, people who file the
data are going to be able to cover their costs over the next couple of years, raising
pricing 2%, 3% whatever that entails? Or is that just kind of unrealistic, that it's still –
competition and capacity still matters and basically the market price is going to be driven
by the more aggressive guys who probably don't do as good a job managing their
business and they cut the market price to reduce margins themselves and shift to top line
growth?

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

I'm always hesitant to speak for any other company, because I can only from the outside
in perceive how they are managing their business, but I can speak to what we do and how
we run our business. Underwriters will do – good ones will do with precision what you ask
them to do. And so you'd better be really good at knowing what you're asking of them.
And we have taken the view, and my read from the outside looking in is that we're not
unique in this regard, others too, if you tell an underwriter grow, they will. We don't tell

Page 18 of 26



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

FINAL

them that. We tell them to find thoughtful ways to deploy capital, and if they can't, it's
okay. It's okay.
No one will ever be asked here why they didn't meet their volume budget, because the
first time you ask them that they'll meet it the next quarter, and all of us understand that
you would never speak to a loan officer that way at the bank. You wouldn't say to a loan
officer, here's your volume goal, damn the torpedoes, full speed ahead. We don't
perceive that there's a lot of difference between that risk profile and speaking to field
underwriters. So we value their judgment and their insight and the data and analytics that
we have in front of them to make thoughtful decisions, to own the account, to think about
do I want that account in my portfolio for the long term and what will they do to the return
of my portfolio in a collaborative environment of the type that we have here.

Bloomberg Transcript

I can't underestimate. I can't overstate, rather. I'm sorry. I can't overstate how different
that is than it was 20 years ago. It's just quite different and I think most importantly, is that
the feedback loop between what goes on in the field and what's really – and the
knowledge at the home office to what is going on is stunningly shorter than it was 20
years ago. And so the ability to act and react to changes, not just cyclical big-time changes
but local changes, an office, a market, a company in a local place is just that much better.
So I believe, again I could be dead wrong. I think that the cyclicality of our business is and
will be meaningfully reduced.
Anybody who has tried, prices are up now, let's grow, I can't think of one company that
has successfully executed that strategy in any meaningful way and if you look at history, it
becomes difficult to say, boy, that's a smart thing to do. I think the people who manage
our businesses understand what it means to manage a risk profile and as a consequence
they will do so. Now, on a given year where we seek a – if long long-term, if loss trend is
4%, we would be stupid to tell underwriters they've got to get 4% on every account. That
means we'll lose the accounts that don't need 4% in their returns and we will get 4% on
those accounts that need 10%.
And so we say to them be return-driven with that account. Be smart, be thoughtful and be
return-driven and it has worked for us and I think if there's anything about our results over
these particularly last five years, I think that many industry observers have not appreciated
how productive that approach can be to profitability improvement. Getting the right rate
on the right account is really what it's all about and I think more and more people are
beginning to understand that.

Q - Josh C. Stirling

{BIO 17463087 <GO>}

Thank you, Jay.

A - Gabriella Nawi

{BIO 2211991 <GO>}

Great. Tina, next question, please.

Operator
Page 19 of 26



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

Thank you. Our next question comes from Jay Cohen of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.

FINAL

Q - Jay A. Cohen

{BIO 1498813 <GO>}

Yeah. Two quick questions. Well, one quick, maybe the other one a little bit less quick.
Since we've had a notable drop in interest rates, if you could 7 of what the new money
yields look like for your portfolio versus the portfolio yield today?

A - William H. Heyman

{BIO 3429455 <GO>}

Well, Jay Benet has given you an idea of what our expectations would be over the next
two years or three years due to the drop in interest rates. We did that in the back of an
envelope last night. That's already obsolete, but last night the new money rates were
about 50 basis points lower than the rates Jay was using to make his calculation, which
would equate to about $20 million a year after taxes of lower earnings. Now, no, $20
million a year.

Q - Jay A. Cohen

{BIO 1498813 <GO>}

Oh, I'm sorry. The delta.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - William H. Heyman

{BIO 3429455 <GO>}

The delta. This morning the 10-year rate is up a little bit, so that $20 million is probably $15
million or $16 million, but there's no question that these rates are lower. Last year as we
look at our investor results which exceeded 2013 much to our surprise, they did so
notwithstanding the fact that the rates were lower than our projections at the beginning
of the year. We made for this year a new set of projections which already looks full,
(58:59) we're 22 days in but we're not prepared to throw the towel in yet. but
nonetheless about a $20 million a year difference.

Q - Jay A. Cohen

{BIO 1498813 <GO>}

Got it.

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

And by the way that was Bill Heyman speaking.

Q - Jay A. Cohen

{BIO 1498813 <GO>}

Right. And the ten-year is actually down a little bit today so – but by the end of the call it
might be up. Who knows?
Second question, if we could get more color on international price change. We saw the
premium change but obviously that includes exposure but what's happening from a
pricing standpoint in your major international markets?

A - Alan D. Schnitzer

{BIO 3529437 <GO>}
Page 20 of 26



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

I don't have that slide in front of me right now, but I think it's in the webcast. But, it was the
– you're talking about rate internationally?

Q - Jay A. Cohen

{BIO 1498813 <GO>}

FINAL

Yes.

A - Alan D. Schnitzer

{BIO 3529437 <GO>}

I would say what you see there in RPC is split probably pretty evenly between rate and
exposure.

Q - Jay A. Cohen

{BIO 1498813 <GO>}

Okay. So you're still getting overall increases internationally?

A - Alan D. Schnitzer

{BIO 3529437 <GO>}

We still have an overall positive renewal rate change in International, yes. And the other
thing I would tell you about our international relative to U.S. is our outlook for loss trend
outside the U.S. is lower than U.S., because we don't have the same level of exposure to
medical inflation.

Q - Jay A. Cohen

{BIO 1498813 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Got it. Is that being helped by Canada? The rate change?

A - Alan D. Schnitzer

{BIO 3529437 <GO>}

Yes. I would say the rate in Canada is on the higher end of the spectrum.

Q - Jay A. Cohen

{BIO 1498813 <GO>}

Got it. Thanks, Alan.

A - Alan D. Schnitzer

{BIO 3529437 <GO>}

Sure.

A - Gabriella Nawi

{BIO 2211991 <GO>}

Great. Tina, next question, please.

Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Larry Greenberg of Janney Capital. Please go
ahead.

Q - Larry Greenberg

{BIO 1712308 <GO>}

Page 21 of 26



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

Good morning, and thank you. I'm just wondering if you can characterize how non-cat
weather and large losses came in for the full year 2014, relative to what would be viewed
as normal.

FINAL

A - Alan D. Schnitzer

{BIO 3529437 <GO>}

It's Alan Schnitzer. I don't know if you're talking about Business Insurance, but I'll start and
turn it over to Jay maybe for a broader perspective. If we grew cats – are you talking
about, did you say cats and...

A - Jay S. Benet

{BIO 2456473 <GO>}

Large cats and...

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

No, non-cats...

A - Alan D. Schnitzer

{BIO 3529437 <GO>}

Non-cat weather and large losses?

A - Gabriella Nawi

{BIO 2211991 <GO>}

...and large losses.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jay S. Benet

{BIO 2456473 <GO>}

...and large losses.

A - Alan D. Schnitzer

{BIO 3529437 <GO>}

Yeah, so...

Q - Larry Greenberg

{BIO 1712308 <GO>}

The stuff that would flow into underlying.

A - Alan D. Schnitzer

{BIO 3529437 <GO>}

Yeah. Certainly above expectation, and above the prior year.

A - Jay S. Benet

{BIO 2456473 <GO>}

Yeah. I think when you look at the entire company, because this is going to be – yeah,
things like what you're asking: large losses, non-cat weather, they're going to be episodic,
they're going to be dependent upon geography and things of that sort. So when you look
at the entire company, I don't think that this year, 2014, was all that unusual a year as it
relates to weather. I think when you look – I'm talking non-cat weather now. When you look
at PI and BI combined, it was probably pretty normal, although BI was a little higher and PI
was probably a little lower in terms of what they might consider to be normal.

Page 22 of 26



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

I think when you make the contrast to last year, which gets you away from an expectation
and gets you into the weather and large loss activity of last year, meaning 2013 versus
2014, there I think 2014 was a little worse than 2013, but still a good year. Hopefully that's
helpful.

FINAL

Q - Larry Greenberg

{BIO 1712308 <GO>}

Yeah, no, that...

A - Jay S. Benet

{BIO 2456473 <GO>}

And what we tried to do in the press release was provide you not with the data, because
it's difficult to measure these things, but to adopt a phrase of normal variability and loss
activity from quarter-to-quarter to try to accommodate this sort of thought process, and
get away from the: is it good, is it bad? It is going to vary, and hopefully when you get to a
full year, some of the variance is less pronounced.

A - Alan D. Schnitzer

{BIO 3529437 <GO>}

It's a challenge for us to estimate normal non-cat weather. It's easier for us to speak
about non-cat weather this year compared to last, this quarter compared to last year's
quarter. But it's been exceptionally difficult for us to come to what would be a normal noncat weather number, so we have a hard time speaking to it that way.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jay S. Benet

{BIO 2456473 <GO>}

And part of – if I could just add, like, an example of what makes it difficult, you'll have
times when given the granularity of what we look at, you'll be looking at information that
says, well, large loss activity is up somewhere. And then you get into it and say, well, why
is it up? Well, because slips and falls have taken place. But why did slips and falls take...? It
was because of the weather. So it's just a very difficult bucketing process to end up
summarizing all of this data, and what we try to do is give you the concepts of what's
taking place.

Q - Larry Greenberg

{BIO 1712308 <GO>}

Great. No, that's helpful. And then on direct, I listened to what you had said earlier about
continuing to invest in that business. So the last couple of years, you've generated
statutory underwriting losses of about $100 million. I mean the business is growing topline a bit, you're getting a little bit of scale economics probably. But I mean, when we think
about that over the next few years, I mean, is that sort of the normal run rate of what
expectations should be? Or I mean, is there going to be a drop in investment spending
somewhere out there?

A - Jay S. Fishman

{BIO 14011069 <GO>}

Well, this is Jay Fishman. I don't have a better number if I'm looking out than the one
we're experiencing now, and to the extent markets change, circumstance (1:04:54)
change, obviously our strategy will, but we start off with the premise that – and when we
started this investment we said it: we said we were less concerned than some industry
observers that the typical Travelers customer would go to buying direct, but we weren't
Page 23 of 26



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

FINAL

ready to bet the ranch on that and therefore ignore the trend. So the development has
been important. It is not apparent to us yet that there are enough Travelers-type
customers who choose to buy direct where direct business is scalable on its own.
It's not that we don't know how to get people to respond or how to quote and how to
issue; we've become really, really good at that. It's that the number of people that we
would think of as the customer that we seek are not choosing to respond that way. Now,
that may change three or four or five years from now. It's a trend. I don't think it's
appropriate to ignore it. So we will continue to develop the expertise and the skill so that
if in fact things change and there is a market opportunity for us, we're in a position to
respond and we're not late.
The other point I'd make, and I don't know how to quantify it for you, but I would tell you
that the benefit to the agency business from the investment, the technology, and the
underlying customer reach attributes, the ways customer connects to us, our ability to
respond as an – call it an electronic company for lack of a better term, that's just been
invaluable. Now I don't know how many dollars it's meant in the agency business but I do
know it's important. And as I would remind everyone, I'm not so unhappy that the
Travelers customer has not turned away from the agency channel as quickly as some
people thought. That's good for us. We've got a very big agency-based business that's
very profitable and if that change continues to occur more slowly, that's just fine with us.

Bloomberg Transcript

So this is kind of a hedge-year position investment that's necessary, because it's just not
clear that it will continue this way. But I would say, yeah, that's what I would certainly
include if I were thinking about it.

Q - Larry Greenberg

{BIO 1712308 <GO>}

Great. Thanks for your comments.

A - Gabriella Nawi

{BIO 2211991 <GO>}

Great. Thank you. And, Tina, this will be our last and final question please.

Operator
Thank you. Our question comes from Brian Meredith of UBS. Please go ahead.

Q - Brian Robert Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Yeah, thanks. Just two quick ones here. First one for Alan and Jay, if I look at the business,
insurance business right now and if we look at the returns they're generating, they're
pretty attractive right now. Is there any consideration or thought about having underwriters
expand their risk profile right now, looking maybe into the E&S market a little bit? I know
that kind of ebbs and flows with the cycles and also loss trend continues to be pretty
favorable, so I think that's an area possibly for growth?

A - Alan D. Schnitzer

{BIO 3529437 <GO>}
Page 24 of 26



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

FINAL

Yeah, Brian it's Alan. I guess the way we would think about that is, we're always
challenging ourselves to think about whether there are new marketplace opportunities
but I would distinguish that from changing our risk profile to do it. So if we could find
opportunities, whether it's in Energy or whether it's in E&S or any other market, we would
certainly look at it but that would not involve any change in our return thresholds or our risk
appetite.

Q - Brian Robert Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Got you. Okay. And then the second one is for Doreen. Just looking at the Homeowners
continue to see kind of declines in PIF. Any thoughts on when that could start to stabilize
or maybe start to trend upwards? And what impact do you think the decline in PIF in the
Homeowners business is having on your Auto insurance growth here?

A - Doreen Spadorcia

{BIO 4883600 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Brian, good morning. I'll answer that with a couple of different comments. We've put
some, as Brian referenced in his comments, due to some of the weather that we were
seeing coming through the book and just where the levels of deductibles were and roof
issues, we took some pretty strong actions in the Homeowners book. And some of our
declines there were deliberate, whether there might be some concentration in some
areas, so it wasn't unexpected to us that we would see some shrinkage.
That being said, we feel really great that we've come through the other side of that,
where our deductibles are, where the PIF is. The rest of the market probably wasn't as
aggressive as we were in addressing property. But from where we are today and
launching forward, we're very excited about that. We feel like we've got just a great
launch point on that. You know there's no question that – because we look at account
underwriting, there's no question that when there's pressure on one product, there might
be some impact to the other product around either new business or retention. So we
have seen with QA2 as we've become more competitive there that we think that's
allowed us to start growing the home line again. We're still in a negative position but I can
tell you that for 2015 and beyond, that's going to be a very strong focus of ours, whether
it's going to be how we view digital marketing, leading with some of our home capabilities
because we think they're industry-leading, whether it's to look at some different kind of
practices in the quote process or an overall customer view, so we can utilize the strength
in the property line to actually get more, not just more Homeowners business but more
customer business for the Travelers.
So, we knew that Homeowners was going to be – the recovery was going to follow Auto,
so we're in the spot that we thought we would be and there's a lot of focus on that.

Q - Brian Robert Meredith

{BIO 3108204 <GO>}

Great. Thanks for the answers.

Operator

Page 25 of 26



Company N ame: Travelers Cos I nc/The
Company Ticker: TRV US Equity
Date: 2015-01-22

Thank you. At this time I'd like to turn the call back over to our speakers for any closing
remarks.

A - Gabriella Nawi

{BIO 2211991 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Great. Thank you all for joining us today, and as always I will be available for any follow-up.
Thank you and have a great day.

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. We thank you for
your participation and ask that you please disconnect all lines. Thank you and have a good
day.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 26 of 26

