Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

Q4 2014 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

David Graham Stevens, Chief Operating Oﬃcer & Executive Director
Elena Betes, Managing Director
Geraint Jones, Chief Financial Oﬃcer and Executive Director
Henry Allan Engelhardt, Chief Executive Oﬃcer & Executive Director
Milena Mondini, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Stuart Morgan, Head of Service

Other Participants
Alan G. Devlin, Analyst
Andrew J. Crean, Analyst
Greig N. Paterson, Analyst
James A. Shuck, Analyst
Marcus P. Rivaldi, Analyst
Nick H. Johnson, Analyst
Ravi Tanna, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Sami Taipalus, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody. Welcome. I'm Henry Engelhardt, Chief Executive of Admiral
Group. Welcome to Admiral Group's 2014 Annual Results Announcement. Hi, Loiuse, we
know you're listening. We have quite a lot to discuss in our 2014 results this morning. Let
me start by explaining why I've called this the year of the Baked Alaska. It's because it's a –
with a bit of hot and with a bit of cold at the same time. Some of our results are really hot.
Some are a bit cold, all to be discussed.
Let me also review the group's strategy to remind you of our objectives. Our strategy is to
invest in businesses outside UK car insurance, while continuing the proﬁtable growth
trajectory of the core business. We are focused on providing long term value for investors
and that means making calculated investments today for future beneﬁts. We also believe
that after we ensure our businesses, our property capitalized, we distribute excess cash to
shareholders.
Geraint Jones, the gentleman standing to my left and our CFO – sorry, standing to my
right – reverse, the other way – will give more details on this very shortly. After Geraint and

Page 1 of 24



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

I talk about the headlines, Stuart Morgan, our UK operations manager; and David Stevens,
our COO and Head of our UK Insurance business will take an in-depth look at the trends
in the UK market and our results within.

FINAL

They will be followed by Milena Mondini, the CEO of ConTe, our Italian insurance
business; and Elena Betes, the CEO of Rastreator, our Spanish price comparison business
and together, they will put some meat on the bones for all our non-UK investments.
So, here are the headlines. Group proﬁt before tax was down 4% from 2013. This is the
ﬁrst time this century we had a reduced proﬁt year-on-year, but to put this into
perspective, this was the second biggest proﬁt in our history. The return on equity was still
very high, an enviable 52%. Turnover, largely inﬂuenced by cyclicality in the UK market,
was down 3% to just under £2 billion. Geraint.

Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

My turn? Good morning, everyone. Moving down the list, despite the 3% reduction in
turnover, the group did break through the 4 million customer mark during 2014, a yearon-year increase of around 350,000 customers or about 10%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Three quarters of that growth came from the UK motor and household operations with the
remainder from outside the UK. Earnings per share is around 2%, a slightly smaller
reduction than in pre-tax proﬁt, mainly down to the lower UK tax rate.
And the dividend, we're proposing a ﬁnal dividend of £0.49 per share, which brings the
total dividend for 2014 to £0.984, 1% down than 2013. Payout ratio for the full year is 95%,
which is the same as 2013 and in pounds millions terms, the 2014 full payout is in line with
2013. More about the dividend later.

Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Well, it was a hot and cold year. Geraint, I suggest that we split this slide and I'll take half.
Customer numbers were up quite a lot, and we now have more than 4 million
policyholders. ConTe made a modest proﬁt in its sixth full year of operations. Milena will
probably talk more about this in a minute, but please note that this proﬁt was due to back
year claims releases. However, ConTe's combined ratio is actually very close to our written
proﬁt.
We made record proﬁts in Rastreator and LeLynx, our price comparison businesses in
Spain and France, respectively. We believe that the Internet is an irresistible force that the
23-year-olds in Austin, Salamanca, Bologna and Toulouse are using the Internet for
virtually everything they're doing, and eventually, they're going to use it to buy their car
insurance.
Saying that, the operative word there is eventually. And we're trying to accelerate this
change in distribution through the creation of price comparison businesses. The
proposition price comparison makes to consumers is compelling. You spend a few
Page 2 of 24



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

minutes and you get multiple quotes, many quotes as opposed to spending those few
minutes in getting a single quote. And everywhere we've gone, this proposition to
consumers has caught fancy and taken oﬀ.

FINAL

And Elena will talk more about these businesses because they are businesses in their own
right, not just generators of quotes for our insurance businesses. She will talk more about
this in just a few minutes.

Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Okay. So the cold or the less sought. What was less sought in 2014? Well, the reduction in
earnings on the previous slide for one, but a couple of other points. Firstly, the UK market.
Naturally, despite the good progress being made elsewhere in the group that we'll hear
about today, our core business will continue to dominate the results in the short to
medium-term. Because of our size and the prospect of less rampant growth and price
comparison as a source of business, we're less able to grow materially across the cycle
than historically. Consequently, our UK result is likely to be more cyclically inﬂuenced than
it was before. Hopefully that's not new news, and David and Stuart will talk in some detail
about the UK market shortly.

Bloomberg Transcript

Staying in the UK, also hopefully not especially surprising, Confused.com continues to
ﬁght the tough battle in the UK comparison market. And although there was very limited
growth in car insurance comparison volumes in 2014, you'll know that the tussle for
customers remains a ﬁerce one. And as you'll hear about later, for a number of reasons,
Confused results in 2014 was around £6 million lower than the previous year.
And ﬁnally, compare.com, which the more eagle-eyed amongst you might have spotted
as being subtly renamed from comparenow.com. More about that later. It's arguably cold
in the sense that our share of 2014's result was a loss of £15 million, which of course is the
key reason 2014's group proﬁt was lower than 2013. But the loss is not unexpected. And of
course investing in marketing to attract the customers to the website is a fundamental part
of growing a comparison operation. Importantly, it shows that we are prepared to invest in
the future of the group, even if it means impacting the current year reported proﬁts.
Henry.

Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

They say that the ﬁrst 22 years are actually the hardest. Although turnover declined for the
second consecutive year due to the cyclicality of the UK market, a trend line would still
show a remarkable growth story. So let's look at the trend line.

Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

There you go.

Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Page 3 of 24



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

FINAL

This slide says what it does on the tin. A few years ago, turnover outside the UK was 5% of
the total. Now, it's 12%. We are, as you can see, gently reducing our reliance on the core
business over time.
This slide shows an exciting story of progress in the pioneering of distribution change that
I referred to earlier outside UK. Not only is turnover up 25% of the total but quotes from
outside the UK are knocking on the door of 40% of the total. And this is only in the ﬁrst
year of operation for our U.S. PC business, compare.com. Geraint.

Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Okay. Let's take a look at proﬁts. This slide shows where the proﬁt came from, the
contributions to or deductions from the ﬁgure made by each of our business segments.
The dark blue, as usual, the UK Car Insurance results. It was 111% of the total, again, clearly
the dominant component. That result was just under £400 million, which was slightly up
on 2013. And it was, as at the half year, boosted by material reserve releases on the back
of some very positive back-year claims experience. More on that shortly.

Bloomberg Transcript

The light blue portion at the top, that's the total result from our price comparison
operations. It was lower this year at 1% of the total from 6% last year, and that reﬂects the
investment we made in compare.com during 2014 that we've already mentioned but also
the tougher year for Confused in the UK where proﬁt was down to £16 million.
Below the line in the green, that's the loss from international insurance, the highlight view
as we've mentioned was the ﬁrst small. It's still very pleasing proﬁt reported by ConTe in
Italy. And the overall loss improved from £22 million to £20 million. Finally, the yellow,
that's everything else, of which the most material part is the charge for the group's share
schemes, which hopefully everyone's familiar with. It also includes the net ﬁnancing cost
of the £200 million bond that we issued last year and that was about £2 million in the
second half.
Next up, a few slides on the UK results. Firstly, look at the top line in customer numbers.
On the left here, you see the movement in turnover and total premiums and, on the right,
the number of insured vehicles. There's nothing particularly new to report here compared
to half year. The decrease in turnover is a result of falling total premiums and that in turn is
a feature of lower average premiums caused by rate cuts, mainly throughout 2013, and
also a further shift towards renewals from new business.
You will note that the rate of reduction is lower than it was at the half year, and that's
mainly down to rate increases implemented from Q2 through Q4 of 2014. On the right,
you see vehicle count up 4% in 2014 to about 3.2 million vehicles on the back of strong
retention.
Next up, key UK motor ratios. Expense is ﬁrst. As you can see the expense ratio, which we
show here on a written basis, increased from 15% to 16% as average premiums fell. It
compares well, I would say, to the market ﬁgure for 2013, and we expect it to continue to

Page 4 of 24



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

FINAL

do so when the market ﬁgure for 2014 is available. The reported loss ratio for Admiral is
around 69%, which is broadly stable.
As at the half year, the key points, a higher reserve release oﬀsetting the higher current
year ratio. Add the two together, you get to a combined at 85% for Admiral, slightly up on
2013 due to that higher expense ratio, and again, a favorable comparison for the most
recent market data we have. This is the market reported combined ratio for 2013. And,
ﬁnally, on this slide, other revenue, on a per vehicle basis, you can see we're stable at £67.
Nothing to report there.
Okay, reserve releases. Let's take a look at those in a bit more detail. The bars here show
the level of releases as a percentage of earned premium for the past ﬁve ﬁnancial years in
the right and some ﬁve or six-year averages on the left. 2014, you see at the highest level
for some years at 18%. That's higher than we'd normally expect to see in a year as a result
of some very positive developments on a number of our back years, which we'll see in
more detail on a later slide.
An important point to note here is that there was no reduction in the level of conservatism
in our booked reserves. And as a result of that consistently cautious approach to
reserving, as claims developers, we expect and you should expect to see continuing
material contributions to the results from reserve releases.

Bloomberg Transcript

Back over to Henry now to talk more about things outside the UK.

Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Thank you, Geraint. As you can see, we have some growth, but not rampant growth in our
non-UK car insurance businesses. We are very sensitive to making sure we grow eﬃciently
and not just for growth's sake. In 2014, we had good growth in the U.S. and Spain, but just
a little bit of growth in Italy and France. Milena will go into more detail speciﬁc to each
business.
We are growing but the combined ratio is improving, in particular, we are producing
good and more stable loss ratios now that the business has had some maturity. There is
no magic about two years in a row where the loss number is almost the same. We invest
prudently in all our businesses, but we believe that larger investments will lead to even
better future results then you might see us invest more aggressively. However, we can
also be very patient and reduce investment if it appears that the investment would be
ineﬃcient.
In price comparison, not only have we quadrupled the number of quotes from Rastreator
and LeLynx in a few short years but we have turned a loss of nearly £3 million into a proﬁt
of nearly £3 million. Elena will talk more about the success of these two very exciting
businesses.
And now, I'd like to turn it over to Stuart and David.

Page 5 of 24



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Not yours?

Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

FINAL

No. To Geraint.

Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Thank you, Henry. Two ﬁnal slides for me, one on capital and one on dividends. Nothing
important. First oﬀ, capital. Now as the headline here suggests, our capital position is
strong as we transition between solvency regimes. The chart on the top shows our usual
measures at year-end the amount of capital on the left on an accounting basis along with
the total regulatory requirement and the Solvency I or Insurance Group's Directive
measures at that point. That should hopefully go without saying that the IGD coverage is
very substantial and was of course further enhanced by our bond issue in 2014.

Bloomberg Transcript

In 2015, the group's capital requirement will be set by the PRA under the ICAS regime.
And consistent with the position at half year, we currently hold a surplus above that
requirement, which is on an economic rather than on an accounting basis of around £300
million after deducting the ﬁnal dividend.
And again, consistent with our message at half year, we believe it's appropriate to
maintain a strong capital position as we move into Solvency II. As the slide says, we don't
yet have full certainty over the group's capital requirement from 2016. Though based on
what we know today, we'd be surprised if there was a material adverse change in the
requirements compared to ICAS. We're likely to get certainty in the coming months. But
until that point, we'll continue to hold the sort of surplus we have today.
What does that mean for dividends? Well, ﬁrstly to reiterate, there's been no change in
our philosophy as regards dividends. We still believe it's for our shareholders to decide
what to do with surplus funds. And so we'll pay out what we don't need to keep in the
group for solvency, opportunities for growth and contingencies. Our ﬁnal 2014 dividend
has therefore been calculated on the basis that dividends should normally move in line
with earnings, unless something material changes in capital or capital requirements or our
growth aspirations.
The full year payout ratio for 2014 is therefore the same as 2013, 95%. And ﬁnally, what
happens if the Solvency II capital requirement is similar to ICAS and the group has a
material amount of surplus in January 2016? Well, that would be a nice problem to have,
of course. And we've communicated our intentions as regards the ongoing capital
position if and when that happens. But remember, the regulatory requirement at that
point is only one aspect. You have to also consider the capital we need for growing our
operations and the margin for contingencies.

Page 6 of 24



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

FINAL

And ﬁnally for me, very brief summary of earnings and dividends, 2010, 2013, and 2014.
For 2014, you see a full year dividend of £0.984, which is slightly down in 2013, but is up
over 40% compared to 2010. EPS for 2014 at £1.03, also up over 40% compared to 2010. If
you have shares, the payment date is 29th of May, and if you don't have any, the exdividend date is the 7th of May.
That's the last from us. We'll hand over to David and Stuart to talk about more about the
UK.

Stuart Morgan

{BIO 17270805 <GO>}

Right. Sorry for that false start. It is my turn now. Good morning. Stuart Morgan, longserving former Head of Claims, the last couple of years Head of Service in the business
with claims oversight. And that's why I'm here to talk about today, to talk about what's
happening in the UK claims market. Well, you can see this after a couple of – or many
years of consultation with the industry and two years after the introduction of the LASPO
rules, small bodily injury claims frequency is pretty much back where it started. There had
been some hope in April 2013 when we saw a large fall, but that looks artiﬁcial now.
Seems it did come oﬀ from quite a bit of a spike in the months immediately prior to the
reforms coming in.

Bloomberg Transcript

What is very true is there remains a very strong appetite in the market for claimants to
claim for bodily injury, whether it be in a road accident, and also for lawyers to act to
those claims because there's still good money to be made.
However, a little bit more success on cost. There's been a redistribution of cost in fact.
And claimants, the people who were injured, they seem to be getting a little bit more
money largely on the back of the 10% increase in damages they had as a result of the
Simmons v Castle case. But lawyers are doing a little bit less well, and they've oﬀset that
by cutting their overheads in their business and ﬁnding new income streams. So it does
still remain a proﬁtable business.
What also remains true is that you can do well at the claims department if you have good
motivated staﬀ long-standing members of staﬀ, you have a stake in the business, a bit like
ours, and if they're using good MI and IT, that makes it better still.
But what about general claims inﬂation – I'm sorry, general claims frequency. Well, after
years of decline possibly brought about by low economic activity and higher fuel cost, the
trend does seem to have reversed, and that might be expected given the turnaround in
both of those indicators.
Well, for 22 years of being with Admiral, and frankly, there's been something going on in
the market every year, some reform and we've been through quite a lot recently. But
possibly a quieter time to come. Would you agree though. Some in the industry point to
the new MedCo rules as being very signiﬁcant in terms of frequency and reduction in
cost. But I'm afraid at the moment, I don't share that optimism. It is, however, election

Page 7 of 24



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

FINAL

year, and given the stubbornness of bodily injuries frequency, a review of those reforms is
expected.
Same as the last time I was here, the eﬀect of handling of large BI claims remains an
overriding importance to us. On the positive side on cost, the banning of conditional fees
should have a positive impact as claims settle. Remember that lawyers were able to
charge an uplift of up to 100% on their base cost, which on their own was sometimes in
one hundreds of thousands of pounds. But general damages continue to inﬂate, I'm
afraid. And that's for well-recognized reasons, which we put up on the slide there, one of
them is for medical equipment reasons, it's worth mentioning that in the last few weeks,
we had our ﬁrst ever claim for provision of an exoskeleton.
And ﬁnal slide for me, staﬀ and customers are the most important people we have. And
happily, both seem to be very content with us. Feedback scores remain very buoyant. This
is despite us using the quieter times to improve our administration eﬃciency in the
business. This, in turn, has contributed to our retention of the low expense ratio and
maintenance of the gap we enjoy over the rest of the market. That's all for me. Let's turn
to David.

Bloomberg Transcript

David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Thank you, Stuart. I'm going to talk a bit about the UK car insurance market as a whole
and then a bit more about our claims ratio. What you see here is the ABI Motor Insurance
Premium Tracker, which is an index that includes both new business and renewals looks at
written premiums. The dark blue is the year-on-year change and the light blue is the
cumulative change since the beginning of 2012.
And what you see on this exhibit is two interesting things. You see the impact of the
longest sustained period of premium deﬂation I think that's ever happened in the UK car
insurance market, culminating in almost a 15% reduction in cumulative premiums from the
beginning of 2012 to quarter three 2014. But what you see more optimistically, more
encouragingly is also evidence of a turn. So you see on the dark blue, the ﬁrst year-onyear increase showing in quarter four 2014, and therefore, some reversal of a long period
of premium deﬂation beginning to emerge.
Now, we ourselves felt that the length of that premium deﬂation period and the reemergence of claims inﬂation, as Stuart talked about, meant it was appropriate to start
increasing our prices earlier in 2014. So from quarter two 2014, we began to increase our
prices on new business. And during the course of the balance of the year, we increased
them by roughly 10%.
Now you can see from this exhibit, which is shown in percentage times we are top on
price comparison sites indexed at 100 for quarter one that in doing that, we were moving
earlier than the market as a whole. And that manifested itself in a reduction in our share of
percentage times top and therefore a reduction in our share of the new business market.
In the UK, particularly marked in Q2 to Q3 but eﬀectively going through each of the three
quarters of 2014.

Page 8 of 24



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

FINAL

That reduction in share was particularly marked in the younger driver segments where we
saw a number of our competitors re-entering that segment or emphasizing it more than
they had historically. So as an example of that, the share of our new business that came
from the under 21 year olds fell 5% in 2013, and 17% in 2014. Percentages, percentage
points, they can get a bit confusing. So what I mean by that is if you started 2014,
hypothetically, with a 10% of our share under 21 years old, we would've ﬁnished it at 8.3%.
Now, we did lose share of new business, but our volume of vehicles on cover was pretty
ﬂat, even slightly increased. And that was because of the very positive retention impact,
retention outcome during 2014. That was partly a market-wide phenomenon. During the
course of 2014, everyone's enjoyed unusually high levels of retention. But the data we
have available to us suggests that our improvement was somewhat stronger than the
market, more of our customers made it to renewal and more of those renewed following a
number of operational improvements.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, what about the loss ratio? First point I would like to make is a very positive back year
development. A number of you will be familiar with this exhibit, but for those of you who
aren't, just remind you what we're looking at here. The red line is the market accidental
year loss ratio as at the end of December 2013, because that's the latest data available.
With all the reserve releases allocated back to the year for which they apply.
The blue line is our projected ultimate loss ratio for each calendar year, each accident
year. And what you see in the brackets is the movement from the mid-year to the end of
December 2014, and the back years in that period, you're seeing 2010, 2011 and 2012
reducing by a point to 2 points, and 2013 reducing a very encouraging 4 points during
the course of the last six months.
However, 2014, the very early projections on 2014 are less positive. And here is the
breakdown of the evolution of 2013 into 2014 where you're seeing the ﬁrst cut projection
of ultimate for the accident year 2014 coming in at 82%.
That's made up of three drivers. The ﬁrst driver is the reduction in the average premium
earned, which accounts for about 10% of the movement and is a combination of the
impact of price reductions by ourselves in 2013 and early 2014, the change in mix of new
business, and the increased proportion of our business, that is renewal.
Now, if you have a change in mix in your business like that, you'd expect to see it feed
through in better frequency. And indeed, we have. So the frequency impact is of the
order of 2%, equivalent to a minus 2.5% frequency. In contrast to the market, which was
roughly plus 2.5%, 3% in 2014, so roughly a 5-point gap versus the market.
And the blue, ﬁnal element is the average claims inﬂation, which accounts for 6% of the
movement, which equates to an average claim inﬂation of 8%. That's a higher number
than you'd to anticipate in a normal year, and it's a signiﬁcantly higher number that you'd
anticipate in the context of a shift in mix towards a more standard business. It is in this
case attributable to a high frequency of larger bodily injury claims than we would normally
anticipate in the ﬁrst year of an accident year.
Page 9 of 24



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

FINAL

What I would say is that like bodily injury, makes the projection of ultimate loss ratios at
this early a stage, a particularly diﬃcult thing and it creates a particularly wide range of
possible outcomes. And we have, in the past, seen years where the initial pick has been
very diﬃcult to make because of large bodily injury frequency and then we've enjoyed
signiﬁcant subsequent reductions in projected ultimates on those years.
No guarantee that that will happen but I would be disappointed given the business mix if
we did see some improvements on that average claim number as we go forward.
The outlook for the business as a whole in 2015, well, as we saw from the ﬁrst page of the
ABI index, we are seeing an end to the period of price reductions and some emergence
of price increases. We anticipate there will be continued price increases during the course
of 2015. That's certainly our own expectation. Given the pressure from claims inﬂation and
given the fact that, in a sense, the market is potentially overshot in its premium reductions,
hard to make a call, whether it bumps along the bottom for a while before correcting
more violently, or whether it corrects more rationally by moving into a period of premium
inﬂation above the sort of 3%, 4%, 5% that you need just to stay ﬂat in terms of
proﬁtability.

Bloomberg Transcript

Meanwhile, the success of the back years, in terms of their positive evolution, has allowed,
as Geraint mentioned, us to make very substantial reserve releases in 2014, while not
compromising our buﬀer. So, what we can say about 2015, in the absence of any
unexpected claims shock, we would anticipate that 2015 should be another year with
substantial reserve releases.
So, that's the UK. I'm going to hand over to Milena and Elena, who will talk about
international.

Milena Mondini

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

Thank you, David. Good morning, everybody. It's always a pleasure to be here, but
particularly today because we're going to speak to you about quite exciting times in
international expansion at Admiral Group. As you can see in the slide, we're now
operating in four countries with ﬁve brands. The oldest one being launched in Spain in
2006, Balumba, and the youngest one being also launched in Spain last year, Qualitas
Auto. Before we speak about performance, I think it's worth to remember that although
international expansion is a minority of Admiral Group still, those four countries together,
Italy, France, Spain and U.S. reach a size of more than £150 billion. That is 10 times UK.
So, how was 2014? All in all, we're very pleased with the results. We have seen
improvement in the top line and the bottom line and proﬁts in one of our subsidiaries in
Italy. As you can see in the bottom of the page, the business grew and has every single
year since its ﬁrst launch, and it grew by 10% in turnover. And this ﬁgure would have been
20% as local currency exchange rates stayed the same. And it grew also 15% in number of
vehicles. This now reached 600,000 and tripled since 2010.

Page 10 of 24



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

FINAL

So more in detail in the following slide, you can see the split by business of turnover on
the left part of the slide, where you can see that the biggest contributor was ConTe, blue
on the top, although Elephant is catching up really fast. And just please note that the
ﬁgures are in two diﬀerent currency, euro and dollar. Followed by Admiral Seguros, and
lastly L'olivier.
On the right side of the slide, we can split the vehicles under cover by business. And we
can appreciate that the number of vehicles under cover grew in every single country,
although at a diﬀerent pace. You can also see that the increase in vehicles number was
partially oﬀset by decrease in average premium in some countries, that is quite evident in
Italy and Spain.
So, year after year, we're conquering our share in the group. We are now ﬁnally in 10% in
turnover in respect of the total of the group, and 15% in vehicles under cover. Let's just
keep in mind that this was less than 5% in 2010 and 0% in 2006.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, the diﬀerent businesses are at very diﬀerent stage of maturity. So, while we are still
signiﬁcantly investing in the growth of some of those, we're also seeing improvement in
the bottom line, particularly from the more mature ones. As Henry and David already
pointed out, the growth was coupled with a reduction in the total loss by a couple of
million to £20 million overall in 2014, also thanks to the release of the Italian business.
So, all in all, more premium, better performance and overall a contained investment. That
was the 4% of total group proﬁt since the beginning of this venture until now, and more
speciﬁcally, 6% in 2014. Now, 6%, 4% is not a magic number, not a threshold, not a target,
not an input but rather an output of our approach in international expansion that has
always been centered around sustainable organic growth. However, this doesn't mean
that if an interesting opportunity arises, we won't to decide to invest more.
Let's see now the key highlights of each business, starting with the oldest one, Admiral
Seguros. Our Spanish business was able to grow substantially by 20%. One of main driver
of the success has been the advertising campaign of our new brand Qualitas Auto,
endorsed by the very charming Pierce Brosnan as testimonial.
And the Spanish team was able to achieve this growth in a very challenging market where
competition was extremely ﬁerce. Likely, there are some promising signs that may trigger
more shopping in 2015 and beyond. Car sales increased by 20% year-on-year. Combined
ratio ﬁnally getting closer to 100%. It was 97% at the end of last year, and fuel
consumption is increasing. And in addition, we may expect the implementation of new
Baremo that will lead again this price increase. Worth to mention also that in Spain, we
sold our ﬁrst motorbike policy before year end. So now we underwrite and sell motorbike
insurance both in Italy and in Spain.
Main focus of 2014 has been the growth. And you may guessed by now what the main
focus of 2015 is going to be. As Henry stated in the – as Henry mentioned in his statement,
we have the ambition to breakeven on underwriting base this year in Spain, and usually
Henry put his money where his mouth is.
Page 11 of 24



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

FINAL

So moving to France, our youngest and smallest operation and also slightly diﬀerent
because since the beginning we used a diﬀerent approach, and we leverage heavily on a
local outsourcer. So in the ﬁrst year, we explored the market, we learned about the
consumer, about pricing, and we gain conﬁdence that France is another interesting
opportunity for Admiral. So we decide to focus more on insourcing and setting up a new
system, new processes and a strong team.
There is more work to be done. We're still at a very early stage, but we are now in a much
better position to take advantage of a market that is changing and is changing for the
better, thanks to developmental price comparison sites and thanks to favorable
regulation.
You may remember that last year, we were anxiously expecting the Loi Hamon, the
government – this is the law that will simplify dramatically the process of switching car
insurance and therefore will favor new entrants and our growth. The government let us
wait a while until the very end of the year. But 31st of December, the law was ﬁnally
approved and that's very positive sign for the future.

Bloomberg Transcript

From several tree to several (34:30) animal, Elephant operates in the biggest market in
the world, 200 million vehicles. That's a big expansion opportunity. We're now operating
in four states, Virginia, Maryland, Texas and Illinois, and those states together reach a size
that equal France and Italy, 34 million. So, we have plenty of expansion opportunity in
those states and also beyond.
Also important to remember that direct channel is growing at fast pace. It is more or less
25% of the market but new business is roughly 40%. And even more important, ﬁnally,
thanks to comparenow, a proper price comparison site are becoming a reality also in the
U.S. So Elephant, while accomplishing very important infrastructure improvements during
the year, also achieved an impressive growth of 70% in dollar turnover.
Quite diﬀerent market situation in Italy, I would say much more similar to Spain with the
shrinking market and price reduction, up to 10% on price comparison sites and 6%
overall. A very aggressive promotion and advertising particularly from traditional players.
Why is that? The reason is very, very simple. 2013 recorded an unforeseen 88% of
combined ratio with high margin. And so, not unsurprisingly, our competitor invested a
lot of additional proﬁt in chasing growth and therefore makes more expensive for us to
grow.
So, we have been patient and we consciously decided to keep the policy base almost
stable and to focus on the proﬁtability of the business while at the same time continuing
investment in antifraud, underwriting, pricing and claims. And we did this quite
successfully because for the ﬁrst time, we are reporting proﬁt in Italy.
Beyond the meaning that this success had for the Italian team, I think this was a very good
example of how we can transfer Admiral skills abroad. And in particular, a big focus on
being low cost, focus on pricing, very eﬃcient and proactive claims handling, and a good
mastering in leverage of the switch of distribution channel.
Page 12 of 24



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

FINAL

So, the Italian market is quite similar to UK in the sense that is quite violently cyclical. We
grew a lot while the price were increasing. We stabilized and reduced the growth while
the market stabilized. But now we have a very strong platform and we have a strong
foundation to push the foot on the pedal and grow faster when the market would be
more favorable.
We made proﬁts in 2014 on back of reserve releases, as Henry mentioned before, but we
also foresee the same conservative approach in reserving going forward in the future, as
in UK. And as Henry mentioned, we achieved a lot of improvement also in the
underwriting business and improvement in the combined ratio.
So in summary, to conclude, year after year, we are gaining more and more conﬁdence
that we are in the right trajectory to create a lot of other Admiral little success stories
abroad. I'm thinking about, U.S. I'm not even sure little is an appropriate word. As you can
see from the graph, we're now operating in a market that is huge. We only have 0.1%
market share. So the trajectory is very easy, the goal easy, we have 99.9% to go for.
And now, Elena will tell us more about the other side of our business, our main source of
sales, the price comparison site. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

Elena Betes

{BIO 19792618 <GO>}

Good morning, everybody. I'm Elena. Not Milena. Not to be confused. Diﬃcult, I know. I
joined the group seven years ago to launch the ﬁrst price comparison abroad. It was in
Spain, Rastreator.com. Nowadays, I still run it and I supervise our price comparison in
France, LeLynx, (38:40)
I was here in front of you, ﬁve years ago. I even remember some faces. You probably not.
And I'm really proud to be back because it wasn't clear at that moment of time that I was
going to be back. But today, we have four price comparison and three of them are
proﬁtable.
Before we move into – and the objective of this presentation it's getting a little bit deeper
on them and let me show you the aggregate numbers. 2014, we have a slight reduction
on revenue lines, mainly because of Confused results. I think it's worth to point out that
international operations generate 25% of this revenue line already. £27 million, it's even
more important than only four years ago on 2010, it was less than £4 million. If we move to
the proﬁt before taxes, here we have a big drop, we were around £21 million last year, we
are on £4 million this year. Let's say it's a drop on purpose.
We are investing heavily, as you see, in compare.com, our rebranded operation in the
U.S., with £50 million. Let's move to get little bit of details on them. To be honest. Our
initial operations, Confused.com. Confused.com had a tough year during 2014. As David
was explaining, the premiums have been falling, retention have improved to every single
player. The aggregate of market has been quite stable and with limited growth.

Page 13 of 24



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

FINAL

In this environment, the median posted by the four main players have remained stable.
And we were aﬀected by change from the Google algorithm on February 2014, which
reduced our feet traﬃc and, therefore, our results. All in all, this means for us, that we
reduced turnover of 8% compared with 2013 and reduced on proﬁt before taxes of 27%.
We are ﬁghting back, that's not the end of the game in a lot of angles, but let me bring
your attention to our other site, Brian.
[Video Presentation] (41:06-41:11)
Here we go, we are ﬁghting back on the brand with BRIAN. I think it's a really great tool to
ﬁght back. We launched it recently and it has been a huge impact in terms of brand
awareness. We have moved from 72% to 82%, and we are convinced that this could help
us to recover our position.

Bloomberg Transcript

If we move to the European expansion, we are quite happy, this has been a success story
of growth and proﬁtability. Last 2009, Rastreator, we broke even in 2011; we launched,
2010, LeLynx and we broke even in 2013. We are quite happy with the growth. We
measured growth in terms of quotes. Those are not just car quotes, those are overall
quotes, and we grow 22% last year. And we are growing in a proﬁtable way. We grow our
proﬁt 52% from last year.
Let me point out (42:10) it is important to understand that although it's not going to be a
revolution, it will have an impact and it will have a positive impact on our businesses. It's
not that the people can cancel any time after 12 months, but it's through the simplicity of
this cancellation process. We have moved in a country that they need to have a certiﬁed
letter with two months' notice to a country that they just have one month notice and it's
the new issuer that has to cancel their policies. We are moving to the most complicated
country to cancel to the easiest in Europe. And we think this will have an important impact
in our businesses.
If you will ask me, okay, but how are you doing against competitor of this market? Is there
competition there? Yes, there is competition but we are leading. And there is no ranking.
It's very diﬃcult to get market shares, but what we have done, we have took to Google
web searches and basically from the beginning of our history. The blue line is ours. As you
see, both countries are leading in their markets. They are normally previous competitors
like the lines that are green and red. But it tends to disappear because they are mainly
based on free traﬃc. And they are not able to change their model. And then, you have the
kind of people that try to enter, and depending on their pocket, they will remain or they
will buy.
We just acquired at the – we agreed to acquire at the end of the year one of them in
Spain, Seguros.es. We thought it was a generic name and it could help us in the future.
We won 2013 our – that's ﬁne – on Rastreator for the best website and most popular in
terms of comparison. I have to say, we won last year too. But I wasn't here to show oﬀ.
If I think about what are the pillars for next year, there are three main ones. We want to be
the preferred brand. It's not about just being known. We are highly known, amazingly
Page 14 of 24



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

known in our countries, 91% in Spain, 73% – 75% in LeLynx. But we want to be preferred,
and this is one of the assets.

FINAL

Second one, product development. We have not just invested on car insurance and other
insurance we are investing in other verticals, and we will leave them in this markets
because our investment on our brand allow it. And this will increase to help the frequency
of how reps use.
And third one, don't forget, we are certainly a digital world. There are players that gather
more data out of the customer in hundreds of questions and using it correctly will guide
our future.
Let's move to our baby operation, U.S., compare.com. Let's start with the rebrand. I will
correct rebrand for rename. We haven't changed look here. We haven't changed values.
We haven't changed communication. It's all the same. But we found out that the people
were having struggles to remember them now, and they were kind of ﬁghting
compare.com that it was available, it was an opportunity we'll just take it.

Bloomberg Transcript

If we go to the market, you have to understand that U.S. there was no European price
comparison, you'd be amazed and ﬁgure out that you get to a price, accurate price and
you are able to buy it. We are kind of building this new model. We do expect competitors,
of course, but I think it's huge market and it will even help us.
If I go a little bit on operations, to give you kind of a feeling or insight, there are two sides
of it. One, the product side. At the beginning, when you build these operations, it is key
to have a panel. We, nowadays, have 40 insurers signed, 27 on the panel. and you will say,
why such a diﬀerence? It is really diﬃcult to integrate insurers in U.S. because of the
state's complexity, then normally it's something that will take us in Europe, one to three
months, could take up eight months there. It's diﬃcult, that is the entry barrier, too.
The rate of return. The average rate of return has been growing every month 12%. If we
move to the other side, to the demand side, are we able to drive demand on a reasonable
cost. We are proud to say that we are paying half of the costs that we were paying at the
beginning of the year. It's ﬁt. I know those are just insights – small operational insights, but
it give you the feeling that it's moving on the right direction.
We are, as previously announced, we keep committed with this investment and this year
will represent £20 million to £30 million. We are happy with the adoption as it looks
promising. It's anticipating more of your questions and they're good results, what are you
doing, where are we going now. So, nothing to be announced, we are open to a lot of
analysis around the countries that we are seen but there is still no decisions made. That's
from my side. Henry, back to you.

Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Thank you, Milena and Elena. Just to summarize, we are investing in diﬀerent markets.
They all have great potential, but they all are diﬀerent with diﬀerent competitive
Page 15 of 24



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

landscapes and diﬀerent timetables to success. UK car insurance proﬁts, clearly going to
be more cyclically inﬂuenced than before. Good news, ConTe made its ﬁrst proﬁt and I
fully expect Admiral Seguros to reach breakeven on a written basis in 2015.

FINAL

Market leading and proﬁtable and growing brands for price comparison in Spain and
France. It's a very competitive UK market and we're doing what we can to ensure the
future success of Confused and a big opportunity for price comparison in the U.S.
Longer term, I believe there will be greater balance as the non-UK entities grow up.
Household insurance, we haven't spoken about, but it's growing rather nicely. And those
will balance against the big core product of UK car insurance. And there are further
international growth opportunities which we're examining at the moment.
As I mentioned at the outset of this presentation, this is the ﬁrst time since we went public
over 10 years ago, in fact, the ﬁrst time this century that we have not announced record
proﬁts. Like the hot and cold of a Baked Alaska, I am both sad to see this record go but
happy too, happy that the group is willing to invest in the future even to the detriment of
short term proﬁts.

Bloomberg Transcript

One of the key drivers of Admiral's success is the company culture. As you can see, we've
won a lot of awards for culture and being a great place to work everywhere we go. We
have a simple philosophy. If people like what they do, they'll do it better. So we go out of
our way to make Admiral a great place to work. And we also want our staﬀ to feel like
owners, so we give staﬀ part of the company to own, and all staﬀ will split up over £20
million worth of shares for the 2014 year.
Here again are the key points from our 2014 results and I want to thank you for your
attention here this morning. David will now join me up front, but please feel free to ask
questions of anybody on the panel. And we would like now to open it up for questions.
But before we do, just to note, we actually are going to be kicked out of the room before
too long. So, we're going to limit this to two questions at a go. Okay? Two. Great.

Q&A
Operator
A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Only two. Try again.

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Hello, Greig Paterson, KBW. Two questions. One is Google, there was a rumor – I don't
know if you've announced the Google deal or it's in the pipeline or whatever. Maybe I'm
on top of things, I wonder if you could talk about that and the U.S.

Page 16 of 24



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

And second thing is I noticed your wording was very careful on young drivers. You said if
you started with the 10% share two years ago, it would have gone down to 8.1%. Could
you just tell us what percentage of the under 21 year olds are currently your share? Is it
8.1% or is it a diﬀerent number?

FINAL

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

On the Google side, I'm afraid I can't comment on that. I'd like to.

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Does that count for a question?

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Sorry?

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Does that count for a question?

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Oh well, well. What do you think? Does that count? He gets another question? I couldn't
give you another question, Greig.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

And on the young driver one, that was a hypothetical way of explaining the math in case
people sort of got – misinterpreted the use of percentage and percentage points and stuﬀ
like that. We don't break this number out.

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Oh, so you're not disclosing them as I recall. Just the – I remember a while back you said
you'll give each international business ﬁve years, and then price it down or sell it,
whatever. And the Spanish one, you've sort of set them a target to break even. If they
don't break even, will you dispose or close that business down?

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

No. I mean, we said six years to 10 years. Spain reaches its nine birthday on Halloween. It
depends on why they don't break even to determine what we do. I mean, one very good
reason why they might not break even is there's an opportunity for growth, and growth
takes the cost up in front end, and so we would not break even but we would grow a lot
faster than we have been. So, that would be a good tradeoﬀ. So, we'll see. But personally,
I do fully expect them to break even.

Q - Nick H. Johnson

{BIO 1774629 <GO>}

Page 17 of 24



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

FINAL

Good morning. Nick Johnson from Numis. Just wondering if you could tell us what the
booked loss ratio is for 2014. I think you'd normally give it out at this stage, but it seems to
be missing from slide 58 in the appendix. If you can't give a number, then perhaps you
could just comment on the level of caution in the reserve buﬀer for 2014. Is there any
change in your normal approach? Thanks.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

The booked ratio for 2014 is in the in the notes of the accounts, 92%. I think it's note 5.
The caution on the overall level of reserves is as big as I said it'll be. So, despite the big
release, we've knocked that into the caution in the reserves.

Q - Marcus P. Rivaldi

{BIO 5739374 <GO>}

Thank you. Marcus Rivaldi, Morgan Stanley. My question is just really focusing on that
ultimate loss ratio walk you gave, David. Could you just talk about how you – is that going
to be resetting now higher for this year and on or is there any one-oﬀs in there that would
suggest that it may be hopefully down faster than it's going up this year? And then
secondly, what has been the reaction in the M&A around the international businesses has
made it so, I'll start with that one. And your ABS structure again, is that broken out, your
proﬁtability you're making from your ABS-es and where would I ﬁnd that in the P&L. Thank
you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

On the projections for the ultimate, it's a complicated question to answer because one
element to the answer is what is likely to be the movement in 2015 versus 2014, and one
element to the answer is what actually is 2014 from which the movement occurs, and both
those are very much up for grabs. All I would say is that the impact of our premium
increases over the course of the second half or the last three quarters of 2014 really
haven't had a chance to feed through into the average earned premium number. And so,
we would anticipate that 2015 will do better than 2014 on that measure, signiﬁcantly
better. Frequency and average claims inﬂation, we don't really tend to speculate on them.
And the ABS-es.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Well, on the ABS, the proﬁts in those businesses appeared in the attractively titled net of
other income line. We don't break out. It appears in the £67 a vehicle. In the group
context, it's very small.

Q - Marcus P. Rivaldi

{BIO 5739374 <GO>}

Were there any – I mean the large BI impact in that number. Sorry, just come out and give
that, what was the impact of that latest spike, or abnormal large?

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

I don't think we really break that down. Obviously, the evolution of the ultimate loss ratio
will very much depend on whether that unusual pattern is a one-oﬀ or is repetitive going
forward. So that remains to be seen.
Page 18 of 24



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

Q - Marcus P. Rivaldi

{BIO 5739374 <GO>}

Thank you.

FINAL

Operator
Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

It's James Shuck from UBS. I just want to circle back on the claims inﬂation trends
particularly is the picture you're painting is one of the small bodily injury claims inﬂation
returning and a high level of BI claims in the year. There's very diﬀerent data emanating
from the ABI that was indicating that claims inﬂation, particularly bodily injury claims
inﬂation, sell quite signiﬁcantly at the course of 2014. So I was wondering if you could help
square those two things if possible.
And then secondly, one of your peers the other day kind of referred to one player in
particular being quite aggressive on pricing in Q1. Could you just comment on what's
happened to pricing in Q1 and whether you're seeing the same thing in terms of one
large player?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

On the ABI data, I think the data you refer to is the value of settlements. And that's a very
backward-looking measure in the sense that the average time it takes to settle a bodily
injury claim is about 12 months. But the average time weighted by value was about three
years. So when you're seeing numbers in 2014, which are lower than 2013 in terms of
settlements, it's actually telling you something about what was happening two or three or
four years ago. It's not telling you something about what's happening now in the
underlying proﬁtability, what's happening now.
You have to limit to one question because I can never remember. What's the second
again?

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Who's the large player being very competitive in Q1?

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Well, to be honest, I mean we have sought to continue to move our prices forward. And I
think we would describe the way the market is behaving in the ﬁrst two months as
bumping along the bottom but certainly not cutting. Having said that, there are individual
players that are moving their share. Some people being less aggressive and some people
are being more aggressive. But that's always the case and it varies by quarter almost.

Q - Alan G. Devlin

{BIO 5936254 <GO>}

Hello. Alan Devlin from Barclays. A couple questions. Just this one on the reserve
releases. And given what's driving the record reserve releases given your comments on

Page 19 of 24



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

FINAL

claims inﬂation and very active reserves. You seemed a bit more cautious six months ago,
you talked about reserve releases couldn't last forever given the pricing.
And then the second question Travelers.es said earlier in the week that they thought es
claims frequency would decline by a third over the next ﬁve years. And what kind of
indications will that have for the business model? Presumably, these reserve releases last
for longer, but it might have a soft cycle for longer and expenses become more part of
the equation. Thanks.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

Geraint, do the reserve releases and I'll do the frequency.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. So on reserve releases to start with, our releases are a factor of our cautious
approach to reserving. So we set our reserves initially well above the projected ultimate
outcome. Those claims develop as we expect them to do then you expect that margin to
be released into the P&L over time. If the back year has developed better than we expect,
then we'd expect more to be released over time as that projected ultimate increases. And
what we saw during 2014 was in very good development in a couple of the back years
David pointed out, 2011, 2012 and 2013 in particular. And whilst we haven't taken full
credit for those improvements, we were able to make a big release without decrementing
the size of the conservatism in the reserves, and we'd expect that to be a feature in the
future.

A - David Graham Stevens

{BIO 6807391 <GO>}

On frequency, there is a set of structural long-term tendency for frequency to fall driven
by two things, mainly by technology where cars are getting better in terms of avoiding
accidents, partly by more penetration in multicar households so that in a sense each car
tend to be getting used less.
So, although we pointed out that a period of claim frequency decrease has come to an
end, we do see that as a temporary feature, driven by the economic cycle in petrol prices
and we would expect to revert towards a gradual reduction in frequency over time.
What we've also seen – and this is going back over a long, long period – because of the
dominance now of the larger bodily injury takers that the frequency impact and the
severity impact are countervailing so that the average claims cost more and more. And
that's a lot about technology again in the widest deﬁnition of the term, more and more of
our motorists when they're involved in an accident happily survive but that's very, very
expensive. An exoskeleton, Stuart mentioned it, that doesn't come cheap. So, you're
getting fewer claims but they cost more.

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

Thank you. It's Ravi Tanna at Goldman Sachs. Just a couple of questions, please. The ﬁrst
one was around your BP loss ratios and you've kind of mentioned that you haven't
Page 20 of 24



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

FINAL

changed your operational conservatism there. In the past, a few years back, you did
decide to reduce that and then you increased as a result of large BI claims. I'm just
wondering under what circumstances might you think to go back to reducing that
conservatism and, obviously, one of your peers has mentioned doing such.
And then the second question was just about this press (01:00:35) article suggesting
vehicle repair costs in garages across the UK are facing diﬃculty and are diminishing in
number. Are you observing this and does this impact your other revenue per vehicle at all
in any way?

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Stuart, do you want to take the garages and then, Geraint?

A - Stuart Morgan

{BIO 17270805 <GO>}

On the garages front, I would say that we haven't noticed that issue, but that's something
that's been around the industry for a long time. That's what I'd like to say.

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

On the conservatism in the reserves, I don't foresee any change in our philosophy with
regards to reserves. So we are a cautious reserve. The size of the margin that we hold
above best estimates is driven by conditions at the point in time. What we see in the
market, and what we see at our own data, that could be large BI, it could be very big
improvements on back-year loss ratios. And there are obviously a range of other factors
that could drive it up.
It's at the high end of where we'd normally expect to see it, which sort of implies that on a
long-term average, it would be lower than it currently is. What would drive us to reduce it
would be less movement on back-year loss ratios or less signiﬁcant movement on back
years, less and more normal large BI experience, those sorts of things. But we judge it
based on what we see at that point in time.

Q - Ravi Tanna

{BIO 16926941 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

It's Andrew Crean here with Autonomous. Two questions. One, if we – you look as though
you've got an internal and economic capital coverage ratio, about 1.7 – just over 1.7 times I
think if you're using that £300 million. If that swings through into Solvency II, that's going
to be substantially more than anyone else, I wonder whether you could say under what
circumstances you'd be prepared to hold the dividend, even if earnings were falling in the
short term and you're investing more in comparenow or you continue with this 95%
payout? That's the ﬁrst question.

Page 21 of 24



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

FINAL

The second question on the overseas, while you're excited about it what I have observed
from the market is that the market is capitalizing. You're growing losses into the share
price at the group multiple, which is not a good situation to be in. Could you give us
some ideas as how you might provide the market with some sense that these are actually
developing positive value? And could you talk a little bit about this warning you're giving
about an additional investment?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

On the economic capital coverage, we don't disclose the, we haven't given a coverage
ratio. We've given a surplus.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

But you can calculate it?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Well, you can estimate it, can't calculate it. Anyway, by the by, I think in the future, in terms
of dividends, I would reaﬃrm what we said earlier. Our policy is to distribute surplus
capital that we don't need, and surplus is deﬁned as what we don't need above
regulatory capital, capital need for growth and margins for contingencies. So when we
get clarity over the Solvency II regulatory capital requirement, we'll be in a position to
make a call on what the dividend is at that point.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

On the overseas, I think we've been somewhat clear here today on what's happening in
each individual business and the development of the older businesses, which has been
very positive. We will continue to invest. Elena was very clear on the investments that we
plan for compare.com, but we will also invest in our other businesses. They all need to
grow over time to reach suﬃcient scale so that will take investment, and particularly the
younger businesses, Elephant in the U.S., and L'olivier in France. They will take substantial
investments over time to grow their policy count.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Were you hinting about investment? Was that in one of these businesses or are you
thinking about another venture?

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

There's also potential, newer opportunities out there that look attractive, and then they
would take investment as well, but we've got nothing speciﬁc for 2014, 2015, 2016. Okay.

Q - Sami Taipalus

{BIO 17452234 <GO>}

Hi. Sami Taipalus from Berenberg. I just wanted to ask you about the investment you
made in IT in your UK business. First, the ﬁrst part of the question is was there any one-oﬀ
costs in 2014 that might fall out over future years? And the second part is would it be – is

Page 22 of 24



Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

there a potential to actually reduce the underlying cost base on the back of this
investment or should it kind of continue to chug along? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

On the IT investment we made in 2014, actually it sits on the balance sheet currently. So
it's in capital. It'll start its amortization in 2015 where we start using it – hopefully in 2015,
when we start using it. Were there one-oﬀs in 2014's expenses? Nothing material. Will it
have a material impact on the expenses on the expense ratio, given we're writing oﬀ 10
years probably, so not.

Q - Sami Taipalus

{BIO 17452234 <GO>}

What about the beneﬁts of having implemented it?

A - Geraint Jones

{BIO 19738535 <GO>}

Well, having a new IT system is – will bring beneﬁts in terms of – in a wide number of
areas. We're always looking at opportunities to make sure we spend money wisely. And
are there going to be great improvement in the expense ratios as a result of the IT
system? Probably not.

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Any other questions?
(01:06:08) follow-up quickly for me, just on Italy, should we expect proﬁts to continue
from here on? So obviously it was a very strong year for the market wide. Why you
scraped the proﬁt in 2014 on the back of reserve releases? Should we expect the same
going into 2015, given now turned the corner? Thank you.

A - Milena Mondini

{BIO 18674746 <GO>}

As I mentioned before, we are improving also the underlying business and we look at – I
think continue improving the business and we foresee possible additional reserve release
in the future because we are adopting an approach to reserving that is very similar to UK.
Said that, I also mentioned that the market is very challenging and is also quite cyclical
and I would say volatile. It's very hard to predict. But in general terms, I would say that
we're seeing improvement and consistent service approach. So I think it's slightly a
possibility that we'll foresee proﬁt in the future, unless the market change signiﬁcantly.

A - Henry Allan Engelhardt

{BIO 3022947 <GO>}

Any questions from the people on the phones? Any other questions here today? Thank
you very much for your attendance. We'll see you soon. Cheers.

Operator
This concludes the Admiral Group Plc full year results. Thank you for joining. You may now
disconnect your lines.
Page 23 of 24



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Admiral Group PLC
Company Ticker: ADM LN Equity
Date: 2015-03-05

Page 24 of 24

