Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2015-06-10

Acquisition of HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. by Tokio
Marine Holdings, Inc. Call - Second Call

FINAL

Company Participants
Christopher J. B. Williams
Kunihiko Fujii
Masashi Oba
Shiro Sasaki
Tsuyoshi Nagano
Unverified Participant

Other Participants
Amit Kumar

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Operator
Thank you so much for waiting. Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you so much for
participating this Joint Conference Call of the Tokio Marine Holdings and HCC. During the
presentation all the lines other than the speakers' line will be put on mute. Please
understand that we won't be able to hear your voice even if you speak to the phone.
Now, I'd like to begin the explanation from Tokio Marine Holdings. Mr. Sasaki, would you
please start.

Shiro Sasaki

{BIO 19269575 <GO>}

Let us begin the conference call regarding the acquisition of HCC, the American specialty
insurance group, which was announced today. I'd like to facilitate this conference call. My
name is Sasaki from Corporate Communications and Investor Relations Group, Corporate
Planning Department of Tokio Marine Holdings. When we go through the presentation we
are going to use the material called acquisition of HCC – significant international
expansion by Tokio Marine which has been uploaded to the company's homepage. So
please prepare the material in front of you and please turn to page two.
On page two, we have cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements.
Additional important information about the proposed merger and where to find it, and
participants in solicitation. And prior to this conference call, please agree to the contents
on this page.

Page 1 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2015-06-10

FINAL

Without further ado, I'd like to introduce our speakers for this conference call. First, Mr.
Tsuyoshi Nagano, President and Representative Director. Mr. Masashi Oba, Executive Vice
President and Representative Director. Mr. Kunihiko Fujii, Senior Managing Director and Mr.
Hirokazu Fujita, Managing Director. And today for this conference call we have also Mr.
Christopher J. B. Williams, CEO of HCC participating from the U.S. today.
For this conference call, we have the simultaneous interpretation within Japanese and
English. In line with the presentation material, Mr. Nagano is going to go through the
presentation for about 25 minutes followed by the Q&A session. We plan to finish this
conference call after an hour, which is 11 PM, Japan Time, at the latest 11.10 PM, Japan
Time. We may start receiving questions past 11 PM, Japan Time. We appreciate your
understanding in advance.
Now, Mr. Nagano, opening comments please.

Tsuyoshi Nagano

{BIO 16141096 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for joining us on this historic day. I am
pleased to announce the acquisition of HCC Insurance Holdings, a world leading specialty
insurer with operations in the United States and Europe. The transaction has been
unanimously approved by both the Board of Directors of HCC and Tokio Marine.
As a global insurance group, Tokio Marine has been pursuing continued expansion of its
international business in size and profits as a driving force for growth strategy. This
acquisition accelerates the growth in scale and profit of our international business and
significantly strengthens our presence in the United States. Complementing the solid
foundation, we have in the whole market, Japan.
Combined with a three top-rated specialty group companies, Kiln, Philly, and Delphi. The
acquisition solidifies Tokio Marine's standing as a truly global insurer with premier specialty
franchises. Under the leadership of its experienced management team, HCC has a
proven track record of disciplined growth and best-in-class underwriting profitability.
Having met the management team, I'm convinced that there is a strong cultural fit
between our companies. With complementary strength, I am truly excited by the business
prospect, which we can create jointly in the future across the globe.
Now, it is my great pleasure to introduce Chris Williams, CEO of HCC who has very kindly
joined us today by phone in the early hours from Houston. Chris has been the CEO of
HCC since 2012 and have exceptional experience in the insurance industry. His superb
leadership and clear vision has made HCC one of the best property and casualty
companies in the United States. We are delighted to welcome this remarkable company
to the Tokio Marine Group.
Chris, it is great to have you with us today. Would you please start by providing a brief
introduction of HCC to the audience?

Page 2 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2015-06-10

Christopher J. B. Williams

{BIO 3491995 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Nick (sic) [Tsuyoshi]. Good morning, everyone. I'm pleased to be joining Tokio
Marine with this exciting announcement for both of our companies. HCC is a leading
specialty insurer with a focus on generating best-in-class results regardless of market
cycles.
Over a number of years, we've purposely built portfolio of over 100 diversified, largely
non-correlated lines of business, each with a common goal generating consistent top-tier
underwriting profits. The vast majority of our lines of business are considered specialty
lines requiring specific underwriting skills and judgment as we believe these lines allow us
to differentiate ourselves and in turn generate superior profits. This intense underwriting
discipline and diversification has resulted in an average combined ratio in the mid-80%s
for the past 10 years with minimum volatility around the results year after year.
Nick (6:58) will take you through our various businesses in a moment. This transaction
provides HCC with a worldwide footprint and the financial foundation on which to
compete with larger insurers. We're excited about the opportunities it brings to our
businesses, and in particular to our employees. For me personally, I'm very excited to be
continuing as HCC's CEO and our existing management team has enthusiastically agreed
to work with me in their current roles.

Bloomberg Transcript

With that, I'll turn it back over to Nick (7:42). Thank you.

Unverified Participant
Now, let me speak in Japanese from here onwards. I'd like to explain the acquisition of
HCC. Please turn to page three of the presentation material. There is a table of content, I
will explain the overview, key strength of HCC, followed by strategic rationale of this
transaction.
Please turn to page four. HCC is the world leading specialty insurance group who has the
technical expertise, such as sophisticated underwriting capabilities. For your information,
specialty insurance is not a well known general term in Japan, but it means a type of
insurance product that often covers risks that are not covered by standard insurance
policy and requires specific underwriting capabilities and technical expertise as we can
see at the bottom of this page.
It's highly profitable since it requires high level of expertise and it's a growing area among
corporate insurance lines. HCC's business portfolio is diverse and highly profitable that
has proven to be highly profitable, growing, stable, and sound over the long-term over its
peers. I will explain the key strengths of HCC in more detail later on.
There are mainly three rationale of this transaction. First one is to establish more solid
group business foundation, which you might be – is the most critical rationale behind this
transaction. Second one, is to expand the scale and profitability of international business
by strengthening business foundation furthermore. Third one is to endeavor into new
Page 3 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2015-06-10

businesses and expand earnings by complementing strength of each other, meaning to
generate synergies. I will come back to those points in more details later on.

FINAL

Please turn to page six. Let me explain this transactional structure and the key terms.
TMNF acquired 100% of HCC shares, which are listed on New York Stock Exchange in cash
to make it a wholly-owned subsidiary.
Acquisition price is $78 per share and a total consideration will be about $7.5 billion or
around ¥940 billion at the exchange rate of ¥125 to the dollar. Acquisition price was
determined based on HCC's high profitability, growth potential, and stability and also on
the intrinsic value that we prudently evaluated. Price to book of this transaction is 1.9 times
based on the book value per share as of the end of March 2015.
It means premium we have put on is around 35% to the HCCs other share price over the
past one month. Final evaluation will be decided after the accounting treatment at the
time of the closing, but the goodwill associated with this transaction is now estimated to
be around maximum ¥560 billion. We plan to finance this transaction by cash on hand in
our group together with external funding and we do not raise equity for this transaction.

Bloomberg Transcript

This acquisition is subject to approval at general shareholders meeting of HCC and from
the regulators, and upon receiving approval from those parties, we plan to proceed with
necessary procedures immediately and we plan to complete the transaction in OctoberDecember quarter of 2015.
Please turn to page eight. On this slide we are explaining the key strengths of HCC. HCC
is specialized in the area of specialty insurance, where they have the leading edge, such
as sophisticated underwriting capabilities, and have established a strong leading position,
as the market leader in many of the areas, where they participate.
Specifically speaking they're selling over 100 classes of largely non-correlated business
lines of A&H, D&O, aviation, surety and credit, agriculture and so on. At the same time the
mix of businesses, which are relatively immune to general rate cycle or P&C business,
such as A&H is high and exposure to super large catastrophes is also limited.
As I have outlined HCC's business portfolio is highly profitable and diversified at the same
time. As a result they've achieved profitability, growth, stability, and soundness which are
superior to those of peers consistently.
They have been highly evaluated as a top in class American specialty insurance group.
Please turn to page nine. On this slide, I will explain the overview of HCC. HCC was
founded in 1974, and headquartered in Houston, Texas of the United States. It's a worldleading specialty insurer, operating worldwide, not only in the U.S., but also various
countries in the world, such as UK, Spain and Ireland.

Page 4 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2015-06-10

FINAL

Under the leadership of well experienced management with good track record, we have
realized consistent high profitability, growth, stability and soundness consistently, since its
establishment in 1974. Total number of employees is around 2,500.
Major business segments are mainly three areas, North America P&C, accident & health,
and international. Specific products they distribute in each of the three business segments
are as shown on this page. Earnings mix of three businesses is also shown in the pie chart,
on the right-hand side at the bottom.
Please turn to page 10. From this page onwards, I will elaborate on the key strengths of
HCC. First strength is diverse and highly profitable portfolio. As you can see on this page,
they sell more than 100 classes of specifically products. As you can see in the pie chart on
the left, that's A&H, B&O, aviation, surety and credit, agriculture and so on.
The key strength here is the fact that they have low correlation to each other. The second
key strength is the fact that the mix of businesses that are immune to the pricing cycle of
general P&C represents 58%, the majority as we can see in the left yellow box.

Bloomberg Transcript

The third key strength as we can see in the graph on the right hand side is the limited
exposure to super large catastrophes of the scale – of the risk that happens once in 250
years, which is only 2% of their net asset value. As a result of these key strengths, HCC's
business portfolio is highly profitable and diverse.
Please turn to page 11. This shows the track record of net earnings of HCC over the past
10 years. Because of the stable underwriting expertise and (16:58) industry, low expense
ratio, they have achieved disciplined growth of average 11.1% over the past 10 years.
Please turn to page 12. Four graphs here show combined ratio over the past one year,
three years, five years and 10 years respectively compared with that of other specialty
companies that HCC benchmarks. As you can see, in any time horizon, HCC has a very
good underwriting track record, which is consistently way better than their peers.
Please turn to page 13. This page shows the average combined ratio over the past 10
years and its variance or standard deviation compared with those of peers. The higher on
the vertical axis is the lower combined ratio, in other words, higher profitability.
(18:17) axis is the variation of combined ratio or standard deviation. As it goes more right,
the lower valuation, in other words, more stable in business. Therefore, the space in the
right hand side corner represents the most excellent company where HCC is exactly
(18:37).
I have already explained the low combined ratio of HCC compared with its peers on page
12 already, but it has also the lowest valuation of combined ratio too. It shows that they
are maintaining stable underwriting profit.

Page 5 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2015-06-10

FINAL

Please turn to page 14. This graph shows the CAGR of tangible net asset per share
including dividend of major P&C companies listed in the U.S. market for the past 10 years.
This indicator is a straight forward way to show corporate total value creation, and HCC is
second in rank at 15.4%.
When you look at the past 15 years, HCC has ranked number one in the industry, which
reflects how we have realized top of class corporate value creation over a long period of
time.
Please turn to page 16 now. From here on, I will explain the strategic rationale of this
transaction. As a global insurance group, we have been positioning the international
insurance business as the entire group's growth driver in order to grow our size and
earnings.
By reinforcing organic growth together with the promotion of strategic M&As in both
developed and emerging markets, we have been pursuing opportunities to grow globally
and to establish a diversified portfolio. Under this strategy, we have realized substantial
earnings growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

In developed markets, we have acquired Kiln in the UK and Philadelphia in the U.S. and
Delphi in the U.S. For emerging countries, we have been active in building out P&C and life
insurance businesses in the Southeast Asian region as well as in Latin America.
In order to realize further growth of international insurance businesses and from a capital
efficiency point of view, we will continue to consider premium acquisitions – we have
constantly been considering premium acquisition deals.
Next, please turn to page 17. To be more specific, we have considered quality companies
as shown on the upper left hand side, which match our acquisition principles. In other
words, companies which have management strength and compatibility, a robust business
model and high growth potential. During this process, we regarded HCC as the most
promising acquisition target as it was the best company in the U.S. specialty insurance
field. We were in talks with HCC management and others, I would like to say with
conviction that HCC is a partner which best fits all three principals and that is why we have
reached an agreement for the acquisition.
Please turn to page 18. As explained earlier, in addition to HCC having a diversified
portfolio, the Tokio Marine Group's existing business and HCC's business complements
one another. And the trust there is limited overlap, that Tokio Marine Group's portfolio will
be increasingly diversified, leading to better capital efficiency and sustainable profit
growth. Ultimately, we believe that an increasingly solid group business foundation can be
realized.
Please turn to page 19. This page shows the 2015 forecast for the Tokio Marine Group and
the forecast for HCC on a purely added basis, estimating both acquisition impact.
Adjusted ROE will increase by 1.5%. Adjusted net income will increase from ¥327 billion to
¥370 billion and adjusted EPS will rise by 12%.
Page 6 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2015-06-10

FINAL

So, as we explained earlier, this transaction is likely to close in the October-December
quarter this year. So, HCC's full-year consolidation through our group will start from fiscal
2016.
Now, please turn to page 20. The numbers shown on this page has also been derived by
simply adding our group's 2015 full-year forecast with HCC. However, post acquisition,
insurance premium fees – insurance premiums from the international business will
increase from approximately 32% pre-acquisition to about 38%. As for business profits,
the international business' contribution will increase from 38% premerger to about 46%.
Now, please turn to page 21. Since 2007, three major acquisitions were made. All three
companies, Kiln, Philadelphia and Delphi are all leading premium insurance companies in
the specialty insurance field. As you can see on this slide, they all have realized substantial
growth even after they have become a part of our group. With the addition of HCC, we
will be able to solidify Tokio Marine's standing as a truly global insurer with premier
specialty insurance franchises, which we have focused on in the Western market to-date.

Bloomberg Transcript

Please turn to page 22. We will be expanding into new lines of business in the specialty
insurance field, such as A&H or D&O and agriculture insurance and others, which we
haven't entered in an earnest manner and international market before. However, as you
could see on this slide's ranking, we will be able to establish market leading positions in
each of the lines.
Please turn to page 23. The last part I'd like to cover regarding the strategic rational of
this acquisition is creating synergies by leveraging the strengths of the two companies
and further earnings growth. We would like to leverage HCC's sophisticated underwriting
expertise in diverse classes of business with Tokio Marine's global footprint, financial
strengths, underwriting capacity, and investment expertise to promote new businesses
and measures.
First of all, by leveraging Tokio Marine's global footprint which covers not only Japan but
developed countries and emerging countries, we would like to sell HCC's mainstay
products, such as A&H and D&O insurance and other.
Secondly, by leveraging Tokio Marine's financial strengths, we will engage in efforts to
expand HCC's underwriting capacity and optimize outward reinsurance treaty programs.
Finally, we will utilize Delphi's investment expertise to enhance HCC's investment return.
Of course we would like to make efforts so as to generate synergies other than these on
a group wide basis.
That concludes my presentation. I would like to thank you for your kind attention. Now we
would like to take any questions that you may have. Thank you very much.

Q&A
Page 7 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2015-06-10

Operator

FINAL

We would like to now move on to Q&A. I would like to explain how we're going to take
your questions. We would like to take the first question JBW being confirmed. (29:06)
Would you please start with your question?
Hi. Good evening and good morning and congratulations on the deal. The first question is
as you look forward are there are others areas in the U.S. market where you could
potentially see synergies that would support incremental acquisitions and then I'm curious
to what extent HCC could access the platform for any of those future deals?
Your question is being translated.
Thank you.
Your question is being translated still.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Tsuyoshi Nagano

{BIO 16141096 <GO>}

Thank you so much for your question. My name is Nagano, the President of Tokio Marine
Holdings. To your first question. Other than HCC transaction, are there any M&A
possibilities, in what area, for example in the U.S., are there potential – further potential
M&A acquisitions? As we've explained earlier, for a long time, we have listed up the
acquisition candidates and we had studied that list many times repeatedly and we tried to
find a company that matches the chemistry of the company. And from the perspective of
fitness, I think HCC is the best fit with a second to none. We won't be to find any other
deal as excellent as HCC transaction.
So other possibilities, for the time being, I don't think there will be any additional
transaction or opportunity like this. First priority is to focus on HCC transaction. However,
as you may know, in the past HCC has repeated bolt-on acquisition and they have
prospered through repeated bolt-on acquisitions in the history.
So going forward there are organic bolt-on M&A's. It can be possible, it can happen as
possibilities. And because of that we'll be able to take on more diversified appetite. It is
the appetite to diversify the business portfolio in the United States or enhance the
stability of our business in the United States. And HCC will be utilized as a base for us to
realize those objectives.

Q - Operator
Thank you very much. After that, just a second follow up if I could. In this low interest rate
environment part of HCC's investment return has been quite satisfactory in what's a
challenging environment. So I am curious how much yield benefit you're currently thinking
about that it might be able to be derived from the Delphi synergies on the investment
management side, and thank you very much.

Page 8 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2015-06-10

Your question is being translated.

A - Tsuyoshi Nagano

{BIO 16141096 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you very much for your follow on question. This is Nagano again with regards to
your question we've been – Mr. Fujii, Senior Managing Director who is deeply involved with
Delphi's operation will answer your question.

A - Kunihiko Fujii

{BIO 17943918 <GO>}

Hi. My name is Fujii. I am in-charge of international operations. With regards to the
investment management synergies, HCC's investment management has a rather
conservative portfolio, but Delphi expertise are very advanced. So we believe that we can
generate investment management synergies as well. And this was explained in the
presentation today. So this is what we would like first look upon.

Q - Operator
Thank you very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's move to the next question. Mr. Greenhill (34:23), would you please start with your
question?
Yeah, sure. Thanks. Thanks very much and thanks for the call. I just want – the indicated
9.3% post-deal ROE is above the medium-term target, will we'll be revisiting that target
as a result of this deal? And you mentioned, it's obviously nice to hear that there'd be no
equity financing. You mentioned cash and external financing. I just wonder if this is an
opportunity to accelerate the disposal of marketable securities on the balance sheet as a
way of funding this deal rather than having to raise debt for instance?
Your question is being translated.
Well, I would like to hand over to Oba, the Executive Vice President.

A - Masashi Oba

{BIO 16818076 <GO>}

It's Oba, the Executive Vice President. So as you can seen on page 19, after this
transaction, ROE will be increased to 9.3%, that's our estimate after this transaction and
we have announced our medium-term management plan at the end of May and that
assumes around 9% in 2017, and that did not assume this transaction. And because of this
acquisition of HCC, are we going to re-visit that medium-term management plan or target
in that plan.
Well, we are off to a good start in this medium-term management plan. Therefore, at this
point in time, we do not have any plan to review and revisit the medium-term
management plan. Of course, going forward, if the environment changes on the ad hoc
basis, as necessity arises, we are going to review the plan.

Page 9 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2015-06-10

FINAL

And your second question relating to the financing needs. We are not going to do equity
financing, but are we going to sell – accelerate the sale of the business related equities?
Are we going to sell more business related equities to fund this transaction?
To that question, and I'd say, that in the mid-term management plan, every year, we have
a plan to sell more than ¥100 billion business related equities per year. And we like to
achieve the target in this plan. So for the sake of this transaction, we don't think we're
going to change this plan because of this acquisition.
Of course going forward, if Japanese environment changes then we may have to sell or
we'll be able to sell more business related equities depending on the situation.

A - Tsuyoshi Nagano

{BIO 16141096 <GO>}

May I – I'm Tsuyoshi Nagano the president again. To your first question, let me give you an
additional comment. The numbers in the mid-term plan, are we going to change those
numbers because of this transaction? As Mr. Oba mentioned, in my opinion, we'd like to
give you the status of the post merger integration. In the plan period, we'd like to review
flexibly by reviewing the situation of the post merger integration.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

The next question is Mr. Chard from Albert Field (39:23). Please go ahead.
Good morning, good evening again. Just a couple of questions. I did hear you say
synergies but just wanted to find out what they were, number one. Number two, I know
the slide says 125 Japanese yen, the yen is little bit lower now. So, just wanted to find out
if there are any hedges in place for a possible dollar strengthening because this is such a
large U.S. deal?
Number three is, slide 28 focuses on the Munis and the MSBs being a large percentage of
the asset allocation for HCC. Just wanted to find out if you had any concerns about that
with interest rates increasing? And the last one is, the Japanese FSA. Is that the last
approval that you need, so you need all the approvals before looking far for that? Thank
you.
Your questions are now being translated into Japanese.
So, I think that was four questions. Thank you very much. First of all, with regards to
specific examples of synergies Mr. Fujii, the Senior Managing Director will answer that
question. With regards to the standard dollar and what we think about hedging, Mr. Oba
will explain and with regards to your third question, with respect to assets, such as Munis
and MSBs, and concerned – whether we have concerns around holding them – whether
we have concerns around it, I would like to ask Chris to answer that question. With regards
to your fourth question about – if the FSA is the last entity to make the approval, that is
correct. So I would like to first transfer – pass it over to Mr. Fujii

Page 10 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2015-06-10

A - Kunihiko Fujii

{BIO 17943918 <GO>}

FINAL

Hello, this is Fujii, in charge of International Business. Please refer to page 23 where I have
explained about synergies. So there are three large areas where we are expecting
synergies. The first is related to revenue synergies, as you can see here people like to
leverage our complementary strengths, so that we can generate revenue synergies.
Secondly is capital synergies. If you see Tokio Marine, both have strong financials. So by
coming together we believe that from a capital point of view, we could pursue higher
grounds. So third area is investment synergies, as explained earlier, basically we're
expecting investment synergies, we did this at Delphi and Philadelphia as well. So we are
going to expect this with HCC as well. And cost synergy-wise, we hardly have overlapped
businesses. We will be able to expect a certain level of cost synergies, but we are
focusing more on growth strategies. That concludes my remarks.

A - Masashi Oba

{BIO 16818076 <GO>}

So this is Oba speaking. With respect to your second question, with regards to the money
required for the transaction within the group yen money as well as dollar-denominated
investments are going to be made. That's the majority of our funding. However, we'll be
funding yen-denominated funding externally as well as dollar-denominated funding. But
we are not going to do any equity financing.

Bloomberg Transcript

You were talking about FX hedging, but – for the yen-denominated portion we are not
able to forecast how the currency market is going trend, so we would like consider if
hedging is required or necessary.
The closing of the transaction is likely to happen between the October-December period.
So if we were to hedge, we will like to do it in phases?

A - Operator
So, Chris can you answer the third question.

A - Christopher J. B. Williams

{BIO 3491995 <GO>}

Certainly. Excuse me. Regard to the investment portfolio, we are very satisfied with where
we sit. Our portfolio is matched to our liabilities. We would not be forced to sell into a
raising interest rate environment. And in fact, we very recently did a sensitivity testing to
this and we're very pleased with the results of that, and in fact we would welcome a
raising interest rate environment. So the short answer is we are quite comfortable with
where we sit.

Q - Operator
Great. Thank you, guys. Congratulations again.
Thank you very much. I think there is no question being raised so let me repeat . We'd like
to move to the next question. (47:00) from Macquarie Capital.

Page 11 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2015-06-10

Q - Amit Kumar

{BIO 19777341 <GO>}

FINAL

Hey, it's Amit Kumar from Macquarie. Just one quick question. Can you sort of give some
background on how this acquisition sort of came together, and this is for Tokio Marine.
Were you evaluating several companies and HCC emerged at the top of the list or was
HCC always in your site and finally things came together at this juncture, maybe just give
some background as to how it led you to HCC? Thanks.

Operator
Your question is being translated.

A - Tsuyoshi Nagano

{BIO 16141096 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

It's Nagano. Thank you so much for your question. Let me explain the background of this
transaction, of this deal. HCC is a world leading accident specialty company, which is a well
known company in the world. So for a long time, we have been recognizing this company
as an excellent company. And I take every opportunity I have to talk about the screening
process of the company for the M&A's. And we have a list of candidates of companies
and we have been monitoring business trends of those candidates and HCC has been
one of them. Hence there is some confidentiality as to the specific background of this
transaction. So let me refrain from talking about specifics, but let me share with you some
of the information. We have been negotiating with HCC since a few month ago
specifically and we made a proposal to them.
We went to them and made a proposal to them. And when we make an acquisition,
always we have the acquisition principles – basic acquisition principles, sound business
fundamentals. We can share the value in excellent management and a solid business
model. And high potential growth for the future and high profitability. So those are the
basic acquisition principles, and in a word, HCC means all of those conditions, all of those
principles. And further more in other words, we really wanted to partner with the
management of HCC, that's the most critical point for us to make this acquisition decision.
And HCC was a type of the company that we wanted to definitely work with. And based
upon their sound business model, they have excellent profitability, stability, growth
potential and the soundness. And they've been achieving those over the years.
So that caught our eye and if we partner with them, with those, we will be able to
enhance the capital efficiency and enhance the stability of our group. And we'll be able to
generate synergies with HCC. Those were the factors that led to this decision.

Q - Amit Kumar

{BIO 19777341 <GO>}

Got it. Thanks. Thanks for background and good luck for the future.

Operator
The closing time is approaching. The next person will be the last person. From (51:02)
please.

Page 12 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2015-06-10

FINAL

Sorry. I am participating from Tokio. I have two questions. First, with regards to HCC's
acquisition strategy going forward, what are your thoughts? Are you going to use Tokio
Marine's capital or are you going to use the liquidity that HCC has.
Second question, if you have any updates through your medium-term management plan, I
would like to know, ¥350 billion to ¥400 billion and it isn't just net income, is your recurring
guidance but are there any changes? And CAGR of 8% was the target rate for the
international business, but has there been any changes to that as well?
Thank you for your question. With regards to your first question. So HCC has continued to
do bolt-on acquisitions in the past. So what are their future strategies? If they're going to
make any acquisitions or are they going to use Tokio Marine's money or are they going to
use their own liquidity?
Next, are you going to do any updates to the medium-term management plan?
So with regards to your second question, if HCC were to diversify their business portfolio
going forward, and pursue new risk appetite by acquiring new companies or acquire a
distributor, of course that is one of the possibilities that can be considered.

Bloomberg Transcript

In principal, their excess capital will be funding the deal. Of course, it depends on the
scale and size of the deal or transaction, but they will be doing it within their own capital.
That's what we assume. That is my response to your first question. Did you understand
that?
Yes, very well.
With regards to an update to our medium-term management plan, we actually received
the similar question earlier and this is what I said. So ¥350 billion to ¥400 billion, this
target. We have been assuming some M&A transactions as part of this guidance, but the
assumption of the deal size was not as significant. So first of all, we would like to focus on
post merger integration. And we would like to see how business is promoted, and we
would like to revise the plan if necessary, accordingly in a flexible manner.
Thank you very much. I understood your comment very well.
If there are no questions, I'd like to hand this over to Mr. Sasaki

A - Shiro Sasaki

{BIO 19269575 <GO>}

Now, the finishing time has come. So we would like to close the conference call today.
Thank you so much for your participation. If you have follow-up questions, please do not
hesitate to contact IR group of the company. Thank you so much for your participation.

Operator
Page 13 of 14



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2015-06-10

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

This concludes the conference call today. Thank you so much for staying on the call for
long time. Thank you. Please cut your line.

Page 14 of 14

