Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2015-05-14

Q1 2015 Earnings Call - Pre-recorded
Company Participants
FINAL

Alberto Minali, Group Chief Financial Officer

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Alberto Minali

{BIO 16909383 <GO>}

Good morning. This is Alberto Minali, Group CFO of Generali. I am pleased to report to
you this morning an encouraging set of first quarter 2015 results. Let me start with a brief
overview while noting that, as before, prior year's figures have been restated throughout
the whole presentation to reflect the current geographical perimeter of the group.

Bloomberg Transcript

The total operating result of the period reached over €1.3 billion, thanks to robust
performances of all business segments. The net result of the period is up 3.3% to €682
million. Excluding discontinued operations, profit after tax is up 10%, and net operating
earning per share is up 9.7%. The operating return on equity has improved by 40 basis
point, from 3.5% to 3.9% year-on-year.
Shareholders' equity is up 12.5% from year-end 2014 to €26.1 billion. The Solvency I ratio
consequently improved by 12 percentage points from the end of 2014, reaching 168% at
the end of March, or 177% pro forma for the sale of BSI. Overall operating result increased
by 6%.
Looking at the segment in more detail, the Life operating result posted a strong 8.2%
increase to €823 million. Property & Casualty showed a 4.6% decline, which was mainly
due to an increase in nat cat burden. The segment Holding & Other Businesses had a
positive performance with €54 million profits, driven by very strong result of Banca
Generali.
Let's then see the journey from operating result to the bottom line. Non-operating
investment income increased slightly by €14 million to €140 million. Non-operating holding
expenses decreased by 10.5% to €187 million, thanks to €24 million lower interest costs. I
remind you that last week we reimbursed a further €500 million of senior debt, reducing
further the interest expense prospectively.
Other non-operating expenses increased by €18 million, due to €23 million higher
restructuring costs. The tax rate remained pretty stable year-on-year at 30.2%. Overall,
net result increased by 3.3%, while on our current group perimeter, profit after tax from
continuing operations performed a strong 10% growth.

Page 1 of 6



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2015-05-14

FINAL

Let us now turn to look at the balance sheet. Shareholders' equity increased by 12.5%,
reaching €26.1 billion. The mark to market of available for sale assets was a strong positive
factor, €2.1 billion, benefiting from the good performance of all asset classes and, in
particular, of bond investments.
The net result of the period contributed for €682 million, as you have already seen. Other
items are €129 million positive and are the result of a balance between a positive impact
from currency movement, and in particular from the appreciation of the Swiss franc
towards the euro, and the negative effect on our German pension liabilities deriving from
reduced interest rates in the quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

Following the good development in shareholders' equity, our Solvency I ratio increased by
12 percentage points from the end of 2014 to 168%. On the positive side, four
percentage points contribution derived from the net result, while the previously
mentioned appreciations of investment accounted for 13 percentage points. On the other
side, we had an increase of our required margin, driven by the underlying growth of our
Life business and by exchange rate effects, with five percentage points negative impact
on the ratio.
In the coming months, we should finalize the sale of BSI. This should add nine percentage
points to our Solvency I ratio, bringing it to 177%. As far as Solvency II is concerned, the
group is continuing to work hard on the implementation of its new model. From this
disclosure onwards, we will not provide any more figures based on the old model since
the new one is now fully running and producing results. I will provide you with the relevant
figures at our Investor Day, but overall, we feel confident to be in a comfortable position
and at the Solvency level which, as at the end 2014, would be higher than the one we
reported on the old model.
Let me focus now on our business segments starting with Life. Overall, Life premium
increased strongly by 12.7% to €13.7 billion, driven by a positive trend of all business lines.
Worth mentioning is the continuing growth of unit-linked production that posted a 24.6%
increase with a particularly strong contribution of Italy.
Life net inflows also continued their strongly positive trend, growing 49.1% year-on-year
and reaching €4.3 billion. The Life operating result went up 8.2%. New business value was
down 2.6% at €322 million, notwithstanding a 9.8% APE growth due to a 2.9 percentage
points margin contraction.
Let me dive now into the single drivers of the Life operating result. The technical margin
posted a slight increase thanks to higher margins on loadings and increased unit-linked
fees. The investment result increased by €140 million, partially due to the growth of the
invested asset base, but also thanks to a positive impact from the appreciation of assets
held at fair value through profit and loss, worth €94 million, and higher realized gains in
particular on government bonds and, to a lesser extent, on equities.
I would add that part of this profit had been used to increase our policyholder reserves,
such as the strengthening of the PPE in France by €196 million or the ZZR in Germany by
Page 2 of 6



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2015-05-14

€27 million, net of policyholders' participation.

FINAL

Expenses increased by 8.7% mainly due to increased acquisition costs, while the overall
Life expense ratio declined 0.6 percentage points to 9.1% year-on-year.
Life net inflows started also this year with a very positive trend, reaching €4.3 billion in the
first quarter of the year. Our continued focus on increasing the share of more capitalefficient products enable us to have, again, an over-proportional contribution from unitlinked business, with a 47% share of total net inflows.
Looking on a country basis, in Italy, we have a particularly strong increase of net inflows at
€2.1 billion, doubling the amount of the first quarter of 2014. The growth has once again
been driven by unit-linked business thanks to the success of our hybrid products.
In France, we see the continuation of the recovery trends started in the second half of
2014, with over €200 million positive net inflows, driven by a strong unit-linked production,
up 44% and reduced surrenders.

Bloomberg Transcript

After a year of falling net inflows in Germany, linked to the planned reduction of single
premium savings business, in the first quarter of this year, net inflows showed an almost
30% increase driven by the unit-linked component of new hybrid products.
Lastly, the decrease in EMEA is mainly explained by a contraction in the sale of wealth
protection products in Europe through our platform in Ireland and by increased maturities
in Austria.
These strong net inflows contributed to an overall 4% increase of Life technical reserves
over the first three months to €361 billion. It is worth highlighting the particular positive
development of unit-linked reserve, up 11.1%, to €75 billion.
Life general current investments reached €339 billion, up 5.8% from the year-end 2014,
also driven by positive mark-to-market performance of available for-sale investments.
Total Life current returns are down 10 basis points to 80 basis points for the first quarter.
As always, this is not an analyzed figure. In absolute terms, current income increased
slightly, reaching almost €2.6 billion. Fixed income current returns, in particular, declined by
10 basis points to 80 basis points, both due to asset base appreciation and the impact
from lower investment rates.
Also here, current income increased by €82 million, or 3.7%, in the first quarter of the year.
We invested pre-existing cash net inflows, bond redemption, and coupons at an average
yield of 2.5% in the Life segment, mainly in financial and non-financial corporate bonds.
Turning to new business, APE is up 9.8%, like-for-like, to €1.4 billion, driven by strong
performances of unit-linked and protection, up 40% and 28%, respectively, while savings

Page 3 of 6



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2015-05-14

FINAL

business posted 3.5% decline. Unit-linked production weighted for 24.4% of APE versus
19% in the first quarter of 2014. Protection business increased its share to 18.6% from
15.6% in Q1 last year. This demonstrates our focus on redirecting our production towards
more capital-efficient products.
Looking at our main countries, in Italy, APEs increased 3.2% driven by a strong
performance of unit-linked production, whose weight on APE strongly increased from
5.5% to 20.6%, thanks to the continuing success of the hybrid products. At the same time,
guaranteed saving business declined by 14.2%.
We saw a strong development in France whose APEs increased 37.6%. The biggest
contribution came from unit-linked, up 57% and protection business, up 53%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Germany grew by 11.9%, driven by a 60% increase of unit-linked production and an 8%
growth in protection. Traditional savings business decreased by 4%, notwithstanding a
positive one-off effect deriving from a booming production in the last days of 2014,
booked as 2015 production and linked to the reduction of the technical interest rate at the
turn of the year.
New business profitability declined by 2.9 percentage points to 22.5%, due to the fall of
savings business profitability. This has been mainly the consequence of a sharp decrease
of the reference rate, down 141 basis points compared to the first quarter of last year.
Reduced new business guarantees at 0.71% in the euro area, and an improved business
mix only partially mitigated the overall margin decline. As a consequence of this
profitability contraction, the new business value decreased by 2.6% on a like-for-like basis
to €322 million.
Now, let's turn to look at P&C. Gross written premiums are overall stable, on a like-for-like
basis at €6.5 billion. Looking at business lines, primary motor posted 2.6% decline, mainly
driven by Italy and France as I will explain later. Primary non-motor went up 0.9%. The
combined ratio deteriorated by 0.7 percentage points due to a 1.3 percentage points
increase in nat cat burden. As a consequence of this, the operating result declined by
4.6%.
Looking at the components of this operating profit decline, we can see a technical margin
at €288 million, down 16.4%, a slightly positive moving investment result, as a result of an
overall stable current income and reduced interest expenses on operational debt, and an
improving residual other items line that increased by €27 million.
Let's look now at gross written premium development within our core countries. Italy is
down 3.9%, at €1.4 billion, still driven by the highly competitive environment of motor.
Primary motor still decreased by 9.2%, mainly due to reduced average premiums. Primary
non-motor is overall stable, with a slightly declining health business compensated by
growing personal lines.
France declined by 4% to €834 million due to the competitive market environment and
the continuation of strict underwriting guidelines and pruning activities. Primary motor
Page 4 of 6



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2015-05-14

FINAL

continued its negative trend with a 7.9% decrease driven by an ongoing pruning of
unprofitable fleet and garage-related contracts and by a still soft retail market, but with
first positive signs in terms of number of contracts in the retail segment. Non-motor is
down 3.1%, mainly due to contract cancellation in the commercial construction and general
liability business.
In Germany, premiums went down slightly by 0.9%. The reason for this is that the motor
business, down 1.7%, is also this year affected by the ongoing shift from the main renewal
date from January to other months in the course of the year. As in 2014, we expect that
this effect will be level during the rest of the year, benefiting also from relatively good
market conditions with average portfolio premiums still rising. Non-motor has been overall
flat.
Moving to the profitability analysis, the combined ratio deteriorated by 0.7 percentage
points year-on-year to 93.3%, in presence of 1.3 percentage points higher nat cats. This
was driven, in particular, by Storm Mike and Niklas, affecting mainly Germany, and also
winter storm Anton, which caused losses in Italy.

Bloomberg Transcript

Looking at the single drivers, the loss ratio improved by 0.2 percentage points, thanks to
an improving current year results, down 1.4 percentage points, which more than
compensated the increased nat cat burden. Prior years' releases are overall stable. The
expense ratio increased by 0.9 percentage points, mainly driven by higher acquisition
costs and by exchange rates.
Looking at the combined ratio in our main countries, in Italy, our combined ratio improved
further to an excellent 89.3%, down 1.3 percentage points, driven by still improving current
year loss ratio and despite higher weather-related nat cats for 1.7 percentage points.
In France, the combined ratio improved 2.9 percentage points to 100.3%, thanks to a 3.8
percentage points lower loss ratio, helped by the absence of nat cats, which last year
costed 2.7 percentage point, as well as by better current year results. The expense ratio
increased by 0.9 percentage points due to lower net earned premiums. This
development of the denominator of the ratio did more than offset the positive impact of
decreasing expenses.
In Germany, we had a substantially stable combined ratio of 93.8% despite higher nat
cats. CEE confirms outstanding profitability levels with a 83.7% combined ratio.
Overall, P&C investments reached €40 billion, up 3.5% from the end of 2014, also thanks
to positive market movements of available for sale assets. In terms of investment returns,
total P&C not generalized (16:35) current returns are pretty stable at 80 basis points.
Fixed income current returns decreased to 80 basis point, down 10 bps year-on-year,
partially compensated by increased current returns on real estate. The average of
investment rate in P&C during the first quarter of the year has been of 2.1%.
Let me, finally, turn to our Holding & Other businesses segment whose overall
contribution to the group operating result increased from €24 million to €54 million. This
Page 5 of 6



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2015-05-14

improvement has been entirely driven by the positive contribution of financial businesses
that posted a €54 million improvement, and in particular of Banca Generali that doubled
its contribution.

FINAL

Operating holding expenses increased from €96 million to €116 million year-on-year, but
are below the level reached during the fourth quarter of last year. Other businesses are
more or less stable.
In summary, we have had a good start to the year with a very strong quarter in Life,
helped by market, but also with very encouraging trends in terms of the business mix
across countries. The profitability of P&C remains good, despite heavier natural
catastrophe losses this year.
The balance sheet has further strengthened on a Solvency I view, and we are continuing
to make excellent progress in our preparation for Solvency II, where we also expect to be
well-capitalized.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much for your attention.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 6 of 6

