Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2015-11-09

Q3 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Francesco Caio, Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Luigi Ferraris, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Unidentiﬁed Speaker

Other Participants
Alberto Villa, Analyst
Anna Adamo, Analyst
Unidentiﬁed Participant

Presentation
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Good day, and welcome to the Poste Italiane 2015 Nine Month Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference
over to Luigi Ferraris, CFO. Please go ahead, sir.

Luigi Ferraris

{BIO 7424315 <GO>}

So good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Before reviewing the nine months 2015 numbers
in detail, let me start on slide number two with the relevant overall ﬁnancial highlights.
The nine months ended September the 30th this year delivered a solid set of results.
First, we delivered revenues and operating proﬁt growth, marking the positive
momentum already evidenced in the ﬁrst half year results. Second, ongoing action aimed
at reducing operating cost, which were caused [ph] by 3.5% in 2015 versus 2014. Third,
strong cash generation to support our dividend policy. Overall, we are well on track in the
execution of our transformation plan based on superior returns in transaction banking
and asset gathering, growth in insurance and asset management, the turnaround in mail
and growth in parcels.
Let's now move to slide number three. Consolidated revenues and proﬁts increased
respectively by 6% and 27% in the period. This is mainly due to ﬁrst superior returns of the
ﬁnancial services operations; second, outstanding growth in gross written premiums of
the insurance services; and third, expected decrease in mail and parcels.
In more detail, ﬁnancial services operating proﬁt increased by 44% from EUR477 million to
687 million. The increase is mainly attributable to capital gains realized from the active

Page 1 of 11



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2015-11-09

FINAL

management of BancoPosta asset portfolio and lower recharges from the mail and parcel
business.
Insurance services, revenues increased by 10% from EUR15.4 billion to 16.9 billion, and
operating proﬁt maintained a 13.2% growth year-on-year, mainly due to the ongoing
positive performance of life gross written premiums. Mail and parcels revenues were at
EUR2.8 billion, down 6.5% on 2014 and this expected decline relates to a reduction of
traditional postal volumes.
Let's now move into each speciﬁc business unit results. Starting with the evolution in our
ﬁnancial services revenues on slide number four. The revenues mix remained substantially
unchanged versus the previous year, with a marginal decrease of the weight of the fees
from transaction banking, which was more than compensated for by the increase of postal
savings.

Bloomberg Transcript

In more detail and I am now on slide number ﬁve, the ﬁnancial services provides a
breakdown -- which provides a breakdown of the ﬁnancial services revenues is driven by
the following key points. First, returns on current account deposit, higher income from the
sale of ﬁnancial assets more than compensated for by lower interest income from
deposits. Second, fees from postal savings collection, the increase is a consequence of a
new fee structure indicated in the renewed contractual framework between Poste Italiane
and (inaudible) underwritten in December 2014.
Third, fees from transaction banking, revenues decrease is mainly attributable to volume
reduction of both payment slips and F24 tax form. Fourth, distribution fees, revenues
growth is mainly due to higher upfront fees as a consequence of oﬀering simpliﬁcation as
well as a more long-term strategic approach to partnership. And ﬁfth, payment card fees
mainly due to the outstanding performance of the new Postepay Evolution card, reaching
1.4 million cards issued to date.
Let's now move to slide number six. On active portfolio management, let me point out the
following major items. An increase in average deposits of BancoPosta accounts moving to
EUR44.9 billion from 44 billion in 2014, or up 2%. The unrealized capital gains amounts to
EUR4.9 billion vis-a-vis EUR4.3 billion of the previous years and more signiﬁcantly, vis-a-vis
EUR3.5 billion as of the end of June 2015. This is mainly due to the favorable Italian
spread reduction over the period.
Let's now move to insurance services on slide number seven. First, let me underline the
ongoing increase of our life gross written premium evolution conﬁrming Poste Vita as the
number one life insurer in the Italian market. On top of that, let me also highlight that
even if our presence in the non-life industry is still marginal, we are strategically focused
on growing this business and recently ﬁnalized acquisition of 100% of S.D.S. System Data
Software is supporting the execution of this strategy.
More speciﬁcally, this acquisition enhances our presence in the health sector. We will
beneﬁt from state-of-the-art skill centralized management of (inaudible) service structures,
both private and public hospitals and payments. As far as our asset management
Page 2 of 11



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2015-11-09

FINAL

operations are concerned, the recent acquisition of a 10% stake of Anima and the relevant
commercial agreements already ﬁnalized are accelerating our penetration into the fast
growing Italian asset management industry.
Speciﬁcally at the end of September, we started the distribution of the ﬁrst asset
management product in partnership with Anima. BancoPosta Evolution (inaudible) and so
far we have already gathered about EUR100 million. This testify the strength and the
robustness of both the quality of the product jointly oﬀered by the Poste Italiane and
Anima and the proximity of our natural (inaudible) customers.
Let's now move to slide number eight, on mail and parcel business unit. I have already
commented on the revenue side. On volumes, let me highlight here that, on one hand,
the expected decrease in traditional mail volumes, which declined 10% year-on-year. On
the other end, parcel volumes increased by 10% year-on-year conﬁrming the positive
momentum mainly driven by the growing e-commerce penetration in Italy.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to slide number nine. Firstly, let me remind you that intersegment revenues
decreased by 3.5% or EUR122 million mainly due to the implementation of new internal
pricing scheme related to the recharge of the natural cost to the ﬁnancial services
business unit.
I would also like to talk you through the outcome of our relevant managerial actions
aimed at reducing our operating cost. Speciﬁcally mail and parcel operating costs have
been reduced by about EUR250 million over the nine-month period, mainly as a result of
lower labor cost, which had been reduced by EUR190 million related to the ongoing
restructuring program also, based on an early retirement incentive scheme, as well as
reduction in other operating costs for a total consideration of EUR130 million.
Let me also remind you that on October the 1st, the new ESO Regulation was introduced.
These new rules imply a new and more ﬂexible pricing structure based on a J plus 4
regulated products, and J plus 1 free [ph] price priority product, as well as a new
distribution scheme based on other day delivery, which will be applied to 25% of Italian
municipalities once at regime. The new regulatory framework will enable us to better
cope with a new delivery needs of our customer and to accelerate the implementation of
our turnaround product.
Let's move now to slide number 10, focusing on our cost structure at a consolidated level.
I will comment on labor cost in the following slide. Here let me focus your attention on
other costs and changes in insurance and technical provisions. Other costs increased from
282 million to 857 million. This is due to the relevant change in the fair value evaluation of
ﬁnancial instruments mainly attributable to Poste Vita assets. Please note that this increase
is fully compensated forth by a reduction in the insurance technical reserves valuation.
Change in insurance technical provision increased by almost 6% versus last year and this
is due to the (inaudible) signiﬁcant life gross written premium increase.
Moving to slide number 11. Labor costs are down 2.5% or EUR112 million year-on-year
moving from 4.5 in 2014 to EUR4.4 billion in 2015, and this savings is mainly relating to
Page 3 of 11



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2015-11-09

mail and parcels. As I already outlined, this is the result of the implementation of our
transformation program and the execution of the early retirement incentive scheme
program, which will continue in the future.

FINAL

Please note that labor cost reduction and eﬃciency represents a key pillar of the mail and
parcels turnaround plan.
Let's now move to EBIT evolution on slide number 12. Net income for the period equaled
to EUR622 million versus EUR333 million in 2014, or 87% up. On top of the already
commented EBIT dynamics, this is related to net ﬁnancial income which totaled EUR41
million and taxes for a total consideration of EUR350 million corresponding to a tax rate
of about 36%, which can be considered a good proxy for the normalized tax year for the
entire year.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's move on to slide number 13 on Group capital expenditures. The optimization of the
(inaudible) investment program for the period is part of the restructuring program. More
speciﬁcally, the majority of the investment program is mainly related to information
technology and TLC networks. The balance is related to property requaliﬁcation,
construction of data center building and parcel logistic operations. Please bear in mind
once again that our mail and parcels business unit includes also the sales network.
Finally looking at cash generation on slide number 14, while the positive operational
performance, which is the result of delivery of eﬃciency improvements and CapEx
optimizations allowed the Company to generate cash to the tune of EUR658 million
before working capital valuation. The cash will be available to support our rewarding
dividend policy which so far is based on a minimum 80% payout of the net consolidated
proﬁt of the years 2015 and '16.
Thank you for your attention and let me hand over to CEO, Francesco Caio for some
closing remarks.

Francesco Caio

{BIO 1516226 <GO>}

Thank you, Luigi, and good evening everybody. I just want to -- on page 15 just share
some closing remarks. You've seen that the results we've announced today conﬁrm the
positive trends that we have reported in the ﬁrst half of this year with growth and the main
KPIs of revenues, operating proﬁt and operating cash ﬂow. But I also would like to
emphasize that our execution transformation -- the execution of the transformation plan
continues.
Luigi has brieﬂy talked about cost reduction, I just want to highlight some example of the
new services that we have continued to push and promote over the last few weeks. We
have now reached as for instance, more than 1.4 million subscribers to the Postepay
Evolution that is this relatively new pre charged debit card that was launched about a year
ago. We've completed the acquisition of SDS, which is an IT platform that we want to rely
on to broaden the health insurance services for our oﬀer. We have launched in the month
of August, a new app for BancoPosta that is very eﬀectively driving the volume of digital
Page 4 of 11



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2015-11-09

FINAL

transactions and we have had more than 600,000 downloads for this app. And we have
put in our distribution network, the new investment product that we have developed in
partnership with Anima. Many of you remember that we acquired 10% equity of the Anima
equity back in June.
All this platform clearly gave us a good momentum towards the end of the year. Just a
couple of comments that I would like you to take note on, as we begin to project yearend. The ﬁrst one is that in Q4, we will accrue the transformation costs for the year 2016,
that is similar to what has happened in 2015 and will be obviously an element of
particular, if you wish, in the context of this year the one-oﬀ cost that we will be accruing.
We've had the opportunity in discussing with many of you in the last few weeks to indicate
that this is in a way year after year a recurring element of our transformation costs, in the
context of the year, the costs will be accrued all of it in Q4.
And the other one that, you know, that we've reported the proﬁt through the active
management of our portfolio in quarters one, two and three. We expect at the moment to
have a more contained proﬁt from unrealized gains of our portfolio of government bonds
from BancoPosta versus previous quarters. So good results, clear evidence of
transformation gaining momentum, some particular elements to be taken into account in
Q4, but all of that would not be divert the Company from a trajectory that notwithstanding
the impact of the previous two point, we continue to believe we'll deliver full year 2015
which will be representing a marked improvement on the full year 2014.

Bloomberg Transcript

I understand that this is an opportunity for you to ask some questions. And if you have
some, we would be happy to provide indications to the extend we can.

Questions And Answers
A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker
Okay, thank you very much. We are now ready to start the Q&A session. I understand that
we have Mr. (inaudible) from Mediobanca ready in the line to start the session. So
Zanduka [ph] please go ahead.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Yeah, good evening, everybody. I have some questions. The ﬁrst one is related to the
transformation cost, you mentioned for Q4. And I was wondering if you can give us a bit
more color behind these provisions you will make in Q4. And to understand if we should
expect a net loss in the quarter or it will be a quarter with still some proﬁts. The second
question is related to the headcount reduction. I was wondering if you can give us the
detail of the 1,000 people left the Group in the past 12 months, considering the people
who got the early retirement package the natural churn, and new hiring you made in the
period.
The third question is regarding P&C, also in the light of the acquisition you just made. If
you can guide us in terms of how much you believe you will make in terms of premiums in
the P&C segment in '15 or in '16. The fourth and ﬁnal question is on the operating cash
Page 5 of 11



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2015-11-09

ﬂows. The number looks very high 658 million, including some CapEx that I would have
expected to be a bit higher 229 million. Can you guide us on the full year CapEx you
expect to book in 2015? Thank you very much.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

A - Luigi Ferraris

{BIO 7424315 <GO>}

So, Zanduka, this is Luigi. Let me start from the ﬁrst question related to the transformation
costs in the Q4. Well, as Francesco said, we are going to post in the last quarter the
accrual for related to the restructuring cost, which will take place in 2016. As long as the
other year, we are ﬁnalizing the discussion and the planning in the last quarter. And here
we are talking about a size which is going to be a little bit lower than last year, because
last year we had (inaudible)accrual for a total consideration of EUR300 million plus. This
year, we are going to be lowering that even if as we said, we are going to post an accrual
which will be very close to that number, which means that in the last quarter, you will see
some one-oﬀ item as Francesco said, which will inﬂuence the expected proﬁtability in the
fourth quarter. Of course, I'm not in a position to say what will be the sign, but I leave it to
you the calculation of what could be the impact of this one-oﬀ item, which will be fully
concentrated in the fourth quarter (inaudible).
When we talk about headcount reduction, we report the average because we have to
understand that in this Company, we are dealing with also temporary workers, which
inﬂuences the number per se. So if we talk about the impact in terms of cost reduction, as
I said before, the total cost of personnel (inaudible)about EUR120 million. And I can say
that, starting in the region of EUR50 million is related to eﬀective volume -- number
reduction. We do expect that in the fourth quarter this number will further increase in
terms of expected reduction of the average workforce. But the positive impact on proﬁt
and loss just related to volumes is about EUR40 million, EUR45 million.
Going -- the other question were related to the expected evolution in terms of premiums
or revenues on the non-life business, well, we are starting to develop a new business
segment. And of course, it takes a while before launching this business. We are conﬁdent
that is going to be successful in the coming years. Thanks to our customer base and to
our strategic position, but we have to wait time and to be more speciﬁc, you need to wait
when we are going to present the new, the Industrial Plan in the coming year.
Cash ﬂow generation. Well, we have reported a level of CapEx which is the result also of
our rationalization optimization programs. Therefore, we do expect that the rates on a full
year basis or the value on full-year basis of CapEx will be in the region of EUR400 million,
taking also into account what we have spent up to now and what we have in our backlog.
But deﬁnitely, we do expect to be very eﬀective in rationalized optimizing the decision
when it comes to the CapEx evolution and in particular to spend our money better in a
more focused way. I would stop here.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Yeah, thank you.

A - Luigi Ferraris

{BIO 7424315 <GO>}
Page 6 of 11



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2015-11-09

Thank you.

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker
Thank you. The next question is coming from Alberto Villa, Intermonte.

FINAL

Q - Alberto Villa

{BIO 16005221 <GO>}

Hi, good evening to everyone. A few questions from my side as well. The ﬁrst one is on
the, question, if it's possible to have the AUM evolution, so the AUM that Poste Italiane
Group has got at the end of September broken down by the main areas and the same, if
possible, on the net inﬂows. And the second question is on the net inﬂows for asset
management. You just started with the launch of the ﬁrst, let's say, product coming from
the partnership with Anima. I was wondering if you can share with us, sort of general
targets on what you are expecting to generate in terms of net inﬂows in 2016 out of this
partnership, and eventually out of other -- the distribution of products of other asset
managers.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the third one, it's very interesting the slide at page 27 that allow us to understand
better how it move -- the movements between the single segments, but I was wondering
if you can give us any indication about the recharges that I understand were a little bit
lower for the ﬁnancial segment coming from mailing going forward, just to understand
how to model this number going forward if you can help us understanding that a little bit
better.
And the last one is on slide ﬁve regarding the evolution of the revenues for the single
divisions of the ﬁnancial services. Just trying to understand if fees from transaction
banking decrease of around 11% is something that we can assume as a good proxy of
what to expect going forward.

A - Francesco Caio

{BIO 1516226 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you very much. Let me address couple of your questions. On the Anima
products, as you said, we just recently launched the service. Basically, at the end of the
month of September, we will be reporting some further indication of how the product is
performing obviously at the beginning of next year when we report the numbers of last
quarter. But in general, let me tell you that the way we look at this development is not
dissimilar from the one Luigi was talking about a second ago on health service insurance
and P&C. These are areas that we see as mid to long-term growth opportunities. We've
been encouraged by the reaction of our distribution netted [ph] to be Anima product is
obviously still marginal in the context of this year's numbers. I would ask Luigi then to
elaborate a bit on the movement of the various category of assets under custody.

A - Luigi Ferraris

{BIO 7424315 <GO>}

Yes. Well, ﬁrstly just to complete the ﬁrst part of the question, the assets under
management or administration if you want, because I think, in order to provide you with a
global picture, I'll try to give you the breakdown as of September 2015 of what we have in
terms of asset under administration management. When we talk about for instance, postal

Page 7 of 11



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2015-11-09

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

savings at the end of September, we have (inaudible) of assets under administration. This
is just a picture at the end of September, it is not the average. It is a picture.
Then we have about EUR100 million which is related to the insurance works, to be
speciﬁc, EUR97.5 billion then we have asset under management for EUR5.4 billion. So the
total value of asset under management is about EUR103 billion. Then we have the current
account deposit for a total consideration of EUR44.9 billion. So all together, we should
lend about EUR470 billion, EUR471 billion in total.
Moving to the other question, and if I'm not wrong, you were asking about the recharge
from the diﬀerent segment. First of all, let me conﬁrm that we had a decline in September
in terms of recharge from the mail and parcel to the ﬁnancial services of about EUR120
million. This is the outcome of the change in the transfer price policy deﬁned at the
beginning of the year eﬀective from 1st of January of this year, which is now based on a
percentage of the total revenues of the ﬁnancial services. Roughly speaking, we're talking
about 80%, something around 80% plus of the total revenues as a parameter to be used
to calculate the recharge of the costs of the (inaudible) again from mail and parcel to the
ﬁnancial services.
Just bear in mind that there are some other minor items, so very, very minor related to
some costs that are in the book of the mail and parcels, which are recharged to ﬁnancial
services, for instance, some IT costs, but the vast majority is -- the 100% is related to the
sales network. And I mean this is expected to continue also across -- around the year. So
we do expect by the end of the year to have a decline in this recharge on the basis of this
new transfer price policy, which is by the way also in line with the best practice and the
Bank of Italy indication.
Then I think there was another question related to the fees from transaction banking, how
do we -- how -- do we consider this minus 11%? Well, I think it's probably we do expect a
slight improvement, but the 10% type is a decline that we can consider reasonable for the
entire year. There might be some recovery at the end of the year, but bottom line we are
talking about 10% decline.

Q - Alberto Villa

{BIO 16005221 <GO>}

Okay, thank you. Thank you very much.

A - Luigi Ferraris

{BIO 7424315 <GO>}

Welcome.

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) So the next question is coming from Anna Adamo,
Autonomous Research. Please Anna, go ahead.

Q - Anna Adamo

{BIO 16893946 <GO>}

Page 8 of 11



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2015-11-09

Hi, good afternoon everyone. My ﬁrst question is related to the bond portfolio. Can you
quantify how much realized gains have contributed to the operating proﬁt of BancoPosta
in 3Q? And the second question is related to that, and is regarding the duration of the
portfolio, which has increased a lot during the nine months. Have you have a target in
mind regarding duration, do you expect it to further increase the duration of the portfolio
or should we expect this to remain stable? And ﬁnally, my question is regarding the 1.2
billion receivables from (inaudible) and when do you expect this cash to ﬁnally come in?
Thank you.

A - Luigi Ferraris

{BIO 7424315 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, thank you. So with regard to the ﬁrst question, in 2014 we have reported a capital
gain of about EUR339 million, EUR340 million, whilst this year we have reported EUR100
million more, so about EUR440 million. So there is a diﬀerence of EUR140 million. When it
comes to the portfolio duration, yes, we have extended during the course of this year,
because we have changed a little bit our portfolio by extending the maturity and by
buying some new bond with longer maturity. But in the meantime, we have further
beneﬁtted of the interest rate scenario, which today as you know is improved versus what
we have seen, for instance, at the end of June. Thanks also to driving decision [ph]. And
that's why at the end of September, we have up calculated an unrealized gains in the
region of about EUR4.9 billion. The strategy here is the same, there are no change. Our
target is to maintain a stable return or stable level of revenues with regards to the
management portfolio of this cash, this assets in the region of a couple of billion euro per
annum. As of now, I think it is good that we have been able to extend the maturity, but we
have also taken advantage of the current interest rates on that.

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker
Okay, thank you. The next question is from (inaudible).

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Hi, good evening to everybody. I have a couple of questions and a follow-up on a
previous question. The ﬁrst one is related to the -- you reported good improvement in
volumes in the postal business in the third quarter. Just wondering if you can give us an
indication of what is happening in terms of volumes after the kick in of the price
restructuring?
The second one is related to the parcel business. You provided the trend in volumes, but I
haven't seen trend in revenues in the nine months, maybe my mistake. If you can give us
an indication and also a general comment on volumes trend for the overall market. And
then a follow-up on the Zanduka question on the transformation cost that you are going
to book in the fourth quarter. You said that last year, just a clariﬁcation, you charged 300
million, I was wondering 408 reported in your 2014 accounts, if you can kindly clarify.
Thank you.

A - Francesco Caio

{BIO 1516226 <GO>}

First of all couple of comments on your questions on the postal business. You haven't
missed anything. We haven't reported the breakdown in revenues. We've reported the
Page 9 of 11



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2015-11-09

FINAL

integrated revenues of postal parcels and then the breakdown in volume. And I think this
is going to be like this for a while, as we continue the restructuring of the cost base in the
processes that are to certain extent common.
The other thing that you were asking is the evolution of volume and price and the impact
of the recent price adjustment, if I understand correctly -- said in the past, the prices have
been adopted in the ﬁrst half of the month of October. We intend to report and give
some visibility to the market about the impact and the consequent price elasticity of the
curve when we report numbers for Q4, which is going to be with the full year. And I don't
know if Luigi want to --

A - Luigi Ferraris

{BIO 7424315 <GO>}

Yes, with regards to the accrual related to the pre-incentive program reported in 2014, let
me be a little bit very speciﬁc. The actual number say that, we have reported in total about
EUR400 million, but the portion of that was related to 2014 and the portion of that was
related to the following year. The portion related to the following year is in the region of
EUR250 million. And we therefore all in all, last year we spent just a little bit lower or
something in the region of EUR400 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

What I said this year with regards to the expected accrual related to pre-retirement
programs in 2016, we expect something in the region of EUR300 million. That's what we
said, but it is too early to say, because we are still ﬁnalizing the exact number as Francesco
said in the second quarter. So it will be lower than last year all in all and it is clear, but the
precise number is not yet there.

Q - Unidentiﬁed Participant
Yeah. Thank you for the clariﬁcation.

A - Unidentiﬁed Speaker
Thank you. (Operator Instructions). Okay, thank you. I understand there are no more
questions, thank you very much for (inaudible) this call. Of course the Investor Relations
department will remain available for any further request. Thank you very much and
(inaudible) thank you.

A - Francesco Caio

{BIO 1516226 <GO>}

Thank you.

Operator
Thank you. That will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation,
ladies and gentlemen, you may now disconnect.

Page 10 of 11



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2015-11-09

Page 11 of 11

