Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

Q2 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

David Louis Richardson, Deputy Group Chief Executive & MD UK Corporate Business
Rodney Malcolm Cook, Group Chief Executive Office & Director
Simon George Thomas , Group Chief Financial Officer & Director

Other Participants
Andrew J. Crean, Analyst
Gordon Aitken, Analyst
Greig N. Paterson, Analyst
Jon M. Hocking, Analyst
Oliver George Nigel Steel, Analyst
Vishal Govindram Bhatia, Fund Manager

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION

Bloomberg Transcript

Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Right. Good morning, everyone. I'm Rodney Cook, CEO of the JRP Group. For those of
you listening in on the phone, I'm joined by my CFO, Simon Thomas and our Deputy Chief
Executive, David Richardson today. I'd like to thank Numis for the use of these conference
facilities this morning and I welcome all of you joining us and we certainly do appreciate
your continued interest in JRP.
So, here is the agenda. As usual, I'll start by giving you a brief update on how we see our
business. Simon will take you through the numbers in more detail, and David will
importantly take you through our capital position. And after that, I'll share with you some
perspectives on the future for our company and as usual, we will conclude with your
questions.
Before I get into any of the numbers, I should highlight that technically we're reporting on
the second six months of an 18-month accounting period which will end on the 31st of
December because as you know we're aligning the accounting periods of both
Partnership and Just Retirement to a calendar-year period. However, in the presentation,
you'll see that we're focused on our performance for the first half of this calendar year
and on historic pro forma numbers wherever possible on a calendar-year basis.
So, the highlights. So, you've, no doubt, already seen two important operating highlights
are in the results and that is the increased synergy expectations and the improved new

Page 1 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

business margin, both of which we're very pleased with. The merger has given us impetus
and these are some of the fruits of that merger, although there is plenty more to come.

FINAL

We're now sufficiently confident to be able to increase our synergy estimate from at least
£40 million to at least £45 million per annum by the end of 2018. And, indeed, we've
already achieved a run rate of almost £15 million, well ahead of expectations, and that's
mainly through reductions in head count.
Simon will give you more detail on that later. But what we have seen so far after we got
under the bonnet of the two companies means that we are confident to be able to say,
we will save more than we previously announced in August of 2015.
I'd like to pose in a note that this integration has not been easy for either of our teams
coming together, and I do want to thank all of my colleagues for their understanding and
continued focus on supporting so well our customers and partners.

Bloomberg Transcript

Separately, we did see rapid margin expansion from the start of the year, and we're now
back at pre-pension freedoms levels in terms of margin. This was clearly helped by price
increases rather than through cost reductions. So, we think there's more to come in the
second half and into the future accounting periods once those synergies are recognized.
The growth in new business profit has also been supplemented by a 7% increase in inforce profit growth, driven by higher reserves. I'll talk to you in a moment about our
prospects for our core markets. But as you'll see, we remain confident in the mediumterm outlook for Defined Benefit De-risking while our addressable market for Guaranteed
Income for Life or GIfL, will we expect growth driven by structural growth drivers and also
regulatory changes impacting on the internal vesting market, that's the critical driver. We
have announced our Solvency ratio for 30th of June at 134%. And the board is
comfortable with that ratio and its resilient capital position especially given our low level of
gearing.
The last thing I'd like to highlight before we move on to our markets and the results is
we've quoted here our tangible net asset value per share of £1.53 and an increased
Embedded Value per share at £2.27. So, a really solid first half of 2016 and, from my
perspective, a very encouraging start to a new merged entity.
So, to our markets. I'd like to just talk through firstly DB and then moving on to GIfL. DB is
firmly established within JRP as a key product for us and, of course, it accounted for the
majority of our 2015 sales. As you can see from the top left chart, there has been a clear
increase in the number of DB schemes closing to accruals and new members. Corporate
sponsors have already worked hard to stop their pension liabilities from continuing to
grow. And DB De-Risking helps them get those liabilities off their balance sheets.
Over time, this should mean that the £2 trillion remaining of DB liabilities not yet derisked,
may well be looking for a new home, perhaps initially via a (06:03) bulk buying and
eventually a buyout. And you can see on the top right-hand chart, how our active
members move to pensioners and how deferred members, over time, will move to
Page 2 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

FINAL

pensioners which, of course, is the area we concentrate on. So, that process represents a
huge opportunity for companies like JRP.
You will appreciate that current average pension scheme funding is well below the level
required to provide a full bulk buyout. But of course, each scheme is required to establish
a rolling 10-year plan to deal with the accounting deficits that they have. Over time, this
will significantly improve the funding situation, and it is then a matter of time before a full
buyout becomes a more affordable option for the schemes that we interrelate with.
But just to be clear, our addressable market at the moment is not £2 trillion. It's really, as I
pointed out in the top right, it's the buy-in subsection which derisks pensions already in
the course of payment. Now, typically, a scheme will already be holding gilts and bonds to
match its pensioner liabilities in that particular segment. And therefore, this makes the
level of gilt and bond holdings which we're showing in the bottom right-hand side of the
chart, which has been growing in the past decade. The gilts and bonds now make up
around £600 billion and, as I said, that has been steadily rising.

Bloomberg Transcript

In other words, our addressable market may be thought more around the £600 billion of
the £2 billion mark (08:01). Of course, you well know that the level of de-risking currently is
around £10 billion to £15 billion per year. So, hey, that indicates real potential for significant
future growth. Okay. So, that's why we're optimistic about our DB De-risking. And I can
confirm that our pipeline has never been bigger than in the past and this has actually
increased post-Brexit rather than decrease.
But what about the individual market, the GIfL market? The first half of 2016 total GIfL
market sales were 7% higher than the prior year for us, suggesting further signs of
improvement. And incidentally, our pro forma market share in the total market, not just
the underwritten or the open market, grew from 17% to 19%. Of course, our focus is more
on profit than market share. You'll see what the reason for that growth is in one minute.
If the individual GIfL market has now found its level, turning to the top right-hand side,
demographics should drive further long-term growth. And that chart at the top shows that
the numbers of men over state pension age or older (09:34) will increase by 1 million over
the next decade. Added to which importantly, the number of people retiring with more
substantial defined contribution savings will continue to grow and, of course, those
individuals need to convert those savings into some form of retirement income for
themselves, where in the past, more retirees would have had DB benefits supporting
them, and that won't be a feature of the future.
Of recent times, growth has been driven by the dynamics, however, in the bottom righthand – sorry, left-hand chart, which is focused on the open market. And just to be clear,
JRP only deals in the open market. Importantly, the open market is beginning to reclaim
some of the ground that it lost out to pension freedoms, which you can clearly see, the
drop from 60% to 41%. And that has helped our market share because that, in pound
terms, was a 22% increase in the amount of OMO sales.

Page 3 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

FINAL

It shows on that chart that the open market now represents 45% of sales, up from 41% in
calendar 2015, and that has increased our addressable market by a full 10%. You don't
have to be Einstein to work out that if the open market returns to 60% levels, then that
would be a full 50% increase in the JRP addressable market.
Now, that is the critical part of this chart and the shift from internal vesting to OMO is
being driven by the withdrawal of some life companies from internal vestings. We have
shared in the past our work with Phoenix, and you'll be well aware that the Prudent (11:48)
recently announced their intentions with respect to offering annuities going forward. Now,
if that business comes on to the open market, in some cases facilitated by our B2B
operation which we have where we run broking panels for companies, this will enable the
customer to get the best price and allows us then to compete for that business which was
closed to us in the past.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, importantly, referring now to guaranteed annuity rates or GARs, we're seeing
increased interest in broking GAR flows, which you might find a bit unusual. So, the policy
holder benefit doesn't normally change, but the pension company which no longer wishes
to keep the guaranteed annuities on their own balance sheet will offload this type of
business by paying a premium to another insurance company like us, and then we will pay
the lifetime income to the customer. The ABI estimates that GARs represent now 50% of
that internal market which hasn't been accessible to us.
So, in future years, if both GAR and non-GAR business begins to flow on to the open
market from the captive segment, then certainly there is room for significant increase in
our addressable market. And in the highlights, you'll see that we are the market leader in
the open market. So, certainly it is early days to call for a strong GIfL growth, but there's
certainly positive signs there to note.
Turning to some numbers. We have been making good use of our intellectual property to
take advantage of the growth opportunities that these markets offer. And therefore, we
have continued confidence in our ability to grow from here. The key driver, of course, is
both sales and reserves. And if we can grow our sales and importantly grow our reserves,
then the new business and in-force profit growth will surely both follow. And we believe
that those growth opportunities and dynamics remain firmly in place for us.
On the left-hand side, you'll see that GIfL sales have begun to improve, and I've just
explained why we think that that growth should continue in the medium term. The outlook
for DB sales, as I mentioned, is as robust as ever, although very clearly on the chart, the
extraordinarily strong performance in the fourth quarter of 2015 through Defined Benefit
drove, therefore, the rather quiet quarter in the first quarter of 2016, and it has set us up
for rather a challenging comparator for the 2016 fourth quarter, of course.
But as I mentioned, the DB market is picking up, and we took the rather unusual step
perhaps of announcing that since the 1st of July that we have written more than £330
million of DB business, and that means so far we've written more than twice the level of
the whole of the first half. And that was especially driven by the interest in the market as
what would happen post-Brexit.

Page 4 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

FINAL

The DB price – pipeline, as I mentioned, is as strong as it's ever been, indeed stronger,
and we remain confident in the medium-term growth prospects for that product.
Recognizing, as Simon tells you every time, it is a lumpy product in terms of sales from
quarter-to-quarter. Now, that is the sales side and then, of course, that's before we look
at margin improvement and our future cost savings.
On the right-hand chart, we have shown good growth in reserves which is our key profit
driver, even before the clear one-off jump of including Partnership into the group. Reserve
growth drives growth in in-force profit as we release the rather prudent margins that
Simon and the actuaries insist on setting aside.
And on a pro forma basis, just to give you an interesting statistic, the JRP Group has
achieved average growth in reserves each of the calendar years over the last five years of
25%. So, in terms of, are we a growing insurance company? I'd submit the 25% per annum
growth in reserves for each of the last five years, perhaps satisfies that criteria.

Bloomberg Transcript

Importantly, our inflows have significantly exceeded our outflows even during the difficult
period of 2014, 2015 when people obviously had a concern about the company's
prospects after the budget. And our inflow is more than double our current outflows at
the moment. That will drive future growth in reserves and therefore future growth in inforce profits.
Moving then to my last slide before I hand over to Simon, the usual KPIs I'll take you
through on the six months trading. Obviously for us, the highlights are the strong growth
in operating profit and the embedded value per share, which I've mentioned. We're
certainly proud, by the way, that we've managed to maintain our sales volumes despite
the DB business being pulled forward to 2015. And of course, when anyone does a
merger, there are potential scope for merger-related disruption in terms of sales. And
we've been positively received in the market both from an employee benefit consultant
perspective and also from IFRS, so that has not materialized.
The operating profit growth shown there is up 40%, and that was driven by more than
doubling of new business profit on a pro forma basis compared with the two companies
added together in 2015. Of course, the margin that we've highlighted to you, the return
of margins to pre-pension freedoms level has clearly driven that. And that was brought
about by the market pricing changes that we led in November 2015 and that has been
supported by strong mortgage yields throughout the first half.
Importantly, there is no synergy benefits included in the results to the 30th of June, so
there will be more to come. The embedded value is up on the chart on the far right by
12% year-to-date. Importantly, that is strongly boosted by bond markets, you've analyzed
the economic variances. But it does tend that a start £2.27 per share and the net tangible
asset value at £1.53 per share, I think, is a start comparative to the share price before 7
o'clock this morning.
Our 3% sales growth on the left-hand side was boosted by very strong start to
mortgages. And you are well aware of our broad target of 25% mortgages in relation to
Page 5 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

FINAL

retirement sales. You can do the sums. Importantly, what that means for us is we have a
very strong warehouse filled with mortgages ready to be absorbed by second half-year
retirement sales. And, of course, I've already shown you that DB sales have doubled
already.
So, the key message for me is the merger is working. It's already boosted our trading
performance in the first half and that is before we reaped any of the benefits of cost
savings which we've increased, of course, to £45 million. And I do believe the warehouse
and the margin improvement sets us up nicely for a strong second half to this year.
So, (21:02) time being. Simon, will you please take the guide through the results in more
detail? And then, David will take us through the capital.

Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Rodney and good morning. I'm going to take you through some of the key
financials and then hand over to David for him to look at our capital position. So, let's get
straight in looking at the analysis of operating profit.
As Rodney has already said, underlying pro forma operating profit rose by robust 40% to
£68 million in the six months to June. This impressive increase was driven by more than
doubling of our new business profit, supported by a more modest increase in the in-force
profit. The 121% increase in pro forma new business profits of £31 million was driven by a
significant increase in the margins. Retirement income sales, which excludes mortgages,
actually fell in the first half because of DB. But this was more than offset by margin
expansion. And as usual, I'll cover this in more detail in a moment.
The 7% increase in the in-force profit to £37 million was driven by 5% increase in opening
pro forma reserves and broadly stable in-force margins. Below the underlying operating
profit, we saw some small negatives in operating variances and normal group company
results. Reinsurance and bank finance costs rose slightly to £11 million from £9 million in the
comparative period and this is a result of including both JR's higher level of senior debt
and Partnership's hybrid debt for the whole period.
So, our pre-tax operating profit has risen by 12% on a pro forma basis. Although, I'd also
note that statutory operating profit rose by about 55% given the first-time inclusion of the
Partnership earnings stream for the second three months of the reporting period.
Now, just looking at the top-line in more detail. Pro forma sales were up 3% in the six
months to June. This was driven by strong increase in the GIfL and lifetime mortgage
sales, which was largely offset by expected lower DB sales.
Rodney has already touched to the reasons for our growth in GIfL. The key is that the
OMO is beginning to recover and it looks set to continue as the internal vestings
companies review their models.

Page 6 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

FINAL

On the mortgage side, we took advantage of buoyant lifetime mortgage pricing
conditions in the first half to right around 50% of our Retirement Income volumes and
that's well ahead of our normal target level of 25%. Now, this will naturally fall back over
time, but we already have plenty of mortgages in the tank to fuel second half Retirement
Income premiums.
As for DB, the 49% fall is hardly surprising given the rush to write business ahead of
Solvency II, which accelerated business into Q4 2015 which would otherwise have fallen to
the first half of 2016. But as Rodney has already said, we've made a strong start to the
second half.
So, if I just talk about DB in a little bit more detail, we are always saying it, DB is a lumpy
business. And Q1 and Q2 proved this yet again. If you see from the blue bars how the Q4
spike has been followed by relatively quiet Q1 and Q2.

Bloomberg Transcript

On the other hand, the quarterly trailing run rate shown by the gold bars has maintained
the roughly £200 million per quarter rate we established in Q4 2015. I've also shown on
this chart how the £330 million we've already written in Q3, now means that the quarterly
average is moving up and will do so even if we write no further DB business in September.
This means that Q3 2016 will be our highest ever quarter outside of the Q4 seasonal
piece.
Rodney has already explained the structural drivers and the structural growth drivers in the
DB de-risking market. In the nearer term, I can say that our pipeline continues to grow. Our
sense is that many trustees are now beginning to accept that low yields are here to stay.
In other words, they're de-risking now rather than holding out for the market to reverse.
Provided they've already put their pensioner liabilities into gilts and corporate bonds, the
affordability of the transaction is more or less unchanged from about a year ago.
Now, turning to new business margins. I'm naturally very pleased with the 121% pro forma
new business profit increase from £14 million to £31 million. This was driven by a significant
increase in the margins from 2% to 5%, which has more than offset the decline in the DB
volumes. This is taking us back to the old – the levels old JR used to achieve prior to the
pension freedoms.
Now, in terms of the key drivers of this increase, I'll probably flag three things. Firstly, we
benefited from the market-wide GIfL price increases that took place in Q4 2015. These
have generally stuck. There've been pricing discipline that's being maintained within the
market. Secondly, the margins were also helped by attractive mortgage yields which have
been assisted by falling risk-free rates.
And finally, you may recall that the low new business volumes depressed Partnerships H1
2015 margins due to cost overruns, which creates a slightly flattering comparative. As
usual, we only assume that 25% of the premiums are invested in mortgages for the new
business profit purposes.

Page 7 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

FINAL

Now looking ahead, I'd probably suggest to you that assuming there's no significant
change in economic circumstances, the full-year margin is likely to increase to around 6%.
Now, I say that because pricing discipline appears to be maintained in the first few months
of the second half.
However, on top of that, there are a number of other positive factors that I'll point to.
Firstly, we've highlighted the DB volumes in the second half are going to be higher than
the first half. This will naturally create positive operational leverage which will improve the
overall new business margin.
Secondly, we'll also start to see the incremental benefits of our synergy savings start to
come through, albeit only in the final quarter.
And thirdly, the other thing I've mentioned is the fact that mortgage yields have continued
to be strong in the first few months of the second half, as I would also flag the
competition has just picked up in the last month or so.

Bloomberg Transcript

And finally, you'll recall that indexation means that the DB is a better fit to our mortgages
than the GIfL product and, therefore, captures a slightly better margin. The greater
proportion of DB in the second half is also likely to lead to an increase in the overall
margin itself. As ever, we'll give you a better view later in the year.
Now, just turning to in-force margins, it's good to see that the 5% increase in the opening
(28:48) reserves has driven a 7% increase in the in-force profits with broadly stable inforce margins. This margin stability follows our recent decision to recognize mortgage
returns on a compounding rather than a straight line basis, as we mentioned and
explained back in March. I just wanted to remind you that this didn't change the overall
economic return on the mortgage. But so far as in-force profits are concerned, it does
slightly delay profit recognition. This is why the in-force margin is lower now than it was in
2013 and 2014.
Now, just to touch on merger benefits. We're delighted to be able to announce significant
progress so far on the synergy benefits of the merger. On the left-hand side of this chart
is a reminder of our commitment when we announced the deal to drive £40 million worth
of savings and in what parts of the company these savings could potentially fall.
You'll see that we also originally targeted 30% in the first year or a run rate of about £12
million. As at the end of August, we've already achieved synergies with an annualized run
rate of £14.9 million. So, we're well ahead of the £12 million target.
We've also achieved a greater understanding of the merged cost base, which has
allowed us to raise our cost saving target from at least £40 million to at least £45 million.
So, there are more savings to make than we expected. And so far, we're making them
faster than we'd hoped.

Page 8 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

FINAL

Finally, from me, I just wanted to touch on the statutory view. You may have noticed that
our pro forma figures stopped at the operating profit level, so here is the statutory
operating profit. It's slightly different from the pro forma version because (30:41) includes
three months of partnership. However, I just wanted to highlight the below the line items
and these are dominated (30:47) two large credits. First is the £145 million investments
and economic profit.
This is the line that we typically don't spend a lot of attention on, as it includes the effect
of economic changes on our balance sheet and this volatility normally flattens out over
time. This year, we've seen a significant reversal from the previous year.
As you know, we saw heightened interest rate volatility in the last six months. The current
period saw a substantial 90-basis point fall in gilt rates, which was especially pronounced
in the few days following Brexit vote. But note, the comparative periods saw an increase
of about 30 basis points. These interest rate falls have increased the value of our surplus
assets and our interest rate hedges. This line also includes the effects of prudent yield
deductions from our expected new business margin and sales mix restrictions. And it also
includes the effect of bond spread changes.

Bloomberg Transcript

Given that we match our assets and liabilities, we always show market volatility lightness
(31:54) below the line even though this time, it drove a large gain. The gain on acquisition
of Partnership is a bit of an accounting anomaly, reflecting the fact that on the day the
merger was actually settled, the value of JR shares, issued in consideration was slightly
below Partnership's fair value of net assets. Accounting principles mean this gain has to be
taken straight through the P&L account.
That's it from me. I'm now going to hand over to David, to discuss the capital and
dividends.

David Louis Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Great. Thanks, Simon. Good morning, everybody. So, let's start off with the capital
position. As you can see, we had a Solvency II capital coverage ratio of 134% for the
group, as at the 30 of June. This comprise own funds of approximately £1.9 billion and an
SCR of around £1.5 billion, giving a surplus at June of £491 million.
The equivalent ratio was 136% at year-end 2015. So, overall, it has fallen by just 2% over
the first six months of the year, which is a resilient result during a time of unprecedented
falls in risk-free rates. It's important to note that JRP's own funds comprises only £100
million of Tier 2 capital at the 30 of June, meaning that Tier 1 accounts were
approximately 95% of the group's own funds.
To put this in context, in the bottom charts, you can see how JRP's capital position
compares to other companies in the life sector if we look at just Tier 1 capital. So, what
we've done here is for each company calculate the Solvency II capital coverage ratio using
unrestricted Tier 1 capital. And on this basis, the gold bar in the middle, you can see that
our capital position at 127% is right in the middle of the pack.
Page 9 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

FINAL

You may also remember the debt capital markets are on the agenda at some point
together with other capital management tools available such as reinsurance and asset
optimization for the new Solvency II environment. So, there is scope for further
improvement. But we think that we are already moving in the right direction on capital in a
number of respects.
At first of all, as I just said, our current capital position is comfortable both in terms of its
level and also its composition. And we've also demonstrated its resilience at a time of
unusual volatility. Second of all, stronger margins have significantly reduced new business
strain helped by firmer pricing of Solvency II. And thirdly, as Simon had just explained, we
should see further modest margin expansion due to the merger expense synergies
although competition in the lifetime mortgage may partly offset this.
Taken together, this means we are making good progress on the capital front. And this is
a topic that we'll cover in more detail at our Capital Markets Day in 20 days' time.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's move on to sensitivities. Here we summarize our Solvency II balance sheet sensitivity
to a range of possible movements. As there's been understandably a lot of interest in
what impact falling swap rates can have on the Solvency II position of JRP and our peers.
So, to help provide greater transparency on this, we have shown the impact of a 50 basis
point fall in swap rates on two different basis. First, without any recalculation of the
transitional measure on technical provision or TMTP; and, secondly, showing the impact of
that recalculation.
Significant to the choice of 50 basis points to this sensitivity is that the PRA has stated that
it will consider a sustained change of 50 basis points or more in risk-free rates to be a
reasonable trigger for recalculating the TMTP. What those interest rate sensitivities show
is that we can absorb changes of 50 basis points or less without any changes to the TMTP.
And it also show that the capital coverage ratio is relatively insensitive after taking into
account the recalculation of the TMTP.
Equity falls and credit spread widening are not a concern for us. We have no equity
investments and Solvency II mechanic means spread widening is, actually slightly beneficial
as you can see in the sensitivity.
In relation to property, we already conservatively reserved for a 10% fall in property values
over the next 12 months. And the sensitivity in the chart shows the effect of a further 10
percentage point drop, implying a total hit of 20% compared to current property value.
As far as longevity is concerned, a 5% one-off increase would clearly have an effect, but
recent trends in broader population longevity and our own experience do not suggest any
immediate concern in this area. And just for the avoidance of doubt, none of these
scenarios makes any allowance for management actions with the exception obviously the
TMTP recalculation one.
And then, finally from me dividends, the board has proposed an interim dividend of £0.011
per share, covering the six months from January to June 2016. Technically, this is our
Page 10 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

FINAL

second interim dividend for the 18-month accounting period to December 2016. In each of
the last two calendar years, Just Retirement paid an interim dividend of £0.011 and a final
dividend of £0.022 per share, but in fact the timing was the other way around to this year
as Just Retirement was then using a June financial year-end.
So without preempting the decision of the board for the final six months of 2016, we are
reiterating that JRP will continue with Just Retirement's previous policy which has been to
pay an interim dividend of around one-third of the total amount for the year.
So, with that, I'll hand back to Rodney for some closing remarks.

Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Thank you, David. So, to sum up, if I might remind you of what we see as a very attractive
equity story. Our chosen markets retain fundamental growth drivers. The individual
guaranteed income for life market is improving. And the long-term growth drivers are also
intact there. In addition, a shift away from internal vesting market going forward after
pension freedoms put this on hold, the trend is now reasserting itself and we look
forward to growth in that while customers have a wider choice to make it retirement.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have spoken of the £2 trillion DB de-risking opportunity, which surely must be
compelling and it implies a much larger market than we currently have around £15 billion.
And we do look forward to many years of growth here.
Our unrivalled intellectual property continues to enable us to price most effectively. And
we use that IP to create competitive advantage in both the individual GIfL market and the
DB markets. And we intend to share further details on an update to our intellectual
property at the Capital Markets Day on the 5 of October.
Fourthly, David has spoken about our resilient capital position, from which we have the
opportunity to grow, especially given the relative low level of gearing that he's clearly set
out for you. As Simon pointed out, margin expansion is reducing our new business capital
strain and that is before we see the benefits, which should come through from the cost
synergies we're achieving.
He also highlighted the rapid pace at which we are tackling those cost synergy
opportunity and we were delighted to announce the increase in the target after just six
months to £45 million for 2018. The savings we have already achieved will make a material
difference to our P&L in 2017 with more to come.
So, from my perspective, a reasonably good productive year so far, with real confidence
with respect to the second half of the year. And Simon has given you guidance with
respect to the margins we would see if the trends continue. And his guidance was with
respect to the whole year, and not just the second half.

Page 11 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

FINAL

So, before we open up for questions, I want to highlight the Capital Markets Day. We'd
like to take interested observers and investors through. It's being held here on the 5 of
October at Numis in the morning and we will be going through our business model in
more detail. And while we think we can win in those structural growth market. And we do
hope that you can join us then.
So, we'll take questions first from the floor before checking whether we have any
questions.

Q&A
A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Yes. Gordon.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks. It's Gordon Aitken from RBC. Annuities are, I think is great opportunity and
ultimately very profitable business, but they are capital intensive and the more you write
and the solvency will go down. So, firstly, what level of solvency margin would trigger a
need for more capital? And secondly, I mean (42:32) view the shares are where they are
it's because the market (42:35) acquisitions, I mean, David mentioned you have options
here, so you mentioned debt issuance, you mentioned reinsurance and asset
optimization. Can you confirm that you will explore all of those probably in that order for
equity issuance?
And just finally on debt, can you talk about your progress towards getting a credit rating
and what do you think your debt capacity is and maybe (43:03) number that we expect
which is £250 million? Thank you.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Okay. If I just comment on the debt, there's a lot of questions there. And I'll pass the other
over to David. So, clearly, the reason for going to the point of showing our equity backed
ratio is to, hopefully get across to the market that we see ourselves as well-placed, vis-àvis our competitors, in terms of the equity we've already received kindly from investors.
So, yes, we don't believe when you see that chart that there is any need, at this point, to
ask our equity investors to move our position and that the options that David clearly set
out in terms of reinsurance and the debt markets are that the options we would pursue to
give ourselves greater flexibility or to grow even faster than what we might otherwise
plan.
The limit to your Tier 2 debt is 50% of the SCR and there was a chart. Forgive me. I won't
recall exactly the amount, but it's very substantial.

Q - Gordon Aitken

{BIO 3846728 <GO>}

(44:22).

Page 12 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

FINAL

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

So, the SCR is £1.4 billion and we've issued £100 million of debt. So, however, the other
constraint there, Gordon, is your leverage ratio. So, we would be mindful of what the
market would see as a reasonable leverage ratio, vis-à-vis our competitors and it might
be 25% to 30% range rather than you can do your own sums if you use £700 million of
debt. That might be the limit, but that's not what we would think to pursue. But I think that
would answer your question is, is £250 million the limit, we would think that it's not as low
as that. And you can do the sums to work out what 25% to 30% leverage might be.
So I'm happy with the order that you said which would have further equity write-down at
the bottom. And I think this clearly shows – and while David obviously saying right in the
middle of the pack, I don't actually call that much difference between 128%, 128%, 129%
and 127%, recognizing that the (45:38) 132%, 134% and 151% are obviously higher. David,
can you just pick up on the capital consumption?

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. So, let me just build on Rodney's comments, just the avoidance of doubt. Looking at
asset optimization in the Solvency II world and reinsurance is kind part of the day job. It's
just that the metrics and the rules of the game of Solvency II have changed, so we're
taking a fresh look at that and particularly as a merged entity doing that.
In terms of an absolute solvency level or a particular trigger. And I think what we'll say in
that point at this stage is the board is comfortable with where the company is at the
moment and comfortable with the level of resilience that we're demonstrating through
the sensitivities. So, we will continue to explore the better option that will, frankly as – I
think Rodney has covered most of it give us additional flexibility. We see no need to kind
of deviate from that track.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

And as we promised, the 5 of October is when we are going to give you a much big
exposé on capital and plan for this morning. Yes, Greig.

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Good morning, gentlemen. Greig Paterson, KBW. Three questions, as usual. The
warehousing of the lifetime mortgages as they get transferred across to the new
business margin, that should boost the Solvency II ratio if I'm not mistaken. I wonder if you
could just sort of quantify the effect once you've used up the warehousing this year.
Second question, we've seen Scottish Widows enter, we've seen Canada Life come back,
we've seen Legals write its first medically underwritten annuity. And we've heard Aviva say
that they will sharpen their pencil in the second half of the year. I was wondering if you're
seeing any of those fix or any views on where you see competitive forces for the more
important second half of the year in bulk?

Page 13 of 24



FINAL

Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

And then a third question, assuming that you issue, what I think is about £400 million of
debt (47:53) reinsurance market, it should boost your ratio to round about 150, 170. At
that point, I'm trying to understand what your sort of level of annuity growth can be,
because I think that's a key rewriting catalyst and how that fits into the dividend policy,
because you're being rather quiet on the dividend policy and unfortunately that's the
other lever. So, I mean, the key question you've heard is, how quickly – what's the sort of
CAGR (48:18) you can actually finance once you've pulled all the (48:22) levers? That's
what I'm interested to know.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Okay. Well, I'm not sure we're going to actually give you an exact number, but on the 5 of
October, we'll enable you to calculate more of this. If I do the last one, clearly, we've
spoken about the debt opportunity and the ability that that will give us in greater flexibility.
David will answer the questions on warehousing. And also, he is the Managing Director of
our Defined Benefit business, so he can talk to you explicitly about the DB competition.

Bloomberg Transcript

The critical issue on warehousing, Greig is that we are only recognizing 25% of those
mortgages. So, you can do the sums. Of course, we have written more mortgages since
July. We didn't explicitly cover those, because we thought the volume of DB was the
important one to highlight to the market. So, we're pretty well placed we feel for the
volumes that – of DB business and GIfL business that we'd like to write for the balance of
the year.
And it is, as Simon said, the operational leverage is important to the margin as well. So
just simply the absorption of my costs and Simon's costs, we get paid the same and
spread over half the business or twice the business, all of those costs come through. I
think you can do your own calculations as to what the – if you add £300 million, £200
million, £400 million onto the debt, you can do your own calculations to what the ratio
would be.
But, David, I think it is important you let Greig understand the one important thing, Greig
is, we do actually have to hold capital with respect to those unmatched mortgages. So
that mortgages writing has already consumed capital, that's why we're comfortable with
the resilience of the ratio, that extra mortgages has absorbed capital and then it comes –
the margins don't come until we match.

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Yeah. Yeah. So, (50:55) specific point. You're absolutely right, Greig, you do take a bit of a
capital strain if you're writing more mortgages than you can match to annuities, either GIfL
or DB. And so, there will be a little bit of a benefit from that in second half, but it's not
going to be a material amount. And because what we absolutely only reflect 25% of the
new business profit in the IFRS numbers, we do aim to match our assets and liabilities as
efficiently as possible in our Solvency II balance sheet. So, it's not like we're rigid in the
25% matching. We will utilize much of those cash flow as possible. (51:31) but it's not
material amount.

Page 14 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

FINAL

On the DB markets, I mean, first thing to say is we do welcome competition. I think
ultimately this is going to be a supply-constrained market rather than a demandconstrained market. So, as seen Canada Life, Scottish Widows participating in the market
and overlapping in some of the size of transactions that we look at is actually something
we welcome, because that still tend to simulate market activity in itself and tends their
trustees via their advisers to put blocks up for trade.
In terms of how to translate into pricing though, it's been pretty flat the pricing postSolvency II in terms of what the trustees will see. But I would point out that we have been
seeing a pickup in our mortgage yields. So, at the end, (52:26) trustees are seeing the
same price that can sometimes translate into a better margin for us, because of the
pickup on the lifetime mortgages. (52:33) ebb and flow as well, but overall, we're pleased
with the margins of getting on the DB space. And the outlook for the rest of the year is
good. It is always helpful to get your runs on the board early, so the fact that we've done
over £330 million in Q3 is again something which we're happy to have achieved.
The last thing, just one small point to clarify on reinsurance, Greig, and just to manage
expectations. Reinsurance is not aimed at improving the existing ratio, because anything
you do on the back book will pretty much get diluted away on the transitional (53:07)
trigger as it was a material transaction recalculates transitional. It's more about minimizing
the capital strain on new business that they look at reinsurance management.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Just to conclude, I'll throw back up slide four which is the DB market. It came to our
attention from some questions probably not from this floor, but from actual investors,
investor fund managers, there was a thought that we concentrated on small schemes.
What I want to clarify to you is that we've concentrated on small transactions. So, we're
quite comfortable £200 million maybe £300 million size of transaction. But people
thought that that might have implied that we were dealing with companies and schemes
that had less than 1,000 members.
Just to be absolutely clear, these big schemes and we've dealt with 20 very large
companies that have had a lot more than 1,000 members because they are de-risking in
tranches. They're de-risking their pensioners. And you can have a Fortune 100 (54:23)
company de-risking £100 million, £200 million. Sure, we wouldn't take on the whole
scheme at £3 billion or something, but we have done multiple deals with 20 large
schemes in the UK. Just to be clear, some people do think that that our addressable
market was only tiny (54:46) companies. That is not the case and most particularly in top
slicing. Oliver.

Q - Oliver George Nigel Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank. So, three questions. First, the sort of assumptions you used
between the two original companies on your new business margins...

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Yeah.
Page 15 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

Q - Oliver George Nigel Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

FINAL

...before you merged were seemingly quite different. So, I was wondering what the new
business margin you're now reporting on, what sort of assumptions you're using relative
to the original JR and Partnership assumptions and what's changed there? Don't make it
too complicated, because (55:31).
Secondly, you've got I think 22% of your bond portfolio in bank bonds. So, I'm wondering if
those count for the matching adjuster (55:43) and actually (55:44) doing holding bank
bonds given that you're a highly leveraged financial to begin with.
And then, the third question I've got is the capital, the SCR as a percentage of the gross
liabilities increased from 8% to roughly 10%, I think it's actually 8.2% to 9.8% actually to be
fair. I know it's a bit more complicated than that. But I wonder if you can just talk us through
what the increase was other than the (56:12)...

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

So, Simon, can you...

Q - Oliver George Nigel Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

... (56:13) business?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

...can you quickly cover the assumptions? And David, the SCR? Just to be clear, of course,
we're pretty comfortable with the fact that the PRA has helped to ensure that the banks
that we invest in are in a much, much stronger position this year than in 2008 and 2009.
And the holdings we had with them, none of them let us down at that point. So, we're not
uncomfortable with investing in UK banks given the capital scrutiny that they're subjected
to bit like insurance companies. Assumptions, alignment of assumption, Simon?

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Yeah. Oliver, we took a look at the different approaches associated with the calculation of
the new business margin. And essentially, we've adopted the JR approach, which
essentially caps the amount of mortgages that you can count into the new business value
at 25%. Previously, Partnership used to take a higher percentage through and particularly
for some of the DB schemes with some higher percentage through. So, we've taken that
approach to have that consistent across the (57:23).
And the second thing in JR, we also took what I would describe as the prudent deductions
for asset yields and also the mortgage yields. We put some deductions through against
the new business value, which then we've done effectively to make sure that the actual
yield (57:41) sustainable. And if we got those yields, they would naturally come through the
economic variance line below the operating profit. That has continued and that's what
other things that's coming to (57:49) £145 million.

Page 16 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

We might remind, everyone, Simon, that the JRL company is writing all long-tail business
JV in GIfLs and the Plateau Partnership life company (58:03) is writing Care and Protection.
So, it was appropriate to continue with the JR approach.

FINAL

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

So, the approach has been consistent from one period to the next of the JRP (58:13).

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Right. David, just quickly, the SCR, 10%, 8.2 (58:17).

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

It's almost entirely driven by the fall in risk-free rates. So, the fact that you've got a much
lower discount rate respectively inflate the whole balance sheet to make the assets,
liabilities and the capital that bigger.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Right. One last question here. Andrew, and then we'll check on the phone and then come
back to the room.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

It's Andrew Crean, Autonomous. Three questions, actually. On the embedded value, you
don't reconcile the free surplus from the start to end year. So, we can't work out what's
happened to free services. Could you reinstate that and could you tell us what the free
surplus was at June?
Secondly, in very simple terms, could you just tell us in Solvency II wealth (59:01), how
much capital was needed to write the business you wrote in the first six months and what
the net outflow on business which maturing was it (59:10)? It must be possible to give us
very simple numbers.
Thirdly, in terms of further use of transitionals if interest rates fall further. As I'd
understood, the PRA states that you can't take further transitionals if benefit – if the
capital under Solvency II basis falls below the Solvency I basis. Are you restricted on that?
And therefore, is that sensitivity pertinent to you?

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Right. So, Simon if you answer the question on free surplus or you can call on David to
help if that's required. Andrew, unfortunately for today we are not giving detailed
numbers on capital consumption. That is being saved for the 5th of October and we will
go into much greater detail. And David, transitional explanation there, the movement. So,
Simon first on the free surplus.

Page 17 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

On the free surplus, we haven't got that disclosure in here. We will look at that possibly
for year-end. We will consider that.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

FINAL

In Solvency II.

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

(01:00:22)

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

We will consider that possibly for October 5 and we'll come back to you on that. Okay?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

So, on your question on the transitionals. You're absolutely right. There is a limit applied to
how much transitionals you can bring through the balance sheet, and such that the total
financial resources that you set aside in Solvency II must be at least as great as they were
under the old Solvency I regime. And so, what happens, Andrew, is that as risk-free rates
fall, what you would have had to hold in Solvency I increases as does Solvency II. So, you
recheck that comparison every time you do it, a transitional recalculation. So – and the fact
that that limit needs to be checked each time is reflecting the sensitivities that you've got.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

It doesn't move pound for pound, but they moving in the same direction.

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Exactly.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Can I check? Is there anyone on the phone who's keen to ask a question because we
have one more question here.

Operator
No questions on the phone line at the moment, sir.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Okay. (01:01:27).

Page 18 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you. Jon Hocking for Morgan Stanley. Two questions, please. I just wonder whether
interest cover was the only constraint on the additional debt issuance? First question.
The second question, just thinking about interest rate risk to capital, obviously, the
transitionals are protecting the back book. But (01:01:48) the reserve growth you've got
and you're not fully reinsured, I just wondered whether the interest rate risk becomes a
bigger issue going forward for the rates down? Thanks.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Simon, do you want to do debt and the one on the debt interest rate coverage?

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Yeah. On the debt considerations, yeah, you're right, Jon, clearly, one of the key
consideration, no matter the fact that you could go up to £700 million theoretically, is the
interest rate cover slides. And, obviously, in terms of pitching the right sort of level, we've
got to take accounts as to exactly how much we can service on an ongoing basis. And, of
course, underlying to that is the coupon (01:02:28) itself that were likely to go in the
marketplace because that will be part of the consideration as to when we look at the debt
market at any particular point in time.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

What rates are you (01:02:37-01:02:43)

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

I would love to target the highest rate I can possibly (01:02:44), to be honest with you. But
no, we haven't got any target in that sense. But, clearly, we are – as we said previously,
we're exploring the options on the debt capital market side and it's something we'll
continue to do.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

There have been successful unrated issuances in the past.

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

They have in the market over the last couple of years.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Can – David, can you pick up that (01:03:09) issue with respect to...

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Yes. Yes. You're absolutely right, Jon, and the transitionals only apply to business that was
in-force as of 31st of December 2015. And to be absolutely clear again, so when we

Page 19 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

FINAL

showed the sensitivities here with the recalculation of transitional, that recalculation is not
applied to the business written since then.
So, you're absolutely right. That is an element to the equation that we'd need to factor
into when we're considering where we want to be positioned on interest rates. So, you'll
see us at 30th of June, we were still positioned very sensibly on interest rates. It was
broadly new – actually very small positive if rates fall. And we keep that position under
very close review. It's obviously a – we've seen in recent events, it's a very jumpy market,
so we're not making any sudden moves there, but we'll keep it under constant review.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

I think critically, Jon, if you look back, you'll see a number of times when Just Retirement
has recaptured very substantial amount of business from its previous finance based
reinsurance. That is not the case for new business in 2016 going forward. So, we have no
further reinsurance financing that would be recaptured. We have traditional reinsurance
slots effectively. So that coverage lasts forever, for the life of those customers. And we
are 45% reinsured for individual business and 55% reinsured for all Defined Benefit.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, we will reexamine our total reinsurance exposure including on the past. But as David
said, we wouldn't necessarily expect the PRA to let you put through a big derisking
transaction without also revisiting your transitional. So you're absolutely right, to sort of
draw like a strong line in the sand at the 1st of January. How is our time? So, there's a
question on the back.

Q - Vishal Govindram Bhatia

{BIO 6868890 <GO>}

All right. Vishal Bhatia, J.O. Hambro. A generalist question for you, not a specialist here. It's
very rare that you actually see a company like to double the amount of business they
wrote in the first half in about two months of the third quarter. You did that with higher
margins. You did that with pricing being better. Is that the business taking share? Is that
the business actually showing the strengths? Can you actually tell me the drivers exactly of
why exactly is the business doubling the size in about two months at higher margins, and
is it sustainable? Because you're talking about 6% margins for the full-year and you've just
done 5% in (01:05:59) the first half. So, is this the business showing that medically
underwritten side having sustainable advantage over competition? And I heard earlier that
there is increased competition in the market. So, this is all quite rare from a generalist
perspective. If you can talk through it.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Okay. So, of course, it was a huge challenge for us on the 19th of March 2014 when the
Chancellor stood up and bid now (01:06:24) and had to buy an annuity anymore. And a lot
of people thought that that would be significantly damaging for our company both as – in
the manifestation of both Partnership and Just Retirement. Importantly, both of the
organizations had entered the Defined Benefit De-Risking sector a year before. Of
course, we were brand new players and when you see the results of what the group
achieved going forward, we are incredibly proud that we managed to capture a 10%

Page 20 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

FINAL

market share of the entire DB market within 18 months of joining. So, we've been able to
enter and play in a very big boy's game.
In terms of the underwritten, we talk about 75% market share between us of the
underwritten sector. We are pleased that there is continuing to be underwritten business
especially on a top-slicing basis. Hopefully, you're familiar with what that means. It could
be really big scheme but they'd like to derisk the 100 biggest pensioners, not by their
girth but by the size of their pension liability.
And so, both – the companies, L&G, and hopefully some of the other companies like Aviva
who do medically underwrite will continue to participate and drive that. But we would put
to you, as a combined group, the intellectual property of Partnership and Just Retirement
combined, we believe, is preeminent in the marketplace. So, that gives us a strong basis.
The other tool what we have used is the yield enhancement for mortgages which flows
through in Solvency II to matching adjustment and so on. So, we've used those two tools,
intellectual underwriting property, bloody (01:08:20) good service, which is another thing.

Bloomberg Transcript

Between us, we wrote 51 deals in the DB marketplace. It's small transactions but that gave
us contact with all of the EBCs. That was more deals than anyone else in the open market.
L&G write more because they've got a direct link through LTM (01:08:42) cases that don't
come on to the market.
So, yeah, we are proud of entering a new market, capturing 10% share within18 months,
being the largest writer by numbers of deals. And that's where we want to continue to
provide that level of service and support to the schemes and their advisors, who they're
consulting, consulting actuary firms. Any further comment, David, as how we're getting to
see off the competition?
Hello. Sorry, the market, as I said, we're de-risking £10 billion to £15 billion. L&G announced
– we're not going to announce what our pipeline is. But I'd confirm today, it's bigger than
it's ever been. L&G announced that they had a pipeline alone of £13 billion a few weeks
ago. So, we can confirm their observation that the pipeline is bigger than it ever has. So,
David was highlighting that it's probably supply-constrained rather than demandconstrained. Any other, David?

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

And just, obviously, – and further, as Simon has already said, which is the timing of DB
completion is lumpy from quarter-to-quarter. So, the fact we're seeing £330 million in Q3
doesn't mean you can kind of multiply that up. It does depend on where these deals fall.
The point of customer service is important. Of the £330 million deals we've done since
June, a third of that had been repeat transactions. With trustees, we've already done
transactions with, and I'm very happy with how it went. So, there's a number of things that
contribute to that.

Page 21 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

Q - Vishal Govindram Bhatia

{BIO 6868890 <GO>}

(01:10:25) 75% is quite high.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

FINAL

Sorry. That's only if you've underwritten (01:10:29). And just to be clear, we're only at
about 10% of the total, so...

Q - Vishal Govindram Bhatia

{BIO 6868890 <GO>}

But I don't think...

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

... don't (01:10:34) write-down of 75% of the market now.

Q - Vishal Govindram Bhatia

{BIO 6868890 <GO>}

(01:10:38-01:10:47).

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Well, Simon would get beaten up if he misled you. So, when he said he was comfortable
to point towards 6% of the total year.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

Full year.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Not the half year. So, you can do your own maths with respect to what the two halves may.

A - Simon George Thomas

{BIO 15219564 <GO>}

You can work it out.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

We're not making any guidance. By the way, for 2017, there are ups and downs. The
competition you've talked about, there's competition for mortgages. But for the view for
the next six months, we are comfortable with what we've given. I think – Greig. And then
we must conclude.

Q - Greig N. Paterson

{BIO 6587493 <GO>}

Two elements (01:11:35), the other stuff being the capital generation. One is you've
mentioned sort of a throwaway comment about legal and general ramping up
competition in the last month and a lifetime mortgages. I want to know if you can translate
that into, all other things being equal, the hits on margin in 2017. And second point is
obviously, the new longevity from mortality improvement tables throughout there and are
Page 22 of 24



Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

you going to move to them? And what would be the impact on the margin in 2017 when
you do that?

FINAL

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Yes, I'll do the first one, you do the mortality table. Just so you know, the trend, Greig,
you've observed in terms of male (01:12:24) longevity improvement has been trending
down over the last seven years. And David can share stats with you offline, but that shows
that, so we think that part's quite good. I don't think we want to tell you precisely because
we can't tell what our competitors are doing or going to do. What I can tell you is that the
mortgage market has grown 20%.
So, yes, L&G is creating competition but when you have more competitors in a market
that's just growing 20%, the impact isn't to the same extent. And importantly, I'd highlight
on the positive side for margins in 2017 is the cost synergies none of which are in the 6%
guidance. So, I'm afraid you'll have to take a balanced view on the positives and the
negatives.
And David, just to finish off on that.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - David Louis Richardson

{BIO 18045016 <GO>}

Yeah. And so, I think as we've flagged (01:13:30) before, the key part and the key benefit
of the merger is that integrating the IP data sets of the two companies and that's a big
project that's going on at the moment as part of the integration. The reason I mentioned
that is just to manage expectations about whether we move to CMI 2015 or not. It would
be – we need to be very careful about not changing one element of the bases, whilst
we're looking at integrating the rest of it.
So, it's something we will look at later in the year. I think the point you're getting to is one
which Rodney has mentioned which is there has been a very discernible reduction in
improvement rates, which is you can see in CMI 2015.
The other thing because I know you love your mortality, Greig, has highlighted that CMI is
revisiting the whole way that it constructs its improvement tables, and that's going to
come out in March 2017. So, again, that's not a consideration for year-end. You want to
make a change just before that new table comes out early next year.
So, we'll take a view on that part of our normal year-end process in Q4.

A - Rodney Malcolm Cook

{BIO 14008420 <GO>}

Right. Ladies and gentlemen, that brings our session to a conclusion. Thank you very much
for your questions and attendance. And we certainly look forward to seeing as many of
you who can attend on the 5th of October as possible. Thank you very much.

Page 23 of 24



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: Just Group PL C
Company Ticker: JUST L N Equity
Date: 2016-09-15

Page 24 of 24

