Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Karl Steinle
Roland Vogel
Ulrich Wallin

Other Participants
Anasuya Iyer
Andreas Schäfer
Andrew J. Ritchie
Edward Morris
Frank Kopfinger
In-Yong Hwang
Kamran Hossain
Michael Haid
Olivia Brindle
Philipp Häßler

Bloomberg Transcript

Roland Pfänder
Stefan Scharff
Thomas Fossard
Vinit Malhotra
Xinmei Wang

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Good afternoon everybody here in Frankfurt, and good afternoon to all those joining us
via the Internet. Welcome to Hannover Re's Analyst Conference. It's a pleasure for me to
see that so many have taken up our invitation. And we are very delighted to present you
the figures for 2015 in greater detail, which we have published this morning.
I must say I'm impressed to see that you, as our analysts, have proven to be very accurate
in estimating our results and being very close to our actual numbers, at least, in most
cases. Today, we offer also a dial-in option for all those who are not able to participate
here physically in Frankfurt. And as a reminder the dial-in participants will be in a listen
mode only during the presentations.

Page 1 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

FINAL

I also like to draw your attention to the feedback questionnaire on your table, or which we
have distributed in advance. As you may know, we appreciate your remarks, and it lays the
foundation for preparing the upcoming Investors' Day in October. You may either leave
that feedback form on the table or send it in to our Investors Relations team.
First of all, Ulrich Wallin, our CEO, will kick things off with a brief overview of the financial
year 2015; and Roland Vogel, our CFO, will then move on to present the financials in
detail. Afterwards, we will be happy to respond at length to all your questions.
And I also would like to point out that you please wait for the microphone before asking a
question, so that everybody is able to hear your question, even those who are not in the
room.
On that note, I'm delighted to hand over to Ulrich.

Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. Thank you, Karl, and good afternoon. Welcome to Hannover Re's analysts'
conference for the year 2015, which has been a good year for Hannover Re. We had the
fourth consecutive record year in a row. And for the first time in the history of the
company, we reached a net profit in excess of €1 billion, being €1.15 billion, which is an
increase of almost 17% compared to the already very good result in 2014.
With this good result, we will also increase our dividend provided that the AGM agrees to
that. And we have – we'll be proposing to the AGM to raise both the basic dividend from
€3 to €3.25, as well as the special dividend from €1.25 to €1.50. So, all in all, from €4.25 to
€4.75.
Not only has the result been good, also, the capital has grown again by 7% despite the
fact that we see widening of the credit spreads and the increase in interest rates
particular in the U.S dollar. Last year, the OCI effect is negative, and we have paid more
than €500 million in dividends last year. However, due to the high profitability, also, the
capital has increased. The book value per share stands at around €67.
Also, the return on equity continues to be at acceptable level. We have exactly the same
number that we had last year of 14.7%, which, of course, is well above our minimum
requirement which is of course 900 base point excess risk free.
You can see here on the slide that we see that 2015 is an excellent foundation for 2016.
So, you can see that we are quite bullish for our 2016 results as well. And I'd like to briefly
explain why we're saying that the foundation that we have laid in 2015 bodes well for
good result in 2016.
First of all, if I look at the P&C business, we have improved the combined ratio slightly
compared to last year 2014. However the confidence level has further increased. In other
words, the redundancies of our loss reserves according to early calculations by third
Page 2 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

FINAL

parties as well as our own actuaries has actually improved quite remarkably compared to
2014. This is very positive for us because due to the soft market in the P&C business, we
were expecting actually a stable situation here at best, or even a slight reduction. Now
that we have that increase, we feel that it should give us another two years of room to
weather the storm of the continued soft market.
Second point, on the Life & Health business. In 2015, we generated a very good result.
EBIT €404 million, €290 million after tax profit. However, we also significantly reduced the
collateral costs of our U.S. mortality business and also has increased rates on that
business in BAT (07:20). So, that means that on a like-for-like basis, we have improved the
underlying profitability of our Life & Health business, so we can expect that the trend of
continued profitability of Life & Health should continue into 2016 and beyond.

Bloomberg Transcript

I should, however, mention a word of caution here. The actual 2015 result is above the
trend line and the reason for that is that we have the extraordinary profits, also nonrecurring profits on our financial solution business, particular, the breakup fee that we
were pointing out to you in the first quarter. But there were also more positive effects on
the financial solution business. Yes, we had negative effects as well, also negative oneoffs, particular, as a result of our French business, which actually is a negative deviation to
last year of around €70 million. But the positive effects clearly outweigh the negatives and,
therefore, I say that we are a little bit above the trend line on the Life & Health in 2015.
On our investment side of the business, again, 2015, an outstanding result. However, we
also managed to further increase the assets under management due to continued very
positive cash flow. Actually, Roland would show you that, in that respect, 2015 was a
marked improvement compared to the already very good results in 2014.
Of course, the increased assets under management, even with the lower interest rates
would allow us to keep the absolute returns of our investment portfolio at – in historic
level, in absolute terms that we have seen over the last few years. So, all in all, I would
summarize that we had a very good result in 2015, and we also laid the basis in 2015 for
good result in 2016 as well.
And on that rather positive note, I will hand over to Roland to give you all the details.

Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Thank you, Uli. And I will try to keep it on a positive note. We start with the cash flow, as Uli
mentioned. Here, you see that 2015 ended with €2.6 billion. Here, for the first time, we
did something, which we usually not do, we adjusted the number. If you look at the cash
flow statement of the Annual Report, you will find €3.1 billion. The reason for that inflated
number in the cash flow statement was a Chinese financial deal, where we received, just
more by coincidence, the money before the balance sheet date.
We will payout that money to reposessionaires in Q1 & Q2, most likely, so we did not feel
that this is real operative cash flow. This is why we adjusted the number for 2015. Still with
the €2.6 billion, very positive. This is, of course, driven by good results on the underwriting
Page 3 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

FINAL

side as well as on the investment side. Still it's also a little bit inflated by the currency
exchange rates, which also helped the cash flow number to improve and was – if it wasn't
there 2012, this would have been in another record number.
This number directly supports the right-hand side. The assets under our management, by
the way, here, we did not adjust for the €500 million. We felt it is not that material for that
number. We could have even adjusted the ROI calculation, which would have benefited
from that adjustment. This is something we did not do. We only wanted to make you
aware that the cash flow would not be sustainable over €3 billion. Here, again, it was also
already mentioned, nearly €40 billion to be invested into – also into the future, which
should support the net investment income for the future as well.
Then on the next page the policyholders' surplus, which includes the hybrids as well as the
minorities and the shareholder's equity, shareholder's equity up by 6%. That is something
which improves our balance sheet as the policyholders' surplus only up you could say by a
slight €30 million. The reason for that is that we called one of our hybrid bonds in the
second quarter last year. And the €1.5 billion here should be the longer run rate. It still
leaves us with a lot of additional flexibility to issue more hybrid if we want to. Right now,
we don't have any plan to do that, but we would be in a position to do that.

Bloomberg Transcript

You see the components of the change of the shareholder's equity on the right-hand side
of that slide. The net income, of course, a positive, and the dividend payment €513 million
last year for the running year based on the announcement of Uli, with the €4.75. This
number will increase to €573 million. So, it is an increase over and above that.
You see that the change in unrealized gains and losses went downwards by €460 million
that is driven by some rate increases and the increase in credit spreads. You know that we
have, in general, a held-to-maturity portfolio that is something, which, of course, brings
some volatility to the shareholder's equity number. But on the opposite side, we have the
currency exchange rates, so all the equities holdings in our subsidiaries are then
translated from U.S. dollar into the euro. And here we had a positive of €333 million, which
brought us over and above €8 billion in shareholders' equity by the end of last year.
There is, I think, no need to repeat what Uli already had explained around our dividend
policy. It says in place. I might take that opportunity to update you a little bit on my
presentation. I think it was in this room or the room next door in – from October, when I
referred to our German GAAP results. So, the German GAAP results for the holding
company, or the operated holding company, was €900 million. We used to – this
opportunity to transfer €250 million to retained earnings. And we have established based
on the dividend the proposal – a profit carryforward from – of another €83 million. So, also
the strength of the German balance sheet – the German GAAP balance sheet is improved
– has improved remarkably.
Why did we increase the basis dividend to €3.25. If you do the math and apply a 40%
payout ratio, that would – or approximately 40% payout ratio, that will bring you up to
around €1 billion, and I think this the message we have with us here, that the long-term

Page 4 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

FINAL

sustainable earnings capability of the company, we feel, should be around $1 billion going
forward.
Return on equity, you see that our earnings power has kept up with the increase in capital
over time. That leads to the fact that we could maintain the ROE at 14.7%. You see on the
right-hand side the on-average numbers for 15 years, for 10 years and for five years. By
the way, the 15-year average should improve next year, when we can delete out 2001,
with WTC, which, of course, is a little bit – dilutes that number this year. Overall, the
message is we have kept the ROE at 14.7%. The hurdle decreased from as you can see
10.7% to 10.2%, so you could argue that the marginal profitability of the company has
increased.
ROE in comparison with the friendly competition, you see that in 2015 we are number one
again. That is also true for the on-average number, which we usually take as a basis for
the ranking here on the right-hand side, by quite some margin, more than 200 basis
points margin in front of the number two.

Bloomberg Transcript

On this slide you can also see that the majority of the peers we are referring to on this
slide has decreasing ROEs. And that is, of course, also driven by increasing capital
numbers. But this is also the way we try to manage it to have the capital increase in line
with the earnings power and the earnings increase, which we have been showing. And so
far, we are happy to look at that ranking. And we will do everything to show you a
comparable picture next year.
I think on a group level, there is not a lot to add. We will come to some of the details in a
second. Perhaps, it should be mentioned that the call of the hybrid has, of course,
decreased the interest payment that is only true for a good half year on this page. As far
as I remember, the planned number for next year was a little bit more than €70 million. So,
at least also the call of the hybrid will also decrease that burden here even a little bit
more.
Other expenses are down from last year. Still, we should bear in mind that they are a little
bit better, a little bit above the run rate. We are still benefiting from currency exchange
rate gains. You know that our strategy would be to have a neutral number here. Already,
last year, or the year before last year and in 2015, we had a positive currency exchange
rate effect in the other income, so that is something which is not really sustainable.
What is sustainable is the deduction of LoC costs, so we decreased the volumes of LoCs
outstanding. And we have also decreased the interest payments on these LoCs, so that is
something which is sustainable. And we also have increased fee income of the mostly Life
& Health deposited accounting contracts. And also that should be a positive number in the
future, in the other income and expenses line.
Moreover, you also might ask as to why the tax ratio has increased. We usually say that
25% is a good run rate for the tax rate. Last year we were below. This year we are a little
bit above. All the Germans might have heard that for instance Hanover, as a city, has

Page 5 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

FINAL

increased trade tax by only a small – from 460 basis points to 480 basis points. But as you
know, we have to calculate deferred taxes, and we have to calculate the deferred taxes.
For instance, on the equalization reserve, volumes this more than €4 billion. And if you
only apply a brief increase in trade tax, that results in more than €25 million burden here.
This is not cash out, this is future taxes to be paid, but that I think attributed 1.6
percentage points of that. And then also, there is one instance, where we put up some
tax provisions to reflect a potential risk from the ruling of the German high tax court.
Overall, this does not change the picture. The expected run rate would still be 25%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now on the non-life side, I think Uli has already mentioned various points here. We will
come to the areas of growth in a second. What happened to reserves, I think that is
usually one of the major interest. Here, we had a very positive run-off result. If you open
up the Annual Report, we are referring to approximately €500 million in positive run-off.
That would lead to the assumption that, potentially, redundancies might have decreased
which was not the case, as Uli elaborated on already. So, we had, especially positive runoff effects from property lines. These were the lines where you look at single events, you
set up reserves.
Usually, the assumptions are that these are best estimates reserves. Still, these losses ran
off very positively. And then so far, we had a positive run-off plus. This did not decrease
redundancies. And we looked at the current year last year. Very conservatively, one more
time, you will also see that we looked at year 2014 a little bit more conservatively. So, in
that regard, we could capitalize on that positive run-off and still increase our redundant
loss reserves, remarkably, to say some examples, so for instance, Deepwater Horizon, Air
France, these were – Sandy, these were losses where we could release reserves. And we
will also see that on the next page here in a second.
I think that should be it. If we look at the lines of business, and the P&C segment, this
shows you that the margins between the MtCR, our Maximum tolerable Combined Ratio
and the combined ratios, which we have realized are getting narrower. You see that
Marine is a little above, driven by some of the run-offs. Same is true for Aviation. Overall,
again, it's getting more narrow. And we – to have the redundant reserves especially in that
segment gives us some relief. Still, overall, you see that with an EBIT margin of 16.6%, we
are still looking at a very profitable diversified business group. And based on the
assumption that we should be able to achieve that also next year, we are quite happy with
the achievement we see here. And, of course, it was a record result for the P&C segment
as such.
Areas of growth, you see North America has been an area of growth. We also see growth
opportunities into the future. Continental Europe, very competitive already last year.
Marine, Aviation show growth numbers, might be surprising, because we always say that
competition is tough. And especially in Aviation, we have decreased our market share. If
these numbers are not adjusted for currency exchange rates on the line of business level,
this is difficult to do. So in real terms one should assume that Aviation and Marine have
been showing in real term, decreasing numbers.

Page 6 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

FINAL

What is also worth mentioning, I think the credit and surety line looks a little bit worst then
it was. So, we also here, we have added redundant reserves. So, we see that this line is
still profitable into the future. It might not grow that much. It has been growing nicely last
year, as for instance, has our structured reinsurance in ILS. This is where we take and
money ceded to the markets relatively risk free. So very, very profitable and successful
last year.
Large losses, not a lot to say here. We had expected €690 million, €573 million have
materialized so approximately €120 million below budget. That is already for quite – for
four years now in a row. You see that we are below budget. And this is, of course, the
explanation for the competition in the cat business, which we're seeing. And this is also
the reason why we do not grow that much and have also increased our repossessions a
little bit.
The list of large losses shows a very mix picture, very long for catastrophes as well as for
man-made losses, but so high-frequency, low-severity, you could argue. If we add up all
the natural catastrophes, we are far below our loss expectations. If we add up all the manmade losses we are far, far robust. Overall, as mentioned, we are below the line.

Bloomberg Transcript

Tianjin, of course, the most outstanding last year €111 million net for our share. We have to
accept that we have nearly paid, we have nearly not paid any losses out. We have
received some loss advises, so we will have to find out. We still feel that we are very
conservative – that we are conservatively reserved here in the future.
So, maybe the most surprising positive note, the €400 million – or more than €400 million
EBIT for our Life & Health. The fourth quarter, as you see, was an underwriting result of
€83 million, and especially a positive one. Uli mentioned already one one-off, which was
also driven by the financial solutions segment, which has improved not the net investment
income, but the underwriting result. We also had some negatives before. We mentioned
that U.S. motility running off below expectations, our result from France.
Overall, if you look at the net underwriting result for the full year, there is something which
should be achievable also in the future. Here, I would say, it's a little bit an offset between
positives and negatives and the run rate. It – we mentioned the €39 million there from the
termination fee, which is in the net investment line. That is something which is not
sustainable into the future. If we look at the EBIT margins by segment, you see financial
solutions, again, very, very profitable. And we also see that profitability into the future.
Longevity, here we had a positive run-off and also positive results from one special
relation, and that has improved results here remarkably. Mortality, still a little bit below the
run rate. We've discussed that before. We have improved the LOC costs. We have
implemented rate increases, so the run rate should be better into the future. Will this be a
contributor to outperform into the future? Most likely not. Again, overall, very positive and
so far with an EBIT improvement by more than 50%, something which is worth
mentioning.

Page 7 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

FINAL

The next page you might have recognized that we have no MCEV numbers with us. We
did the math internally and you will remember that the VNB, the value of new business, is
the only key figure, which is part of our target matrix. This is why we have implemented or
why we reported here. We will, as from this year onwards, no longer report about MCEV.
We will substitute that by the numbers and key figures from the economic balance sheet,
which will be available even with our auditors approving the math as from next year. This
year, we have the VNB with us. As you see – as you can see, very productive last year.
On a like-for-like basis, VNB improved from €448 million to €489 million. Now, as we are
preparing a Solvency-based reporting, we have no longer applied the 4.5% capital cost
ratio, which is suggested by the CFO Forum, but we've changed that to the 6% cost of
capital ratio, which is required by the Solvency II calculation. That decreases that number
then to €543 million.
As you can see here, on the right hand side, this number was made up of the lines which
have contributed or usually the long tail lines, of course, where you have a long stream of
positive cash flows in the future that is true for the longevity business. Here, we have
entered into a few new deals, especially from the UK, but also Asia and other countries.

Bloomberg Transcript

We have been growing nicely in our organic growth business in the U.S. And also, the
financial solutions business in the U.S. contributes to this VNB. So, this should be another
good basis for future profits. But apart from that, no other MCEV calculations anymore –
or publications anymore.
The third business group, as you can see here, the investment income growth, despite
lower realizations. I think that is the sweet point for ROI. On an ordinary income side, it's a
little bit inflated by the €39 million from that life & health termination fee. But even if you
take that out, that reflects 10 basis points, it would be €3.3 million (33;59) so a significant
achievement, and this was supported especially by our private equity portfolio, where we
had distributions from funds also from our real estate portfolio and, of course, the
increased volumes which we had available.
Realized gains-losses (34:22), slightly down, still on a higher level. This – it was not in the
intention to harvest gains here, but we have also changed our reporting currency of our
Irish company. And with that, associated was a transfer of €1.5 billion from euro into the
dollar, so we had to sell, we had to reinvest and that led to realizations and then so far
also to realize gains.
Impairments, I think more than half of that is still ordinary depreciation on our investment –
on our real estate portfolio. So, in that regard, nothing to write home about with regard to
any impairments or depreciations. A neutral change in fair value line, which has also
appreciated. This is comprised of a negative ModCo derivative that was mitigated by the
positive effect of some other derivatives. Overall, again, a neutral impact.
So, with 3.4% ROI, and here I can only mention one more time, the ROI here for Hannover
Re is calculated using balance sheet numbers so you can take the assets under own – on
our own management from the balance sheet, incoming period and outgoing period
Page 8 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

FINAL

divide them by two, take the investment income and do the math. I think some of other
companies do the calculation differently. Here, it is really transparent and, I would say,
rather conservative.
The balance sheet, here, we have the decrease of the OCI, which has already been
mentioned. Some increases in interest rates and the widening of credit spreads has led to
that decrease. Again, it does not really affect us that much. We have this held-to-maturity
bucket, and this just is a normal volatility which we usually see.
We have added one slide, and you might tell us if you like it or not. This compares a little
bit to where we are invested and where the investment income comes from. So, on the
right-hand side you can for instance see that we have €43 million invested in governments
and semi-governments and only 25% of the net income stems from that source. You can
also see here, of course, the high flier is – in 2015 was a private equity portfolio where we
had invested 2% of our invested assets, but we have a contribution of 9% to the ordinary
income.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, this is not the usual run rate, I would say. This is a little bit inflated, but still very positive.
The other outstanding factor you see is for real estate you see 4% portion, in the
investment portfolio 11%. Here we have to bear in mind that this is before depreciation
and the ordinary costs. And so, far it's a little bit inflated, but it's still far above average. If
you look at the corporate's 34%, part of the investment is 37% of the ordinary income
split.
I think we have already mentioned that the composition of the portfolio didn't change that
much. We have explained this barbell strategy, which we are following a little bit to invest
more on the safe side to increase liquidity and therefore also take a little bit more risk on
the lower quality side. You see that the governments here increased from 21% to 26%,
the covered bonds go down from 14% to 10% and the non-investment rate investments
do increase slightly. That is a reflection of that strategy.
There's one additional information. It used to be the topic of the last investor conferences
and road shows, which we did. This is why we've added this one or these two pictures.
Here, you see the sector split of our corporate exposures and on the right-hand side what
of this corporate exposure is invested in oil and gas and also the quality of these
investments, as you can see here €800 million exposure into oil and gas related issuers,
€52 million of that high yield very diversified, €230 million in BBBs.
We are talking about more than 100 names for this portfolio, so the average investment is
less than €8 million. And of course, we have higher investments in better qualities and
lower investments in lower qualities. So, we do not see that as any remarkable exposure
which could materially affect us.
And I think that concludes my portion, and I'll leave the target matrix, as always, to the
CEO.

Page 9 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, Roland. So, the target matrix, as you can see, confirms that 2015 was a good
year. We outperformed on almost all of our targets, some very remarkably like the value
of new business. Well, I mean, of course, the return on equity and all the other ones. So,
target matrix, everything is fine, confirms a good year.
If I then come to what's to be expected for 2016, I also have a chart here, which is not too
dissimilar to the one that Roland showed you, and I will try to keep it short and tell you
things that are in line with those that Roland told you.

Bloomberg Transcript

This is the expectation here for 2016. And if you look at North America, we expect
premium growth, and we also expect good profitability. And the basis for that is our very
broad book of business. We have more than 600 insurance companies that we do
business with in the U.S. and our growth is broad based. I mean, we are not, for the most
part, writing single large fees in order to stimulate growth and this is particularly true for
our casualty business.
The reason for that is that in the last soft market in the late 1990s, we did actually write
some large facilities and proportionate casualty treaties, which due to the low rates that
we (42:08) have created some problems in the run-off. Therefore, we have rules that
none of the casualty treaties that we write should be a significant portion of our overall
U.S. casualty book. And that is the reason why we grow our casualty business with many
individual (42:31) treaties rather than with a few very big ones. Slightly different on the
property side, which is shorter tail, you'll know (42:38) more quickly where you are. So,
there, we are more willing to write also single larger treaties, which we actually had done
last year and we most likely will continue to do this year.
Continental Europe, different picture. In Germany, we see increased retentions, which put
pressure on the income. On the other hand, the rating and environment in Germany is still
quite positive. So, from a profitability point of view, we are satisfied with Germany. The
rest of Continental Europe, extremely competitive, rates are under pressure and so is the
profitability, therefore we reduced our involvement in the rest of Continental Europe.
If you look at the specialty lines, you can see that we are reducing our premium in marine.
We also reduced the rates. However, we keep the quality of the business quite high due
to selective underwriting. And so, we are very positive from the quality of our marine
book, which almost exclusively is in excess of loss book. And we have to make sure that
the book is clean. So, if you don't accept non-marine cat exposure into it and therefore
our underwriters. And having been underwriting the marine business myself, I'm happy
there's a book that we've got there.
It's not the same case with Aviation, where it will be not be long before we pay the
airlines for the privilege of insuring them. The rates on aviation continued to slide. And I
would say – it's fair to say that at the expected losses with the current rating level and this
unfortunately is also true for the aviation excessive loss, we would have to expect a result
definitely on the cost of capital.

Page 10 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

FINAL

As a result and we have shown you that in the renewal call, we have reduced our premium
volume and market share in that area. While we have on the calamity (44:54) basis, we
have the saving of that line of businesses that we have the highest level of redundant
reserves on aviation compared to all the other classes in relative terms. So, the calamity
year (45:12) results are likely continued to be acceptable.
Credit and surety, with (45:20) our growth of the business in 2009, we have reached the
number two number position, so being one of the market leaders in that line. That allows
us to keep the book and also to keep good margins for our shares in that business.
Therefore, we expect that the volume will be rather stable, but that we will continue to
earn margins well in excess of the cost of capital. UK has a little bit of mixed picture on the
regional site. (45:55) We are happy with our book, but the market is very competitive and
I'm talking non-property catastrophe here.
We think that we have a good quality book, which however is not growing due to the soft
market. It's different on our primary business, which is allocated here as well. That book of
business is growing, and we also feel it grows profitably, but it is rather in specialty lines
book.

Bloomberg Transcript

Facultative, the same applies, what I have told you, to the marine business. We have been
very selective. We will see some decrease in premium in the current year due to selective
underwriting, but we feel that the quality of the book is very good and that we will see
good profitability of that business. That already has been very evident in 2015, where we
managed to improve the combined ratio quite significantly as compared to 2014 despite
the reduced rates and pressures from the soft market.
Worldwide treaty, rather a large block of business with differing movements. We
continued to grow on our agricultural business. We also have, over the last couple of
years, significantly improved the profitability of that business, and we expect that to
continue into the current year. We also have grown our business in China, where we have
seen good double-digit growth. And also, in Southeast Asia, growth has been quite good.
In the more established markets, like Southern Europe, parts of Latin America and also
what we expect to see in Japan, it's the other way around as their volume would reduce
as the result of competitive market pressures. However, overall, the book is very well
diversified, and we are optimistic and quite confident that we will continue to see good
results from that book.
Catastrophe excessive loss, which we largely write from Bermuda, again, like aviation, we
believe that if we have the losses at the level of the actuality (48:35) calculated expected
losses. We see a profit, but not large enough to cover the cost of capital. Therefore, we
have reduced our volumes there. The (48:48) business line is that – despite the fact that
the rates have come down, the probability set on a 12 months arrive (48:55) and you will
make money on it is actually quite good. But this is a little bit, I mean, in a profit that is
borrowed from the future, I would say, because, I mean, if the actuaries are right, in the
long run, the losses will gravitate back to the expected losses. So there will be years
where this line of business will actually reduce or see losses. (49:24)

Page 11 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

FINAL

We have combated that to some extent by what Roland already told you increased
retrocession and an enlarged rather conservative loss reserves on the past losses.
Structured reinsurance and ILS, I mean, we will see some reductions in the ILS because
also our partners find it difficult to generate sufficient amount of business. On the
structured reinsurance, of course, it's more bulky business. There are some larger
transactions, which are either they are not however low risk – in this area of the business
and rather secure profitability.
So, overall, you can see that despite the soft market, despite the fact that retentions are
increased in part, we still feel that our very well diversified books gives us good
opportunity also in the current year to earn a profit in excess of the cost of capital and
naturally the run-off result we expect to continue to be positive as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

If I come to life & health, as the star (50:46) of the profitability in 2015, it has of course
been the financial solutions business and we expect that to continue into the current year
even without one-off positive effects. It's a bit of a mixed bag on the one hand. We have
the capital relief transactions, which are not very premium heavy so – which are either –
the majority of them are actually either there's a premium that we expect a profit or
they're deposit accounted or even are accounted as investments, this book of business is
actually increasing – continues to increase in size, and we expect the profitability to
increase outside the one-off in fact (51:43) as well.
The other part of that business is cash financing. For a different business, here, we finance
the acquisition costs or embedded value. This business would normally show quite a lot of
premium, hence the margin on the premium would not be very large for the most part.
However, the margin on the amount of finance is quite attractive. This business is currently
growing, therefore you can see the volume arrows pointing upwards here. This is on
some special relationships, where we develop business with partners and where we also
finance the protection costs.
Overall, we see the profitability very positive with that business. Longevity is another area,
where we see growth. Demand for longevity transactions, largely in the UK, but
increasingly also outside the UK is increasing, but so is the competition. I mean, that
business has become quite competitive. We write it for many years now. We do not
compete on price in this business. We compete on deal certainty and the speed of
transactions because we have quite some respect towards this business due to the long
run-off of that business. But with our market position, we still expect growth from that
business.
Mortality and morbidity, we expect reduced volume. This is due to the fact that some
large transactions will discontinue, and this is both on some Australian group business as
well as some business out of China, where we expect that's also will not be renewed, but
we expect at the same time that the results will be improving and this is of course on the
U.S. mortality because of reduced collateral cost rate increases and also in the rest of the
world, particularly on the – on those two classes, we see increase of simple profitable
business where we will see improved profitability. That's the expectation more in detail
for 2016.

Page 12 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

FINAL

If we then put it into the guidance 2016, bottom line is more important than top line.
therefore we expect premium income stable or even a modest reduction. Return on
investment, 2.9%, as Roland already pointed out, is expected for the current year, so that
should allow us to keep the absolute return on investment at an acceptable level. We
have changed the guidance a little bit for the group net income because we were saying
when we first guided the third quarter figures, that should be around €250 million.
Now, we're a little bit more optimistic and this on the basis of what we have seen on the
full year results for 2015. We say that we should see at least €250 million always provided
that the large losses and the increased large loss budget of €825 million and there's no
dislocation in the capital markets, but we see that €950 million should be the floor and
the analyst consensus on this year we don't think is too far off of what we can achieve.
And then, the dividend payment I should probably tell you a little bit on that as well. Of
course, we had a base dividend of €3.25 for the current year.

Bloomberg Transcript

There's no particularly good reason that the very same goes according to plan that we
should not have the same base dividend for 2016. When it comes to special dividend, of
course, it will pretty much depend what happens throughout the year. If the market
continues to be soft because we have no volatility then of course the probability that we
will see a special dividend again is very high. If we have large volatility and, as a result,
significant opportunities to grow the business exponentially which of course is a less likely
scenario, then we may not pay a special dividend but rather use that money to produce
additional profits, the less likely scenario I have to say.
With that, briefly, why are we confident with the profitability of Hannover Re 2016 and
beyond? On the life & health business, we feel that the trend to increase profitability
where we see the base here in 2013 is fully intact even though 2015 significantly (57:34)
trend line.
Secondly, on the P&C, we feel that we'll continue to have a quality portfolio. We feel that
as one of the top three reinsurer we are in a position that we have sought-after capacity
by our clients and the situation regarding the conservatism on the loss reserves and the
buffers in the loss reserves has actually further improved in 2015.
So, we are confident that we will continue to show acceptable underwriting profits also in
the coming years, again the provider on the large losses. Retrocession is the only area,
where the soft market really benefits us, so we bought a little bit more. We, still, on the
expected losses pay a margin (58:32) on our retrocession. We should make that clear in
case some of our retrocession fully comes in (58:38) don't worry, you are right.
On the investment income, our business continues to have positive cash flows. We feel
that our investment strategies that Roland explained in detail is valid, so we expect that
the absolute returns will continue to be at the level that we have seen in the past years in
absolute terms not narrative terms.
Lastly, as far as the admin expenses is concerned, actually, we managed to reduce our
admin expense ratio in 2015. That, of course, also had to do with the increased premium
Page 13 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

volume.
With that, I would like to close off with our presentation, and Roland and I will be more
than happy to answer your questions. Thank you very much.

FINAL

Q&A
Operator
Well thank you. We will now begin with our question and answer session.
We proceed with the questions from the attendances in the room and switch then to the
questions coming from the conference call. I already see some questions here. First was
Andrew Ritchie.

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Andrew Ritchie from Autonomous. Three quick questions. When I look at your – delve into
the Annual Report, there are three measures of capital. I think it's one ranging from 131%
coverage to 246%, there's 131% on your internal model, 246% one version Solvency II,
221% another version Solvency II, it's not to (1:00:52) have a choice. Which one really
matters just remind us and if you have any kind of reasonable sort of target range around
which one should we look at, which one should we care about? That will be the first
question.
Second question, is there any measure of how much of your buffer has gone up on the
non-life reserves? When I look at the combined ratio and back out large losses, back out
prior year development, it hasn't changed much year-on-year, so I'm finding it hard to see
how there's a lot of additional conservatism the last peak, (1:01:25) maybe help me there.
And the third question, when I look in the Annual Report, it says that there's already a
small benefit, I think you used the language pro rata on lower collateral costs in the life
business. What is the benefit already, how much more benefit is there to come through in
2016?

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Yeah, would you like to (1:01:45)?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Yeah, I have to. I can understand that the solvency numbers become a little bit more profit
(1:01:51) and you have different numbers. And the 131% is just internal model number
based on one in 3,333 years (1:02:04) the return period or ruin probability. That is only a
proxy for what we expect as an S&P rating because it's a AA quality.
If you look at the 246% and 221%, so 246% is the full internal model. And the 221% is the
internal model as it's approved by BaFin. Therefore, from legal (1:02:42) solvencies, the
Page 14 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

FINAL

221% is the important number and that is also the number where we have a limit and
threshold in our risk management system where the limit is 180% and the threshold is
200%. And the reason that we are so far away here from 100% is that we believe that we
are AA credit and limit and threshold should reflect that AA credit.
What is the difference between the 246% and the 221%? The main difference is that, on
our full model, we use our own model also for calculating the operational risk. However,
our operational risk model has not found the blessing of the BaFin, our regulator. So, in
Solvency II, relevant model for our legal solvency, we use our internal model for the
quantitative risk, and for the operational risk, we use the standard model.
The standard model comes out with higher number for operational risk than our internal
model. We are currently working and BaFin expects that from us to work on our internal
model for operational risk to get that approved as well. I think we are on a good path
there.
The other difference is that in our internal model the capital of the minority shareholders,
in particular, of ENS3 (1:04:25), we calculate them as available funds for 100%. Under
Solvency II rules and regulations, it's the haircut (1:04:33) on minorities. And this is the
other admittedly much smaller difference. That brings the 246% to the 221%, so that is
what I can tell you there.

Bloomberg Transcript

The second question...

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

I'm sorry to be a bit detailed (1:04:51) on this. The one I see 100% (1:04:52) is the sort of
softest (1:04:55) binding constraint that you had done (1:04:55)?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well, yeah, I mean, on the legal solvency...

Q - Andrew J. Ritchie

{BIO 18731996 <GO>}

On legal measures (1:05:01).

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

...the constraint would be based on the 221%. And I mean, it's a self-imposed constraint to
the extent that we have the limit and the threshold at 180% and 200%, respectively.
There is of course also a threshold on the S&P and A.M. Best models even though that
looks quite comfortable at this point in time.
Then you wonder how the confidence level could have gone up when you see that the
underlying combined ratio is presumably quite similar to what it was last year. First of all,
the absolute loss reserves have increased. So the contribution to our IBNR reserve what

Page 15 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

FINAL

we can segment with called (1:05:59) segment reserves is significantly higher this year
than it was last year. This year, I think it was, from memory, 236 million (1:06:08).
And also, the development of the past losses in 2015 was very favorable. Therefore, if
you look at the calculation at the end of 2014, of course, it had an expectation for the paid
losses and the advice losses in 2015 and the actual paid and advised in 2015 were below
the expectation at the end of 2014. Therefore, in the extrapolation of the triangulations
into the future, that way we saw increased redundancies. That is the reason.
So loss reserves in absolute terms increased and actual loss emergence in 2015, below
what we expected in the actual calculation at the end of 2014, that's the reason for that.
And then the last question I would hand over to Roland, I guess. That is on the percentage
of the collateral costs that we already saved in the current year compared to what we
save next year.

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

What we are referring to here is a larger transaction which we have implemented late
third quarter last year, which should save us a little bit more than €20 million per year, and
insofar, we have a pro rata benefit from that. This one transaction, I already before that
we were also able to decrease the overall volume and that we were able to decrease the
cost of the LOC capacity which we use. In that regard, there should be a – but this is
something I cannot quantify right now. It will also benefit us next year, so I think the first
step here should be something between €5 million and €10 million in absolute terms.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Okay. And then, of course, there was one other transaction that we closed at the end of
last year which would also reduce the collateral costs by about €6 million per year. So, if
you look at it all in all, saved collateral costs for 2016 should be around 34 million. Of that,
what we had already achieved in last year in 2015 would be around €6 million.

Operator
Hey, well, the next question comes from Frank Kopfinger.

Q - Frank Kopfinger

{BIO 16342277 <GO>}

It's Frank Kopfinger from Deutsche Bank. I would also like to come back to the Solvency II
number, to the 221%. Unfortunately, you only provided as of the end of September within
your Annual Report. Can you then provide some sort of guidance there? Are we – as of
the end of 2015 and maybe also as of today as we had some volatility also in credit
spreads last (1:09:39) recently?
And secondly, my question would be on negative interest rates. Do you have a number
that you can share? How much of your – or what's the share of your portfolio of assets
that are affected already by negative interest rates? And more important, what do you
see as an consequence for you as an investor? Are you going to lengthen the duration to
avoid negative interest rates? Are you climbing up the risk curve or what is your strategy?
Page 16 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

FINAL

Well, I would leave the question on negative interest rates to Roland because far too
complicated for me. But on the Solvency II number, yes, it's a number at the end of the
third quarter that is in the Annual Report. And the reason for that is that the full calculation
of the economic balance sheet, but of course, the basis for that which is a Pillar 3 of
Solvency II efforts that we are doing this year is still a little bit late, but that will change in
future.
I would say that we already calculated the capital required and that has stayed stable from
the third quarter to year-end. The funds available, so we expect those that they will be
increasing to some extent because if you look at IFRS capital, it has increased by around
€400 million from the third quarter to year-end. That increase of course will also flow
through to the economic balance sheet. Then of course we have developments of the
embedded value and the redundant loss reserves which also play a role there.

Bloomberg Transcript

I would say, on average, that should be rather neutral. So I expect that, at the end of the
fourth quarter, the Solvency II ratio is actually increasing, but we will let you know the exact
number in due course. What we've seen so far in 2016, that's a bit early to say. I mean, I
think we have seen some further widening of spread that will, of course, I mean, reduce
the valuation reserves, but there are of course other movements as well. I mean, there is
some new business being written on the Life business so far. And I mean the quarter is
not over yet. I mean, losses have been rather benign I mean around the world.
So we have to see what that does, but we will certainly bit by bit, I mean, improve the
speed of our reporting here because, from 2017 onwards, we have to report quarterly on
our economic balance sheet and the deadlines are getting closer and closer as well. We
are in the process of using our accounting system that we also use to come up with the
HDB and (1:13:10) IFRS numbers also for the Solvency reporting. That is not an easy task
and it's not per se (1:13:14) a simple project, but it would allow us to more efficiently come
up with those numbers and also more reliable.

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

If I may add, I think we are fully aware that Solvency II is on everybody's minds, but on the
other hand, we've never been reporting about Solvency II numbers because we really
didn't have a real restriction here. We do follow this model far more closely. It is based on
our internal model where we also build decisions on so on, so forth, it is far more
important that we should bear in mind it is not a real restriction in our strategies today. We
are fully aware that other companies in the insurance world are far more restricted for
those it might be far more important. But for us right now, it is another hurdle we have to
jump over. This is also why you don't see it as so pronounced and with a lot of focus in our
presentation.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

(1:14:29)

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}
Page 17 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Yes, I have the negative interests or the negative things for me here. I don't have the
exact number with me how much of my portfolio bears negative interest rates. I think we
can do the math a little bit together. We are talking about, if that is a euro government
problem, then we have approximately 30% of – 31% in the euro right now, we have 26% in
(1:15:01). If that is approximately the way where we are, we might be a little bit more in the
euro here. So we're talking perhaps a 10% potential where this dependent on the maturity
in the country I'm investing in, this might be the case.
Your question was as to whether this really affects our investment strategy, and the
answer to that is no. We have to invest. We have monies and sometimes we have to
invest monies and also euros short term safely. And we will also have securities in our
portfolio which do bear negative interest. The important thing for me is the risk appetite
and the reinvestment yields that we always publish the reinvestment yields. They have
been below on a theoretic basis. So if I invest everything exactly how I have invested
today, that was between 1.7, 1.8 (1:16:07) over the last years, in fact, I have a math (1:16:10)
with me now because we do not exactly reinvest where we are and had been invested
few years ago that the achievements for last year was above 2 (1:16:23).
In that regard, that is the important thing to me where the whole strategy ends up. So
also your suggestion that we might increase maturities would not be, from my point of
view, an advisable strategy. If the marginal spread I can make is better on a long-term
corporate part (1:16:50), than I would rather accept negative interest rates in a
government bond. And the higher marginal spread on a long-term corporate or vice
versa. This has to be decided. We look at the options which we have and that includes
also most naturally – securities was negative, spreads and to increase maturity for the
portfolio as such is not a solution. Anyway, you know that we match currencies and we
match maturities rather dogmatically.

Operator
Okay. Well then I have another question from Stefan Scharff.

Q - Stef an Scharff

{BIO 3964918 <GO>}

Yes, Stefan Scharff, SRC Research. One quick question about your guidance. It's about the
premium volume more or less unchanged, and I would assume after the good picture in
Life & Health business in 2015 that this good picture will continue in 2016 and also the
premium volume in Life & Health should increase at least a little bit. That would mean that
in the non-life business, you expect a slightly decreasing volume of premiums. Is this a
good assumption from my side?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Yeah. We expect slight decrease in premiums on non-life at this point in time. We made
the calculation after the one, one (1:18:23) renewal season and looked – made an
assumption what will happen on the midyear renewals, looked at the unearned premium
from previous years coming in. And so we came to the conclusion that we would be
around 2% to 2.5% below what we had last year based on unchanged exchange rates. Of
course, the exchange rate can bring things a little bit in out of order, I would say.
Page 18 of 35



FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

If I look at the Life & Health, I mean, we have a number of large fees which are
discontinued which we have to make up for. I mean, I think that we might end up similar,
maybe slightly up, maybe slightly down. That's not so important for me. The most
important thing is the bottom line on the Life & Health. Because if I write deposit
accounted treaties, I'm equally happy with the profits then if they come with a lot of
premium. That is less of an issue as far as I am concerned, at least for the current year.
Important is that we increase the value of new business and that we increase the
underlying profitability.
We have a lot of growth initiatives, so I'm fully expecting that, in the medium term, also
the premium volume on our Life & Health business will continue to grow. I mean, one thing
on the Life & Health which I would like to remind you is that it's not a terribly large
business. I mean, Life & Health reinsurance is only about 50 billion of worldwide premium
volume, and it's very concentrated. I mean, the top seven reinsurers have about 97% of
those 50 billion. So where we grow we have to create new business which up to now has
not been reinsured.

Q - Stef an Scharff

{BIO 3964918 <GO>}

One quick follow-up question about the EBIT margin and mortality and morbidity business.
As we can on see on slide 18, you achieved 3.6% in 2015 and the target is to come near
to 6%. What is your assumption for the current year?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well, I would be disappointed if we are again below 6%. I mean, 6% is what we need to
get and our colleagues are working on it.

Operator
Okay. Well, the next question is coming from Mr. Schäfer.

Q - Andreas Schäf er
Andreas Schäfer, Bankhaus Lampe. Just one question on your guidance with respect to
the investment income. I mean, you're targeting more or less a stable investment income,
but your target yield is some 50 basis points below what you have achieved in the last
year. So how does it fit together? I can't believe that your assets under management will
grow some 15% this year.

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

I think what we mentioned is that we will keep the volumes – or that we will keep the net
investment income stable with regard to the expectations. We had an expectation for
2015 of approximately 3%. We have some extraordinaries up and down. We have – that
also includes a negative ModCo, we didn't embark on that too much.
So what we usually said is that we should be able to mitigate the 15 basis points which – or
around 15 basis points ROI which I lose approximately year-by-year by increased volumes.

Page 19 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

FINAL

I think that is the assumption behind the plan right now. The plan right now does not
include realizations to a large extent or to an extent where – which we had seen over the
last two years. This is how you – this, of course, includes no currency exchange effects in it.
So, right now, it might not – the plan today is obviously a little bit lower than what we have
achieved in 2015. But this still leaves us the room up – but it's a more or less theoretical
bottom approach. You look at the maturities you have at your current portfolio, then the
majorities, that is assumption of positive cash flows. We do apply our re-investment yields.
Now a little bit better than we had calculated and that comes up then with an investment
gain which, right now, in the plan as it is set up early this year is a little bit lower than what
we have achieved last year.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

But, of course, it also helps us that we have increased our investment in U.S. dollars and
reduced our investments in euro. U.S. dollars, you get higher interest rates, and we did
that of course by converting the functional currency of our RS (1:24:04) subsidiary from
euros to U.S. dollars. We did that not in order to earn higher investment income, but
largely in order to help our subsidiary with their capital requirements which are almost
exclusively in U.S dollar and on a group basis to mirror the currencies of our capital that
seek currencies of our capital requirement.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay. Well, the next question comes from Roland Pfänder.

Q - Roland Pf änder
Roland Pfänder, ODDO BANK (1:24:43). Coming back to your Life business, could you
please provide us an EBIT split regarding financial solutions, longevity, morbidity and
mortality? And maybe you could have some words on the financial solutions business.
Why is it this profitable? Is there not competition coming in and normalizing the margins,
so to say, or what's your take on this? Maybe you have a hard number on your reserve
redundancies. How much did they go up in 2015? Thank you?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Firstly, regards (1:25:18) to the financial solutions business so profitable. I mean, the
profitable part of that is largely business that we have started to generate following the
financial crisis. And it revolves around redundant reserves of so-called Triple-X and AXXX
reserves in the States which up until then largely had to be financed by LOCs. Then in
2008, the LOC costs increased dramatically. We offered structures to our clients that they
could deal with those statutory capital requirement without the use of LOCs but without –
with the use of other structures.
That business has the average duration of those facilities is like 10 years and it has
relatively high margins at that time. All of those transactions have to be approved by the
regulators and the respective states and what is most important and we have seen that in
recent survey for the clients there is a deal (1:26:46) of certainty. As we have done some
Page 20 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

FINAL

(1:26:52) largest number of deals, it helps us to acquire new ones because we can offer
better deal with certainty. It's fair to say that on a like-for-like basis, the margins on that
business have come down. But as the business is covering redundant reserve, the
expected loss ratio on it is actually zero, because they are far out of the money stop
losses basically, that's what in essence is. (1:27:16) That creates a profitability. The other
part of that business, as I explained, is cash financing.
Profit margins, I mean, EBIT margins on cash finance are not that attractive, but in a mix, I
mean, the profit margin comes up pretty high. Of course, in 2015, it was aided by one-off
effect that we generated profits particularly with that one transaction that was mentioned,
which otherwise we would (1:27:52) have received. In the coming years, we front-loaded
them upwards, but the underlying business is still growing, that's a good thing. We
continue to have new transactions on that side, both financing as well as these, I mean,
financing of redundant reserves.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then the split, I mean, if you split the longevity where we have 4.5% margin, and then that
leaves 18.1% for financial solutions, that is a little bit inflated on the longevity business
because there was one transaction which was over-reserved last year out of a actuarial
arrow. That arrow had to be corrected this year, and that created some €20 million
additional earnings on that business.
Overall, our reserving on longevity business is conservative because, I mean, you have of
course locked in assumptions as you have on Life & Health. On longevity, we impair them
on a by treaty basis. So if you have actually to expect it, that is positive and we have
better view on the mortality for the future. We will not unlock, we are not allowed to
unlock, and so the reserves they remain unchanged. If we have a negative deviation on
our future expectations, we unlock and book that has a loss. We had part of that in 2015
admittedly smaller numbers, single-digit numbers because it was smaller transaction, but
that's how we look at that.
The split between mortality and morbidity, Roland has right in front of him.

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Positive. Mortality written margin was 4.1% and the morbidity was 2.3%. And I think you
were also referring to the absolute number of reserve redundancy increases. We are still
waiting for the final reports to come in, this is why it is always a bit difficult, but my CEO
this morning at the occasion of a press conference did mention the number of above
€200 million. Uli.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Okay, any further questions from this room? If this is not the case, we have already some
questions received and we would start with Edward Morris from JPMorgan.

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

Hi, there. Few questions from me, please. First is on the growth in value of new business.
I'm just trying to sort of reconcile this by which product category it's in and also, if you
Page 21 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

FINAL

could give an indication of over what kind of periods you expect this to translate into IFRS
profit. Just some sort of indication of how much is longevity and how much is the sort of
shorter return stuff ?
And the second question is on the payout ratio going forward. So you seem to be
suggesting quite heavily that special dividends are – they're more likely now come in
future years. I'm just trying to understand in a environment where you're not particularly
expecting much premium growth, how much capital do you still use and that you retain?
And is there any benefit really to continue to build capital?
And then another quick question, if I may. I noticed in your presentation when you're going
through on slide five, you seemed quite happy about the fact that you would be dropping
12.8% from your five-year average ROE and sort of suggesting that your rolling average
might improve. And if I take your guidance of €950 million, that would you put you below
12.8% ROE. So should I then assume your guidance is very conservative? Thanks.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you for that question on – those questions. On the value of new business, the
largest components (01:32:35) over €100 million is the U.S. mortality business which is a
new business and the facilities that are open for new business. That, of course, is
emerging over the next 30 years or even 35 years. As all of these treaties or most of
these treaties are so-called YRT treaties where the rates are increasing over time, we
expect that value of new business emerges very slowly.
The next part where we have over €100 million is longevity. I think it's a precise number,
it's €139 million or something like that. Again very slow emergence of that value of new
business, particularly the way how we book it because in the first five to seven years, we
only book a small fee on that and that's where most of that business is, but long
emergence.
Then another block where we have more than €100 million is the so-called financial
solutions fee deals. Those will emerge rather quickly in the next five years because that's
the way we are setting up the value of new business there. And then we have a whole
array of business written from Asia, Paris, Stockholm, and other areas all in the region
between, I would say, €10 million and €40 million and those are largely – it's largely
mortality business. Emergence again long tail, so I mean the value of new business
translation into IFRS profit is rather gradual with the exception of the financial solutions fee
deals.
And then the next question was on the dividend policy. Well, I mean for 2016, of course,
we are not showing much growth, if any, and therefore contrary to 2015, of course, the
capital requirement increased with the growth of the premium quite significantly. We are
not expecting that to happen in 2016 and that is why the special dividend is quite likely. I
mean, do we expect that this situation of low growth will continue in the medium term?
And the answer to that is no. I mean, we are not expecting that that will continue to
happen because we're expecting that eventually we will see volatility again. And with our

Page 22 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

market position, we expect that in the medium term. We will see growth in the business,
which we need to finance through the retained earnings.

FINAL

Then on the ROE, of course – I mean that's why we changed the guidance from around
€950 million to at least €950 million because we will be watching the development of the
ROE very closely and that will, of course, determine our strategy with regards to the
possible return of capital. But at this point in time, I guess it's a little bit premature.

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

That's great. That's very helpful. Thank you.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Okay, that also answers all your questions, right?

Q - Edward Morris

{BIO 16274236 <GO>}

Thanks.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Okay. Well, the next question is coming from In-Yong.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Hello. Three questions from me. Firstly, on the German GAAP equalization reserves, there
seem to be quite substantial addition in 2015 I think about €140 million, which is slightly
different from the guidance that we had at Investor Day. Is that just a function of a very
good underwriting result this year? Was there anything else that play and does that affect
the guidance you gave then of €140 million to €145 million of reduction in the equalization
reserve going forward in 2016, 2017? That's one question.
And the next one is just on when we look at the investment income from funds withheld
for fourth quarter, there was an increase in income despite the funds held and the
balance sheet declined quite substantially. And I think in the Annual Report, you referred
to withdrawal of specific underwriting just regarding UK single premium business. So, is
there elemental one-off in the income on funds withheld for the fourth quarter? Thank
you.

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Maybe I take the Germany GAAP number. I tried my very best last October to familiarize
you with the complexity of that calculation. And you're right, the expectation that we
would not add to the equalization reserve. We're a little bit affected by the unexpected
growth, a very good underwriting year and especially the growth rates, which do affect
the maximum amount per line of business have then let to additional contributions. What
does that mean for the future? It does mean that we will see kind of a regular, potentially
increased contribution to the fluctuation reserve as compared to €138 million, which we
had in 2015 because this steering of internal retrocessions will – had a one-off effect.
Page 23 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

FINAL

It does not impair or affect our expectations for 2017 where, as we try to explain the WTC
standard deviation, this appears from especially one line of business which will have a very
positive effect. So the next two years to come will have a very different development, of
course, based on the assumptions that we will not have another WTC, which we all hope
that this won't be happening.
Again as I mentioned before, the German GAAP result was very positive and gave us the
chance to increase retained earnings as well as profits carried forward.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Yeah. I mean, the reduction in the funds withheld, I mean, that was from recapture of
financing treaty on the longevity side which also generated some profit. That was down
because we were at our counterparty limit with that particular client, but freed-up
counterparty was actually used for new transaction.
So whilst there's a little bit of a one-off here that we had to hide in profitability to do that
recapture, we have continued profitability due to the new transaction that we have
entered into.

Q - In-Yong Hwang

{BIO 18784369 <GO>}

Okay. Uli, thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Okay. Well, thank you. The next question is coming from Anasuya Iyer from Jefferies.

Q - Anasuya Iyer

{BIO 18981555 <GO>}

Oh, hi. It's Anasuya Iyer from Jefferies. I had two questions. My first one is on the runoff
profits. If I'm not wrong of if I'm missing an update, I assume the guidance you gave us in
the past is maybe €50 million in a quarter. And just working through your combined ratio,
if I just back out the man-made and if I back out whatever release I have, it seems like the
€50 million would need to be a lot higher for you to reach – to match your 96% target. So
just wondering if you could give us an update on that.
And my second question was on Solvency II. I think at the Investor Day, you gave us a
notional 2014 number of 253% for the partial internal model and since then, that's come
down to 221%. Can I just check if that move is simply growth or is there something else
that I'm missing? Thank you.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

I'll take the second one and leave the first one to Ronald. I mean, the reduction from
253% to 221% is basically the growth of the business and the commensurate increase of
the capital requirement. It shows that we have actually been in 2015, to quite some
extent, able to actually utilize our capital.

Page 24 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

FINAL

I would also say that this was not only driven by new business, but unfortunately also by
the currency development. I mean, of course, we had the strengthening of the U.S. dollar
to quite some extent and a lot of our exposures that we write are in U.S. dollars. So, whilst
the capital – we were still overweight to some extent in euro and that is the result and the
fact, that is one of the reasons that I explained that we increased the part of our capital in
U.S. dollars to better match it with the exposure. But I think the numbers that you cite are
correct.

Q - Anasuya Iyer

{BIO 18981555 <GO>}

So can I just ask a follow-up on that? Is there any intention to provide specificities on these
ratios like some of your peers do just so we're comfortable with these movements in the
future?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

I didn't quite catch that, but I mean, of course, we have a limit in threshold as I said. We
say we have a limit of €180 million, a threshold of €200 million and we will manage
accordingly. Of course, I mean, we have lot of opportunities to improve that ratio if
necessary which just hasn't been now one of many, but of course we're to issue more
hybrid. But we have to watch it and that's why we have the limit in threshold on it. But I
mean, of course, ideally, we would like to be well above €200 million but not too much
because that would mean that we are not able to fully utilize our capital.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

With regards to the runoff, the result, I hope I got your math right. If we assume that we
have a run rate of around €50 million or a little bit more than that per quarter, then for the
full year, that would mean that this results in €200 million, €250 million. We, on top of that,
have added to the loss reserve redundancies this year a number which we mentioned
before, which would be over €200 million.
I think if we have the same run rate and – which we had before, the €200 million to €250
million in a year plus we do not add €200 million to €250 million to the reserve
redundancies, this would then already result as far as I can calculate here in approximately
the same combined ratio where we were.

Q - Anasuya Iyer

{BIO 18981555 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Okay. Well, the next question is coming from Xinmei Wang from Morgan Stanley.

Q - Xinmei Wang

{BIO 17860767 <GO>}

Hi, good afternoon. It's Xinmei Wang. I have two questions, please. So the first one is a
follow-up on capital. I think sometime towards the later part last year, you said that the
hybrid that is accepted under Solvency II, but that the full amount was not accepted under

Page 25 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

FINAL

S&P capital until Solvency II goes live. So in the Solvency II world, can you give us an
indication of how that has changed to the excess capital over rating agency requirements,
please and whether that would be – how that's impacted by the potential to increase the
amount of hybrid debt that you have?
The second is some reserve redundancies and apologies if I missed this before. You
talked a lot about reserve release. Reserve release is coming from shorter tail lines. I'm
wondering how you're seeing longer tail lines, Casualty lines which are in the 10 – several
years ago (01:46:28) developing? Thank you.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Sorry.

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's start with the hybrid. Well, I think that the restriction we have from S&P was that they
have the rule or implemented the rule that they would only accept hybrids which are
actually accepted by the Solvency I requirement and this is not a theoretical, but an actual
acceptance. So that had limited our credit which we got for issued hybrid in the past.
As Solvency I is no longer there and Solvency II accepts far more, that restriction of S&P is
just gone. I think that has nothing to do with overcapitalization or anything, just the
restriction is gone. And we would be in a position to issue I think the last number which I
knew that was by the end of last year was €1.3 billion, €1.4 billion of hybrid which we could
issue to date and this would be fully accepted by Standard & Poor's on the basis of the
missing restriction from Solvency I.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well, if I may add just a little bit of additional S&P capital from 01/01/2016 because the
current hybrid that we have was not fully recognized by S&P up until 01/01/2016. Only
around €800 million of that was recognized and now, the entire hybrid that we have of – I
think it's €1.5 billion is recognized.
On the loss reserve releases, I mean they largely come from Property, some aviation and
marine business. Property purely because it's short-tail business and the reserve – the
initial reserves that we do on the short-tail lines are apparently very conservative. And that
means that after 36 months, you normally see those releases. And if you look at the
tables that we have somewhere in the Annual Report, you can see that the reserve
releases are from years – accident years 2013 and before.
And on the aviation side, I mean we still have a very comfortable position on the aviation
side. But some of the losses have like Air France have just been be settled. I mean, the
loss is finished and settled and therefore, we have the double-digit number of loss
reserves still on it, which then there was no reason to keep it any longer. So we had to
release it.

Page 26 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

On Casualty, it's different. We actually strengthened our loss reserve in the newer
underwriting in particular 2014 on Casualty in order to put additional improvements then.

Q - Xinmei Wang

{BIO 17860767 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Great. Thanks very much.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Okay. Well, thank you. The next question is coming from Kamran Hossain of RBC.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Hi, everyone. I've got two questions. The first one is kind of philosophical question. So the
growth outlook isn't that strong at the moment. You're not paying out – you're still paying
out relatively low percentage of earnings back to shareholders like dividends and special
dividends. Normally, companies kind of – they hate this kind of behavior when you're going
too pretty close to market corrections. So I guess part one of this question is, do you
expect a market correction in reinsurance any time soon?

Bloomberg Transcript

And the second part of that is, if you do see the market turn, what do you expect to do to
the cognizance level that you hold in your reserves? Do you think you'd bring that down or
kind of directioning – what would you expect to happen to that?
And the second question is just on the ROE target, can I just double check that the soft
ROE target that you have is still 12%? And you kind of from there, it kind of feels like
you're running very hard to be pretty conservative on your guidance. Could you just
remind us on why the large loss to man-made budget has gone up to €825 million versus
€690 million? Appreciate some of the effects, but any other moves would be helpful.
Thanks.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Yeah. I mean, on the philosophical question on the turn of the market and the
commensurate dividend policy, I would say that the probability of turning market has
increased this year compared to last year. And the only reason for that is that's a soft
market that is continuing for one further year. And so that for the market, as a whole, we'll
put pressure on earnings.
And as I pointed out I think at the investment day, our belief is that the market participants
are – have a necessity to produce a profit and of course, there's a soft market lasting for
longer. I mean, of course, volatility from the loss side or from the investment side will have
a more pronounced effect on the profitability of the market participant and that would, of
course, then change the market and make – you will have more attractive trading
positions.
Then, of course, for us, it's important that we are prepared for that also by holding some
excess capital because opportunities arise in those cases, both growing the business and
maybe through acquisitions. And as long as we can keep acceptable ROEs and an
Page 27 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

FINAL

acceptable dividend yield on our shared price, we would I mean keep capital in the
company because we feel that in the long run, that is for the better of the company, but
whether (01:53:08) provide those on the ROE and on the dividend yield.
That is said. And the other question was are we too conservative on our guidance and is
the12% soft target still valid. Yes, it is still valid. I mean, are we conservative or not? A lot
can happen in a year if you are reinsurer because, I mean, we're in a volatile business. You
can have losses.
We might revisit the guidance – we have revisited a little bit already just to see (01:53:47)
at least €950 million and not in the region of €950 million. Normally, we look these things
after the third quarter when the hurricane season, which this year is actually expected to
be above average, is finished and you go to it this year as well and then we see where we
go. But overall, I mean we are, as you probably will have guessed from our call so far,
we're quite bullish for our 2016 results.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Can I just follow-up on the market? So, I guess one-half question – sorry, it's a very longwinded question. Just on the confidence level in reserves and if there was a market turn,
what you might expect to do that confidence level in your reserves?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well, I mean, I would say the most likely, I mean, reason for a market turn is a major cat
loss. And major cat loss, I mean well above the expected losses and I mean certainly loss
which should at least rival any losses we have seen so far in dollar terms.
That would, of course, have an impact on our results and that would and most likely mean
that we would, where we can, reduce the confidence level and keep the results at an
acceptable level. We, at the same time, feel that that will only be a short drop in the
confidence level because should we in fact then get better rates like we have seen in
2009 and 2012, we will, of course, then try to rebuild the confidence level back up rather
quickly.

Q - Kamran Hossain

{BIO 17666412 <GO>}

Okay. Appreciate the answer.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Okay. Well, the next question is coming from Thomas Fossard from HSBC.

Q - Thomas Fossard

{BIO 1941215 <GO>}

Yes. Good evening. Two questions. The first question would be on the French Life
business. I think that you mentioned during the presentation a €70 million of negative
earnings impact in 2015. If this number is correct, can we have some confidence that

Page 28 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

obviously the negative drag on earnings has been ring-fenced and that we should not
expect any spillover effect in 2016?

FINAL

And second question would be relative to slide number two on the operating cash flow.
With the book not expected to grow in 2015, could Roland guide us a bit on what would
be the level of operating cash flow we should expect in 2016? Would that be, I would say,
a level more in line with the 2014 level? Thank you.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well, firstly, on the French branch, I mean the €70 million is a difference to the results in
2014. 2014, of course, we had a profit I think from memory of a little bit more than €50
million. So we were negative this year, but not that negative. And we expect for the
current year that the profit will return to around the level that we had in previous years
because the problems we feel are soft. So, I mean that is our expectation there.
Expectation on cash flow is a little bit more difficult and already can see that Roland that
he wants to answer that. So I leave it you, Roland.

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

I think it is difficult to do that, and the assumption which you put into is that this would be
more in line with 2014. If the growth rates which we have indicated were stable to slightly
negative, it should really materialize. I think it does make a lot of sense. It will, of course,
be lower and then something which is then below – between €1.5 billion and €2 billion
should be a feasible number.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Don't forget that from the earnings from our investment portfolio, we would expect
around €1 billion and a bit anyhow. So, I mean that – we are pretty certain that that will
come and we are expecting the technical cash flow that's on the non-Life side that that
will be positive.
Life & Health is always a little bit a difficult one because, I mean, we have an increased
demand for financing transactions. Financing transactions, of course, I mean dampens the
cash flow for – you buy future cash flow with that. In the last year, the overall amount of
outstanding financing has been rather stable. But I would say for this year, we expect that
that outstanding amount will actually increase rather decrease considering the number of
transactions we are currently working on.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

But we have first still two other questions. One is coming from Olivia Brindle from Bank of
America.

Q - Olivia Brindle

{BIO 17273762 <GO>}

Page 29 of 35



FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

Hi, there. Just a couple of short questions left; mostly follow-up, actually. The first one just
on the earnings outlook to to further your thoughts (01:59:48) on that a little bit further. I
mean in – I think it was late 2014, you introduced this notion of at least 6.5% earnings
growth, which I got the sense was a more multi-year target than a single-year target. So
obviously, you've been quite a lot above that in the last two years. Just wanted to see
what your thinking is on that, is that broad target still relevant at all? And sort of more
generally do you think you can actually grow your earnings in absolute terms from here
on? You sort of seem to suggest about a €1 billion level was appropriate and various parts
of the 2015 numbers are maybe a bit inflated. So, just to get your thoughts around the
medium-term earnings outlook would be helpful.
And then on the Solvency, coming back to the S&P position. You've previously given us
estimates for the sort of the genuine excess capital that you have on that basis, which I
think the last number you gave was around €1 billion, could you sort of provide the latest
on that? And the final sort of point also on Solvency, the move from the 253 to the 221,
how much of that was FX-related and should we expect that that sensitivity would be
lower given that as you said you're not better matched on FX, so from here on,
movements related to currencies should be less drastic. Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well, the first question, yes the 6.5% is still very relevant and we have achieved it in the
past, and of course it's the target to achieve it also in the future. Clearly, I mean, for 2016
on a single year it will not be an easy task to achieve that and we have of course some of
the years where we don't achieve it partly because of major losses or something like that
and partly because the reference year is a particularly good year, which is the case for
2016. But if you look at it five years forward, I mean, clearly the goal is to increase the
profitability and the earnings per share by 6.5% per year on average and that's not
changing. I mean, it's not an easy task but – not an easy target but it's not our job to put
out easy targets. At least I can say in the past few (02:02:16) we managed to deal with
that and actually achieve it. On the (02:02:22), S&P released it – now the thing on S&P I
would say it's probably still around €1 billion, but we will have do the exact calculation, not
to adjust (02:02:34) the future because I think they'll visit us again, so if it works we'll be
able to let you know. On the Solvency II 253%, yes the majority of it, I would say more than
half of that was currency and the rest was gross and of course the resilience to currency
movements will be less because we better aligned the group capital by currency versus
(02:03:00) the capital requirements by currency. Safe answer. Thank you.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Okay, well. The next question is coming from Vinit Malhotra from Mediobanca.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Hey, thank you. Just (02:03:20), one is on the reserving. I remember that the last two
years now the conversations are always that external entities were motivating you to
reduce your redundancies be it auditors or tax people or – what has changed now that
they are letting you or you think they will let you increase this redundancy and how you
would convince them if anything. The other thing is just to understand the one-offs in the
ordinary income in the fourth quarter of €351 million investment income. There is another
Page 30 of 35



FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

high contribution from real estate. I think I can see €54 million, I can also see from your
slides that private equity is very – much more important. How much of the €351 million do
you think is sort of affected by one-offs and if I can ask the same question also for Life
because I am a little confused. The guidance is – from what I understood from – of these
comments, were that the – 2016 was a little above the run rate of where would you
expect. So, is that a clear understanding or is there more subtractions and additions in the
one-offs to make, to get at a normalized Life level number of these (02:04:50)? Thank
you.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

If I take the first one, I mean, on the level of redundancies, that we were able to increase
that, I can tell you that for the first time our auditors were not terribly happy with that. So
they gave us a little bit of a warning sign here. So that would mean that we would
probably not be in the position to increase redundancies much further in 2016. The
problem with that is that you only know it after the calculation has been done and
therefore when you go into the preparation for the profit and loss (02:05:42) account and
the balance sheet, it's – an unknown area. I mean, we have two things for year-end. I
mean, we have our outside actuary giving his first opinion on the redundancies. We have
our own actuary giving his opinion on the redundancies and we have our auditor giving the
opinion of the redundancies. And the auditor is finding the highest numbers, I can tell you
that. He wasn't that happy with it so we have to see what we do but I think this is a soft
market, we may not have that problem but I thought the same a year ago, so we see how
it goes. On the one-off side l will hand over to Ronald.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Vinit, it was not easy to understand you just vocally, but as far as I understood you were
referring to the ordinary investment income of our Life and associating that with private
equity or others. So first of all we had in the first quarter of last year €39 million as a oneoff that was a termination fee which was booked as investment income and as ordinary
investment income. I think that is the only extraordinary item in this line and this should be
adjusted to – if you want to know run rate going forward. We have not allocated too many
risk-bearing assets to the Life business. Here it was always a question of risk appetite and
of course also of available funds overall. A lot of the premium is deposited with our
ascendants (02:07:30) and the cash flow which belongs to the Life side based on also the
financing deals which Uli mentioned before, so the free cash flow which is ready to be
invested on the Life side is limited. Anyway, this is why we only have the less risky asset on
the Life side. So the €351 million is not associated with any extraordinary items from real
estate or from private equity if that was your question.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you for – sorry I wasn't clear. €351 million has no one-off, okay. And my
question on Life was on the Life EBIT as a whole, not just Life investment income.

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Okay, sorry.

Page 31 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Is that the correct understanding that 2016 is high but not very high from what you would
think is normalized or, because there are too many one-offs in Life in this year, so just
curious if I understood correctly.

FINAL

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well, Vinit, if I take that, I can say the first and the fourth quarter we're barely above the
run rate but the second and the third were well below the run rate. Different reasons, first
quarter of course the one-off termination fee. Second and third quarter, adverse
experience from the French branch and U.S., I mean, our nice ING book of business that
we have and some additional mortality, this one very large claims which I think is known to
the reinsurance community by now quite well. And the fourth was again as I said above
the run rate, here again from financial solutions we had an extraordinary high underwriting
income. Again, coming back to those fee deals that we had a very positive result. I mean,
we expect positive results from that in the future but maybe not quite as positive as we
have seen in the fourth quarter. But, I mean, if you look at the entire year I would say yes
overall, I mean, we are – had an uplift of the results of about €50 million EBIT. If you take
that out you're basically at the underlying I would say.

Q - Vinit Malhotra

{BIO 16184491 <GO>}

Thank you. Thank you, Uli. Thanks for it.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Okay, well. It looks that we do not have any further question coming from the conference
call. If we do not have any further questions – another one from Philipp Häßler.

Q - Philipp Häßler
Philipp Häßler, equinet. Just two very short questions. Firstly, coming back to your ordinary
investment income, could you perhaps tells us how much came from real estate and from
private equity in Q4 and then on the oil and gas exposure could you perhaps give us
some geographic split not by country but only how much is Europe, how much is North
America?

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Well, two numbers I must admit I have not available here on my desk. Before, I think, it
was with regard to the oil and gas, this should follow the currency split and where we have
50% or nearly 50% in the U.S. dollar and a little bit more than 20% in the euro. The first
question, please remind me of what that was.

Q - Philipp Häßler
The ordinary investment income in Q4, how much came from the private equity and the
real estate contributions?

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}
Page 32 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

I would have to look that up, it would be a rough guess, and I don't want to show in
numbers which I'm not really certain of.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

FINAL

But I think we had this slide in the presentation that showed you where the investment
income is coming from?

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Yeah, but not per quarter.

Q - Philipp Häßler
Not per quarter. I know, that's – and I'm not too sure if the fourth quarter was particularly
high but if that it would be private equity, I would say.

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

It is. That was exactly that – we had a contribution from the private equity side where we
had distribution from funds that were – these were in Q3, but we had solid sums, so we
had to reflect that. So there might and there was an uplift in private equity, the distribution
of some €30 million and most of that was Q4 from the real estate portfolio. I would
assume that these are really periodical, rather stable numbers.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Philipp Häßler
Thank you.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Okay. And we have another question from Michael Haid.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Thank you. Michael Haid from MainFirst Bank. Just one question. Can you say how much
premiums you had from your deposit accounting
business and how profitable in absolute terms this is and how it developed over the past
couple of years?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Well for IFRS the first part of that question is, I can answer very easily. None. It is – I mean
the profit offset is within the other income line and it is a double-digit number. I think we
have the exact number. Roland is just looking for it.

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Sorry, that is, for – on the Life side, we have profits from deposit accounting contracts is
€88 million. We will have to deduct some of that as we proceeded as well and we have
Page 33 of 35



Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

some retrocession and you should deduct another nearly €20 million so it is around €60
million I would say.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

FINAL

And what kind of premium volume, I know it's not premium it's under IFRS but how....

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

On the German GAAP you mean because under IFRS – so the question would be how
much premium would you show if you would not account them as deposit accounting. I
can't answer that question.
But on the German GAAP it's a lot because we have a lot of growth on the German GAAP
because of deposit account treaty in particular one it's certainly above €2 billion.

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

Yes.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

But there's also one-off in that premium because we had one treaty which was only
running for nine months and inflated the numbers in the German GAAP balance sheet
provided better our profit and loss account.

Q - Michael Haid

{BIO 1971310 <GO>}

But how did that €2 billion, how did that develop over the past couple of years?

A - Ulrich Wallin

{BIO 4863401 <GO>}

We haven't got that number, I mean we have to look that up.

A - Roland Vogel

{BIO 16342285 <GO>}

Plus it goes up and down. You saw mostly financial risk limited contracts, the premium
which is associated with it goes up and down. This is very often driven by one-offs so also
the number will be very volatile.

A - Karl Steinle

{BIO 1986424 <GO>}

Okay. If there are no further questions, which seems to be the case then I would like to
thank you for your attendance. And this call will now be concluded and you may
disconnect. For all others here in the room I would like to invite you on behalf of Hannover
Re to join us for a drink outside of this room. And thanks for coming.

Page 34 of 35



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: H annover Rueck SE
Company Ticker: H N R1 GR Equity
Date: 2016-03-10

Page 35 of 35

