Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

Q2 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Hirokazu Fujita, MD
Ichiro Ishii, Senior MD
Kenji Iwasaki, Senior Managing Executive Officer & Group Chief R&D Officer, Tokio
Marine & Nichido Fire
Kunihiko Fujii, Senior MD
Shinichi Hirose , President & CEO, TMNL
Shozo Mori, MD, Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire
Takayuki Yuasa, MD & Group CFO
Tsuyoshi Nagano, President, Group CEO
Unidentified Speaker, Analyst

Other Participants
Kazuki Watanabe , Analyst
Masao Muraki, Analyst
Natsumu Tsujino, Analyst

Bloomberg Transcript

Tatsuo Majima, Tokyo Securities Co., Ltd.
Wataru Otsuka, Analyst

Presentation
Tsuyoshi Nagano

{BIO 16141096 <GO>}

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for coming, despite your
busy schedule. Thank you, once again, very much for attending our FY16 second-half
investor meeting. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for your ongoing
support to our business.
Today, I would like to give you updates primarily on our FY16 business plan. But since we
are half-way through our three-year mid-term business plan this year, I would also like to
share with you the progress of our growth strategies under the mid-term plan, in addition
to the latest business results.
Given the low interest rate environment and increasing uncertainties on the global basis,
we cannot be optimistic at the moment. However, I would like to explain to you today how
we are executing our management strategies, to generate sustainable corporate value,
even under such operating environment.

Page 1 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

FINAL

After my presentation for the first 45 minutes or so, we would like to open the floor to
entertain your questions and comments, as much as time allows. Let us now begin from
page four of the handout material.
This is a recap. This is a recap of goals under the mid-term business plan entitled, To Be a
Good Company 2017. Each of our business is executing growth strategies steadily, to
achieve the targeted adjusted ROE in the upper 9% range. And adjusted net income of
approximately JPY400 billion in the final year under the plan FY17.
Please turn to page 5. On page 5, you can see FY16 Q2 results and on page 6, full-year
projections for FY16, since we made the announcement already on November 18, just to
give you the highlight.
Adjusted net income, which is our Group-wide KPI and fund for dividend payout, increased
by JPY78.9 billion, year on year, due to profit contribution of HCC and decline in natural cat
losses in Japan.

Bloomberg Transcript

Appreciation of Japanese yen is negative to our international insurance business. And yet
since it is positive to our domestic non-life business, the net impact to our Group overall,
is limited.
As for FY16, full-year projections on page 6. While international insurance business will be
affected by stronger Japanese yen, since domestic non-life business is now expected to
grow profit more than the initial plan, we made an upward revision to adjusted net income
by JPY1 billion to JPY389 billion.
At the bottom of the page, you see full-year projections for business unit profit, which I
will come back in more detail when I explain to you plans and strategies by business
domain.
Let us now move on to page 7; pages 7 and 8 show trend of three KPIs under the midterm business plan.
Adjusted net income is projected to reach JPY389 billion, up by JPY37.1 billion year on
year. We expect adjusted ROE at 10.7%, exceeding our original projection. While net asset
value is hit by stronger Japanese yen and decline in stock prices, we have enhanced our
control over risks and capital.
I will amplify on shareholder return later. But for FY16, we're planning to increase dividend
for fifth consecutive year to JPY135 per share. Furthermore, this time around we have
decided for share repurchase program up to JPY25 billion.
Page eight shows the trend of KPIs since the previous mid-term business plan. It is
noteworthy that all of these KPIs have been enhanced steadily across the board, which
indicates that our Group's earnings power has been truly reinforced.

Page 2 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

Under the mid-term business plan, our goal is to transform our business structure, to
enable us to achieve sustainable profit growth with higher ROE. The actual results on
these charts is an evidence that our transformation is underway successfully.

FINAL

Through this expansion on profit and increased capital efficiency, we're pleased that we
can expect to increase dividend five years in a row. And buy back our own shares to return
enhanced value to shareholders.
Please turn to page 9. As I mentioned earlier, since we are halfway through our mid-term
business plan, I would like to share with you what we have achieved over the last 18
months, since we launched the plan, as well as our future direction on page nine and 10.
Under the plan, we have been implementing growth strategies, based on four pillars:
enhancement, evolution, expansion. And excellence. I might elaborate on some of the
details later, in a discussion about respective businesses. But let me first make an overall
comment.

Bloomberg Transcript

First, enhancement, as you can see at the very top, this is a strategy to enhance our
business model to unlock our Group's potential. Even in the domestic Japanese market,
where some say it is difficult to grow the business going forward, by reinforcing our
consultation capabilities, based on next generation business model. And making Super
Insurance product even more attractive through the promotion of integrated business
model between life and non-life, we have been growing our business continuously.
In the international insurance business, we're working to generate Group synergies, by
leveraging our global network and expertise of our international Group of companies.
Going forward, we would also focus on establishing new business models from the
perspectives of supporting regional development in Japan and health and productivity
management, to aim for further growth.
Evolution is an effort to become more responsive to changes foreseen in the future and
drive growth out of these changes.
In the domestic non-life business, we're now offering revised auto insurance product and
new services, to respond to the advancement of autonomous driving technologies.
In the domestic life business, we have launched new products, focusing on living
protection.
Also, we established digital strategy division within Tokio Marine Holdings in July this year,
to further reinforce our R&D function globally.
We will study continuously further advancement of technologies. And offer products and
services to proactively capitalize on changes in the environment, to deliver safety and
security to our people, while transforming our insurance business portfolio and business
mix, particularly here in Japan, concurrently.
Page 3 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

FINAL

Under the expansion strategy, we're aiming to expand our growth territory, to optimize
our Group's business portfolio. With the HCC transaction closed in October last year,
along with our previous acquisitions, Philadelphia and Delphi, we now have very solid
business franchise in the US specialty insurance market.
Our business portfolio is now well-balanced, even on a global standard, in terms of
diversification by geography and by line of business. Our management foundation has
become more resilient against changes in the environment and nat cat risks.
Going forward, we will continue to study new business investment opportunities, in both
developed and developing countries. But we will, first and foremost focus on PMI, to
enhance our collective strength as a Group.
Since all of these strategies are underpinned by business platform, through our strategy,
Exodus, we've been working to advance our business platform, aiming to become an
even more competitive player globally.

Bloomberg Transcript

Under the mid-term business plan, we have advanced our ERM to maintain financial
soundness while enhancing capital efficiency. To be specific, we have been reducing
business-related equities consistently and, at the same time, reinforced our control over
nat cat risks, in order to improve our risk portfolio.
In April, this year, to enhance our value creation capabilities in the long run, we reinforced
Group-based management structure to better leverage our collective strength as a
Group. It's been six months since we established this new structure and we can feel that it
is working effectively.
Strength of our Group companies, both home and abroad, are now connected organically
and enable us to address management issues, based on our comprehensive strength as
a Group.
Another vital component to realize sustainable growth is people and organization with
enterprising spirit that can self-initiate actions. So it's been also our very important focus
to promote talent development and diversity. In order to develop future leaders for our
Group, we will further strengthen global HR strategies.
I will next discuss ERM and shareholder return. Please proceed to page 13 and 14. Please
refer to both pages 13 and 14 at the same time.
Tokio Marine Group has been promoting ERM as a core of our business management to
maintain financial soundness and enhance profitability. To be more specific, we have been
controlling the balance between capital and risks to maintain AA credit ratings, while
taking various measures to enhance capital efficiency.
As it has been the case to date, as an indicator of our financial soundness, we calculate
ESR conservatively by excluding restricted capital and measuring risk capital based on
Page 4 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

99.95% VaR for AA calibration with the target range set between 100% and 130%.

FINAL

Movement of net asset value and risk capital are shown on page 14. As of the end of
September 2016, our ESR was 130%. We maintain adequate financial soundness.
Please note that on page 13 in the dotted-line box on the left of the bar chart, we are
indicating for your reference ESR based on 99.5% VaR with UFR for better comparability
with our peers.
The same with our ESR, we excluded restricted capital and after excluding restricted
capital, the ESR turned out to be 161%.
Sensitivity of activity analysis of ESR is shown on page 14 on the right. While monitoring the
economic environment cautiously to stay financially sound, as we have done to date, we
will continue to reduce business-related equities in a well-planned manner and grow profit
in the respective businesses so that we can enhance our capital buffer.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next, let me discuss shareholder return on page 15. Dividend is the primary means of our
shareholder return as we have communicated traditionally. Since we pay dividend out of
profit generated by respective businesses, in order to steadily and surely increase
dividend, it is crucial, more than anything else, that we grow profit in a sustainable and
stable manner.
For FY16, we're planning to increase full-year dividend by JPY25 to JPY135 per share. And
we decided the interim dividend at JPY67.5. So we're expected to increase DPS five years
in a row this year and we will continue to grow profit across our Group. So that we can
grow DPS steadily in line with profit growth.
As for share repurchase, it has been our policy to make a comprehensive judgment
based on market environment, capital position and availability of business investment
opportunities. And buy back our shares flexibly to balance financial soundness and capital
efficiency.
This time, we decided to repurchase our shares up to JPY25 billion during the second half
of this fiscal year. Thanks to the favorable result of our core domestic P&C business and
contribution of HCC, profit has accumulated and we determined that the current capital
level is good enough to withstand rapid changes in the financial market if any.
Meanwhile, since there is no immediate large-scale business opportunity that we're
planning to newly invest in, we decided that we should adjust our capital position.
Now, I would like to touch upon our Group's investment strategy. So please turn to page
16.

Page 5 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

Our basic asset management strategy remains unchanged. With ALM investment at the
core, we will aim for higher profitability within tolerable risk level. At the same time, since
our Group has become more global, we would also diversify our investment portfolio
globally.

FINAL

Also, by strengthening collaboration among Group companies in and outside of Japan,
we will strive to enhance our investment capabilities.
In terms of investment yield of our Group, as indicated in the top right chart, the impact of
low rate environment in Japan is limited, because of our core asset being long-term
bonds and our Group-wide effort to diversify our investment portfolio.
As for business-related equities, our strategy is to sell down those equities steadily by
JPY100 billion or more per annum over the current mid-term period.
We sold equities by approximately JPY77 billion-worth during the first half of the year. We
will continue to sell down those equities to enhance our capital efficiency and better
control our risks.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, I would like to discuss business strategy by business domain. First, for domestic nonlife business, please turn to page 19.
For the overview of domestic non-life insurance business, I will explain about the progress
of medium-term business plan of Tokio Marine and Nichido Fire, which is the pivotal
domestic non-life entity of the Group.
First, on the 2016 projections, net premiums written was revised downwards from the
original projections, due to the impact of appreciation of yen on foreign currencydenominated contracts.
For business unit profit, due to decrease in provision for reserve for foreign currencydenominated outstanding claims associated with appreciation of yen, an improvement of
loss ratio, mainly in auto, we made an upward revision by JPY15 billion and now project
JPY173 billion.
Last fiscal year, there was a temporary increase in premium, due to revision of fire
insurance product line and this year, we are projecting decline in premium on year-on-year
basis.
However, looking at average growth rate, we are seeing steady progress for both top line
and bottom line in line with the mid-term business plan.
Please turn to page 20. As for the combined ratio for FY16, expense ratio will go up due
to decline in premium. But loss ratio is expected to improve. As a result, combined ratio
for this fiscal year is projected to be 90%, a 1% improvement from the original plan.

Page 6 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

FINAL

On the bottom half of the slide, we are showing the top-line situation of auto insurance,
which is our major line of insurance. Bottom left graph is the comparison of Tokio Marine's
insurance policies versus number of automobiles owned nationwide. You can see that we
are constantly expanding market share.
The bottom right graph is the monthly year-on-year change of non-fleet auto premiums.
Premiums written for new contracts is always beating the premium of the same month in
previous year, a proof of its steady growth.
Now, I will talk about our growth strategy which supports this kind of growth. Please turn to
page 21.
At Tokio Marine and Nichido Fire, we have been promoted the integrated business model
of life and non-life, centering around the promotion of Super Insurance product, in order
to further enhance our competitive advantage.
There are various initiatives being taken to enhance this business model even more. So I
am going to introduce these initiatives.

Bloomberg Transcript

To make Super Insurance more attractive to customers, we had expanded
comprehensive discount scheme for Super Insurance in October this year.
To promote sales of multi-line policies we decided to give bigger discount for policies
with three or more lines of products. And also introduced new discounts for life insurance
and long-term fire insurance.
To advance consulting services, we are defining next generation business model and
enriching training programs for employees in charge of agents, to improve consulting
skills of the agents.
As seen with the trend of the unit premium of Super Insurance on upper right, thanks to all
the efforts so far, we are enjoying progress with multi-line policy sales.
The ratio of the policies with life or third-sector attached most recently in October
exceeded 17%. And will continue to achieve the goal of 20% by 2020.
Please turn to page 22, next I'd like to talk about a new business model developed as a
part of enhancement strategy with new perspectives on regional development in Japan.
And health and productivity management.
The domestic environment continues to be tough, facing issues such as declining
population, ageing of society, with low birth rate, depopulation of rural areas. And decline
in labor force, which all make themes, such as revitalization of regional parts of Japan. And
health and productivity management extremely important.

Page 7 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

While national government and municipalities are working on the same issues, we will be
utilizing our accumulated intelligence and knowhow to provide insurance products and
services to contribute to resolving these issues.

FINAL

In the area on regional development of Japan, by collaborating with municipalities,
financial institutions and Chamber of Commerce, we will contribute to revitalize regional
economies and tap into the wide spreading SME market at the same time.
In July, this year, we launched a new nationwide Group insurance called Super Business
Protect, for the members of Chamber of Commerce. Going beyond the conventional
framework of insurance, this product comes with services such as inbound information
service to support companies facing inbound travelers; and other services to assist the
companies to increase customer traffic, which were highly in need by SMEs.
Two months after the launch we have already acquired over 10,000 policies.
Health and productivity management on the bottom is an initiative to facilitate mostadvanced healthy nation, initiated by the Japanese Government.

Bloomberg Transcript

Through promotion and penetration of health and productivity management, employees'
health will be promoted, which will lead to improving productivity and alleviating medical
expenses.
This is an area that has high affinity with Tokio Marine's business. By leveraging on the
solutions we can provide, we'd like to make a contribution to the national initiative. And
also link this effort to Tokio Marine's growth.
Until now, we had already provided Group health insurance scheme and data health
support service for companies, mainly with third sector products.
This time, we are focusing on analysis of workers' productivity. And have launched on a
new service to support the implementation of health enhancement measures for
employees, in order to strengthen initiatives in the area of health and productivity
management at Tokio Marine Group.
These strategies are brand new initiatives for us. And we believe they will lead us to a
medium to longer-term growth.
Please turn to page 23; in the current mid-term business plan of Tokio Marine Group,
evolution was one of the pillars for us to preemptively capture changes in the
environment, such as advancement of technology. And changing demographics, in order
to create new business opportunities.
Thus, we have been focusing on R&D activities centering around the new product and
services development along this theme of evolution.

Page 8 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

Please take a look at the left half of this slide shaded in blue, about the development of
auto technology. Investors had voiced their concern about the shrinking auto market.

FINAL

While we witnessed complication of parties involved to bear liability over auto accidents
involving not only drivers. But also manufacturers. And software companies, I myself felt
that there must be something we can do as an insurance company. And that there is a
new role to be played by us as an insurance company.
The newly developed product, coverage riders for expenses for saving victims is a
product that will allow for a quick rescue of victims, even under a situation where liability
structure of the parties involved is still unclear.
This is a product that will make quick rescue of victims possible. And was developed in
order to contribute to a realization of safe and secure car society, which is a social mission
of an insurance company.
As it was reported in the newspaper this morning, using telematics technology we will be
providing a Drive Agent Personal. Also, we are revising the fire insurance in order to
capture the needs over a wide area of disasters.

Bloomberg Transcript

Another point in R&D, along [ph] safety and security is responding to new types of risks.
On the right half of this slide we are listing some new types of products responding to
new risk areas, such as cyber risk insurance, agricultural insurance. And sharing economy
insurance.
Our intent is to continue to promote these type of initiatives. So that we can expand the
specialty insurance market in Japan, which is relatively small compared to that of
overseas. And achieve transformation of insurance portfolio over longer term.
Next, I'd like to talk about the domestic life business, please turn to page 25.
First, I will explain about the FY16 projections of Tokio Marine & Nichido Life Insurance
Company. In this mid-term plan after Japan entered a negative interest rate policy, we
have accelerated the shift from savings type products to protection-type products to
achieve growth with profitability and financial soundness.
Measured by new policy A&P excluding long-term savings products which we focus and
monitor, we had to make a downward revision to JPY103.1 billion from the original
projection, due to reversal effect of favorable sales of cancer insurance in fiscal 2015.
The sales of medical products launched last year in November, is trending favorably. And
we expect year-on-year increase in sales this year.
On the bottom strip of the graph we are showing the ratio of new policies A&P. Other
than long-term saving-type products by continuous launch of protection type products

Page 9 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

and alleviating sales of saving-type products, we expect to see the ratio to be 94% in
2016, which is a 20-point increase from the end of FY14.

FINAL

Next, I will talk about business unit profit measured by increase in MCEV. Please look at
page 26.
We introduced MCEV in April of 2015. And it has been a little over one year since its
introduction. Under the current environment, some of the elements involved in the
calculation were seen as too conservative and had revisited the definition of those
elements, based on some objective data.
As a result, some of these elements, mainly those indicated on the slide were changed in
their definitions when applied to measurement method.
Mainly due to the changes in definition the measurement method, the MCEV increase for
this fiscal year will increase by JPY163 billion against the original plan, to JPY202 billion.
Even in the current low interest rate environment, we will make further shifts to
protection-type products, in order to secure positive value of new business.

Bloomberg Transcript

Next, I will talk about business strategy. So please look at page 27 and 28.
TMNL has a product strategy focusing on conventionally untapped area. And also has a
multi-channel strategy using four major sales channels. These strategies allow us to
achieve growth, outperforming the market.
On page 27 it talks about product strategy. Page 28 talks about channel strategy. Please,
first, take a look at page 27.
With advancement of ageing. And sophistication of medical technology, there is a higher
need for protection from longevity risks, such as inability to work, receiving outpatient
care. And nursing care.
Based on this trend, we are focusing on conventionally untapped areas, uncovered by
conventional life insurance policies. And continue to launch new and unique products.
During the course of the mid-term plan, last year we launched a cancer insurance in July.
And medical insurance in November. We also upgraded the hip product, the Medical Kit R.
Further, in this November we launched another new product, household income term
insurance, which is a first sector protection-type product. This product is designed to
provide wide coverage over the risk of inability based work by paying not only the
conventional monthly benefit after discharge. But also paying lump sum benefit payment
in case the policy holder is hospitalized with five major diseases.

Page 10 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

This is an industry-leading level of coverage that we are providing. For example, in case a
patient is diagnosed with cancer, one in every three corporate workers end up leaving
their work; and, over 10% of business owners end up closing down their business.

FINAL

As you can see with the bottom right pie chart 62% of cancer patients experience decline
in their income to less than 70% of the full amount he or she was paid before becoming a
cancer patient.
To such risks, medical treatment fee will be paid by cancer insurance and their decline
income can be reimbursed by household income term insurance. By offering such
coverage, we can protect customers while enjoying sustainable growth.
Next, I will explain about channel strategy. Please turn to page 28.
We are promoting multi-channel strategies, centering around non-life agent, while utilizing
each channel's strength. Major initiatives underway are shown on this slide, especially
focusing on the three areas explained on the bottom half of this slide.

Bloomberg Transcript

Non-life agents have their strength in their consultation capabilities spanning across life
and non-life policies. By making the one and only life and non-life integrated product
super insurance more attractive, the integrated business model of life and non-life will be
promoted further and that leads to our sustainable growth.
The tie-up between non-life agents who have non-life customer base and life
professionals. And life partners who have strength in life policy sales should be
strengthened, in order to drill down deeper into the market. And have already seen
fruitful results out of such tie-ups.
On top of the above initiatives we are enhancing website marketing. While we use web
advertisement to strengthen customer contact, we have introduced the Internet
completion application system to meet customer need of completing the application
procedure on the web. This system will be deployed among agents who solicit customers
on the web.
We will continue to enhance growth potential revolving around four sales channels while
we respond to changing customer needs in the changing environment.
Next I will talk about international insurance business. Please turn to page 31.
On the very top, the two lines indicate what we want to say. While we see a global slowdown in economy and softening trend of the insurance rate procrastinate, globally the
insurance market's growth is slowing down.
In the financial market, there are some changes post the presidential election in the
United States. The lingering low interest rate environment under QE policy globally is

Page 11 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

bringing negative impact to the asset management of insurers in the world.

FINAL

This challenging environment is, obviously, impacting Tokio Marine's international business.
But nevertheless, by further enhancing risk control and underwriting discipline mainly
through ERM and by adding the capabilities of TMHCC, a newly added entity to the
Group. And by promoting measures to maximize organic growth potential of the Group
companies, we are aiming to achieve steady profit growth.
Now, let me explain about the overview of FY16 projections of international insurance
business.
On this slide, there is a gray bar and a blue bar for each year. The gray bar on the left is
the result basis. Whereas the blue bar is the normalized basis excluding the FX effect, to
have you better understand the underlying status quo of the business.
For profit, blue bar also normalizes the natural catastrophe losses to an average annual
level. So please, look at the blue bars for the normalized basis.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the revised projections for FY16, compared to the original projections, we saw an
aggressive progression of yen appreciation, which led to a downward revision on resultbasis projection. However, by excluding FX and natural catastrophe loss impact we are
projecting an upward revision versus the original projections for both premium and profit,
showing steady growth.
Before we enter into details of each region, I will explain about Group synergy on page
32.
Based on the inclusion of TMHCC to Tokio Marine Group, we have embarked on realizing
global-based synergy on wider scale from this year, not limited to developed market,
such as Europe and US. But also including emerging markets in Japan.
In different areas of synergy, be it revenue, investment, capital or cost, we have already
begun to see results bringing major value to the business.
On revenue synergy in both developed markets and emerging markets the globally
expanding sales platform of each Group company is being utilized, in order to offer highly
competitive specialty products from companies like TMHCC, TMK, etc. We are already
seeing good results in each region to enhance organic growth potential of each company.
Even in Japan, we are currently considering and developing new products that use highly
specialized expertise of TMHCC, which will expand the scope of specialty market.
Now, I will explain about each region starting from North America. Please turn to page 33.

Page 12 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

FINAL

Starting with the North American market overall, with the addition of TMHCC we now have
an ever-robust specialty insurance franchise. Tokio Marine's market share in the US
commercial P&C market is now within the top 10 ranking, as shown on the right-hand side
of the slide.
On the lower half of the slide we are showing Philadelphia and, on page 34, we are
showing Delphi and TMHCC. When you open these two pages you can see them at a
glance. At all three companies, they are experiencing growth through measures
leveraging on each company's strength, such as new policy sales, rate increase at
contract renewal and others.
Further, by showing better than market average combined ratio and expanding their
investment income utilizing investment synergy, steady growth is achieved; thus,
continuing to strongly lead international insurance business.
Next, I will talk about the Europe and the insurance business. Please turn to page 35.
While Europe continues to see soft market, underwriting discipline is maintained rather
than going after growing the top line. At the same time, we are expecting further growth
in premium and profit by Tokio Marine Kiln's expansion of US cover holder business.

Bloomberg Transcript

In reinsurance business, we are factoring in the assumption for rising loss ratio in the noncatastrophe business and made a downward revision to the normalized basis profit. On
result basis profit, we are keeping the same projection.
We will reduce the rate of natural catastrophe related underwriting and by further
diversifying geographical and product aligned portfolio we are building a business
platform to maintain stable profit.
Lastly, I will explain about emerging markets. Please turn to page 36.
In the emerging countries, we are also impacted by the deceleration of economy. Over
the medium to longer term, we are expecting growth centering around South and Central
Americas, as well as Asia. And will continue to capture growth opportunity in each country
appropriately.
In Brazil, which is the biggest business center in Latin America region, we are factoring in
the impact of economic slowdown and made a downward revision for premium from the
original projection. However, on year-on-year basis, we are expecting growth trend and
still seeing growth rate outperforming that of the market.
In Asia premium, or P&C business, is impacted by slowdown in auto sales at Thailand and
Malaysia. Life premium is impacted by sales trend in the low interest-rate environment.

Page 13 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

Based on such trend, we made some slight downward revisions from the original plan. But
still expect to see growth in premium on year-on-year basis.

FINAL

That concludes my presentation. Thank you for your patience. I'd like to welcome
questions from the floor now.

Questions And Answers
A - Unidentified Speaker
We would now like to open the floor for the Q&A session. If you have any question,
please raise your hand; we will bring you a microphone. And because we would be also
referring to handout material, please allow us to be seated as we answer your questions.
We would like to entertain questions from as many people as possible. So we thank you
for your understanding in advance; and please limit your questions to two questions at a
time.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Tsujino, JPMorgan. With regards to shareholder return, while the market expectation was
not high, you decided for JPY25 billion share repurchase; thank you for that. Having said all
that, JPY25 billion, given your business, I must say, is a moderate size in terms of share
repurchase.
Now currently, the market is rather volatile. And yet you rather decided for a modest-sized
share repurchase. What concerned you most in making the decision? Or are you planning
to perhaps do a share repurchase more on a constant basis, perhaps every six months or
so? Are you perhaps changing your policy slightly? What was the rationale behind this
decision?
In addition to that, on page 13, this time around, in order to help the comparison with the
peers, UFR reference indicates that ESR of 161%, based on UFR, with 99.5% VaR. However,
you have excluded restricted capital, right?
Normally, when you change the confidence internal [ph] from 99.95% VaR to 99.5%, there
will be various positive effects. For example, the expected losses will be reduced. And
therefore you can recognize more tax effects. Nat cat. And also other major risks, will
decrease. And therefore diversification will increase.
So based on the normal distribution. And also Tail-VaR [ph], the risks based on 99.95% will
be about 1.3 times higher than the risks based on 99.5%. Yet, the magnitude of the
change that you're showing this time around is not as significant.
That is because you are excluding restricted capital. If we didn't exclude restricted capital,
I would assume that this number would have exceeded 200%. So I understand the
calculation behind this.
Page 14 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

However, probably I believe that you actually wanted to show this number of 161%. So
what concerns you also here in this calculation, in disclosing this number for our
reference?

FINAL

A - Unidentified Speaker
So the point of your question is in terms of shareholder return, given the numbers that we
have announced, you are concerned that this share repurchase program is rather modest
and conservative. So what are the concerns that we have? That is your question.
I would now like to invite Mr. Yuasa, from Tokio Marine Holdings.

A - Takayuki Yuasa

{BIO 17941516 <GO>}

Yes. On page 15, we are showing the flexible share repurchase policy of our Company. As
you can see here, we have looked at the market environment, capital position, as well as
availability of business investment opportunities, comprehensively. We followed this policy
this time around, as well.

Bloomberg Transcript

As Mr. Nagano mentioned earlier, in terms of business investment we are not expecting
anything significant for a foreseeable future. And in terms of capital level the ESR is 130%.
So we think that the ESR is now close to the upper level of the target range of ESR.
In terms of the concern, we are concerned that the market environment is rather volatile.
Given that, we think that a JPY25 billion is an optimal size of share repurchase. That is the
thinking process that we had. I hope that it answers your first question.

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Yes.

A - Unidentified Speaker
You asked another -- you have another question, right? And I believe that -- to fully answer
the first part of your question, I believe that we also want to touch upon the technicality.
You have suggested that ESR should actually increase. Furthermore, based on 99.5%,
because we're excluding restrict capital, could we perhaps amplify in that?
Yes, once we apply UFR, normally restricted capital would be normally released. We
understand that is a general practice. But based on 99.5 -- 99.95% VaR, we are excluding
our restrictive capital. And that policy has remained unchanged.
Therefore, following that policy from the perspective of better comparability, we decided
to show this reference number based on 99.5% VaR, with UFR.
Now, the -- this number looks somewhat modest compared to our peers. That, I think, is
another point that you made. I won't be able to give you detailed explanation. However,
Page 15 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

your point is valid, I believe. And I believe that on a different assumption the number
should, actually, become higher.
So can you perhaps answer as to your second question?

FINAL

Q - Natsumu Tsujino

{BIO 2234779 <GO>}

Yes. With regards to the consumption tax hike which was postponed, once the
consumption tax is actually hiked, mainly in the auto business, I believe that there will be a
significant negative impact to your profitability. So once it happens, would you increase
your pricing? Should we assume that you would consider increasing your price?

A - Unidentified Speaker
So once the consumption tax rate is actually hiked, would we consider increasing our
rates?
Of course, we'll have to make a comprehensive judgment. But can I ask Mori-san, of Tokio
Marine & Nichido Fire, responsible for product development, to answer your question?

A - Shozo Mori

{BIO 18236458 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. My name is Mori. Thank you very much for your question.
As it was just mentioned, once the consumption tax is actually hiked, obviously, the repair
cost of auto, this is for instance, because it is a -- is subject to consumption tax, the cost
would increase. And our payment would increase.
Simply put, you might conclude that we, therefore, have the increased pricing. However, in
actually determining the actual premium rates, in addition to the movement of the claims
that we pay, we also look at the profitability of our business. We also have to consider the
competitive landscape and, ultimately, will make a final decision, based on comprehensive
judgment. Therefore, even if the consumption tax rate is to be hiked, that does not
necessarily directly result into higher pricing that we will push -- put through.
As we have communicated before, in terms of the combined ratio, we want to keep it at
95% level or below, consistently. Combined ratio should not be -- and of the pricing
should not be volatile in the eyes of the customers. So depending on the actual conditions
in the market and also our situations. And also including the repair costs as well as the
frequency. And also the future forecast, we'll have to make a comprehensive judgment
for the future in view of the customers as well.
Looking at the current environment, as I mentioned at the very beginning, there is not
much visibility. And that is the reason why. Coming back to your first question, we decided
to do the share repurchase at a size of JPY25 billion. Thank you.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}
Page 16 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

FINAL

Muraki, Deutsche Securities. I have two questions for you. The first is about P&C business;
and the second question has to do with life business.
On page 23, looking at the R&D. And also developing new products and service
preemptively, reading the changes in the market, I have a very simple question. When you
develop the new products, others, within one or two years' time, can easily copy. And so,
first-mover's advantage, I wonder how that advantage is going to be monetized before
others catch up?
Also, the overall premium rate for the auto insurance, I'm sure the profit is going to
decline over a longer term. But is there anything that you can create to offset that
decline? Are these new products you are developing going to become big enough to
offset decline in auto?
This time, you have developed a coverage rider for expenses for saving victims. I believe
the actual claims payment will not actually occur under this new rider. So the impact might
be very small.
However, in the market, there are certain things that's not covered by insurance right now.
And this rider could become something to cover those uncovered areas. So that gives a
sense of security and safety to the policyholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

However, when others copy you and launch a similar product, how much first-mover's
advantage would you enjoy, just in the first year?
The second question. On page 55 and 56, it talks about your life insurance business. And
it talks about your past track record. What I really wanted to ask you was, when there is a
sudden drop in interest rate. And when it starts to drop, the ESR on the Group level, in
fact in the past few months, it has dropped significantly.
So what is the positioning of the life business within the Group? What are the discussions
that you have had in the past few months, amidst this environment? Can you share that
with us, because how much underwriting you should extend in life area, for long-term life
insurance policies, I believe that was under discussion within the Group.
This time, certain things that couldn't be covered within the traditional ALM, the new types
of risks are emerging and the environmental changing. So I wonder how you will position
your life business, going forward.

A - Unidentified Speaker
So starting with your P&C, how much first-mover's advantage will we enjoy? And also, can
we really create a portfolio to offset the potential decline?
So Iwasaki-san and also Mori-san, can you two collaborate and answer this first question
about P&C?

Page 17 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

A - Kenji Iwasaki

{BIO 17547217 <GO>}

From Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire, my name is Iwasaki.

FINAL

Last year and year before that. And also in the first half of this year, in terms of growth
rate, we are maintaining a top level of growth rate in the industry. The first reason is
because our products are attractive. The second is our selling capability.
So due to those advantages, I believe we are enjoying the current growth. For example,
last year and, also, this year, it is not that we relied on one product to make a difference,
or with one channel we made a difference, it was not the case.
In all sorts of lines, including auto and in every region from Hokkaido to Kyushu, on
average, we are enjoying a very sustainable, steady growth. This is a comprehensive
outcome of various initiatives that we had implemented in the P&C business.
In the area of product, how much first mover's advantage we can enjoy, it depends on the
product. But that itself is not the only source of competitiveness we have against the
peers.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the current mid-term plan. And perhaps also in the next mid-term plan, auto insurance
will continue to be our main line of insurance. In fact, as of today, the auto premium is
increasing.
However, over longer term, autonomous drive will penetrate more in the society. So
perhaps after five years, after 10 years, the positioning of auto insurance may decline,
although it may be a gradual decline.
So while that may happen, that will be the emerging lines of insurance, to offset that. We
are thinking of various things. We have different ideas.
For example, as Nagano-san mentioned, medical, nursing care, robot, cyber, agriculture,
these are different themes that we can think of other than auto, to potentially augment
the portfolio.
Of course, there is no one decisive thing. But there are various things. Including auto and
other types of insurance, I'm sure the overall pie of the P&C business will continue to
grow.
Please Mori-san, please. Please.

A - Shozo Mori

{BIO 18236458 <GO>}

About the products, I'd like to add some information here. Looking at page 23, on the
left, there are the new products and revisions that we have done in April 2017.

Page 18 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

FINAL

Just changing a part of the insurance contract, is something we can do. And that can easily
be emulated by others. They are products that we can change just by changing the
contract. But it is the underwriting that we need to focus on, because unless we manage
the underwriting well, we cannot really enjoy profit.
So as the first mover's advantage, underwriting management, is the first thing we look at.
And that's how we develop products. So in terms of the profitability coming from those
new policies, I'm sure we will enjoy the first mover's advantage.
Also, Drive Agent Personal as indicated on the slide, this is a rider that we are attaching to
a policy. This is a service where we rent drive recorder to policyholders. So to those
people who are interested in equipping their car with drive recorder, we can rent them.
As a service, we are adding services that can only be offered by Tokio Marine. So simply
going into a shop and buying a driving recorder, is inadequate. We are adding services,
using drive recorder.

Bloomberg Transcript

As we have news released, if you attach your car with a drive recorder, if there is a major
shock at the time of accident, it alarms the security service company and, if necessary, the
security service company will inform the fire department.
Also, there is a diagnosis report that we can issue to drivers. Another thing is that the
driving propensity, the driving characteristics have been investigated. And also, depending
on the weather, depending on the time of the day. And the external environment, if the
driver is getting near to a dangerous risky area, the drive recorder will let the driver know
that he or she is approaching a dangerous area.
These are the services, not simply offered with the hardware of a drive recorder. But
these are services that we are adding. So it is a combination of our services, plus the drive
recorder that can roll out this product. And that cannot be easily copied.
On the very bottom, we talk about the fire insurance. And it says product revision to
strengthen capability for wide area disasters. At the time of claims payment, we revise
the product, in order to pay the claims quickly. Being able to pay the claims quickly, will
also lead to cost reduction on our side.
Once that becomes part of the insurance contract, I'm sure that will allow us to keep the
price competitiveness over the peers. So it is not a simple revision being done to the
contractual documents. But it is something more than that. That's what we have in mind as
we develop and revise products.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Are you okay about the first point?

Page 19 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

FINAL

I think you are very right. So products are not just products. But we have to be able to
communicate about them; we have to convey that to the customers. We have to develop
new markets; we have to deliver products to the customers.
All of these are included in what we call first-mover's advantage. So that continuously, we
will be able to maintain the competitiveness of those products. How we can understand
that, how we can implement that. And how we can do that as an organization, will give us
a difference versus the peers. That's the kind of team that we like to have.
About the life insurance business, can I ask Mr. Hirose, to talk about the life insurance
business? While the interest rate environment is changing, what are discussions that we
are having and, also, what is the view of the future positioning of the life insurance?
And after that, I'd like Mr. Yuasa, to also speak on this point.

A - Shinichi Hirose

{BIO 18820991 <GO>}

My name is Hirose from Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance Company. As it was
indicated in the slides, Tokio Marine & Nichido Life is marking steady growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

However, most recently, while we saw the plummeting of the interest rate, it is having
some impact to our life operations. So the positioning of the life business within the
Group has been discussed internally.
We do execute ALM. However, life insurance policies has whole life insurance and other
long-term liabilities. On the other hand, for the assets under management we have
30/40-year asset. But there is a limit. And so we are impacted by lowering of the interest
rate.
In that sense, we are exposed to interest rate risk and market risk. In life insurance
business, we have the interest rate risk. And also insurance underwriting risk. These are
the two major types of risks. What risks we take in order to grow profit, is really the gist of
the discussion that we have internally.
For insurance risk or underwriting risk, we can utilize reinsurance arrangements as a riskhedging measure. Also, there are intelligence over underwriting that we have
accumulated and we are able to control the underwriting risk to some extent so that we
can provide profit still. We believe underwriting risk is a risk that we should be taking still
proactively.
On the other hand, for interest rate risk, because of the market volatility, it's very difficult
to hedge. So we want to reduce and minimize interest rate risk as much as possible as we
manage the asset.
As we have explained, long-term savings-type products, which has large interest rate risk
and interest rate sensitive, should be reduced. That is why, from October this year, we are

Page 20 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

suspending the sales of some products, such as long-term whole life and other savings
products.

FINAL

Also, we are launching other types of products since last year. So that while we minimize
interest rate risk, we take more market risk, in order to achieve growth. So that's the kind
of discussion we're having internally.
Also, on the asset management side, under the current environment we try to stabilize
ALM and maximize profit. So diversification of asset management is another topic that we
are discussing and implementing. That is why, as part of that, our subordinated loan is
going to be arranged and it was announced.

A - Unidentified Speaker
So the positioning of the life business within the Group, Mr. Yuasa, please.

A - Takayuki Yuasa

{BIO 17941516 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

In the domestic insurance market we have an integrated business model of life and nonlife and we have Super Insurance. So P&C policies are sold together in a bundle. That
integrated business model and growing together with both sides of the business is still
our strategy.
Why we do that? As Mr. Hirose explained, the new policies that we are selling versus the
in-force policies, which we have sold in the past, for the new policies, which we will be
selling in the future, the super long-term saving-type products will not be promoted
actively. We want to promote more protection-type products. So that we can create profit
while we sell new policies.
That initiative has continued since 2010. Since 2014 up to 2016 we have increased about
20% increase in protection-type products and we still do have long-term liability. In this low
interest rate environment, there are certain issues that we faced. One of which was that,
from a certain point, we didn't think that the interest-rate rate was going to go down
further. But rather, we thought there was risk of interest going up. So we had repositioned
our asset, based on that assumption.
While we still see the low interest environment as we have now, the convexity risk that we
have had is getting bigger. Also, even if we wanted to hedge such a risk, BOJ's operation
is shrinking the market and, while we try to buy more fixed income asset, that might have
a bigger market impact.
Therefore, we have to think about diversifying the asset management strategy. So that
we take other types of risks and also enhance investment return. That's the discussion we
have internally over this topic.
For the policies that we still have, once the interest rate changes, the portfolio will also
change. We manage the in-force policies and also take appropriate measures, such as

Page 21 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

increasing the hedge ratio, etc., as we monitor the interest rate situation. That's
something that we will have to think about in the future.
Thank you.

FINAL

A - Unidentified Speaker
Did that answer your question?
20 years ago, when we entered into the life business, the antithesis we had posed
against large insurers is that the life policies will match the needs of the customers, not
the customers matching the life policies. So we wanted to be customer oriented when we
sell life policies. And that basic philosophy will remain unchanged.
Also, by providing both P&C and life, we want to provide a sense of security and, also,
diversify business portfolio. That concept remains unchanged.
However, more so than we had expected, the environment change, such as interest rate
volatility got bigger and interest rate risk got bigger. So that has to be considered. That
has to be minimized while we pursue the business and diversify our asset management
portfolio. But the basic concept, the original concept will maintain. That's our thinking now.

Q - Masao Muraki

{BIO 3318668 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you.

Q - Kazuki Watanabe

{BIO 15948747 <GO>}

Kazuki Watanabe, Daiwa. I have two questions. First of all, as for the outlook of the pricing
for the older business, since, from FY18 it seems that there will be some discount given to
ASPs. What kind of impact do you think this is going to give to your performance?
Now, I would like to ask this question because while there are some positive impacts in
terms of the frequency, the repair cost might be on the rise, which is, of course, a
negative factor for you.
I have an impression that as a possibility, the negative impact could be actually bigger
than the positive impact. So do you think that this discount will still allow you to stay
profitable? That is my first question.
Second question is related to FX sensitivity on page 49. In terms of the P&L, you are
showing the sensitive analysis here and in terms of the adjusted income, on the other
hand, if you could perhaps help me understand the impact? Because of the absence of
the depreciation of the goodwill, I believe that there could be an even stronger impact of
the stronger Japanese yen. But is that correct?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Page 22 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

I would like to invite Mr. Mori first.

FINAL

A - Shozo Mori

{BIO 18236458 <GO>}

Yes. As it was reported in newspapers as well, amongst the USVs, the braking system to
avoid collision, is the point of focus for the new advisory rates to be applied from January
1, 2018. The application is currently made to the JFSA and a final decision is yet to be
made. Therefore, I would like to refrain from making a specific comment.
However, let me share with you how we intend to respond to this revision once it's
actually made.
Of course, we do intend to address the issue once the final decision is made. However,
there is essentially a rate applicable to the respective models of the vehicles, because of
the different risk profiles. So there are different levels for the qualifications made by
model of the vehicle and the impact of the ASV is already factored into this bicategory
rate table.

Bloomberg Transcript

The discount system that is current discussed as a complementary to the existent system.
So once, of course, a brand new model vehicle comes into the market, we don't know
how effective, for example, the braking system really works. Therefore, this system is
going to be complementary to the existing system to account for supposedly a better
performance, due to the braking system.
We think that this is rather going to be a potentially temporary measure to compensate
for the existing system. So probably for the first three years or so, the discount will be
applied to the automatic braking system as a temporary measure.
Given that temporary measure, I don't think that there is going to be a significant material
impact to our profitability. Even if a new discount system has to be actually introduced, we
will have to decide on the pricing of the older business based on the total profitability of
the auto.
And if the discount system is not applied to certain models, the rates on the relative term
applicable to those vehicles would actually become higher.
And so, because we will be making a comprehensive judgment, looking at the total
profitability of the entire auto business, again, we think that the magnitude of the
negative impact of the discount system is going to become -- it's not going to be that
significant.
However, once we see advancement of the autonomous driving, we think that the
frequency losses will actually decline. However, there will be some vehicles that are not
autonomously driven on the road as well and we know that the repair costs of those
traditional models will, actually, become higher.

Page 23 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

So while frequency will come down, the repair costs and also the personnel costs could
actually increase. And we have to look at the balance between the two to determine out
merely what the final claim costs for our Company would be. So we have to make a
cautious decision there.

FINAL

I hope that answered your question and Mr. Fujita, can you answer the second question
related to FX impact?

A - Hirokazu Fujita

{BIO 17671014 <GO>}

Yes. In terms of the FX impact to Tokio Marine Group, as we communicated before as
well, for, first of all, TMNF we have outstanding claim reserves denominating foreign
currencies as well as derivatives. As the Japan yen appreciates, there will be a positive
impact.
When it comes to international business, on the other hand, as shown on page 49, with a
stronger Japanese yen there is now a negative impact to the international business.

Bloomberg Transcript

As mentioned earlier, on the P&L, we have amortization of goodwill and, of course, that is
subject to foreign exchange impact. First of all, the amortization is calculated, based on
the local currency non-Japanese yen term and that is converted back to the Japanese
yen. Therefore, we've a stronger Japanese yen, the amortization amount is going to
become smaller.
With the stronger Japanese yen there is a benefit of a decreased amortization, which is
factored into our P&L. However, on the adjusted net income, on the other hand,
amortization and also goodwill are excluded from the calculation to begin with.
Therefore, ultimately, the positive impact of that stronger Japanese yen on the
amortization of the goodwill would now be reflected on the adjusted net income. And
that, I believe, is about JPY8 billion or so in terms of size of the impact, based on the firsthalf results of this fiscal year, for instance.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

Wataru Otsuka, Nomura Securities. I have two questions. On page nine and page 10, as
Mr. Nagano mentioned, we are in the mid-point of the current mid-term plan. As you have
well explained, at this mid-point, we have seen a lot of achievements and also a lot of
new initiatives and new challenges.
Once again, an overview, as you evaluate yourselves what are the areas where you made
progress, more so than you expected? Also, what are the areas which you evaluate
yourselves to be lacking versus the original plan? So outperforming and underperforming
areas is my first question?
The second question is next year as you finish off the current mid-term plan, you talk
about the word global Group basis, I believe that's a key word in understanding the mid-

Page 24 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

FINAL

term plan. As you globalize yourself or as you use more of this global Group basis, looking
at the Tokio Marine from the outside, what we can understand you to be so global Group
basis is that as we saw on page 32, more synergies across Group entities. And is that
representative of what you think of as globalization or are you thinking of other things?
What are the specific ways to realize what you call as global Group basis?

A - Unidentified Speaker
On the first question, on page nine and page 10, as we show the progress of the midterm plan, are you asking the areas where we think we are behind the schedule; and also,
the areas where we are in line with schedule; and also, outperforming the schedule?

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

I know that there are a lot of achievements. But how do you evaluate the different
initiatives?

A - Tsuyoshi Nagano

{BIO 16141096 <GO>}

Well rather than saying there are a lot of achievements, whatever we announced as our
plan, most of the issues that we announced to tackle are being tackled.

Bloomberg Transcript

We are getting into new areas, because the environment is changing. And we are trying
to diversify risk on global scale. This is not just about establishing foreign entities. But we
want to globalize the entire Group comprehensively.
What this means is that as we become a global insurance Group, there are functions,
talents, that we have been able to enhance and that enhanced area should be fed back
to each region of business. So the regional business also becomes stronger.
This will require penetration of the management philosophy to the entire Group. And also
what talent we can deliver in the Group to propagate that. So the future business where
we rely on the talent of the people we have. So quality and quantity, the types of talents
that we can have in the Group, is the key.
Including Japanese staff, we have to provide more opportunities for people. So that we
can enjoy the advantage as a globalized Group and, in that sense, we are still lacking
speed.
But we cannot just ignore that, setting up a goal and then trying to fill the gap will distort
the situation. So step by step, one by one we are developing talent. And that is the
biggest issue that we are facing right now. These strategies that we are explaining, we
are implementing them, we just have to do them.
But on the very bottom, on the very foundation, how do we bring up the experienced
level of the people, how to train them and how to penetrate the management philosophy
across the Group?

Page 25 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

FINAL

To do so in April there is a global committee that was established. So in areas like ERM, IT,
investment, HR, those different areas, we have established committees within the Group.
In those committees, whether life or non-life Japan, overseas, whatever, whoever has the
biggest intelligence over the area sit as members of the committee. So that right people
are making the right decisions over certain areas of the business.
Global committee we -- it's bilingual, we make all the documents in Japanese and English.
This is a group where diverse types of people are gathered. And intelligence is gathered
whether Japanese, non-Japanese etc.. And that's one way to globalize the Group. At last,
one we strengthen each function and strengthen different areas of expertise, that should
be fed back to the local business. So that local business should also grow.
There's no such thing as global business. Japan, US, Europe; it's a collection of local
businesses. But we reflect our global structure to the growth of each local business. So
that is how we evaluate ourselves and also the challenges that we are facing today.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

The second question, there are certain we are using global Group basis, what are the
representative phenomenon to represent the global Group base? When you say global
Group base, I don't really understand what you meant. But listening to your answer that
you have just given now I understand better.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Tsuyoshi Nagano

{BIO 16141096 <GO>}

So perhaps I have answered your question. But I'd like to ask those two people in charge
of international business, Mr. Ishii and Mr. Fujii [ph] to add some words.

A - Ichiro Ishii

{BIO 17943980 <GO>}

My name is Ishii from Tokio Marine Holdings. I believe Mr. Nagano's answer pretty much
answered your question. But when we acquire overseas companies and adding those
companies to our Group and looking at their strength, especially the talent they hold, are
now being shared across the Group using venues, such as committees.
By leveraging on those strengthened functions, we want to strengthen each local
business and each entity making up the Group all become stronger. So that's what we are
trying to do.
In an overall sense, HCC and newly added companies have products which we don't have
such as specialty products etc.. So we want to share that knowhow horizontally across the
Group. That's one area of how we can pursue synergy across the Group in the area of
products.
So by adding more companies to the Group we are expanding the so-called scope of
business and we are accelerating the globalization. So that's an important managerial
theme that we face today.

Page 26 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

A - Unidentified Speaker
Fujii-san, anything to be added?

FINAL

A - Kunihiko Fujii

{BIO 17943918 <GO>}

I think it pretty much answered your question. But the quality of global management, the
quality has to be enhanced overall and that may include the area of synergy and, also,
digital strategy cannot be done just by Japan. So it has to involve other parties.
All the management members from Japan and overseas need to be strengthened. So
that we were able to do things in an aligned manner as a Group. From April this year, we
have had some specific initiatives, such as the area study has mentioned in the corporate
functions. And there is an enhancement of capabilities.
A good company can be bought with money. However, if we buy a good company to
sustain their high quality and sustain their growth over 10/20/30 years, to do that we need
to make sure that the highly talented people in the Company want to remain in our
Group. And they have to want to work with us. In other words, they have to respect us,
otherwise it will not work out. This is a reciprocal thing.

Bloomberg Transcript

So the more talented they are, the higher quality company we buy, we have to also
enhance our quality. Otherwise, we will not be able to create a sustainable global Group.
That's the structure that we have across entities.
So on different layers, the different initiatives being taking place. If we just assign in the
area of investment, because he is a CIO, Mr. Don Sherman from Delphi is an Executive
Officer and co-CIO.
In the area of HR, from TM North America, there is a person -- a manager named Caryn
Angelson and 30% of her time is dedicated for works on the Holdings level. Together, we
talked about how to create a global talent pool; how to identify talent; and also, how to
execute the global leadership training on a global level; how do we collaborate Asia and
North America leadership training, etc. These are the agendas on the table.
We are doing the same for the medium layer of management and, also, the younger
layers. At different layers, we have to bring in the mechanism to develop talent. Of
course, it cannot be done overnight.

Q - Wataru Otsuka

{BIO 16340098 <GO>}

I understand very well, thank you very much.

A - Unidentified Speaker
A person at the very back, please.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}
Page 27 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

Majima, Tokai-Tokyo Center. On page 55, you are referring to subordinated loans to be
financed by TMNL. I'd like to ask you a question about that.

FINAL

Now, the bond, the market value has come down and under JGAAP, you want to be
prepared, therefore, for the devaluation. However, as you mentioned at the very outset,
the net asset value could decrease.
However, duration -- of course, it depends on that duration, however, I think that asset
value -- the liability value will, actually, come down more and, therefore, it will still be
positive to ERM. So why are you concerned about this devaluation risk?
I believe that in terms of the solvency, once the rates are to increase, the solvency ratio
would actually deteriorate. However, the JFSA in the past said that they would, actually,
take a relaxed attitude. So under such circumstances, you decided to finance the
subordinated loans. Why is that? That is my first question.

Bloomberg Transcript

Secondly, with regard to auto insurance, there were several questions asked already. But
year after next year, with the introduction of the ASV discount system, finally the pricing of
the auto would actually be turned around from a price increase, which continued for about
a decade or so, to a price decrease.
I believe that you have secured a good profitability this time around. However, because
the consumption tax is going to be hiked, I think the profitability will be put under
pressure. And finally, the underwriting profit would actually not increase under the midterm business plan. So what do you think will be the drivers supporting the profitability of
the auto business perhaps in the next mid-term business plan?

A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes, just as usual, thank you very much for your questions. I always get to be the last
person asking the question. So I guess that we are actually approaching the end of
today's meeting. But shall I perhaps invite Hirose-san to answer that question.

A - Shinichi Hirose

{BIO 18820991 <GO>}

My name is Hirose from TMNL. With regards to subordinated loans, now this time around,
as a basic assumption, we realized that the funding environment is very, very favorable to
us. That's one major consideration that we made.
Given the low rate environment, as I mentioned earlier, we are working to diversify
investment, in order to better promote that we want to be better prepared. That's one
rationale behind this decision.
Second, as it was also commented as part of the answer to a previous question, we want
to be prepared for a potential rise in interest rates going forward. That's another
consideration that we had at the back of this decision this time around.

Page 28 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

FINAL

In terms of ERM, or economic value-based number, even if the rates are to spike up, the
value of liabilities would accordingly become smaller. Therefore, on economic value, even
if the rates are to hike up that would not cause a major material impact.
However, under JGAAP with regard to liabilities, the liabilities are not mark-to-market at
the moment. And yet, assets, the bonds that we purchased categorize as other securities
are mark-to-market. Once the rates go up rapidly, on the asset side of that they would
come down significantly. So net asset value would become much smaller.
That's one scenario that we can think of. Based on that scenario, we want to be better
prepared. Of course, by using derivatives, we can take and we will be taking various
actions.
However, on the JGAAP basis, we wanted to be better prepared and we wanted to be
more resilient, because we don't know what could potentially happen in the future. We
wanted to be on the safer side and we wanted to be prepared for some contingencies.
And because, once again, the funding environment was good, we decided to do this
financing.

A - Unidentified Speaker
Yuasa-san, would you like to add any other comments?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Takayuki Yuasa

{BIO 17941516 <GO>}

Yes. You referred to JFSA earlier. But traditionally, we have been striving to enhance our
value based on ERM and also economic value.
On top of that, on the JGAAP basis, we have been trying to ensure that our liabilities will
not exceed assets and maintain solvency margin ratio at a certain level. As you have
pointed out, if, for instance, the rates are to spike up, the JFSA might actually be more
tolerant.
However, of course, it is all up to the actual negotiations and so we don't know.
Therefore, we decided to do this financing as a forward-looking strategy that we want to
implement.
We would like to take investment risks going forward. Therefore, of course, we wanted to
ensure that we are capitalized well to be able to take investment risks.

A - Unidentified Speaker
I hope that it answers your first question. Mr. Iwasaki is going to answer the second
question related to auto -- the outlook of the auto business.

A - Kenji Iwasaki

{BIO 17547217 <GO>}

Page 29 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

Now, with regards to the next mid-term business plan, we have just begun the process of
developing the next plan. So we are not in a position of being able to make a specific
comment.

FINAL

In general, the year after next year we would like to give you the overview. Then, in the
following May, we will be announcing the details of the plan. With that timeline in mind, I
hope that I can give you a bit more color.
Now, the current mid-term business plan, as shown on this material as well, 92% to 93%
combined ratio is set as one of the targets. The rationale and the thinking behind this is
that, once in a while, we are hit by major natural disasters. Once those natural cat event
happens, then the combined ratio might actually exceed 100%.
So including those very severe years, we would like to ensure that on a normalized basis,
we can still keep the combined ratio at around 95%. In a benign year, we want to achieve
the combined ratio of 92% to 93%. That's how we look at -- and that's how we set the
combined ratio target.
As we develop the next mid-term business plan, I will assume, at the moment, that this
thinking would stay as our basic assumption and also our thinking.

Bloomberg Transcript

On that assumption, to try to answer your question specifically pertaining to auto
business, we understand the situations that you talked about. However, with regards to
underwriting profit, we do not expect the profit to significantly come down all of a sudden.
Under the next mid-term business plan, we believe that the auto will continue to be an
important source of underwriting profit for our business.
On page 22, if you could perhaps refer to that page as well, we referred to various pages
pertaining to the entire Group. But at TMNF, we have eight pillars underpinning our
business plan, one of which is the promotion of the integrity business model between life
and non-life. That's, again, one of the eight pillars.
We are in the second year under the plan and we actually added two more pillars. So we
have 10 major pillars.
On page 22, we're showing the two new pillars that we added this year. One is
supporting regional development in Japan. The other is health and productivity
management. We started to include these two focuses in the plan, as our new initiatives.
These are lines of business other than auto. So perhaps in the next mid-term business
plan, this is going to -- these focuses will probably bear some good fruit.
Looking at the next page, page 23, on the right-hand side, you see our initiatives to
expand specialty insurance. As you can see on the right-hand side of page 23, these are
the types of, for instance, insurance that we want to be well engaged. So that in and after
the next mid-term business plan we will be able to deliver and also show tangible results.
Page 30 of 31



Company N ame: Tokio M arine H oldings I nc
Company Ticker: 8766 JP Equity
Date: 2016-11-25

So including what's shown on page 22 and page 23, we want to ensure that we continue
to secure strong underwriting profit.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

FINAL

Now, as for the next mid -- as for the next fiscal year, how much positive impact are you
expecting from consumption tax hike?

A - Unidentified Speaker
When we put together a plan last year, we assumed JPY15 billion post-tax. I hope that
answers your question.

Q - Tatsuo Majima

{BIO 15338044 <GO>}

Yes. Thank you.

A - Unidentified Speaker

Bloomberg Transcript

This concludes Tokio Marine FY15 second-half investor meeting.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP.  COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 31 of 31

