Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2016-05-12

Q1 2016 Earnings Call - Pre-Recorded
Company Participants
FINAL

Alberto Minali

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Alberto Minali

{BIO 16909383 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning. This is Alberto Minali, General Manager and CFO of Generali. I'm pleased
to report to you this morning our first quarter results. The Group has performed well,
even if we did not match the unusually higher result of last year. This is due to our decision
to realize lower levels of gains in volatile financial markets, while underlying technical
profitability has been excellent. This demonstrates the benefits of our continuing focus on
technical discipline in what is clearly a challenging environment for the insurance industry.
The total operating results of the period reached almost €1.2 billion, down 12.3% year-onyear, mainly due to a weaker investment result of the Life segment attributable to lower
realized gains. Our decision has been to take a more cautious stands on capital gains in
current marketing conditions, also in order to preserve future returns. I would highlight
that the overall stock of unrealized gains has continued to grow. Despite this, the
annualized operating return on equity was broadly stable at 13.3% and remains above our
target level.
The decision to take lower realized gains is also evident in the non-operating result,
leading to the overall net result of the period, down by 13.8% to €588 million, and
earnings per share which are down by the same amount. Shareholders' equity is up 5.8%
from yearend 2015 to €24.9 billion, mainly driven by the increased stock of unrealized
bond gains attributable to shareholders, as I mentioned before.
The Solvency II ratio remains strong at 188%, even if decreasing 14 percentage points
from yearend 2015, driven by adverse financial market conditions. This is in line with the
indications we gave to the market in the middle of March and the sensitivities we
published with the full-year results.
Looking at the operating result by segments, the Life operating result posted an 8.2%
decline to €756 million. Property & Casualty showed a 1.4% decline due to lower
investment income and to the other components, which offset a very strong underwriting
result. The segment, Holding & Other businesses had a negative performance with a €38
million losses, compared to a €54 million profit of last year. This was mainly due to some
specific items in the first quarter of last year, mainly the exceptionally strong performance
of Banca Generali and some gains on private equity and real estate funds, none of which
was repeated in the first quarter of this year.

Page 1 of 7



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2016-05-12

FINAL

Let's then see the journey from operating result to the bottom line. Non-operating
investment income had a neutral contribution to net profits, as compared to the strongly
positive contribution of last year. In line with volatile financial markets, the quarter
experienced €180 million lower realized gains and €42 million higher impairments. Nonoperating holding expenses increased by 5.3% to €197 million due to €11 million higher
interest costs. This increase in interest expenses are temporary and is linked to the €1.25
billion subordinated bond issued last October to pre-finance the June 2016 call date.
Other non-operating expenses decreased by €101 million, mainly due to some provisions
in the prior year number which did not recur. Tax rate was 30.9%, while minority interest
were €41 million lower due to the lower contribution of Banca Generali as previously
mentioned, and the presence of realized gains on equity investment in China during the
first quarter of last year, which did not recur in this quarter.
Let's now turn to look at the balance sheet. Shareholders' equity increased by 5.8%,
reaching €24.9 billion. The mark-to-market of available for sale assets resulting in €1.1
billion gain. The positive impact of reduced interest rates on unrealized bond gains was
the main driver, slightly offset by the negative evolution of other asset classes. The net
result of the period contributed for €588 million, as you've already seen.

Bloomberg Transcript

Other items are €352 million negative and derived primarily from the negative effect on
our German pension liabilities as a result of the reduced interest rates in the quarter, but
also from the decrease of currency translation reserves due to the depreciation of the
Swiss franc and Argentinean pesos.
Our solvency ratio remains strong even if financial markets pushed the number down
from the levels seen at the yearend. In line with the indication we gave in the middle of
March, the decline was 14 percentage points to 188% by the end of the quarter. I would
say that the result is very much consistent with the sensitivities we provide you within our
full year 2015 results presentation. The main drivers were the lower reference rates and
equity markets and increased market volatilities, partially offset by organic capital
generation. These effects have pushed the Eligible Own Funds down by €1.7 billion to
€39.7 billion. The result in reduction in the loss-absorbing capacity of deferred taxes was
the main contributor to a €600 million increase in the SCR.
Turning now to look at the Life segment in more detail. Overall Life premium decreased
by 1.3% to €13.4 billion. Volatile financial markets witnessed in the first quarter caused a
15.4% drop of the unit-linked production year-on-year, in particular in Italy and CEE.
Despite this, Life net inflows continued a positive trend, growing 6.4% to reach €4.5
billion. New business value increased by 12.7% to €361 million, notwithstanding a 6.9% APE
drop; thanks to a 4.8 percentage points margin improvement.
Let me dive into the single drivers of the Life operating result, which overall fell 8%. The
technical margin posted an €88 million increase, mainly thanks to higher technical profits
on Group policies in Italy, but also higher margins on loadings in France and CEE. The
investment result decreased by €125 million, despite growing current income. This is

Page 2 of 7



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2016-05-12

FINAL

explained by almost €650 million lower net realized gains, gross (6:48) of policyholder
shares compared to last year.
In 2015, market conditions combined with a tactical decision to take profits on some
overvalued asset classes, led to the highest quarterly contribution of capital gains of the
recent past. Expenses increased slightly due to increased acquisition costs and the
royalties component which has been charged to subsidiaries from the Group head office
starting from the fourth quarter of 2015.
Let's return to net inflows and as I mentioned, we're starting with a positive trend,
reaching €4.5 billion in the first quarter of the year. Volatile market conditions led to a
contraction of the unit-linked component, representing 30% of total net inflows. Even with
this deviation, we confirm our strategy focus on increasing the share on more capitalefficient products. And in addition, we will work on enhancing the flexibility of the unitlinked business, also to offer less volatile funds.

Bloomberg Transcript

In any case, I emphasize once more that even the traditional savings products we are
selling right now, are designed on a prudent and profitable basis. Looking on a country
basis, in Italy, we have €2.4 billion positive net inflows, thanks to a moderately positive
premium growth, up 2% and reduced outflows. However, after almost two (8:11) years of
very strong growth rates, hybrid products showed a contraction year-on-year due to the
volatile equity markets.
In France, we see positive but decreasing net inflows, which went down from €208 million
to €151 million. The reduction is again related to current market volatility, which negatively
affected the unit-linked component. This did not affect the profitability of our new
business, which on the contrary has improved, as you will see later on.
Germany also posted positive inflows in absolute terms, but 30% below last year. In this
case, the decrease was linked to the planned reduction of single-premium saving
business. The decrease in EMEA is mainly explained by higher outflows in Austria and
lower sales in Switzerland that should be mitigated by the launch of the new products in
the following quarters.
Lastly, in Asia, we experienced a strong increasing net inflows, mainly coming from China
and linked to the exceptional level of sales reach (9:13) through our banking sales partner.
We expect these will slow through the remainder of the year, as I will explain in a moment.
These strong net inflows contributed to another 0.8% increase of Life technical reserves
over the first three months to €372 billion.
Life general account investments reached €347 billion, up 4.4% from the yearend 2015,
also driven by positive mark-to-market performance of available for sale bond
investments. Total Life current returns are stable at 80 basis points for the first quarter. As
always, this is not an annualized figure. In absolute terms, current income increased by €91
million. This stability is driven by fixed income current returns, which remain broadly
unchanged, also at 80 basis points. Current returns on equity instruments showed a

Page 3 of 7



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2016-05-12

FINAL

substantial increase, thanks to dividends from private equity funds compared to an
exceptionally low number in the first quarter of last year.
In terms of asset allocation, you can see that we had a tactical increase of cash
instruments, representing 4.5% of invested assets at the end of the period and which we
have already started to reinvest. In the first quarter of the year, we invested pre-existing
cash, net inflows, bond redemption and coupon at an average yield of 2.5% in the Life
segment, mainly in corporate and government bonds.
Turning to the new business, we see that APE is down 6.9% like-for-like to €1.3 billion,
mainly explained by the drop of the unit-linked component which is down 22.8% due to
the poor financial market condition. As I said before, we hope this to be temporary also
because we are investigating ways in which we can also protect the unit-linked portion of
our products to make them more able to withstand volatility.

Bloomberg Transcript

Looking at our main countries. In Italy, APEs were overall flat, but as the result of a
decreasing production of hybrid products compensated by traditional ones. The share of
unit-linked on total APEs, therefore, dropped from 20.6% last year to a current 11.9%. We
confirm nevertheless our strategy to focus on hybrid products and are already taking
actions to reduce the temporary increased exposure to traditional products experienced
during the quarter. I would also add that even on the saving portion, guarantees have
continued to fall sharply in Italy, down to only 27 basis points in the first quarter.
In France, we added 21.6% drop in APEs, driven primarily by saving business, down 25%.
Unit-linked had the more limited 6% decrease, increasing its weight from 18% to 21.6%. In
Germany, we saw a similar trend to France, with APEs declining by 21% and driven down by
the savings component that dropped by 37.3%. Unit-linked and protection sales have
correspondingly increased their weight to reach almost two-thirds of the total, which had
a strong positive impact on margins.
If we turn to look at new business profitability at a Group level, we see the margin
improved by 4.8 percentage point to 27.3%. A number of factors have driven this. The
higher level of swap rate and lower swaps in (12:48) volatility, since we are using beginning
of period assumptions, contributed to a positive effect from financial markets.
Unfortunately, we can already see that this will not be the case also in the second quarter,
when the margins will be calculated using financial market inputs as at the 1st of April.
The further reduction in new business guarantees resulted in additional momentum. The
average guarantee we sell has continued to decline to only 46 basis point in the Euro
area, down from 60 basis point from full year 2015. In Germany and France, the shift to
new business mix, as mentioned before, has also had a positive effect on the margins.
The last point to note is around the 90 basis point of improvement, which is explained by
a change in methodology.
Beginning from this quarter, we have aligned the reference rate and Required Capital
Calculation with the Solvency II framework. The latter, in particular, was previously based

Page 4 of 7



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2016-05-12

FINAL

on the maximum of Solvency I and Solvency II capital. And so, we see some uplift as we
move on to a fully Solvency II basis.
So overall, the margin trend is a positive one, an exception is the Americas and Asia
region. Here you see large increase in APEs, but with the new business value which is
close to zero or even slightly below. This effect is mainly coming from our operation in
China. While the margin is to a degree a peculiarity of the market consistent by the value
methodology, it is fair to say that interest rates in China have been under substantial
downward pressure, and this has challenged the economics of some lines of business.
Our response has been to put significant restrictions on the sales of certain contract
types, and as a consequence, you should not expect to see the same high volumes, but
also not the same poor margins later in the year. Apart from this anomaly, at the Group
level, the overall margin improvement more than offset a negative APE trend, allowing our
new business value to grow by 12.7% to €361 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, let's turn to look at the P&C business. Gross written premiums decreased by 0.6%
on a like-for-like basis to €6.3 billion, Primary motor posted a 0.9% decline, mainly driven
by Italy, as I will explain later. Primary non-motor decreased by 0.3%. The combined ratio
improved by 1.3 percentage points, thanks to the absence of nat cat burden. The
operating result decreased by 1.4% due to lower investment income and to other
components.
Looking at the components of the operating profit, we can see a particularly strong
technical result at €369 million, up 27.9%, and a decline in investment result driven by
lower investment yields. The residual other items line worsened by €55 million versus the
first quarter of last year, partially reflecting the payment of brand fees to the parent
company and some higher indirect tax items. The prior year was also affected by some
minor positive one-offs. Overall, the level of the first quarter of 2016 is quite consistent
with the average of previous quarter once brand fees are taken into account.
Let's look now at gross written premium developments within our core countries. Italy is
down 6.2% at €1.3 billion. Primary motor decreased by 11%, but mainly due to the
cancellation of some large fleet contracts. Without this effect, the drop would have been
3.8%, and therefore, on an underlying basis, is on an improving trend compared to that
seen during 2015. Primary non-motor is down 3.4%, reflecting the overall weak economic
environment.
France declined overall by 1.7% to €819 million. Primary motor was flat, notwithstanding
continuing pruning activities on the fleet business portfolio. Primary non-motor decreased
moderately due to the competitive market environment and the continuation of strict
underwriting guidelines and pruning activities.
In Germany, premiums fell by 1.7%. The reason for this is that the motor business, down
1.7%, is similar to last year, also affected by the ongoing shift to the main renewal date
from January to other months in the year. So, we expect that this effect will be leveled
during the remaining nine months, also benefiting from relatively good market conditions.
Page 5 of 7



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2016-05-12

Non-motor declined by 1.5% due to ongoing pruning activities in the broker channel and
on non-performing agencies.

FINAL

EMEA showed a good increase of 3.2%, mainly due to the solid performance we achieved
in Spain.
Moving to the analysis of underwriting performance, you can see the combined ratio
improved by 1.3 percentage point year-on-year to 92%. The main driver behind the
improvement from an already excellent combined ratio was the absence of nat cats.
Looking at the single drivers, the loss ratio improved by 1.3 percentage point, thanks to
the above-mentioned benign nat cat environment.

Bloomberg Transcript

The current-year loss ratio excluding nat cat, deteriorated slightly by 50 basis point,
although I would underlie the unusually low number we experienced in the first quarter of
last year. Prior years' releases are overall stable. The expense ratio remained flat.
Reducing administration costs were compensated by higher acquisition costs, mainly
linked to the effort to develop more profitable non-motor business lines also through new
partnership in France.
Looking at the combined ratio by country. In Italy, the performance improved further to an
excellent 88.7%, down 0.6 percentage points, driven by the lack of nat cats and making
the best combined ratio of our major countries and regions. In France, the combined ratio
improved by 50 basis points to 99.7% as a result of our turnaround exercise, although the
number, like last year, benefits from the absence of nat cat. In Germany, we experienced
an excellent 90.4% combined ratio, again helped by the absence of nat cat, which was
relatively severe during the first quarter of 2015.
In CEE, our combined ratio was once again very good at 89.7%, although still negatively
affected by regulatory changes that were introduced last year in the Polish market. We
started to increase our motor tariffs in Poland already during the second half of 2015, and
have just recently executed further actions to adapt to this new environment, hoping that
the rest of the market will behave in a similarly rationale way. Our priority, as always,
remains the preservation of (19:53) underwriting discipline. In Americas, our combined
ratio has improved by 7.8% percentage point, mainly thanks to the strong action we have
taken to restore profitability in Brazil.
Overall P&C investments reached €41 billion, up 3% from the end of 2015. Total P&C
current returns on a non-annualized basis, decreased by 10 basis point year-on-year to 70
basis point, mainly driven by the fixed income trend. The average reinvestment rate in
P&C during the first quarter of the year has been 1.3%, as well as reflecting the overall
interest rate environment. The figure is also explained by the asset classes we invested in
during the first quarter, which were mainly government bonds. I would also highlight that
the amount of money invested in this quarter has been relatively low in absolute terms.
Let me finally turn to our Holding & Other business segment, with overall contribution to
the Group operating result decreased from a profit of €54 million to a €38 million loss.
This decline has been mostly driven by the lower profitability of Banca Generali, which was
Page 6 of 7



Company N ame: Assicuraz ioni Generali SpA
Company Ticker: G I M Equity
Date: 2016-05-12

FINAL

particularly strong in the first quarter of last year. In addition to that, the other business
lines benefited last year from gains on private equity and real-estate investments that are
not present this quarter.
That concludes my analysis of the figure. Let me sum up by saying that, even if we were
not able to repeat the unusually higher result of last year, I think the Group has performed
well in what are clearly very challenging financial and insurance markets. A sharp focus on
technical profitability remains of critical importance in these conditions. I think you can see
the evidence and benefits of that in our numbers, and it will continue to be our top priority
in the coming period.
I'm happy to say that our solvency position remains a very comfortable one and well
above the thresholds we have defined. This is despite the clear headwinds from the
financial markets which impacted not only us, but the whole insurance industry in the first
quarter.

Bloomberg Transcript

I, therefore, also reiterate our commitment of delivering on the promise of attractive
returns to our shareholders. Thank you very much for your attention.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 7 of 7

