Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2016-08-30

Q2 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

German Egloﬀ, CFO
Gert De Winter, CEO
Martin Wenk, Head of Asset Management

Presentation
Gert De Winter

{BIO 19720616 <GO>}

Ladies and gentlemen, I'm delighted to present to you the highlights of the ﬁrst half of
2016.

Bloomberg Transcript

We are very satisﬁed with our operating performance during the ﬁrst six months of this
year. Our underlying proﬁt rose signiﬁcantly. The combined ratio was below the target
range of 93% to 96%; and equity is higher than it was one year ago.
This ﬁnancial stability means that we can actively manage our business. We are equipping
Baloise for future challenges by strengthening reserves in the German non-life business;
and adding a substantial amount of over CHF250 million to technical reserves in the life
business.
Overall, the Baloise Group generated a proﬁt for shareholders of CHF223.6 million for the
ﬁrst half of this year, which constituted a year-on-year reduction of 10.4%.
This drop, however, was due to the addition of CHF54.8 million to reserves in the German
non-life business. If it had not strengthened its reserves, Baloise would have generated an
operating proﬁt of CHF261.5 million, which would have equated to an increase of 4.8%.
However, by taking this one-oﬀ action we are putting the German business on a sound
footing.
In addition to this measure, the business mix in Germany is undergoing a signiﬁcant shift
away from industry and towards SME and retail business.
Finally, new approaches to promoting sales are helping to boost growth in proﬁtable
target segments. We expect these to stabilize the ﬁnancial performance of our German
business.
Baloise net combined ratio was a healthy 92.5% and only just above the prior-year level.
But if reserves had not been strengthened in Germany the ratio would have been 88.7%.

Page 1 of 6



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2016-08-30

EBIT in non-life business went down. But would have been up by 0.5% year on year if the
eﬀect of the steps taken in Germany and the ongoing portfolio optimization are excluded.
Overall, the volume of non-life business expanded by 3.1%.

FINAL

In our life business we were able to continue with the planned switch to capital eﬃcient
risk and unit-linked products. As a result, our investment-type premiums increased by
18.5%, whereas traditional business declined as planned.
Turning to our investments, we can see that asset management has been very successful
in adapting to the environment of low interest rates and the uncertainty surrounding
currencies. The net return of 1.8% was 0.2percentage points higher than in the prior-year
period. We also used the prevailing conditions to end the share buyback program earlier
than planned.
I'll now hand over to our CFO, German Egloﬀ, who will talk about the individual operating
segments in more detail.

German Egloﬀ

{BIO 4782831 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Many thanks, Gert. I'd now like to review our operating performance in the ﬁrst half of
2016 with you. I'll start with slide seven and our non-life business. Later on, I'll go into
more detail about the strengthening of the reserves in Germany that Gert mentioned just
now. What I'm about to say ignores this eﬀect for now.
Overall, the results for the non-life segment were very encouraging. The volume of
business grew to over CHF2.1 billion in the ﬁrst six months, which was a rise of 3.1%.
In Switzerland there was a slight slowdown in growth, due to the ongoing review and
restructuring work. And to a selective underwriting policy in accident insurance and daily
sickness allowance business. All other national subsidiaries generated a positive level of
growth.
The business mix also improved because growth was particularly strong in our highly
lucrative target segments. The investment income was up by 13.6% year on year. This is
proof positive of how well we have responded to the diﬃcult investment environment by
reallocating investments.
Both claims and costs were slightly higher than in the ﬁrst half of last year, which I will now
explain on slide 8.
At 92.5% the net combined ratio was just about on par with the excellent ratio reported
for the ﬁrst half of 2015. If reserves had not been strengthened in Germany, the ratio
would have been an outstanding 88.7%. Whichever way you look at it, we were below our
target range of 93% to 96% for the ﬁrst six months.

Page 2 of 6



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2016-08-30

There was a small increase in the expense ratio, which amounted to 31.9% in the half-year
period. This can mainly be attributed to DAC write-downs in Belgium. And to project
costs in Switzerland.

FINAL

Continuing the trend seen in recent years, the prior-year claims development was
positive, reducing the claims ratio by 2.6percentage points.
The adverse impact of large claims increased slightly compared with the ﬁrst six month of
last year, amounting to 3.6percentage points in the reporting period. This was the result
of natural disasters and individual large claims.
Adjusted for large claims incurred and proﬁt on claims reserves, the underlying claims
ratio was a very good 59.6%. This ﬁgure underlines the high quality of our non-life
portfolio.
On slide 9, we can see the changes in the combined ratios on the individual countries.
The combined ratios for Switzerland and Luxembourg were excellent, with both countries
improving on what had already been outstanding ratios in the prior-year period.

Bloomberg Transcript

Switzerland reported a ratio of 78.4%, which constitutes a reduction of 6.5percentage
points. The reason for this is a relatively favorable claims environment in all sectors and
the improved business mix. What's more, the proﬁt on claims reserves beneﬁted the
claims ratio.
Our international markets of Belgium and Luxembourg also exhibited a very high level of
operational proﬁtability. As in Switzerland, we have a strong market position in these
countries. In Belgium, the combined ratio was a very good 94.1%, even though the claims
ratio was adversely aﬀected by two major events.
By contrast, there is potential for improving the technical proﬁtability of the German nonlife business. I'd like to look at this brieﬂy on slide 10.
In Germany, we have repeatedly been confronted with losses on claims reserves over the
past few years. Furthermore, the low interest rates mean that it will become necessary to
strengthen reserves for annuities in the liability insurance business.
That is why. And because we want our resources in Germany to be focused on the future,
we strengthened reserves in the German non-life business by around CHF55 million.
Speciﬁcally, we have lowered the discount rate for annuity reserves by 0.75%.
In addition, the claims reserves were strengthened by an amount that means that future
proﬁts in Germany will no longer be impaired by legacy issues. This had an adverse
impact on the combined ratio in Germany of around 15percentage points, taking it to
116.3%.

Page 3 of 6



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2016-08-30

Without this one-oﬀ negative eﬀect, the ratio would have improved year on year. On a
positive note, the expense ratio in Germany went down.

FINAL

The initiatives to reduce headcount are proceeding to plan. We are conﬁdent that by
taking these steps, we have laid the foundations for holding the net combined ratio below
the 100% mark in the coming years.
Let's now move on to slide 11 and the life business. The slight contraction in the volume of
business was a consequence of deliberately scaling back new business, particularly in
traditional single-premium business, in view of the interest rate situation. As a result, the
business mix shifted further towards innovative capital eﬃcient insurance solutions.
This is highlighted by the strong growth of more than 160% by our semi-autonomous
pension solution, Perspectiva. And by the marked rise of almost 20% in investment-type
premiums.
Moreover, this very encouraging improvement in portfolio composition is reﬂected in the
Group's new business margin, which was actually slightly higher than at ﬁrst half of 2015,
despite a further decline in interest rates.

Bloomberg Transcript

At CHF46 million, proﬁt in our life business was lower than in the prior-year period. But
this is explained by the substantial addition of over CHF250 million to strengthen
technical reserves, in view of the interest rate situation.
By the reserve strengthening, we make the balance sheet more robust and further reduce
the average return required to meet guarantee obligations.
Overall, earnings in our life business have thus proven pleasingly resilient, despite
signiﬁcant headwinds from the level of interest rates, which have fallen sharply, again, in
both Switzerland and the European Union, following the Brexit vote.
I'd like to ﬁnish on side 12, by taking a look at equity. With equity of CHF5.4 billion. And a
carrying amount per share of CHF116.5, Baloise remains strongly capitalized.
This can also be seen from the conﬁrmation from Standard & Poor's of our credit rating of
A with a stable outlook. The rating agency thereby acknowledge Baloise's very healthy
AAA level capitalization, high operational proﬁtability. And robust competitive position in
its proﬁtable core markets. Standard and Poor's also rated our risk management as strong.
The share buyback program that we had started in 2015, with the aim of acquiring 2% of
the registered share capital, was ended earlier than planned, by the end of July 2016. As a
result of this program, more than CHF100 million was returned to shareholders in total.
Having given you a summary of our excellent set of key ﬁgures for the ﬁrst half of this year,
I would now like to hand you over to Martin Wenk, who will talk in more detail about the

Page 4 of 6



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2016-08-30

good gains that we made on our investments.

Martin Wenk

{BIO 4193573 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you, German. It is my pleasure to present the investment result.
Our asset allocation stayed largely the same. The minimal changes are the result of
changing market values. Higher bond prices increased this position and decreased most
of the others, for example, the equity position by 0.2percentage points.
Nevertheless, it is diﬃcult to maintain the exposure in certain asset classes, namely real
estate and mortgages. We therefore hired some more professionals for our real-estate
department. While, for mortgages, our tried and tested collaboration with Baloise Bank
SoBa, is protecting our excellent position in this market.
Let's have a look at the investment result. My comments pertain to both the life and nonlife slides.

Bloomberg Transcript

The market started 2016 turbulently and ended the half-year in the same way, due to the
unexpected result of the Brexit referendum. This led to even lower interest rates in
developed markets.
Despite that eﬀect, we were able to maintain our current income at the levels of the prioryear period. We achieved that by switching bonds in all bond portfolios and carefully
expanding our US dollar segment, which generates higher yields, even when fully
hedged, than the Swiss franc and euro segments.
We always decide on the basis of risk capital adjusted returns and maintain our high
quality standards. However, we worry about the ever-diminishing liquidity of the interest
rate markets, both the underlying bond market and the derivative market.
Banks losing their trading appetite and central banks monopolizing certain bond markets
make it diﬃcult to invest. 80% of bonds issued in Swiss francs are trading at negative
yields. It is a real challenge to ﬁnd the golden opportunity in the remaining 20%. So it is
even more important that rental income and mortgage payments provide a stable base
for current returns.
The bond switches mentioned before generated gains on ﬁxed income investments. And
our long-standing portfolio of swaptions returned additional revaluation gains that can be
used to strengthen our technical reserves and will lower the necessary yield for future
reinvestments.
Some small impairments were necessary on equities. But were oﬀset by gains realized on
our hedging program. We carefully revaluated our real-estate portfolio and adjusted only
modestly.

Page 5 of 6



Company Name: Baloise Holding AG
Company Ticker: BALN SW Equity
Date: 2016-08-30

The equally erratic currency markets left no trace on our income statement. This was due
to the absence of any position in pound sterling. And our extensive hedging program.
The eﬀects, you see in the table, are purely hedging costs.

FINAL

All in all, the investment result in the life segment reached CHF779 million, an increase of
9.4% compared to last year's result for the ﬁrst six months; and the net return of 1.7%, up
from 1.5%.
The corresponding ﬁgures for non-life were CFH150 million, an increase of 13.5%. And a
yield of 1.6%, up from 1.4%.
I'll now hand back to Gert De Winter.

Gert De Winter

{BIO 19720616 <GO>}

Many thanks, Martin. Ladies and gentlemen, Baloise demonstrated its ﬁnancial stability
once again in the ﬁrst six months of this year. It is, therefore, underpinned by very strong
foundations. And is fully prepared for the next strategic phase.

Bloomberg Transcript

For our customers, we plan to simplify our structures and be more than an insurance
Company, with our future focus on the ever-changing demands in the digital age.
For our employees, we want to create an environment that encourages entrepreneurship.
While, for our investors, our aim is to maintain a consistent attractive dividend policy. Our
current objectives, therefore, remain unchanged.
At the strategy day on October 26, we will present the core aspects of our long-term
strategic direction.
Thank you for watching.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 6 of 6

