Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Andrew Wallace-Barnett
Denis Pierre Marie Duverne
Gérald Harlin
Henri de Castries
Paul Evans

Other Participants
Andrew J. Crean
Blair Stewart
Fahad U. Changazi
Farooq Hanif
James A. Shuck
Jon M. Hocking
Nick Holmes
Peter D. Eliot

Bloomberg Transcript

Ralph Hebgen

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

So, good afternoon everyone, and welcome to AXA's full-year 2015 results. Welcome to those on
the telephone, welcome to those watching by webcast and indeed welcome to those here in the
room in London. When we get to the Q&A, as per usual, we're happy to take questions from over
the phone or the webcast. I believe you have the instructions in order to be able to do that. We will
give a preference to questions coming from our friends here in the room.
Presenting today will be Henri de Castries, Denis Duverne, Gérald Harlin, and it's my pleasure to
hand over to Henri.

Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

Denis was asking me if I had taken a piece of chocolate cake and I told him that I resisted that will
firmly succumbed by the end of this presentation. So very happy to be with you this afternoon to
share with you what our 2015 results have been and as you have already seen, I think they are
pretty strong, because we are showing strong earnings and a good dividend, because they also
illustrate the fact that we are coming to the end of the five-years journey, which was Ambition AXA
and we have completed with the journey with satisfactory outcome on all the key KPIs. And this
despite the fact that the economic environment, and in particular, interest rates have not been
what we were anticipating at the very beginning of the exercise. So despite the headwinds, we
have reached or exceeded the targets we had. Having said that, and even if I come back to some
of these achievements in the presentation, this is not the end of the story, what we are focused at
now is not to celebrate the past, but to look at the future and I think we've built a very, very strong
basis to reach the next step with the group, and as you know, it's something we'll share with you
around mid-June.



FINAL

So, the earnings in 2015, strong growth in earnings, of course, helped by the ForEx, but I mean on
a constant basis they are up 2%. We're reaching €5.6 billion in underlying; it's the highest level of
earnings ever reached by the group. Adjusted earnings, same progression at €6 billion, so we are
just in the range we have been forecasting in terms of capital gains.
Underlying earnings per share, up 10%; adjusted earnings, which are the basis of the dividend, up
9%. That's why we are proposing to the shareholders meeting to approve a dividend of €1.10,
which is an increase of 16% when compared with last year, and seeing that, you see that we are
walking the talk on the increase in the payout we announced back in November. The fact that the
payout range would move to 45%-55%, we are at 47%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Just a quick look back at what we have achieved with Ambition AXA. We have three key objectives
with that. More selectivity in our business because we felt that they were places of business
segments where the returns and the development prospects were not optimal and we thought
we had to divest them. We wanted to accelerate, especially in the emerging countries, because
we said that the – at the very beginning the AXA footprints in these places where significant
growth would happen over time was not sufficient and the third thing was to generate more
efficiency and cut costs, while still investing in the future.
I think where we are today is pretty satisfactory from that standpoint because we are achieving a
high return on equity, we have a very strong balance sheet, illustrated by the Solvency II ratio, we
have very resilient earnings, I think, you've seen that throughout the years. We have a better
diversified footprint, both in terms of business segments and in terms of geographies; and last but
not least, and this is going to be a very important element for the future, I think the momentum we
have created on digital and big data is such that we are well positioned to take a very significant
advantage of these things.
Just to go back to what were the key indicators. Earnings per share have improved by 7% a year on
a compounded basis, so exactly in the middle of the range we had announced. The return on
equity is at 14.1%, the cash flows generated over the period have been higher than what we had
announced and the debt gearing is at the bottom of the range we have decided. By the way, we
are going to slightly change as you know the way we report the debt gearing to align our reporting
with what other players in the industry are doing and Gérald will mention that of course.
Solvency II, we have disclosed in November everything, so you know us as well as we know
ourselves there. The ratio is 205%, so far it seems to be that the – it is the highest ratio published
in the European industry and we've told you that we would navigate between 170% and 230% with
pretty – we have given you a pretty precise roadmap there. We are giving you here some
sensitivities to illustrate our resistance to extreme scenarios and since I am sure that some of you
are wondering where we are today or where we will be tomorrow if, I think you have here all the
elements, you need to understand that we are in a very, very comfortable situation from this
standpoint.
Debt gearing I've already mentioned. The discipline is illustrated by the numbers who are on this
page. In five years, we have sold €9 billion of assets, operational assets. We have invested for €6
billion; €5.1 billion of them to be precise being in emerging countries. We have a low sensitivity to
interest rates, less than or around one year duration gap, an impact of €200 million a year if rates
negative, if rates stay at the current level. Our asset portfolio is of very good quality. We've shown
to you here the average rating of the bonds and we've given you the exposure because it seems
to the fashion of the day, what's the exposure to banking, what's the exposure to oil and gas, you
have it here. Gérald Harlin will come back to that. The 2% or the 1% applied to the General Account
assets, so a little more than €500 billion. So and the exposure we have there is a very good quality
exposure.
The next point is what have we been doing to shift the business mix and increase the margins, and
then I think over five years the picture is pretty impressive because not only did we change the



FINAL

business mix in Life, reducing the amount of General Account in the new business, which have
grown over the period, but we've also very significantly changed the margins on each and every
segment of the business, which puts us in a situation where APEs are higher than before and
where the margins have progressed by approximately 50% over the period, moving from 22% to
34%. On the P&C side, the game has been a game of reducing the combined ratio by a little more
than three points, whilst generating, nevertheless, some revenue growth. It's clear that the P&C
business is a business where growth is challenged, but you see that we can resist very well.
The footprint in Asia and in other emerging markets is very stronger than what it was back in 2010.
As I said, we have invested a little more than €5 billion in this market. There has been a place
where we've been disappointed. It's clearly Central and Eastern Europe, fine. But Asia certainly has
delivered as well as MedLA, where we have very good and significant market positions, which we
think will pay off in the long term, even if there is volatility on the trend.

Bloomberg Transcript

Certainly for Asia, APEs have been doubling, the NBV has been nearly doubling and the cash
earnings we've been extracting from Asia are at €2 billion over the prior period. The last leg of
Ambition AXA was the efficiency. The initial target was €1.5 billion of savings; we have achieved €1.9
billion, whilst investing a little less than €1 billion in the new technology. So we've been able to
improve the efficiency of the group without sacrificing the future, which I think is an important
element.
This digital confirmation keeps gathering momentum. As you know, we have three levels. What do
we explore at the AXA labs? What do we start to do? Where do we build tools, applications and
where do we invest to participate into interesting stories. We stood for you there, the way our
investments have been targeted internally, and it's interesting because what it shows is that it's
affecting each and every segment of the insurance value chain in a significant way.
The other things we've been putting there is the amounts we've been investing outside of the
group to try to generate new ideas, disruptive models, sometimes purely outside of the group
and it's AXA Strategic Ventures, which has now completed approximately 17 investments in various
startups. The second thing is at the of the Group which is led by Stéphane Guinet, the former Head
of the Direct Business, which is another interesting experience we started in the 1990s, which is
now generating billions of revenues. This is to build internally disruptive models.
The last point is a quite interesting investment we've made in the recent weeks in AIG, not the
insurance AIG, but Africa Internet Group, which is the Amazon of Africa where we have invested in
the equity, but also set-up an exclusive distribution agreement for our insurance product to their
clients. It's an illustration of the combination of new technologies and new geographies, which for
the future should create additional growth.
Last but not least, of course, we do that with high consciousness of that fact that AXA is not only a
balance sheet and a P&L, and we have moved on the corporate responsibility side, and I think
some of the moves we have been making have been extremely good for the understanding and
the reputation of the brand. We've been divesting from coal, as you know, because we don't think
it's a good long-term investment. We are publishing our carbon footprint, which leads us to have a
pretty strong ranking on the GSI. We are well prepared for the future and we will tell you more
about that in June because I think we can write now an interesting new page. We have a great
business – a great mix of businesses, 25% Protection & Health, 40% Property & Casualty, 36% – or
35% Savings & Asset Management, so three legs to walk. We have a very strong balance sheet,
we are the number one brand, which is great to attract talents, clients and partners, and
interestingly even if it seems an anecdotal, we've been ranked the most innovative insurance
company by the 800 biggest clients of BCG, which I think is an illustration of the fact that people
are taking seriously what we've been doing in new technologies.
So, this was just the introduction I wanted to make. As usual, Denis and Gérald are going to walk
you through these earnings, which we think are pretty good earnings.



FINAL

Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

Thank you, Henri, good afternoon everyone. So, we'll start as usual with the underlying earnings of
the group. And you see that on the – they are up 2% on a comparable basis and 9% on a nominal
basis. Life & Savings had very good results, plus 3% on a comparable basis to €3.5 billion. P&C is
slightly down on a comparable basis by 1% and I will comment on that further. Asset Management's
up 1%, I will not comment in detail on the last three segments, which are smaller, but just to say
that the net of the three is positive and the biggest change is in the Holdings segment where the
charge for interest rates has declined by roughly €60 million, partly offset by more investments in
digital.
Adjusted earnings were up 2% to €6.008 billion on a comparable basis, plus 9% in nominal value.
You see that the net realized capital gains were almost stable at €433 million, about the same
amount of capital gains, the same amount of impairments; good results of plus 2%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Net income was up 3% at €5.617 billion. The main comments are related to the change in fair value
and ForEx. On interest rate hedges not eligible for hedge accounting, we have a negative number
of €158 million. On ForEx, we have a slightly less positive number than last year at €141 million. And
on the change in fair value of assets accounted for as fair value, so it's essentially the bond funds,
which are fair values to the P&L, we have a minus €212 million, which relates to both slight increase
in interest rates during the period and widening of interest rate spreads.
On the exceptional and discontinued operations, we have the benefit of the capital gain done on
the sale of our mandatory pension funds business in Hong Kong. Integration and restructuring
costs are fairly stable. Intangible amortization is slightly negative, but much less than in 2014 where
we took a hit on our Russian goodwill, as you will recall.
Moving to the Life & Savings business; on the Life & Savings business we have growth of our new
business of 6% in mature markets with the new business margin, which is slightly down from 31% to
30%. The main – I think the main reason for that is probably coming from a slight dilution in the UK
with a large sale of cooperative, but it's not a big figure. High growth market is disappointing at a
plus 1% in new business. It's really essentially because of decline of our sales in Honk Kong. This is
something that we had flagged a year ago. Hong Kong changed the regulation of – regulation in
terms of disclosure for Unit-Linked products where all the charges and commissions had to be
disclosed.
The market stopped selling Unit-Linked altogether. We were the biggest seller of Unit-Linked. Our
General Accounts product was too capital intensive and we didn't push for the sale of this General
Account. We had a shorter product that was redesigned in the spring, but didn't sell as well as the
competition. We have redesigned our product more in line with the competition. It's starting to sell
in January, but we've lost time in Honk Kong and that the disappointing sales volume of minus 12%.
The rest of the high-growth markets were up 12%, much more in line with what we expect going
forward. Overall, the margin moved from 49% to 51%, which I would say a consolation. All-in-all,
Life's new business sales were up 5%, with a relatively flat margin of 34%.
Looking now at the mix of business of our Life sales, you see the Protection sales were up 4%,
margin relatively stable at 52%. Net flows at €5.9 billion; G/A Savings down 7%, in line with our
strategy to focus on Protection & Health and Unit-Linked. Margin at a higher of 19%, you have seen
in one of the slides presented by Henri, that five years ago the margin in that business was minus
1%, which is a testimony to the change in the product design that we have achieved also in G/A
Savings. Flows are negative at €2.4 billion. Unit-Linked sales up 12%, margin of 31%. The flows have
moved from €0.7 million to plus €5.7 million. This is also due to the fact that last year we had the
big buyout in the U.S., which we have an ongoing buyout in the U.S. but it's much smaller, so this
has helped the net flows on the Unit-Linked side. All-in-all, €9.6 billion of net flows compared to €4
billion last year.



FINAL

From an earnings standpoint, the sales were, sorry, the profits were up 3% overall. They were up
2% in Protection & Health with higher mortality margin in France and the U.S., partly offset by an
accelerated amortization of DAC in the U.S. G/A Savings, we have a negative evolution of profit of
4% with on one hand lower administrative expenses, which is a good; on the other hand, lower
investment margins and a change in annuitization assumptions in Japan. Unit-Linked profits were
up 10%, thanks to higher sales and the better results from GMxB in the U.S. in spite of a reserve
strengthening [VA GMxB] due to policyholder behavior, in part essentially links to the secondary
effect of the buyouts.
Moving to P&C, our volumes – our revenues were up 1%, they were up 2% in personal lines and flat
in commercial lines. In both lines we have a price effect, which is quite substantial, 3.2% in personal
lines, 2.4% in commercial. This price effect was more than offset by volume effect and we can see
that in more detail on the next page, page 30, where you see the details of price effects and
revenue growth by country and the business line. A few points to highlight, you see that in the UK
personal lines we benefit from a 5.5% price effect, so a continuation of solid price increases in
motor in particular. You see in France on the commercial line side, a price effect of 4.4%, which is
essentially a function of the price increases that we've put in the construction line, which had losses
consecutive to the economic crisis in France and the decline in construction volumes. In MedLA, we
had both significant price effects in the personal and commercial lines. And the price effect in
personal lines is totally linked to Turkey. In commercial lines, it's a little bit across the board.

Bloomberg Transcript

For 2016, we have given you some pricing trends. You see in green in the UK, in yellow, you see
most of the other territories. You see negatives in Switzerland and Belgium. We need to remind
you that in both countries we have combined ratios which are quite low, 86% in Switzerland and
91% from collection in Belgium, so we believe we can swallow that.
Looking now at the evolution of our revenues and margins by markets; revenues were flat in
mature markets with the combined ratio declining from 97.1% to 96.3% on a current year basis.
High-growth markets' revenues were up 2%, Asia up 8%, Turkey, in particular, flat. The current year
combined ratio deteriorated from 98.7% to 100.9%. If we exclude the impact of the current year
reserve strengthening in Turkey, it's 99.4%.
May be I comment on Turkey now. Turkey, we strengthened our reserves in total by €252 million,
€57 million for the current year and the balance for prior years. It's linked to continued deterioration
of the legislative environment for bodily injury. It's a story that has stopped back in 2012 but has
continued to deteriorate this year with not only the retrospective application of the legislation, but
also new legislation which was adverse. We believe that – and we have addressed the situation
correctly both from a reserving standpoint and from a pricing standpoint. If I compare the
beginning of 2015 and the end of 2015 on motor third-party liability, we have more than doubled
our prices. The full-year effect of motor is only 18%, but from beginning to end of the year, we
have more than doubled our prices. We believe that the market is seriously under reserved. We
believe that in our consolidated accounts, we have fully adjusted our reserves and that we are
reasonably well-prepared for the future.
Direct business is in good shape. We have increased our revenues by 7%, mostly in France, Japan
and the UK. Our combined ratio slightly improved to 99.3% on a current year basis. All-in-all, our
current year combined ratio went down from 97.6% to 97.3%.
Looking now at the full-year earnings from P&C, minus 1% on a comparable basis. Combined ratio
has improved from 96.9% to 96.2% on an all-year basis. You see stream back to current year
combined, as I mentioned, down 0.3 points. The impact within that of natural catastrophes was
modest this year, 0.6%, essentially some storms in Germany and floods in France, but it's lower
than our normalized Nat Cat charge, which is around 1%, whereas it was higher in the previous year.
Prior year reserve developments are slightly more favorable at 1%. All-in-all, we end up at 96.2%. If
we were to exclude the impact of reserve strengthening in Turkey on one hand and normalized
Nat Cat level to 1%, we would have ended up at 95.6%.



FINAL

We take a hit on the investment income, which is down 8%. We had an investment yield of 3.6%
against 3.9% in 2014, it was exceptionally high in 2014 and so normalized, it would probably have
been about 3.7%, 3.8%, but still we have a decline in investment yields, which had to be expected.
Moving to Asset Management, we had a good year in Asset Management overall, particularly at
AXA Investment Managers, where the net flows were €42 billion, of which €34 billion in our Asian
JVs, the bulk of that being with our Chinese JV with – called AXA SPDB, which is Shanghaï Pudong
Development Bank. Within that JV, we continue to see very strong inflows even post the equity
market crisis. We have negative flows in July and August, but we resume the positive flows as early
as September. We are considered the best equity manager in China. The non-JV business also had
a good year because the non-JV flows moved from €4 billion in 2014 to €8 billion in 2015. Average
AUM for AXA IM excluding joint ventures are up 7% and revenues up 4%, excluding joint ventures
because we are not consolidating them.
Net flows in AB were more modest, €3 billion positive. Average AUM up 3% and revenues flat on a
comparable basis, but significantly up on a euro basis. For the underlying earnings, they were up 1%
on a comparable basis in Asset Management, 5% at AXA IM, and minus 2% on a comparable basis
for AB.
I'll hand over now to Gérald. Thank you very much for your attention.

Bloomberg Transcript

Gérald Harlin
Good afternoon. So as far as ALM is concerned, our invested assets amounted to €552 billion. You
can notice that in the past the vast majority of our assets, 83%, are fixed income assets and real
estate correspond to 5%, listed equities 4%, and other income mostly loans and [ABS] represent
7%. The duration of our assets is pretty long, eight years for Life & Savings, five years for P&C, so
we kept a tight duration mismatch, which is good in this environment where rates are going down.
And the asset yields are – continue to hold quite well. In Life, as well as P&C, you can notice in P&C
that it goes down from 3.9% to 3.6%, but as Denis just told you excluding an exceptional dividend
in 2014, we would have been at 3.8%.
Let's focus now on the – more on the fixed income side, and first of all starting on the left with the
Govies and related bonds, which are maintaining a AA range and whereas on the right-hand side,
you have the corporate bonds rating, which is corresponding to €190 billion, still in the A range, and
of course, you will note also that we have 8% invested in below investment grade. Below
investment grade is roughly €19 billion at the group level, but it's mostly the vast majority is very
short-term high yield, which has much more visibility by short term, I mean between 1.5 years and 2
years. You will see more detail in the appendices and if you have more questions of course I will be
quite happy to discuss it during the Q&A.
Let's focus now on the 2015 investments. We have been investing €65 billion at an average rate of
2.1% and you will see that we have been invested in investment grade credit for 57% with an
average rating of A. Govies, because you know that the work hours to manage our duration, the
only way to manage long duration is through Govies because the duration of corporate bonds is
shorter. Below investment grade 12%, that's the same comment mostly in short-term high-yield
bonds below – between 1.5 year and 2 years.
Let's have a look at the investment margin. The investment margin was quite resilient. It dropped
from 80 basis points to 79 basis points. This is mostly explained by the spreads of the guaranteed
rate on the Inforce book, because with an earning yield at 3.6%, we have a guaranteed rate at 2%,
one year ago it was 2.1%, which means that we have a margin of 160 bps. On the new business, it's
the same, that means that we are investing at 2.1%, the average guaranteed rate is 0.5%, which
means that we have an average spread of 160 bps.



FINAL

Let's have a look now at the shareholders' equity. The shareholders' equity went up from €65.2
billion to €68.5, mostly explained, I would say, by four elements. The first one is by definition, net
income of the year, €5.6 billion. Next is the dividend, the dividend €0.95 that we paid one year ago,
that we paid in May last year, corresponding to €2.3 billion. Next is the change in net unrealized
capital gains, mostly coming from the widening of the spreads and slightly higher rates, minus €2.6
billion and the ForEx movement. I remind you that it's worth noting that our FX hedging policy is to
protect up to 25% of our shareholders' equity, meaning that we benefited from a higher dollar,
higher Swiss franc and higher pound.
Next is the debt, I would say that, as already mentioned, we have a debt gearing, which is at 23%,
which is in the low end of our range, which was 23% to 25%, interest coverage went up to 10.7
times. Most of our debt are subordinated debt, you can see €9.5 billion undated sub-debt, Tier 1
debt, and Tier 2 debt €6.9 billion. We remind you that our rating are now A+ positive outlook for
S&P and AA- or equivalent that Moody's and Fitch.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to Solvency II; Solvency II ratio is at 205% and you can see on the right the sensitivity of the
Solvency II ratio, which is more or less in line with what we had been sharing with you in our IR Day
at the beginning of December. Since we – starting from 2012, which is indeed that we shared with
you at the IR Day the evolution although it is quite straightforward, you have the operating return
of the last quarter plus five points minus the dividend corresponding to minus nine points in the
end we are two – we end up at 205%.
Let's move to group EV, so the group EV had been adjusted in order to take into account the cost
of capital of Solvency II, which is a plus of €0.5 billion, which is not in the operating return.
Nevertheless the operating return is quite strong at plus 18%, in line with our earnings and NBV
growth and we end up with a group EV at €51.2 billion.
Let's move to the operating free cash flow; the operating free cash flow in 2014 was – in Life, €2.5
billion, in 2015 on a pro forma basis it's €3.1 billion taking into account the fact that we have a higher
cash flow of €0.5 billion coming from the lower cash requirement as you know and of Solvency II,
we can benefit from the future profit just to match the capital requirement. The story is same with
internal rate of return, our internal rate of return went up from 14.2% to 14.4% and there was a
Solvency I framework, in Solvency II it's 17.5% to higher for the same reason as the one I explained
for the Life cash flows.
Next is the global cash flow, I would say, and the cash flow combining Life and the other business
lines went up from 5.5% to 5.8%, plus 5%, and the remittance ratio went up from 86% to 87%, in
the end, we had €5.1 billion up-streamed to the holding company. And as you can see here, the
part coming from the U.S. was in line with what we said, €0.6 billion. On a pro forma basis, it's the
same story that means that it would have been – the global cash flow would have been €0.5 billion
higher due to the less – to the lower capital constraints.
Last, I would like to share with you the sensitivities to market conditions that we did the same one
a year ago and assuming that we would invest at 2% on average, we were at 2.1% last year, so 2%
on average, it means that we would have an impact of €0.2 billion that would be recurring,
assuming that we would still invest in the future years at 2%. In case we would invest at 2.4% then it
would be a hit of €0.1 billion only. As you know, we already had such an impact of minus 0.2% in our
2015 accounts. Limited equity sensitivity, because if we would have a 10% decline in our equity, in
the equity market, the net impact on earnings coming mostly from the fees, from the Unit-Linked
business would be down €0.1 billion.
Last, Solvency II ratio is at estimated – details, that means yesterday, it would be circa 190%. How
do we explain the drop of 15 points? I would say minus 8 point coming from the rates and from the
fact that we had a decline between 40 bps and 50 bps depending on the currency. We had a
slight decline coming from the equity, assuming a 10% equity, it's minus 2 points, and on top with
the volatility and the volatility on both equity and interest rates went up, which explains an



additional minus €0.6 billion, in this 190% we didn't take into account the operating returns for the
almost two months of the year.
I hand over to Henri for the conclusion.

FINAL

Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

Thanks, Gérald. So conclusion is going to be a very brief one, strong earnings, strong platform,
interesting future. Now, questions. So let's start. Maybe when you ask your question if you can say
who you are, not that we don't know you, we know all of you, but for the people who are just
listening to the presentation, it's probably more helpful. Is there a mic somewhere, if you could
come in front. Thank you.

Q&A
Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks. It's James Shuck from UBS. I had three questions if I may. Firstly, just thinking about the
development of the AFR, appreciate the new disclosure that we're moving through, with Solvency
II. But I mean just to get a feel for kind of a natural organic capital generation into 2016, because
one thing as I look at your capital generation as you kind of on a cash flow basis. It's another thing
to think about certain drag effects. So there might be such as the unwind of the volatility
adjustment for example. So if you could just talk through how we should think about AFR
development in 2016 that would be helpful.
My second question is around the Tier 1 capital. I mean, I think we showed the Solvency II, Investor
Day, you gave some excellent disclosures it was very helpful, and I think you had 84%, we are
showing this in Tier 1 capital. I just like a bit more insight into the components of that Tier 1 capital. If
I was to take the Inforce value from the MCEV disclosure, is that a good proxy for the amount of
Inforce that's actually included within Tier 1? That's my second question.
And then if I can quickly steal a third one, it was just on the new money yield, I'm just interested
and I knew you were at 2.1% in 2015, but what is that if we just sort of think about the first quarter
of this year? And are you seeing any problems about actually finding liquidity and investing in
corporate bonds?

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

Gérald, you want to take this question.

A - Gérald Harlin
Yes. About the development of AFR, you remember that in – at the beginning of December, we
mentioned that on average we could expect to have an operational capital generation of 20 points
net of dividend, let's say, of 10 points, it would mean roughly 11 points, but this is I would say an
average and for sure as far as AFR is concerned, it goes along with – it will evolve with the mark-tomarket and that's the reason why I said that we would move from 205% to 190%. So on an instant
and there was – on today's basis, roughly we would be slightly above 190% let's say. You can
expect to have an attrition of, let's say, 10 points. You should deduct from these 10 points that a
point that I mentioned the acquisitions when we make some external acquisition, I remember that I
took the example of – of imagine that it would be €1 billion, €1 billion in high growth countries, it's
minus 6 points, in mature it's minus 3 points. So I believe with these elements and don't take the €1
billion as a kind of forecast, it's just an example, but it gives you an idea of the sensitivity.
Your second question was about the Tier 1 capital and the MCEV. So in the EV report, but we can
also take it offline, but in the report we have a reconciliation and if you go to page 27, and here you
have a reconciliation between IFRS shareholders' equity, and the group AFR. And so you first, you



FINAL

have the shareholder equity, that's quite classical, you deduct all the TSS, TSDI, you deduct then
the excluded intangible that's quite customary, that's the way we present, we have been
presenting up to now. And you had the which at €32.3 billion and then you have the and you end
up with an EV of €51.2 billion.
Next you have the dividend to be paid. You add the TSS, TSDI, Tier 1, Tier 2 because they are part
of the numerator of the Solvency II ratio and you have some technical adjustment. Among this
minus 5.9%, you has two main elements. One correspond to the, MVMs, market value margin,
which is quite significant and you have also the move from the actually P&C reserves to the
Solvency II reserves, so that's mostly it. But we can – I can comment further after the meeting with
you to – if you have additional questions.
Your last question was about the investment. Today, we are – and at the present condition, we are
investing roughly between 2% and 2.1%, which is nevertheless not so easy, but we don't give up on
the quality. You notice that we have been quite firm on the fact that we were investing in as far as
the sovereign bonds are concerned on average in AA, A in corporate bonds, so it's not so easy.
The liquidity is not so high, but we nevertheless, we achieve it. Also that we can invest in other type
of assets like ABS, like CLOs, but high-quality CLOs, AA+ but it's illiquid and we can get some
higher returns, as well as in loans like corporate and real estate loans. So, we are using different
ways in order – while giving up some part of the liquidity, not giving up the quality. Keep in mind
that when we invest in BBB-, for example bonds, if there is a downgrading, then immediately the
cost of capital would be much, much higher. So that's why we're extremely cautious on that.

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Go ahead.

Q - Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

Couple of questions, I beg your pardon. The first one is on the cash, so you had this increase in net
of cash from €5.5 billion to €5.8 billion. Last year I remember you admitted, figure I had in mind of, I
don't know which currency, but call it $1 billion, this year I think you've mentioned $800 million and I
just wondered why you left $200 million in the U.S. I mean I was joking with your lovely IR team and I
said, I'd be like – take a bath in gold doubloons every day, I wouldn't leave anything in the U.S. So
that's really – I just wondered is there – to understand this. The other thing is I noticed and it's kind
of a really stupid question. There is quite a big rise this year in your deferred acquisition cost, the
last year they went up €2 billion, this year they went up €3 billion, so that's – and one day these
things have to be amortized or written off so, I always wonder a little bit about that. And then the
final point is, can you look us in the eye and say Turkey is finished, that would be very nice? Thank
you.

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

I will take the Turkish question and leave the other two for Gérald. So, I mean, I probably told you in
2012, when we take the first big hit that Turkey was finished. This was without knowing what the
regulators – not the regulators, but what the judges and the legislators would do in the meantime.
Right now, I can tell you that we have taken a hit that we believe is reasonable, it's way more
significant than our competitors. That's – but this is – there are still a number of assumptions here.
The hit is ideal now. So we are basing our reserve estimates and ultimately – what we believe is the
ultimate development of those claims and we are making certain assumptions on the likelihood of
a litigation by the victims of accidents of the last 10 years. And this percentage of claimants has
increased steadily. We've made our own estimate of where it would peak. The peak that we have
estimated is not 100%, so we may be proven wrong, but it's quite high. And so there are a lot of
estimates like this that come into account. But among the last developments that have taken
place, there was an indemnity for the liable driver that didn't exist. There was a compensation for
the loss of value, which is something that exist in Germany, but in no other place and will there be
further surprises, I don't believe because we believe that if people were putting their reserves – if
the rest of the market were putting their reserves where we have put our reserves, there would



be no equity left in the P&C market in Turkey. So I think there will be some time for adjustments of
our capital with our competitors.

A - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

FINAL

The only good news is that we have the feeling that following the lobbying efforts the Turkish
supervisors and regulators have finally understood that the insurers were not the Alibaba cavern.

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

Gérald?

A - Gérald Harlin
First of all, about the U.S., so in the U.S. we don't pile up the cash in the U.S. You know that we
mentioned last time that we would upstream between €0.6 billion and €1 billion, that's what we did
and I can tell you that we still have €4.3 billion debt left in the U.S., loan from the holding company
to the U.S. We will maintain the same type of amount we can expect between €0.6 billion and €1
billion that will be upstream to the holding company. So no specific worry on that side. And the
story that we told you last time is still true today.

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

There is a positive regulatory development on that front, which is that the New York State was
allowing the lower of 10% of surplus and statutory earnings as an automatic upstream and now it's
the higher of the two that works. So it will allow us to increase the dividend that doesn't have to go
through the regulatory gates and that should come sometime this year. On the DAC?

A - Gérald Harlin
On the DAC, so I believe that your remark is mostly relative to the U.S. The DAC increased from
€10 billion to €10.9 billion after tax, so that means that this DAC level has been increased mostly
due to the significant part of it is explained by the lapse. You know that as explained by Denis, we
have increased our reserves to take into account the lapse rate, which is lower than expected,
same for what we call the partial withdrawal. So the impact has been roughly €350 million of
additional DAC, but pay attention to one point, which is the DAC in itself should be analyzed in the
light of the k-factor. And our k-factor went down because we – why because when you have more
lapses – less lapses that means that you will have more future – for this, more future fees, which
means that if I take on the last year we had a k-factor at 65%, and this year we were at 58%.
Another way to look at it, if you go into the EV report, you will notice that in the end, the impact on
this reinforcement of reserves was only €75 million negative. You have a footnote on this.

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

Yes, go ahead. Let's change sides for a while.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Thank you. It's Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. I've got three questions please. I wonder, first if
you could talk a little bit about claims inflation in P&C and how that's comparing with the rate you
are achieving on the book both in commercial and personal.
Second, on the high yield ratios, if I show data it superficially sounds quite scary being in the high
yield market environment. But if you could talk a little bit about the confidence you've got on the
visibility, which sectors you are in, and just give a little bit of color on the high yield exposure
please?
And then just finally, just on the slide you put up with the sort of capital stack, the cash you're
netting off there, is that the holding company cash because it's gone down quite a lot year-on-year



from €4 billion down to €2.8 billion, is that not holding company there or is it a different cash
balance? Thank you.

A - Gérald Harlin

FINAL

The first point on the claims inflation, so you have an appendix on this that – let me find it – and
Turkey.

A - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

Yeah that's on page B-39.

A - Gérald Harlin
Thank you. On B-39, so you can notice that on the total P&C, we had frequency and severity, which
increased our combined ratio and it was – the severity is 2.1%, but of which you had the impact of
severity of Turkey so which – and Turkey roughly one full point. So, that's why we have severity of
plus one point, which is more than offset by price effect of minus 1.5%. What is the good news is a
fact that we have a frequency which we is still negative at minus 0.8% and so that I remember that
one year ago a lot of U.S. questions about the fear that severity would – that frequency would go
up, it's not the case at all and we don't see for the time being any rise of frequency.

Bloomberg Transcript

Your second question was about the – was relative to high yield. And as far as the high yield is
concerned, we don't have, I know that there are a lot of questions and legitimate question about
high yield and the impact of oil on high yield and I believe it's your question.
We have an appendix on oil and on our exposure to oil and gas, it's – our exposure to oil and gas
as a whole is €12 billion only. And this €12 billion, out of this €12 billion, the share of corresponding
to...

A - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

B-48 and B-49.

A - Gérald Harlin
And 49. I've always difficulty to find my pages. So on – out of the – on page B-48, you can notice
that we have €12.1 billion invested in oil and gas, of which investment grade is only 8%. So you can –
below investment grade is only 8%. Thank you, Denis.
I didn't want you to have a wrong assessment of our – of the way we manage our assets. So below
investment grade being 8% only out of €12 billion means that we are quite safe and we don't
believe there is any risk and going back to the previous question I answered, look at the BBB
minus, it's 9% only and that's what we – we have a close look at this. Just as – and I'll comment
about the way we manage our corporate bond risk, we have a group credit team, which is
independent from the two group asset managers, which access all the risk that cover 80% globally
of our corporate bond exposure and so that means that on a regular basis we are assessing risk,
we have our own ratings in spite of our Solvency II, I would say, framework. That means that we
have our own view on each type of risk. And that's why we have been for a long time now
extremely cautious on managing and anticipating this down grade.

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

And one comment on this below investment grade portfolio. It's essentially, as you said, shortduration high-yield. And the short-duration high-yield portfolio is essentially managed by an AXA
Investment Managers team based in Greenwich, Connecticut, with a duration that is lower than two
years. And extremely good track record they've maintained through the various cycles and we're
quite confident with that.



Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Just an indication, what is the sort of new money yield if you are investing in the high yield today,
what sort of spread are you getting on it?

FINAL

A - Gérald Harlin
Roughly speaking, we can invest at a level which is 3.5% roughly as of today. Your last question was
about the cash in the holding company...

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Holding company....

A - Gérald Harlin
And maybe we can go to page B-76, because it's – on page B-76 you can notice that up to now
we've been reporting our debt level, which was a net of cash basis. And that's what you see here.
We were at 23%. That's what I reported. But the new methodology, we will apply a new
methodology, why? Because we believe that it's much more in line with the global practice for you,
it should be far easier to compare ourselves with our peers and for us, it will be also easier
because it's the way most of the rating agencies are reporting debt gearing, so that's what I
wanted to show, we will start in 2016 reporting this way.

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Okay, go ahead.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Hi, there. Farooq Hanif from Citigroup. Even if you add back the – some of the one-offs, Turkey
reserving in the U.S., your underlying growth rate and underlying earnings is still between 2% and
3%, so it's a low number compared to what you've achieved obviously historically with markets, FX
and all the tailwinds. So should we think of you now going forward as a company that just needs to
supplement a lower level of organic growth with M&A or with attractive cash is that how you like us
to view you, that's the kind of question/comment, number one.
And the second point is the more I look at the U.S. business, you seem to talk about it less, you are
talking about high-growth markets, it's never central to your strategy and view and the VA market I
think is about to take a – see a big change in the U.S. probably this year for the DOL regulation,
isn't it time that – I mean would you ever consider exiting the U.S.

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

No.

Q - Farooq Hanif

{BIO 4780978 <GO>}

Thank you.

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

No. I mean it's not – I mean we are trying to focus on the elements which are noticeable. I mean
the U.S. had a strong and a good year. Strategically I think it's important for a group like us to be in
the U.S. because structurally the U.S. economy has a potential growth rate which is higher than
Europe, so I see no reason for us to exit the U.S. Yes, sometime you have headwinds. We've had
some of them in the past. But there is absolutely no strategic reasons to exit the U.S. And on the
contrary I think we have a very solid basis to build from. As you know, we've been starting some
initiatives under the employee benefit field. We think there is room to grow. We have a very strong
team there. No, no, go ahead.



A - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

FINAL

So, on the U.S., yes we have the cloud of the DOL which applies not just to AXA but the totality of
the market, but we have a number of growth initiatives and when you look at the trajectory of
growth of our U.S. earnings over the last five years, I wouldn't say that we are ashamed of this
trajectory. So we're quite confident in the quality of our U.S. business, the quality of our U.S. teams,
and we have a certain course trajectory.
B-34, yeah, okay. So B-34 you see that we've moved from under €500 million of earnings to €850
million this year. So, we are not worried about our ability to keep some growth in our U.S. earnings.
Coming back to your more general comment on low underlying earnings growth, I mean we have
not been shy of telling you that's low interest rates were permanent €200 million headwinds at the
current level, which means that we need to offset this minus 4 points roughly of underlying EPS
growth by the various growth initiatives. I will not give you in February the June presentation. We
still believe that we have the ability to grow organically in this business.
You see that our Life growth in terms of earnings was quite good. We've had some negatives in
P&C this year, but we have a number of initiatives to grow our commercial lines business. It was
part of our Ambition AXA priorities to grow the commercial line business. We've not been totally
successful, but we've worked a lot in the meantime and we believe that it will come eventually. Our
Asset Management business is reasonably well positioned, so we do believe that we'll be able to
grow organically. M&A we'll add on top of that, but we believe that we will be able to grow the
business.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

So, wait until June and you will see.

A - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

Between now and June, it's – look, you can do better than that, but we just have to wait for what
those initiatives are.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Thanks very much. It's Blair Stewart from BofA Merrill. Just a couple on the U.S., just looking at the
DOL, have you refined your thoughts as to what might happen there and how do you see the
product evolving in the U.S. It strikes me that there'll be lower volumes and therefore there will be
possibly better cash flows for you, could you invest quite a lot in terms of new business strain or
the products will evolve to be less capital intensive from the outside if the market moves to a fee
based structure side. How do you see the U.S. evolving with regards to the product and what
impact the DOL might have? And sticking to the U.S., the reserving change that you've made for
experience, is the reserving note in line with current experience or is there still some gap plus or
minus. I've got another question on cost, but maybe we can do the U.S. first?

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

Denis, you want to take the two questions.

A - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

Yes, so reserving change for instance is now completely – reserving change, sorry, for lapses and
for partial withdrawals is fully in line with the current experience.
DOL, I wouldn't say that we have more clarity now on the DOL other than that we know that
probably in April the new rule will be published with an application, roughly at year-end that's about
all we know. I think the people are really waking up to this because a number of people thought
that the other thing would be effective and now they realize that it's probably – it has not been fully
effective but there is still a lot of uncertainty in terms whether the various firms will allow their



FINAL

distributors to provide advice and take additional legal risk. And what I heard in the U.S. a few
weeks ago was that probably large firms would be forced to accept that their distributors take that
responsibility because it will be a competitive advantage to do it and a competitive disadvantage
not to do it. So, basically that, I mean this, I think there will be as much news coming from the
behavior of the firms and their advisors as from the rule itself. Until we have more clarity on that it's
very difficult to anticipate the impact.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

What's AXA's thoughts around advice?

A - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

Again, we will look at the potential impact and also react to what the competition is doing, but this
is clearly a very important topic and I believe that the U.S. market is quite competitive from a – I
mean advisors are quite mobile and we need to take that into account in our thought process.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

What about move to fee based...

A - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

The move to fee based is only going to apply to the high end of the market. We've seen that in
other – I mean we see that in the UK. I don't believe that's for the – I would say, the less affluent
client base, which is our client base, the vast majority of people will be sold on fee based products.

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

Okay. Next question on this side this time. Sorry, we'll come back.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 21515144 <GO>}

Nick Holmes of Société Gén. A couple of questions this time on the P&C business. Firstly, your
target combined ratio of 96%, wondered if you could give us a little bit of color as to what you
think the environment will permit you to target going forward, I'm sorry, to be more direct, can you
beat 96% going forward?
And then second question sort of related is on the Turkish experience, how does this influence
your plans to expand in new markets, particularly direct, I think Asia direct P&C is a big focus for
you. Does the Turkish experience make you think that it's more difficult to do that? Thank you.

A - Gérald Harlin
I would say on the first question be a little bit patient and wait for June. There are a number of
markets where we are below 96%. One of the reasons for which we are still at this level is also that
in a number of companies we are still in the development mode on the direct side, which over
time should see improving combined ratios. On the Turkish experience, I would go beyond that. I
mean, we've had some disappointing experiences in Eastern Europe as an example. I think one of
the issues each and every business is faced to with emerging countries is that the BRICs and the
MINTs, all these emerging countries, they are now faced to is sort of simplistic sailing which is poor
quality of their public governance.
And yes, it's a concern, but it goes with the risk premium. We know that we have to accept a
certain degree of risk, we are there for the long-term. When you look at the Turkish economy
beyond Mr. Erdogan, it remains one of the vastly populated markets of the region. It remains a very
strong economy. Yes, you will have phases where there as well as in other markets you will see
adverse regulation, adverse governments, bad surprises, but in the long-term, I think it's still worth
doing things there, because if you don't do that, the risk you take middle term is to catch yourself



FINAL

from the most rapid emerging consumer class, which you want to target. It's not as if the middle
affluent, middle class was growing by tens of millions in the mature countries. We know that there
is a challenge in the mature countries, the place where wealth is going to be created even if there
are going to be ups and downs on the trend, remains the emerging world. So we have to target
very selectively what we want to do and if you look at what we've been doing, we've been
selecting the large markets. We have to accept the fact that you'll have some bad surprises, fine,
but I think it's also a trick in the long run because you build the brand, you build the client base and
over time things are probably going to normalize.

A - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

And may be a few additional points, I mean if we look at it from the inside in terms of the lessons
that we've got from what happened in Mexico last year with a big hurricane and what happened in
Turkey repeatedly, I think we've taken a number of lessons for the way we manage our portfolios.
Reserving sophistication, claims management sophistication, pricing sophistication, more
diversification of the book, less motor exposure and more mix – a better mix of motor and
commercial lines and reinsurance, we've lowered our – the trigger points of our insurance
compared to what we do in mature markets, because we realize that we don't have an as
sophisticated understanding of each of our exposures.

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, I mean the place where populist is taking place, because that regulation is most of the time
coming from populism. It's more retail lines than commercial lines, which leads us to think that I
mean if there is an area where you want to develop faster, it's probably commercial lines going
forward. Next question?

Q - Ralph Hebgen

{BIO 6297020 <GO>}

Hi, thank you. This is Ralph Hebgen from KBW. Two things, one relates to the VA reserve increase
because I also noticed that you announced another buyback program in the U.S., and I was just
wondering whether we could explore to which extent that reserve increase may have been related
to the anticipated change in policyholder behavior, which you sort of perhaps yourself created
through announcing the buyback. The buyback itself will certainly change that and have an effect on
lapse rate.
And the second one that was such a complicated question, forgot my second one. The second
one relates to the volatility adjustment and the Solvency II ratio. This is also quite technical, but are
there – to make it simple, are there any limits to which you could, you can make applicable the
dynamic volatility adjustment in at the time of heightened market volatility? Is there basically a limit
beyond which you will not be able to neutralize the impact of increasing spreads? Thank you.

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

Denis, you want to take this first and Gérald the second?

A - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

I'll take the first question on the U.S. In a sense you are right, I mean I mention the relation between
the buybacks and the reserve increases linked to a changing policyholder behavior. The buybacks
in themselves have triggered lower lapses. And I would say the buyback that we are – that is
currently taking place has a much more limited impact in terms of take up. The previous ones had
the take up of roughly 12% – slightly more than 12%. This one will have a probably an impact of
roughly – something like – take up of something like 4%. So the reserve adjustments are more a
function of the previous buybacks and there are a function of this one which is much more limited
in its impact. But clearly we have taken the opportunity of the buyback which are, a good guide if
you want by adjusting the reserves taking into account our current experience in terms of our
policyholder behavior.



A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

Gérald, and the volatility. The absorption.

FINAL

A - Gérald Harlin
Yes, first of all I remind you that we have a low sensitivity to corporate spread, for one reason
which is mainly the fact that the volatility adjuster is done for all countries, so it's an average of
different company in Europe and we have a percentage of sovereign bonds which is higher than
the model portfolio. To answer that, to your question, the volatility adjuster has been done and has
been created at the demand of whole industry just in order to offset this movement. Why, because
it's not because of course if the corporate spreads widening would mean or anticipate any kind of
defaults and the default would be your accounts, but so long as it's just a matter of volatility on a
mark-to-market basis, it will be offset and it will offset and the objective is really to adjust the
discount rate used to discount your liabilities. So, I don't think so and look at the time we should
think about Solvency II is the structure of implementation.
There is no real intent to change it and keep in mind that you have plenty of companies today who
are using the transitionals because they didn't move to Solvency II, so first apply. It would be
important to be sure that all the companies move to Solvency II and next to think about any kind of
tradition, but to be clear for the time being, there is no sign of any kind of revision as far as the
volatility adjuster is concerned, it's part of our internal model, it's been very .

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, whoever on this side.

Q - Fahad U. Changazi

{BIO 15216120 <GO>}

It's Fahad Changazi from Nomura. Could I just ask a question on big data and technology, everyone
is doing it. And sorry to be provocative but – should we be taking this seriously and what kind of
metrics or indicators are you looking at that will leave some tangible gains later on or are you just
wanted to standstill. And the second question on commercial, I don't want to preempt the June
Investor Day, but UK commercial still remains very competitive and also less commercial. Just talk
about general market conditions and has there any impact from Zurich's troubles? Thanks.

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

On UK commercial, since Paul is here, I'll just asking him to briefly comment and the very
remarkable performance we've had over the last five years and the reasons for which we think that
we are in a fairly good position going forward.

A - Paul Evans

{BIO 20793138 <GO>}

Sort of rates are changing in commercial, I think we saw an overall rate movement of around minus
1% in UK SME segment last year. But it's still possible to get growth, growth through being close to
brokers, growth through being more digital in our engagement with both our customers and with
our brokers. Over the past five years in the commercial segment, we've grown by about 8%
compound each year and that's comes through very real, tangible growth i.e. more customers
through more brokers. I think that is sustainable going forward. You ask if the Zurich situation would
create any change in the rating environment, quite honestly, I don't believe so, I think there is a
general pruning that will go on already in the larger risk segment of the market not really in the
SME segment.
But will that in its own right address what is a sharp softening in the larger segment? I don't think
so, that's more structural, that's hedge fund capital coming in, I think it's going to take a much
bigger shock to address that. But I think we can have a degree of optimism actually that in a
mature market like the UK that we've grown by 7% in this past year that we can maintain growth,



not by being cheaper but actually by being better for our customers, our brokers, I think we've
demonstrated that over the past year.

FINAL

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

On big data, of course, you should take that extremely seriously, why so because in insurance,
underwriting and customer understanding is all about capturing data points, which are enabling you
to map what the risk is. And to map it not only on the historical basis as we did it in the past, but
sometimes on the dynamic basis. So the ability to accumulate more information and sometimes to
have this information real-time is going to very, very profoundly change the underwriting, meaning
the risk selection, the pricing, the prevention and I am convinced that over five to 10 years the
value added of the business is going to move from efficient claim settlement to efficient
prevention, so it's going to change a number of things. I'll give you very, very simple example.

Bloomberg Transcript

One of our issues in the French business was to have 360 customers understanding, because a
group is as you all know the result of an impalement of acquisitions and we had in France 17
different databases. What we've been doing with some external help in mapping the, I would say,
the customer on trying to get to 360, thanks to big data has enabled us to understand way better
who were our customers, what was the connection between them, by the way, has helped us to
identify a significant number of orphan clients and you know that orphans clients can be an issue
from a regulatory standpoint, so it's becoming real. It's not because it's real, but it's not going to
be gradual, but it's really becoming real.
I mean in large risks you'll have a lot of things going on. Because in sophisticated machines when
you'll have chips on the machines you will be able to detect much earlier what are the risks of
disruption of, I mean, breakup. And therefore if you do it properly and if you have your customers
accept to share some of the data with you, you'll be in a position to price better, to minimize the, I
mean, to minimize the level of the claims. So, I would take it, we take it, extremely seriously. If not,
we wouldn't be making the investments we've been making. Andrew?

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Good afternoon, it's Andrew Crean, Autonomous. Three questions, firstly, you're...

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

I think that everybody has three questions this afternoon, so...

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

It's quite a big company.

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

That's why we are three.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

On the impairments which was €278 million last year, could you split that between fixed interest
and other, and say whether you think given the market turbulence this year that you can still stay
within the €300 million to €500 million realized gains target.
Secondly, you always create this figure on the Life side of your Life portfolio yields 3.6% and I think
the guarantees are 2% and therefore the spread is protected, but those averages always hide
potential rocks just sitting slightly below the surface which we can't see. I wonder whether you
could give us some sense and projection maybe not now as to whether you can really genuinely
maintain that spread or whether there are rocks which may upset it. And then thirdly, I mean we've
had [RDR] in the UK, they are likely scheduled to come in the U.S. through DOL. We have got a



similar thing running through MiFID II in Europe coming up, how do you see that impacting your
business?

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Gérald, do you want to answer on the impairments and on the....

A - Gérald Harlin
Let's say that the impairment is mostly on equities and we had almost no impairment on fixed
interest. About your second question which is...

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

.

A - Gérald Harlin

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes, I could say that the – today if you see, if you have a look at our document, we said that the
unmet, unrealized gains on the equity portfolio was €1.7 billion, i.e. €1.7 billion after tax and after PB,
meaning that if I update this portfolio under today's condition, just like the way we did it for the
Solvency, we would be slightly above €1 billion, so which is a good outcome, why, because we were
not almost, not invested in banks and in oil, which means that our portfolio behaved quite well. So
we have presently a bit more than €1 billion of unrealized capital gains and of the present
condition, as a conclusion, we could say that, yes, we maintain the €300 billion to €500 billion, of
course I cannot say what will be the evolution of the market, but as of today's condition, yes.

A - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

On the second question, on the investment spreads, as you know, we disclosed not only the fact
that we had 79 basis points this year against 80 basis points last year and we have as you said the
2% guaranteed rate and the 0.5% guaranteed rate on the new business and the 3.6% and the 2.1%
and current yield and the yield of the new investments. We also disclosed on page B-65 the
situation for the main countries, the main geographies and you can see on that page that we are
closer – I mean the spread is much tighter in countries like Germany. Having said that, we are still
considered for that, for 2016 we should be able to remain within that 70 basis points to 80 basis
points. If rates continue to stay very low for longer, we would probably have a gradual compression
of a few basis points each year, but our projections five years out are still quite decent. So, we
don't expect to hit a wall in that space. Your last question is on....

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

.

A - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

We'll take about that later, in June.

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

Gérald, you want to take the last question.

A - Gérald Harlin
And last question was is there anything like the DOL happening in Europe? I mean, with MiFID II,
with – we believe it will not be massive and nothing like the DOL in a sense that in the – the EU
regulation is not prohibiting upfront commissions, I mean we have the UK obviously a situation but
apart from the UK, I don't believe that upfront commissions will be disallowed. And there is going
to be because of the low interest rate environment a pressure on margins both on the Asset
Management side and on the Life side, which we have to continue to address with expense



efficiencies. And the one thing that we've said over the one or two years ago was that we would
have another expense efficiency program as part of our next plan. But we don't see DOL-like
situation coming up in Europe.

FINAL

A - Paul Evans

{BIO 20793138 <GO>}

And early on, I mean we all know that there is a pressure in favor of the consumer, that's natural. If
you want to see it in a negative way you say it's about business. If you want to create an
opportunity with that vertically due to – is to invest more in compliance to protect yourself from
risks, which I think we've done pretty efficiently so far. And if you look in the middle to long term, I
would say the more stringent regulations are the higher the obstacle to small to middle-sized
companies, which are not going to have the means to invest in the proper systems, I mean the – I
would say the proper compliance. So for us, it's not the end of the day necessarily negative.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Thanks. Peter Eliot from Kepler Cheuvreux. I was wondering if you could give us some update on
your Inforce Management, you gave us a very good presentation at the end of 2014 when you said
you've gone to 10% the way through the books, there was a lot more you could do in 2015 and you
are targeting I think €400 million to underlying earnings from that, so just wondering if we can have
an update and perhaps if there is anything more we can expect there?

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good, Gérald is a great fan of Inforce Management.

A - Gérald Harlin
No, I would say that for sure we are on track and we are moving forward on this Inforce
Management. I take this opportunity to say that the Inforce Management is quite important for
products which are extremely capital-consuming and that's the way we presented it and we will do
the plans that we presented to you. What is important to understand as well is that progressively
we will move as well to – with Solvency II and with the emergence of Solvency II to capital-light type
of products and by this I mean capital products where, for example, you don't have every year a
kind of guarantee, but a guarantee in fee after seven years, after eight years. Which is relatively –
which has a relatively good profitability end of Solvency II, so progressively we can imagine also to
replace some of the old products by this generation of products in an environment where you
cannot imagine to sell exclusively Unit-Linked products.

Q - Peter D. Eliot

{BIO 7556214 <GO>}

Can I just follow-up very quickly, I mean some of that is sort of medium to longer term, but I guess
given your comments on the capital intensive, I guess, sort of looking at the progress in the G/A
Savings results here and just wondering what we can expect in the nearer term?

A - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

On G/A Savings and you have appendices on this that we could comment. So that means that on
the G/A Savings, we have a contribution which is slightly negative in terms of earnings, so we
decreased slightly the G/A Savings contribution. We can go to the – maybe that we have – you can
go to the appendices at the beginning on page B-20, no, let's go to B-32. And on page B-32, this
explains the margin on G/A Savings and you can see that on a pre-tax underlined earnings basis,
we dropped by – we had a drop of €38 million, more or less it was the same last year.
And you can notice that it's mostly due to the erosion of the investment margin, which was minus
€35 million. So, we could say that margin revenues and the technical margin, it's a wash, but it's
mostly the investment margin which is going down and this is strictly in line with you know, and if
you take the APEs, the APE was minus 7% so that's also something which is quite that we can



expect except the development – the potential development of this new capital light type of
product.

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

FINAL

Good. Still one question in the front.

Q - Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

You mentioned you sold two big buildings in New York?

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

Yeah.

Q - Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

And it's a big gain right, so €1 billion is a huge amount of money.

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

What are we going to do with the money?

Q - Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Yeah, exactly.

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

One, we'll pay you.

A - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

We'll bring it back.

Q - Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

Can it be used for the dividend?

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

One thing at a time, Michael.
Be sure we are conscious of the fact that this represents – Okay, very good. There are no
questions – there is one additional question in the back.

A - Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

Sorry, this is the question from the web if everyone is done in the room, if it's okay. It's from Pierre
Chédeville at CMCIC and he asks, how do you respond to higher competition coming from banks
in the protection and health business in France and have you lost market share?

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

No, I don't think we have been clear that the banks which are struggling because of the, I'd say the
situation in terms of interest rates, they are trying to generate more revenues from other activities.
Well, it's something we have been knowing for long. If you look at what we've been doing, I don't
think we have lost market share. If you look at the health market as an example, we have lost
through the last evolution of the regulation in France, some individual clients, but we have gained



good clients through a new reform. So, I mean it's a fact that banks are trying to do more. I don't
think we are unnecessarily victims of it on the contrary, I would just...

A - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

FINAL

If I may add on this, first the fact that banks are very present in the Life markets in France...

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

Is not huge.

A - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

They have had for many years more than 60% market share on the French Life market. On the
Protection side, 2015 was extremely successful for AXA France and you may have noticed that
there was a change in regulation that we have done in several steps for mortgage insurance
where the banks essentially were doing a tight sale and now they have to tell their customers that
they have a choice to take the mortgage insurance from a different provider. So, overall our
Protection sales have a very good future in France and 2015 was already very successful.

A - Henri de Castries

{BIO 1439683 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Another question coming from the web, no it was the only one, very good. So I think on this happy
note we are going to conclude. I mean the food industry is trying to take salt and thyme oil out
their products. We are trying to take coal out of our investments and capital out of our new
products. Happy afternoon. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of any kind.
Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your personal, noncommercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have no liability for errors
in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or
punitive damages in connection with the furnishing, performance or use of such transcript.
Neither the information nor any opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of
the purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does
not necessarily reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

