Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

Investor Day
Company Participants
FINAL

Amanda Blanc
Andrew Wallace-Barnett
Antoine Denoix
Benoît Claveranne
Damien Vincent Marmion
Dawn Miller
Denis Pierre Marie Duverne
Etienne Bouas - Laurent
Gaëlle Olivier
Gérald Harlin
Jacques de Peretti
Jean-Louis Laurent Josi
Jérôme Droesch
Karima Silvent
Matthieu André
Nick Lane

Bloomberg Transcript

Paul Evans
Thomas Buberl
Todd Solash
Unveriﬁed Participant
Véronique Weill
Xavier Veyry

Other Participants
Andrew J. Crean
Blair Stewart
James A. Shuck
Jon M. Hocking
Mark David Cathcart
Nick Holmes
Nicolas Mora
Oliver George Nigel Steel

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Page 1 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

FINAL

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to AXA's Investor Day. Thank you
very much for those of you who came from the UK and who are brave enough to cross the
channel at the time of the football matches and the French strike. So we're really grateful
to you for that.
I'm going to kick oﬀ this day, and Thomas Buberl, the incoming CEO of AXA, will follow
me, and I'll start with a brief introduction looking back at Ambition AXA. You will recall
that our strategy was about three strategic priorities, selectivity in mature markets,
acceleration in high-growth markets, and eﬃciency everywhere.
The selectivity piece was both about improving the proﬁtability of our existing business
and about redeploying capital across the group selling €9 billion of businesses in mature
markets, underperforming businesses, and buying €5.5 billion, 90% of that's in high
growth market. The acceleration piece was about both organic and inorganic
developments in emerging markets, and eﬃciency, we delivered as you will recall, €1.9 of
cost eﬃciencies.

Bloomberg Transcript

With that program, we delivered on all key performance indicators. Underlying earnings
per share grew by 7% per annum. We ended 2015 with Solvency II capital of adequacy of
more than 205%. We generated more than €25 billion of cash. Our dividend growth was
quite strong. We have now much stronger emerging market footprints, which will present
roughly 17% of our new business and roughly 18% of our revenues in P&C.
We have had for the seventh year running the number one insurance brand globally. We
have started our digital journey and we are well in our way in the digital transformation of
the company. We are quite resilient to low interest rates, and I've demonstrated that
throughout the periods. We anticipated rising rates, we were capable of facing declining
rates, while improving our proﬁtability. And as a result of that, (02:33) stock has declined
and our stock has improved over the ﬁve years.
Having said that, we are faced with a few challenges, as you can imagine and also
opportunities for the next phase. We believe that we have demonstrated a strong
resilience, which provides us a strong base to go forward. The ﬁrst challenge that we are
facing is top-line growth. In the last ﬁve years, as we put proﬁtability as the main objective,
this has led to some respect to slower growth and this is clearly a challenge that we are
facing now.
Customer focus has been a constant theme during those ﬁve years, but we are not there
yet and we need to leverage the new capabilities that we have gained in the more digital
world to be much more customer focused.
And ﬁnally, on the technical margin fronts, we are reasonably good since our margin are
quite strong, but we still have some way to go. If we achieve those three objectives, we
will be a company which will achieve a higher PE and I'm sure, that all of you would like to
see that happening.
Page 2 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

With that, I'd like now to hand over to Thomas, who is taking the charge, following Henri
as the CEO. Thomas, over to you. Thank you, very much.

FINAL

Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you, very much Denis. Thank you very much good morning. I'm extremely honored
to be in front of you today and to present the new ﬁve year plan to you. When I joined the
insurance industry, many, many years ago, people said to me, what do you want in this
industry? It's a dusty industry, but they were wrong.
Over the time, I discovered that, this industry is a great industry, because it is about
helping people, it's about making a diﬀerence and really being there, when people need
us to be there. I've decided for myself, this is a great purpose which is very much aligned
with me and I want to contribute.

Bloomberg Transcript

And when I had the chance in the last couple of months to revisit 15 countries of AXA, I
saw this feeling everywhere. People were extremely energized, people were extremely
willing to make a diﬀerence and I'm really glad to be here today with my teams the new
management committee, but also with quite a few operational managers from AXA
because we believe that, showing you the people who are working on the things,
showing you concrete examples is the best we can do.
This new team is a very particular team, it's a team that has been recruited internally,
which shows that, we have a very deep talent pool. It's a team that has a very mixed
experience of being long-termers of the last phase, but also young people international
people that's together with that mix, will lead us into the future. I am in the middle of it,
having already been in the last phase and still young enough to help to transform our
industry and AXA into the future.
If we look at the context where we are, we have an excellent starting point. (06:07) have
shown that we have a great track record based on Ambition AXA that we have resilient
balance sheet and we have a great earnings capacity. If we look forward, our context, our
environments will be as challenging as it used to be as we see things that will drive our
way forward.
The ﬁrst one is clearly about low interest rates. A couple of years ago, we've been thinking
this is a temporary phenomenon. We now know this is the new norm. How are we going
to react and change our business model to it. The second big driver we see is on growth.
The old equation emerging markets equals growth, mature markets means no growth is
not true anymore. We need to be selective about growth and need to see where do we
have the capabilities to grow and how can we copy paste what we've done well in one
country to other countries.
And the third change of that fee is really on the customer front. Customers are now used
to buying things at Amazon to interacting with Google and Facebook, they are
demanding the same from us and as you can imagine, buying an insurance policy at AXA
is not yet quite as buying a book at Amazon.
Page 3 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

What we also see is that customers really want us to play a diﬀerent role. They don't only
want us to pay bills, they want us to become their partner in their life. And therefore, our
program for the next ﬁve years focuses on two big things, focus and transform. Focus,
how do we address the lower rates? How do we address selective growths, transform,
how do we address the new customer demands, how do we become from a payer to a
partner?
I'm extremely proud of what we have achieved in the last phase. And this gives a good
basis for us to do more of the same. Focus means increasing the operational
performance. We are looking at four big drivers. The ﬁrst one is selective growth. How can
we copy best practices from one market to other markets? Being selective means, we look
at very few things. We will be looking at commercial lines, we will be looking at life
insurance leveraging our asset management. We will be looking at Asia.

Bloomberg Transcript

Second thing, reducing costs. We've successfully reduced costs by €1.9 billion in the last
phase of Ambition AXA. We will do another €2.1 billion in the next phase until 2020. Third
issue is around improving technical margins. We still have a way to go. We have been
successfully operating with smart data. We will now deploy this across more countries in
order to gain eﬃciency and improve our margins and also be able to have some margin if
markets, particularly on the commercial line side turn in the starting cycle.
The fourth piece is about capital management. We're in a new world of Solvency II. We
can improve our capital management to upstream more. These expected results of focus
will be clearly that we can grow earnings despite the headwinds we have from low
growth, from low interest rates. We'll do more and we will really compensate that, so that
we will end up at an earnings per share growth between 3% and 7%.
Why 3% to 7%? Because we clearly need to diﬀerentiate what is in our hands, gross cross
capital, but also what is not in our hands, foreign exchange, equities and interest rates.
And depending on which scenario we look at, we end at 3% to 7%. Bearing in mind that
we still have ﬂexibility on the pay-out ratio since we're at the lower end, we're well
positioned to increase the dividends over the next year.
(10:45) transform. Transform means clearly how do we get into a diﬀerent relationship with
our customers. In the last phase of Ambition AXA, we have invested heavily in the
question how do we become more digital, how do we get more advanced. And if you
look on the competitive spectrum, we're today very advanced in digital. We want to
leverage these investments in the next phase and really see how can we transform
ourselves, how do we become from a payer to a partner. Customers want more from us
than just paying bills. They want us to accompany them, they want us to be easy with
them and they want us to help reducing their risks. This aligns our interest and their
interest and creates a win-win.
We need to go this journey. We really want to become this partner of the customer. How
will we deliver? First, we need to change the customer experience. Today, the customer
experience often a direct channel and an agent and often these are in competition. We
need to create one seamless customer experience that is hybrid, that is easy, that is fast.

Page 4 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

The second thing is, in order to accompany the customer, we need to enlarge our
business model, we need to oﬀer additional services, be it prevention, be it care
coordination in order really to accompany the customer and have a very diﬀerent
relationship, a more intense relationship with our customers.
In order to change our business model, we also need to change ourselves because
tomorrow customers might be interacting with us not by telephone, but by Facebook
Messenger. We need to take our own colleagues on this journey. We need to upskill the
people that we have. We need to recruit new talents in order to really address the new
demands of this business model.

Bloomberg Transcript

These are the important issues around transform and if you look at the governance that
we have put in place as of 1st of July, it's perfectly aligned with the question, how do we
transform our business model? The new governance is about transformation, is about
customer orientation at the highest level, but it's also about innovation. When you see
transformation today, you would see, it's the ﬁrst step of many steps to follow. I am today
on day minus 70 of my new job. So going on, working myself in, we will continue the
dialog on transform because it's a journey that we have started, but it's a journey that will
be not be ﬁnished tomorrow, because it's a journey that is part of a larger vision that I
have for AXA. My personal dream is really that in 15 years, in 20 years, AXA is signiﬁcantly
contributing to reducing chronic diseases to really helping people having dignity in their
retirement. In order to achieve that, we really need to help and engage our customers to
way that we really empower our people to live a better life.
This is personally a unique opportunity for us being well positioned and really taking the
opportunity of tomorrow from becoming a payer to a partner. This also means, we will
engage the entire AXA staﬀ to come with us on the journey and coming back to my 15
country visits, I have sensed a great energy, a great desire to really go together on this
journey.
As a conclusion, we have shown a great track record, we have a great staﬃng point to go
into the next phase. The next phase is about focus and transform. Focus, how can we
really improve the operations in order to over-compensate the headwinds in the market.
Transform, how can we shift our business model from a payer to a partner. I'm extremely
excited to go on this journey together with a great, with a young with a dynamic
management team. And we will deliver, we will show you that we are going this way
based on a great operation, a great stuﬀ, a great team that we have. Thank you very much.
Enjoy the day, and I'll hand it over to Andrew.

Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

So, thank you, Thomas. And I'm going to explain to you a bit program that we have today.
And in setting up the program today, we have two key objectives. The ﬁrst one is to
illustrate with the series of examples from the business of what we mean exactly by focus
and transform. The second objective today is to introduce you to a large number of the
new management team and senior leaders. So, we have a large number of topics, a lot of
examples, quite a lot of people, so be warned it's going to be quite a ride for the next
couple of hours. We call it a little bit IR Day meets speed dating.
Page 5 of 72



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

So, what are we going to do exactly for focus, as Thomas just said, focus is about the steps
we take immediately to support our target to grow earnings and dividend despite the
macro headwinds, that's what focus is about. And there are three parts of that; selective
growth; eﬃciencies and margin improvement; capital and cash. So, the ﬁrst section, we're
going to talk to you about the selective growth, and we're just going to use three
examples and they're not exhaustive, three examples the capital light savings business in
mature markets, P&C commercial lines, and our Asian growth story. So, they are three
examples that we'll cover. We'll then take Q&A on both Thomas' speech and those pieces
and we'll take a break. After that, we'll come back with transform. And remember,
transform is how we will go into our new business model. And there are three aspects to
that as Thomas said, a new customer experience from payer to partner and adapting our
capabilities.
And the three examples, again, non-exhaustive, but the three examples that we'd like to
use to explain that today, for new customer experience, we'd like to talk to you about our
vision for the future of retail business. We're going to then talk about the health business
as an example, a very good example of what it means when we say payer to partner. And
then, for adapt capabilities we'd like to take you through and explain some analysis that
we've done on what we believe to be the evolution of our workforce going forwards.

Bloomberg Transcript

Then we'll take Q&A and we'll do a second part on focus, and hopefully you'll still be
awake, and at that point, we'd like to go back to focus, which is remember about selective
growth but also about eﬃciencies and margin improvement, capital and cash, and we'd
like to talk to you about how we see smart data improving the technical margin over the
planned period.
And then we'd like to give you an update on our in-force management program, and then
in his own masterful way, Gerald will come and explain how all these pieces ﬁt together
and contribute to the ﬁnancials of the plan. And that's where the whole day comes
together. So, the Q&A at the end of all of those sessions, what we would ask is that, you
ask questions related to the section that the Q&A belongs to, so ﬁnance questions need
to wait till the end. So, try and keep your questions linked to those parts.
So, it's a bit of a journey, it's a bit of a ride, a lot of speakers, a lot of topics and to kick this
oﬀ, I'd like to welcome to the stage Paul Evans and Nick Lane.

Paul Evans

{BIO 20793138 <GO>}

So, good morning everybody. My name is Paul Evans, and this is Nick Lane. Our objective
this morning is to share with you our conviction that AXA can drive powerful growth in
savings in mature markets despite the low-yield environment.
Now to do that, I'm going to share with you our thoughts on the key drivers to market
growth in mature markets. And then, I'm going to illustrate our conviction that we can
exceed market growth in these markets. Thanks to the pace within which we have
accelerated the transformation of our savings business over the past few years, and also,

Page 6 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

because of the strength and the breadth that we have achieved in competitive advantage
across the value chain of the components of our markets.
Now, if we turn ﬁrst to our markets and the key drivers of growth, we believe that in
mature markets, this proﬁtable growth can be sustained over the coming ﬁve years. Why
so? And why so because – why so despite low interest rates, and perhaps because of the
level of interest rates; why so, because, we fundamentally believe that over the past few
years, the amounts that one has to have accumulated to acquire the income that you'll
need for a digniﬁed retirement has grown substantially. In the time between Bill Clinton
retiring as President and Obama retiring towards the end of this year, the amount that
Obama has had to save to purchase the same income in retirement has more than
doubled. Now, I don't think we need to worry too much for the dignity of Obama's
retirement. But the society at large, if you're able to save, you're going to have to save
much more and you're going to have to put those savings to work.

Bloomberg Transcript

So, rather than purchase a guaranteed product perhaps yielding just 50 basis points,
you're going to need to take the upside investment markets. You're going to need just
fully embrace Unit-Linked saving solutions potentially, but varying degrees of downside
protection. But here of course, AXA's interests are fully aligned. While traditional, fully
guaranteed products are capital consumptive at the point-of-sale, our Solvency II
presentation to you last year demonstrated that proﬁtable Unit-Linked savings products,
hybrid products and the newly-designed general account products are capital accretive at
the point-of-sale, products that we termed capital-light.
So, whilst our customers need to take the upside potential of investment markets, we can
deliver those products whilst at the same time, shifting the orientation of our business
towards capital accretive solutions. And we believe therefore, the markets will grow,
because our customers fundamentally need to save more, but though grow in the areas
of capital-light products, because our customers need the upside potential in investment
markets. And there our interests aligned in the sense that we will be creating capital than
rather consuming capital during that time.
So why do I believe that we have the opportunity to exceed market growth in those
conditions? Firstly, because fundamentally, we are so far ahead of our competitors in the
transformation of our savings business, and in particular, the transformation of our new
business mix. Thanks to our focus in the past ﬁve years on capital-light products, we have
grown Unit-Linked sales over that ﬁve-year period by compound rate of 9%. We're also at
the same time focusing on improving the margins of our general account business and
reducing its capital consumption and allowing sales there to drop back by 9% a year, was
improving our margins by 13 points.
Now, that transformation has led us to a position where just 5% of our IPE in 2015 is in the
traditional general account area which is capital consumptive. And I believe therefore, the
transformation of our new business mix towards products which oﬀer the customer the
potential of upside was being capital accretive to AXA is complete.

Page 7 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

Whilst in contrast for many of our competitors, that journey is just now commencing. And
during that time, of course, in most of our mature markets, the U.S. aside, our customers
remained resolutely focused on wanting a guaranteed return. But not only because many
competitors have enhanced the yields oﬀered on general account by realizing gains in
(25:19) books.
So those gains are going to be exhausted. Those yields on general account are going to
continue to fall, and therefore customer behaviors are going to change, changed rules,
investing in solutions, which oﬀer the upside potential investment markets. And there, we
are ready, transformation completed, to accelerate the growth and deliver products to our
customers.
The other end, during that time of the past ﬁve years of creating that transformation,
we've learnt a great number of lessons about how to design and to distribute supplement
products. And Nick's going to bring that to life in a moment with a number of illustrations
how we done that in Japan, in France and in the U.S.

Bloomberg Transcript

But, one of the main learnings that we've made over the past ﬁve years is that you need
strength in the breadth (26:06) across the value chain, if you're going to best optimize the
mix and the margin of your new business in mature markets.
Now, I'll tell you the various components of the value chain here, it's obvious that AXA's
brand is the market leader in this segment. And therefore, it is the most recognized and
the most trusted brand, and therefore can most eﬃciently acquire customers, which can
be directed to our core competitive advantage in this segment, which is our proprietary
agents; 25,000 proprietary agents willing and able to give advice to our customers. One
such an advantage, but in contrast, general account products, guaranteed products are
sold. They're sold on a commitment to return the capital invested and a minimum return,
it's much like a bank account.
In contrast, solutions which provide upside potential to investment markets have to be
advised. You have to advise the customer to put those savings at risk; advise them on the
funds they might choose to invest in; advise them on the degree of downside protection.
And it's thanks to our 25,000 agents that we are so far ahead in the transformation of our
book. Thanks to the training we've given them. Thanks to the (27:30) them. Thanks to the
great products that we've oﬀered to enable them to bring great products to our
customers. But the three core elements of those products, again, are linked to the value
chain and our strength in that chain.
But prior to investment solutions, AXA's investor managers, AllianceBernstein are able to
deliver great retail funds to our customers, which allow us to bring better value for money,
was also capturing a greater share of the margin. These funds are sourced and packaged
by our multi-manager businesses, (28:07) in Europe, FMG in the U.S., to deliver outcomeorientated funds or risk-rated funds, funds which our advisors and our customers can
better understand in terms of expected returns and volatility.

Page 8 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

And those fund solutions are than packaged with longevity, mortality, downside
investment protections to meet the risk appetites of our customers and the market
conditions and the prevailing regulations in each of our markets.
That has been supplemented with tools we are delivering to create a multi-channel aftersales experience. And after-sales experience engages our customers to ensure that they
are regularly updated on the performance of their funds during a particular period of
volatility, because in the past, savings was almost a far and forget industry. The synergy
move into investment in solutions, you have to keep your customer engaged, and a multichannel experience will do that, but not only that if a right opportunity to further up-sell
and cross-sell and it will dramatically reduce the cost of serving our customers. Thanks to
the Digital Solutions.
That is enough of the theory. I want to pass that to Nick, who'll bring that to life with the
help of illustrations, while I come back and bring it together in terms of the numbers.
Nick?

Nick Lane

{BIO 16392572 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Great. Thanks, Paul. Listening to Paul, it's clear people are facing retirement crisis. They're
living longer and they're not saving enough and the old rules don't apply. And I'm hoping
in the next couple of minutes I can crystallize for you how we're both driving proﬁtable
growth, but more importantly helping our clients achieve dignity in retirement and
empowerment through ﬁnancial literacy.
Now, when I imagine the global retirement markets, I think of a global garden. The core
ingredients for success are the same, but how they manifest themselves in local climates
is slightly diﬀerent. A good gardener can grow (30:05) in Britain, dates in Dubai or
peonies in Paris. And the three examples I'm going to cover for you here represent
distinct ecosystems.
AXA U.S. leading in a deﬁned contribution landscape. AXA France transforming in a
historic general account and state-backed pension system. And AXA Japan, pioneering in
new frontiers.
So, let's go to AXA U.S. On the left-hand side of the screen, you will see our ﬁnancial track
record. Today over 90% of our business in the U.S. is unit linked. And over the last ﬁve
years, we've grown new business volumes by almost 80% and new business value by
close to 300%, while at the same time reducing the capital strain and tail risk of our
products by over 30%.
Now, how are we doing that and where are we focusing to accelerate? You can see the
core programmatic ingredients that Paul mentioned before. And this is where we're
looking to better partner with our clients. Now to make it come to life, I want to use the
story of Susan Smith, a 54-year old divorcee. Like 80% of Americans, she had investment
convictions, but was looking for advice and validation to help her secure her retirement
plan.
Page 9 of 72



Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

Now, Susan's story with AXA actually started with Allstate, one of our aﬃliated third-party
distributors and her advisor, George, was excited to show her AXA's new retirement
products, and iPad illustration system. And Susan, after sitting down with George realized
she could better secure her retirement by investing in a structured capital strategies
product, a tax buﬀered note that oﬀered her 10% upside to the market with 10% downside
guaranteed protection. So, what's the point? What's the key diﬀerentiation? The key is
we've taken our products or interfaces in our stories that were homegrown in our
proprietary AXA advisor greenhouses and replicated those through third-party
distribution.
And today, the P&C channel, which did not exist three years ago, represents over $1
billion in annual sales. Now, a quick note, are we expecting a heat wave from the DOL?
Our view of the current proposal is that it's much more moderate than the initial proposal.
And we would be at the lower-end of the guidance that Gérald gave this past December.
The world will add cost and complexity, but we think there are opportunities for those
companies that can navigate the terrain, and I'm sure this would be a subject that we'll
cover in detail in the Q&A.
Now, on to AXA France, once again our track record on the left-hand side. Today, over
39% of our business is unit linked, compared to a market average of 20%. And over the
last ﬁve years, we've gone from new business value margins in the single-digits to over
30% today, while, reducing our capital strain of our products by 20%. Now, where are we
looking to drive and focus our acceleration for the future? And I want you use the story of
Emily Bertrand to make it come alive for AXA France. Now Emily's journey with AXA
started with one of the great marketing campaign, Happy Hours, more retirement less
taxes online, which motivated her to sit down with her AXA advisor, her AEP advisor,
Jerald and going through the new AXA Discovery tool, jointly created, with Apple and
IBM. Emily decided she could better secure her retirement by taking advantage of the
(33:54) tax structure and investing (33:58), a hybrid, general account, unit linked structure,
who's outcome funds are powered by (34:06).
So, what's the key point, the key diﬀerentiation in this story? AXA France is taking its
leading market share position and through front-end technology-enabled advice and
backend technology enabled insights, helping clients, better secure their outcome by
investing in the markets. So, ﬁnally, AXA Japan pioneering in new frontiers.
Once again, on the left side, you can see our ﬁnancial track record. Today, almost 70% of
our business is protection and healthcare based, focusing on the retirement outcomes.
And over the last ﬁve years, margins have moved north of 100% and the capital strain and
tail risk for the products reduced by roughly 19%.
And I believe Mr. Suzuki's story is just as powerful. A craftsman from Asaka, Japan with
one daughter. Mr. Suzuki's (35:03) was growing increasingly frustrated with the low yields
he was receiving from his postal account and sitting down with his Chamber of
Commerce adviser, Mr. Tanaka (35:13) who had dutifully served him throughout the years
and going through AXA's new Compass tool to uncover his needs. He decided that in
AXA Life, variable universal life product plus catastrophic care and long-term care, would

Page 10 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

allow him to better optimize his taxes, prepare for retirement and pass on his legacy to
the next generation.
So what's the point of this story? The key point of diﬀerentiation is even in harsher
environments, we can meet the needs of our consumers by focusing on their outcomes.
So I'm hoping that my (35:50) here illustrated three points. First, demand for what we do
dignity in retirement is growing in mature markets. We have a track record of success, and
we have the core programmatic ingredients to continue accelerate going forward.
Ultimately, we're not looking to grow like weeds, but rather in a focused, disciplined
fashion that will bear fruit for both our clients and our shareholders.
And I'm now going to turn it back to Paul who's going to talk about the future harvest.

Paul Evans

{BIO 20793138 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Nick, thank you. So taking these illustrations and expanding them and exporting them to
other countries, we believe over the coming period, the coming term, we can grow our
new business value by putting 3% and 5%, whilst holding our new business mix in mature
markets at the level we achieved in 2015. The transformation is complete, and therefore,
there's no need for further rationalization.
Why so? Fundamentally, we believe markets will grow, because people need to save
more looking for (36:44) retirement. They just save more and put their savings to work,
which means that they need to have investments, which – investment opportunities, which
give us the potential to distribute capital-light products. And we can distribute these
products, thanks to the enormous transformation we've already achieved over the past
ﬁve years and thanks to the strength that Nick has just illustrated across the value chain.
Thank you very much.

Nick Lane

{BIO 16392572 <GO>}

Thank you.

Unveriﬁed Participant
And I'd now like to welcome to the stage the commercial lines team, Gaëlle, Amanda and
Dawn.
[Music] (37:16-37:28)

Gaëlle Olivier
Good morning. I am Gaëlle Olivier, in-charge of the P&C business, for the AXA Group.
Property and Casualty represents roughly one-third of the group revenues, one-third of
the group earnings, 60% in retail lines, 40% in commercial lines. Today, with my

Page 11 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

colleagues, Amanda and Dawn, we want to share our strategy to grow selectively in
commercial lines.
Commercial lines is an attractive market, with a good combination of growth and
proﬁtability. AXA is always a solid player, and we believe that we are well-positioned to
grow proﬁtably and aﬀect (38:21) the pricing cycle. Thanks to our multi-distribution
strategy, solid technical skills and more than 500 risk engineers to develop prevention
capabilities, and our geographic and business diversiﬁcation.
Today, we want to share with you how we are going to grow selectively on both SME and
mid-market strategy.
Let me hand over to Amanda Blanc, the CEO of our UK and Ireland operations.

Amanda Blanc

{BIO 19138679 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Gaëlle. Okay. Morning, everyone. So over the last 12 months, we've spent a
great deal of time developing a new commercial lines strategy and that is segmented
according to customers. So for SME that is those with employees up to 50 number, we
have one strategy and for mid-market, another strategy. Dawn will talk to you about midmarket, and I would like to focus on SME.
So SMEs make up 85% of businesses worldwide, so that big number. And what they're
really looking for from the research that we've undertaken is simpliﬁcation in the products
that they sold. They know they need to buy insurance, they're just not quite sure what that
is. They're also looking for digitization, they're very retail like in their approach to buying,
and therefore, we need to make sure that we adapt our business accordingly.
Quite in contrast, mid-market is more focused on unique and tailored propositions more
advice based. So in the UK business, over the last ﬁve years, we have looked at the SME
market in great detail and we have grown our share of that SME market. One part of that
business is the UK direct business, which ﬁve years ago was the face-to-face business.
And what we've done over the last ﬁve years is transformed that business into a digital
business.
So what we wanted to do today was to take you through this business in the eyes of one
of our customers. She is a real customer. Her name is Kelly. And she is an entrepreneur
and she is a gardener and she is not really interested in insurance. What she is interested
in though is protecting her assets, protecting her employees, and she wants to really look
after her business. So she is attracted to us by our wonderful radio ads for (40:49) those of
you that have come from the UK and listen to Absolute Radio may have heard them.
And she is also attracted by our digital marketing campaign. She is very focused on her
and her needs as an entrepreneur. She goes online on her computer at home, and she
sees that actually accessing the website is very straight forward. She uses a tool called the
Business Wizard (sic) [Business Insurance Wizard] (41:10). It tells exactly what she needs as
an entrepreneur. It unbundles the products and puts in really straightforward, simple
Page 12 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

language so that she understands the cover that she needs, not the cover that we want to
sell her.

FINAL

Having decided she was going to buy the product, she goes on her iPad, because it's
easily optimized and she's able to buy the product, she's able to pay for it online, and
then, she's able to store the product online so that if she needs it at any time, she can do
that.
Now that she's an AXA customer, she's able to take advantage of all the various value
propositions that we have as AXA to oﬀer her. A tool called SimpleSocial, which allows
her to manage her social media activity, something called AXA business club (42:00),
which gives her discounts to the products and services that she needs. Business Guardian
Angel, a tool which allows her to prevent risk in her business and gives her advice on the
sort of things that she needs to think about, not just insurance related things, but things
that she needs to think about as an entrepreneur. So all of these things are real valueadded propositions.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, should she need to make a claim, she's able to do that online. She's able to notify
the claim online, she's able to track the progress of that claim online. And then, after all of
those things, she can rate us using an independent rating tool called Feefo, she's able to
give us feedback on all of the products and services that we oﬀer to her online.
As you can see these are the results in the UK. So the numbers I guess speak for
themselves. But this is not just the UK success story. These assets that I just demonstrated
to you here in the UK, yes, these are UK examples, so we have these examples all over the
AXA world. And so the real trick is now taking all of those assets and rolling them out
across the AXA world.
Using the three pillars that we show here, so whether those assets are related to
distribution, whether they're related to the value proposition or whether they're the digital
tools, we have already wrote as a (43:22) number of this in fact I just (43:25) described to
you to other AXA countries. So where we are really strong in a market, we know that we
need to diﬀerentiate to become more digital. Where we have a strong position but
perhaps not in SME, we're able to take those tools and help SME growth, and obviously,
in new territories, we're able to take all of the tools I've shown you here and deploy them
into the new territories. So this gives us great conﬁdence in our ability to deliver growth in
commercial lines, in particular, in SME.
Now, I'm going to hand over to Dawn and she is going to talk about mid-market.

Dawn Miller

{BIO 20787122 <GO>}

That's great. Thank you very much, Amanda. My name is Dawn Miller. I'm Head of
Business Development for our P&C operations globally. So we're going to move from
Kelly and over to our client Karolin. Karolin manufactures solar panels in Germany. She's
got a very, very active business. She's beneﬁted from an open-trade regime in the EU over
the last ﬁve years. She's tripled her business and now she is ready to go abroad.
Page 13 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

She is going into China, Indonesia and Colombia. This is the new territory for her and
opening up new risks. Karolin and many of her peers, who are previously SMEs moving up
into the global scale, don't have time at times to create the insurance buying or risk
management teams they need and that is where an organization like AXA, as her business
protector, can help her.
How do we do that? We do that through speaking to her in her language. We create
oﬀers, primarily around manufacturing and wholesale, as we saw in earlier slides, speciﬁc
in her language to talk about the risks and needs that she has going forward.
Think about it, when she is in Indonesia, Thailand, China, Colombia, these are new risks,
new regulatory regimes, new issues, ﬁnancial loss, areas that she's not familiar with. So
again, having AXA with her as her business protector, business partner will keep her
business solid moving forward.

Bloomberg Transcript

So also how do we communicate with our mid-market clients? What other tools and
capabilities do we have? So in Switzerland, in Germany, we underpinned our mid-market
oﬀering through an extreme area of technical expertise. Last year, in Germany alone, we
had 3,000 risk prevention visits. In fact, in Germany, as well, we accompanied 4,782 to be
precise, clients on their journeys abroad, peers of Karolin.
We also in the UK, in Turkey, in many of our other countries have mobile surveyor
applications, business interruption applications that help the clients understand and
demystify insurance and understand what their needs really are. Now, our value as AXA
also comes as our clients' needs become more sophisticated, and I don't just mean by
crossing borders as they grow, as terms of trade globally become more competitive, you
have cash ﬂow issues, you have balance sheet issues. We have a role to play in helping
our clients stay aﬂoat and stay proﬁtable, oﬀering cyber insurance, surety coverage,
marine liability, trade credit insurance, this is how we stay relevant to clients like Karolin as
they move abroad.
Let's talk a little bit about International. Over the last decade, we've seen over 50%
increase in the number of our clients in the mid-market segments going abroad. We
anticipate another 60% to cross another border in the next 18 months. I read a report last
night from HSBC that said 83% of the world's SME and mid-market clients have
international expansion as their number one priority. For us, it's the cornerstone of our
growth, retention strategy and important to stay relevant to our clients.
In 2015, the AXA Group made a signiﬁcant investment into increasing our technical
capabilities underwriting prowess in the international arena. Through nine hubs that you
see articulated here, we give access to our middle market and SME clients to our partner
network across 150 countries. This means they have one point of contact for engineering,
underwriting and claims needs all over the world.
So as you can see here the capabilities I articulated, sure, the numbers will speak for
themselves, market leadership and our leading geographies and an extreme expansion
international insurance.
Page 14 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

So let's leave Karolin for a moment, we're going to talk about our peers. How are we
dealing with the mid-market? How are we growing the space globally? I spoke with you
about trade sector diﬀerentiation, distribution sophistication is another pillar for us, all
resting on an agile operating model, that operating model for mid-market is a natural
outgrowth (48:00) of the operating model that Amanda articulated for SME in the UK.
So let's talk about distribution. Distribution actually for mid-market is a little bit
challenging. 75% of the distribution for the mid-market is articulated through third-party
intermediaries, and of course, agents. Those intermediaries are very localized. They have
individual needs, individual market characteristics, how do we cater to that? We cater to
that through a ﬂexible easy to understand, easy to digest, easy to advocate value
proposition. It's important to me that these intermediaries articulate the AXA value
proposition for Karolin and her peers before anyone else does. AXA academies,
dedicated sales team, call centers, and easy to understand educational materials are how
we move forward in this segment.

Bloomberg Transcript

So similar to the SME story, as we're pushing out globally, here, you can see in our
leading geographies we already have a number one or top ﬁve position in mid-market.
Now, it's time to industrialize what we've been able to grow from a technical capability
and underwriting prowess perspective across into geographies where we're
underrepresented and also into emerging markets so we can stay current for Karolin as
she moves abroad.
So I'm conﬁdent with these fundamentals and these foundations we will not only continue
to beat domestically in the mid-market arenas that we're in now, but we'll also continue to
beat and to drive forward on a global scale.
So from that, I'm going to pass you back over to Gaëlle to wrap up.

Gaëlle Olivier
Thank you. So as Amanda and Dawn have shown to you, we have demonstrated success
for in our SME and mid-market space. Our commercial lines strategy relies on those
customized plans that we are going to roll out across the globe. It relies on these
segmented approach towards SME and mid-market as well as all the acceleration on our
larger corporate reach (50:06).
Thanks to our multi-distribution strategy and our digital assets, thanks to our solid
technical skills and our prevention capabilities, thanks to our diversiﬁed business both in
terms of geographies and lines of business, we have a very signiﬁcant potential ahead of
us, and we are ready to roll it out globally. And this is why we plan to deliver over the next
ﬁve years, 3% to 5% compound annual growth rate in commercial lines.
Thank you for your attention. And now, I'm going to hand over to Jean-Louis for the Asian
growth story.
[Music] (50:43-50:59)
Page 15 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

Jean-Louis Laurent Josi

{BIO 16032698 <GO>}

FINAL

Good morning, everybody. My name is Jean-Louis Laurent Josi and I am in-charge of AXA
Asia.
There are actually three main messages that I'd like to share with you today. The ﬁrst one
is that in the past years, we have built in Asia proﬁtable, diversiﬁed and leading positions.
Secondly, you have now in Asia very strong fundamentals that we report, the natural
market growth of the region. However, on top of that, AXA will grow faster than the
market by focusing on speciﬁc and proven growth enablers. And the third message that
we'd like to give you is the fact that the contribution of Asia to the group earnings will
become even more important tomorrow than it is today.
So speaking about foundations, what are these? I'm sure that you remember that ﬁve
years ago, we told you that Asia will be one of the key growth areas of the group. Five
years later, what are the results? We are now active in 10 countries in Asia, and this
includes the scope of AXA Asia, plus Korea and Japan.

Bloomberg Transcript

In terms of our earnings, they increased from €580 million to close to €1 billion last year. In
2015, 43% of the NBV of the entire group has been generated in Asia. And in terms of the
customers, out of the 103 million customers of the group, 25 million are in Asia.
So if we now focus on the scope of AXA Asia, which is basically Asia, ex-Japan and exKorea, the picture is even more impressive. First, in the past ﬁve years, we have more than
doubled our earnings reaching €551 million last year and showing the CAGR of 17%.
We're now active in eight countries. We serve 20 million customers. And last year, 25% of
the NBV of the entire group was generated by AXA Asia. And between 2011-2015, 16% of
the growth of the group earnings was generated by AXA Asia.
So obviously, these are impressive indicators, but these do not reﬂect the leading and
diversiﬁed positions that we have built in Asia. And indeed today, AXA, as an international
company, is the largest P&C company. AXA is also the third largest life and savings
company in Asia. And we also have built leading position in countries. We are the largest
P&C company in Hong Kong, the second largest P&C company in Singapore. In Thailand,
Indonesia, in the Philippines, we're amongst the top three in the life and savings. And in
China, we have now and by far the largest foreign joint ventures both in life and in P&C.
Second element, we have built in Asia a unique composite position. As I'm sure you know
several of our competitors are either life or non-life. We do both. We are better
diversiﬁed. And on top of that, we are growing our asset management business very
quickly in Asia, and we have now the second largest assistance business in Asia as well.
So deﬁnitely, we have now one of the most diversiﬁed and one of the most
comprehensive presence in Asia, (54:45) diﬀerently, we're also better prepared to resist
to potential shocks.

Page 16 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

Third element, about our distribution channels, and the same could be said. We have
leading and diversiﬁed positions. We have exceptional positions in bancassurance. We
have more than 65,000 agents in Asia. We are growing our broker business, and we are
developing our digital oﬀering.
So we have great foundation. What about our future? This will be our future. We will grow
our earnings between 10% to 12% on a yearly basis and our earnings by 2020 will be
more than 60% higher than the current ones. So you could ask me the question how are
we going to achieve that? Two pillars for that. The ﬁrst one, the natural market growth of
the market that thanks to our size and foundations (55:38), we will be able to fully
leverage. And we do estimate that the natural market growth of the market will contribute
to 6% to 7% of our earnings CAGR.
And you have three pillars that will explain that natural market growth. First, the economic
growth of the region. Second, the massive protection and saving gaps that you see in Asia
that are being explained by the lack of awareness, but as also explained by the fact that
the social welfare systems in Asia are not as developed as the ones you can ﬁnd in
Europe. And third element, the rise of the middle class. What you should keep in mind
here is that today, roughly 20%, 25% of the worldwide middle class is in Asia. By 2030, it
will be more than 60%.

Bloomberg Transcript

Second pillar, we do believe that on top of this macro element, we will be able to grow
earnings faster than the market, by focusing of speciﬁc and proven growth enablers. And
we do believe that these enablers will contribute to 4% to 5% of our earnings CAGR.
And now, we'll describe four of these enablers. The ﬁrst one, which is about leveraging a
unique portfolio of partners and partnerships and the example will be China. Second
enabler, it's about reaching new customer segments and the example here will be
Indonesia.
Third enabler, it's about better leveraging our existing customers, and the example here
will be Hong Kong. And last enabler, it will be about improving our product mix, and
here, the example will be Thailand. So obviously, as you can imagine, these four enablers
are just examples of all the actions we have in order to support our earnings.
Now, let's go through these enablers. So the ﬁrst one, as I already mentioned, the ﬁrst
enabler to grow earnings faster than the market is about leveraging a unique portfolio of
partners and partnerships, and indeed, a majority of them are quite recent, which means
that we have just scratched the surface of the potential of our partners and partnerships.
And so, the example that I'm going to use here is about China, about ICBC AXA which is
basically the largest bancassurance deal worldwide.
So the joint venture with ICBC to AXA, as you know, has been launched quite recently in
2012. And despite that today, we are already and by far the largest foreign life and savings
joint venture, and we are the tenth largest life and savings company. And despite that
success, we have only accessed 0.3% of the 250 million customers of ICBC.

Page 17 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

So yes, indeed, we have only scratched the surface of the potential of this partner. Now,
what does that mean for activities in Asia? We have in Asia 11 partners and partnerships.
Majority of them are less than ﬁve years, and altogether, they represent a potential of 700
million customers.

FINAL

So what you should keep in mind is as for (58:47) ICBC AXA, we just expect for the time
being the tip of the Iceberg.
Second enabler to grow earnings faster than the market is about reaching new customer
segment and here objective by 2020 is to become in Asia a leading insurance company
in emerging customers, which is a segment that basically lies between the
underprivileged and the middle class. And the example that I'm going to use here is
about Indonesia. In Indonesia, you should note that out of population of 250 million,
roughly 40 million, 44 million of them are indeed emerging middle class. And so with
AXA Mandiri, we have targeted that segment and we have sold to-date 1.5 billion policies.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, you could ask me why do you target that segment? Yes, three main reasons for that.
The ﬁrst one, it's a large and an untapped segment. Secondly, it is the middle class of
tomorrow, and it is why we want to accompany them in their economic progressions, but
we also want to make sure that they will not slip back into poverty.
And third element which is also critical one, it is a proﬁtable segment for AXA in Asia. That
segment has a combined ratio of 83%. Now what does that mean for activity in Asia? So
as I said, we want to become a leading insurer in that segment; and that segment in Asia
represent a potential of 500 million customers. And by 2020 we want to access 20 million
– 35 million of them. And in order to achieve that we will focus on four strategic markets;
India, Indonesia, Philippine, and Thailand. And to target these segments, we will leverage,
notably, partnerships with Telcos and retailers.
Third enabler to grow earnings faster than the market is about leveraging our existing 20
million customers. So the objective here is to better cross-sell, better upsell our customers
and not only in an existing one line of business, but also between lines of business since
you are a composite insurer. And the example that I will use here is about Hong Kong. So
as I am sure you know, in Hong Kong we have built a unique composite position. We are
the largest P&C company in Hong Kong and the ﬁfth largest in Life & Savings. And in Life
& Savings with our one million customers, we have been one of the ﬁrst to enter the crossselling and upselling space with great success.
As you can see here, we now have close to 40% of our customers in Hong Kong having
more than one AXA product. However, despite that success, that result can be improved,
but also we are still nowhere in terms of cross-selling between lines of business. And
indeed, the majority of our customers don't have both the P&C and the Life & Savings
AXA product, leaving us massive opportunity for cross-selling. And the question you
could ask me is, how are we going to leverage this opportunities? We will do it notably by
working with the Data Innovation Lab, with the AXA lab with the objective to create
propensity models, generate fees (01:02:09) and distribute them amongst our agents.

Page 18 of 72



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

What does that mean for Asia, for activities in Asia? You should know that today, only 20%
of our 20 million customers have more than one AXA product. And so clearly here we
want to leverage the Hong Kong example and we want to make sure that by 2020 at least
50% of our customers will have more than one AXA product. Fast enabler to grow our
earnings faster than the market; it's about improving our product mix in both Life &
Savings and in P&C. And here the objective is to become less correlated with the interest
rate, but also to be able to better focus on speciﬁc proﬁt pools. And the example that I
will use here is Thailand.
In Thailand, you should know that today the market is dominated by short-term saving
plans. They represent roughly 60% of the new business, and it's possible today to ﬁnd in
Thailand guaranteed rate of up to 3%, while the 10-year government bond is around 2%.
And so clearly, for our activities in Asia, we have very early realized that it was not
sustainable. And so very quickly in the past years, we have drastically improve our
product mix and drastically reduce the weight of our short-term saving plans, moving
them from roughly 60% of our new sales to now 26%. And so by doing that now,
operations in Thailand are much less correlated with the interest rate, but are also more
proﬁtable, since in the past years, we have increased our NBV margin by 9 points.

Bloomberg Transcript

Practically, what does that mean for our activities in Asia? So as I told you, objective clearly
is to improve the product mix in Life & Savings and P&C. For Life & Savings, it means that
by 2020, our objective is to make sure that at least two-third of our APE will be generated
by Unit-Linked, Protection and Health and Protection with Savings.
In P&C, our objective is to increase about fourfold the volumes of our lifestyle products;
travel, PA, household, since these products for us have on average a combined ratio of
around 80%.
So, what I have presented here – what you have seen here, now you know how we are
going to reach our €900 million earnings by 2020 and how we are going to increase
earnings by 10% to 12% on a yearly basis. However, this is just the beginning of a story.
Indeed, our objective by 2030 is to be able to reach at least 100 million customers. And
also as a reminder, these indicators are for AXA Asia only; so ex-Japan and ex-Korea.
So what you have to keep in mind of this presentation are the three elements I mentioned
to you. We have built in Asia, leading, diversiﬁed, and proﬁtable positions. You have very
strong fundamentals in Asia (01:05:30) the natural market growth of the market. But on
top of that AXA will grow faster than our competitors by focusing on speciﬁc growth
enablers.
And last but not least, as a conclusion, the contribution of Asia to the group earnings will
become even more important tomorrow than it is today. So this actually concludes the
ﬁrst part of our presentation on our focused strategy.
And now, I would like to hand over to Thomas for the Q&A session. Thank you.

Page 19 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

Q&A

FINAL

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you Jean-Louis – thank you Jean-Louis. We are now coming to the ﬁrst Q&A
session. You have heard three presentations on growth; capital light savings, Asia, and
commercial line. I'm joined in the Q&A session by Jean-Louis, Gaëlle and Paul. We would
like to focus the questions on only this part. I know you are interested in the ﬁnancial
section, but that will come later. So whoever would like to start is welcome to start. We
start here.

Q - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

Bit of a cheeky question, but the – if Asia is such a big part of the earnings growth, so the
earnings growth of the group I guess is about, somewhere around $1 billion and Asia – not
a $1 billion, it's about $600 million and Asia is about $400 million or something, it's about
two-thirds of your earnings growth over the ﬁve years. Why don't you just split Asia from
the rest of AXA? Is there any – what are the synergies between the two parts of the group?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Jean-Louis.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Jean-Louis Laurent Josi

{BIO 16032698 <GO>}

Look, I do believe the decision that has been made by Thomas which is to keep AXA at a
region, we have be move – and the region (01:07:17) is I believe part of the answer to your
question. So we do believe that the potential in Asia is still massive. And by keeping the
region we have now will allow us to grow faster than our competitors; will allow us also to
build transversal, notably IT systems; will allow us to better cascade the expertise and the
technical know-how we have in the Group in the region.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

There was a second question at that table. It's...

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 21515144 <GO>}

Nick Holmes of Soc Gén. Another – two questions, ﬁrst one on Asia yet again. Jean-Louis,
you wondered – could you explain more about the assumptions behind the 100 million
customers? I mean that's very, very big number. I know it's 2030, but interested in your
assumptions. Then question for Paul, wondered – you were talking about general
accounts and capital light. What scope is the full conversion of the back book, the general
account back book to capital light products? Thank you.

Operator
A - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

Page 20 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

...to take the natural market share of AXA. And currently, the market share – the Group
market share is around 2.8% worldwide. We have taken that market share and applied to
the addressable market by 2030 in Asia and it is how you reach $100 million. And as I
said, it's a minimum, because as you have seen today, we have already 20 million
customers. We also want to access 35 million customers by 2020 in the emerging
customer segment, so we really do believe that that's a feasible target by 2030.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Paul?

A - Paul Evans

{BIO 20793138 <GO>}

So Nick, I think that what – partly your question will be answered during Matthieu and
Todd's session later on in Inforce. But I think there is a very good opportunity to look at
the portfolio of customers at Inforce book and understand whether the products we that
sold them some years ago still meet their needs. Now, if you look at some of the
guarantees in those products they are valuable, but only valuable to a customer who
needs liquidity, only valuable to a customer who needs greater opportunity for upside.
And that full review that we go through portfolio-by-portfolio, but I'll leave Matthieu to tell
us the little bit later on.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you, Nick. The middle table here.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Thank you. So, Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. Two questions please. In Paul's
presentation you talked about selling sort of capital light hybrid products and doing that
through proprietary distribution. Do you think you're able to do that in markets where you
don't have proprietary distribution. I know the margin – that makes it diﬀerent (01:10:06) if
that's the case. And then secondly just a high level question. Thomas, you mentioned that
the old assumption that EM is growth and DM is not growth is not true anymore. Where
do you think the group sits now in terms of the mix between EM and DM? So if you see
over the last ﬁve years it's been selected divestments from DM and a reinvestment in EM.
Is that process now complete? Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Paul, why don't you start?

A - Paul Evans

{BIO 20793138 <GO>}

So, can we sell capital light to non-proprietary channels? The answer to that question is,
yes, that in fact during one of Nick's illustrations he demonstrated how we used the
stories to be built for our proprietary agencies to distribute the same story, same
proposition, the same tools, the same value proposition to our non-proprietary but are
line (01:10:48) distribution networks. It's certainly the case in the U.S., but the case in other
markets too. There you are competing obviously somewhat diﬀerently; you are competing
as other life insurers, other competitors. But I think that what we've demonstrated is that
Page 21 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

by focusing ﬁrst on our own proprietary agents, we have built up proposition, tools,
storyboard (01:11:09), which then allow us to get out into the wider market. So, the answer
to your question is yes.

FINAL

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

So, Nick, on the second one, I think there is two elements. The ﬁrst one is, how do you
build a good base in emerging markets? And AXA – Ambition AXA was about exactly
that: How can we reinvest proﬁts from mature market into emerging markets to build a
good base. And I think Jean-Louis has perfectly shown that for Asia, we have invested, we
have now a base where we can really leverage that base for growth. So that was exactly
what we've done and what we should have done.
However, what we have seen in that phase is that the dynamics of markets are very
diﬀerent. And that is not always true that mature markets grow less than emerging
markets, the reason being that one has to look behind the market view into the business
view. You could well have businesses in mature markets that are growing and businesses
in emerging markets that are not growing. And we have now further developed our view
into a business view and you've seen the elements of it this morning, commercial life
(01:12:14) and in Asia the same logic applies to really say, where can we grow selectively,
always along the principle, what we have done well in one market, in one large market,
how can we copy it into other markets in order to have the same success.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Oliver George Nigel Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel at Deutsche Bank. It's a question for Gaëlle. You gave us a few examples – or
indeed, one example each of the SME and mid-market opportunities, but you didn't really
talk about where you could take those examples. So I wonder if, on both of those you
could talk a little bit more about where the opportunities are in other countries where you
are not doing this already. And then the second question is on the DOL. Paul – okay, I
don't know, you ask Paul – but you talked about extra costs involved as a result of the
DOL. So just wondering if you wanted to quantify the extra costs.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

So I would suggest that we take – give the ﬁrst question to Amanda because she has really
done it in the UK and has been responsible for SME and can show you how it can be
exported. And the second one – the second one we give to Nick, because he is the expert
on DOL.

A - Oliver George Nigel Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

So I think as far as the examples are concerned, on the – one of the slides actually show
the country, so where we have strong positions. Like in Germany for example, we have a
very strong mid-market position. We can take SME into Germany; we can do the same
thing in Italy. We already have very strong SME positions in France, in Belgium and in the
UK. And we can use a diﬀerentiated position to make sure that we protect our positions
going forward. We have very, very good growth projections or plans in Asia, in China, in
Mexico for the new markets.

Page 22 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

So I think that we have – we are able to take all the examples that we showed you earlier
and take them into the various diﬀerent entities. So hopefully that answers the question.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

FINAL

Thanks Amanda. Let's go to Nick on the DOL.

A - Nick Lane

{BIO 16392572 <GO>}

Great, thank you. I speak under André's purview, but for the DOL rules, when you think
about it, you have to think about the impact on the rule and what I'd call the
manufacturing domain, those people that manufacture our products and then in the
distribution domain and those people that distribute either (01:14:34). So the initial cost
goes in the distribution domain because you actually have to develop processes and
systems to comply with the best-interest contract and administer it. Going forward, there
would be some subset in (01:14:49) what I would call regulatory risk that didn't exist
before given the enhanced regulatory requirements. And then the second order cost that
we talked about is the impact on the ability to sell the products, and that was our
guidance in terms of the decline in sales themselves. So we think about the near-term
investment one-time of developing new systems, and then the ongoing sustainability of
the market.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Nick. We stay at the same table. I think it's Blair Stewart.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Yeah. Thanks very much. It's Blair Stewart from BoA. A question on the saving side for
Paul; you ended up with a 3% to 5% NBV CAGR number. Firstly, is that aggressive
enough? And secondly, how does that break down between topline and margin? I think
your base case economic assumption is that rates gradually improve, so one would
expect there to be a little bit of margin improvement, but maybe can you provide a little
bit color on that.
And second question is as far as NBV, do you have any expectations about the level of
cash ﬂows that will come out over that part of the business over the next few years? Thank
you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thanks, Blair. This is a very ﬁnancial question. Paul, give a high level view and we will
come back into Gérald's part when it comes on the details of margin and cash ﬂow. Paul?

A - Paul Evans

{BIO 20793138 <GO>}

Yeah. So I'll leave the cash ﬂow to Gérald later on. But in terms of the savings portfolio,
we're actually – we'll keep, as I said, we'll keep the mix as it is in 2015. We expect the
margin to remain pretty much as it is in 2015. There'd be ups and downs according to

Page 23 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

market. There'd be some narrowing of margin and Unit-Linked, I'd expect with increased
transparency, but that should be oﬀset with cost reductions that we have in our plan.

FINAL

So in answer to your question, the 3% to 5%, one, is it aggressive enough? Well, as the
target owner; yes it is. Secondly, in terms of (01:16:45) topline, the APE growth are
expected to grow broadly at the same level as the NBV outlook.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you. There's a question.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Good morning. It's Andrew Crean of Autonomous. I want to come back to the DOL
forecast, because I think the industry association in U.S. is forecasted at central point a
40% fall in U.S. variable annuity sales out to 2017. So if you're falling by 10%, it means your
market share is going to grow by 50%. Is that really credible?
And then, secondly, I can see that over the next few years you'd like to sell lots of UnitLinked because it's capital-light, but what evidence do you have that your customers are
actually happy and prepared to take on the investment risk? And what does it imply in
terms of net sales over the next ﬁve years?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

So thank you very much. Nick, would you like to answer the question on DOL? And then,
Paul, you do the Unit-Linked question.

A - Nick Lane

{BIO 16392572 <GO>}

Sure. I mean, I would start saying the DOL's new regulation is dynamic. As you mentioned
the industry associations are challenging in court seeking judicial clarity and whether the
DOL actually has the right to impose the rule.
From an industry standpoint, I don't know if there's an industry consensus, I know there
has been a number of ranges. We do think we can outperform in the new environment
and that would be based on a function of two things: one, we have strong propriety
distribution and 600 aligned third party partners, so we think we have the ability to take
our products and stories; and then, second would be the product line up that we have
that we diversiﬁed over the last, I guess, ﬁve years to serve new markets.
So we do think we're in a position to outperform. I think there is a whole range of
estimates in terms of what the impact on the market will be. The rule itself doesn't go into
eﬀect until 2017. So I think as we get closer, you'll actually see people get a better view in
terms of what the impact on the market maybe itself.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thanks, Nick. Paul?
Page 24 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

A - Paul Evans

{BIO 20793138 <GO>}

FINAL

So are our customers ready? Well, I showed you the mix of sales in 2015, which
demonstrates that only 5% of our sales are now in what we call the traditional capitalintensive general account products. So I think that indicates that our customers have and
are being (01:19:29) already.
If you comment on to the illustration that Nick gave in France, which has been a ﬁrstly
general account orientated market, their sales are 40% Unit-Linked, which is double the
level of the market. So why our customers ready? Our customers are ready because we
have educated and trained our proprietary advisors to go out with a very clear story, a
very clear advise process that helps our customers understand the opportunity of the
upside of capital-light and of the advantage that will bring over the long-term for their
return expectations. So I think the numbers in 2015 already demonstrate that our
customers are, yes, ready for Unit-Linked than capital-light.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you, Paul. Additional questions? There's one.

Q - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

(01:20:22) one of the earlier questions about net ﬂows, but what's the assumption about
the growth of the assets under management, what I call assets under management, to the
total savings you administer behind all these forecasts? Is it also 3% or 5% number? Is it
more like 1% or 2%?

A - Paul Evans

{BIO 20793138 <GO>}

Yeah, I forgot the second part of the last question. I apologize. But that said, I was going
to surge (01:20:42) anyway to Gérald sessions. So I think Gérald will do with that question
and indeed with the earlier one about the net ﬂows if we can.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Thank you. So Jon Hocking, Morgan Stanley again. In Asia, in the presentation you
mentioned sort of cross-sell working as a compensate. You haven't mentioned that for the
rest of the business yet. So what are opportunities to cross-sell across the Group? And in
particular, what are the commonalities between the P&C business and the Protection
business (01:21:16) are quite similar to the economics as an opportunity to look at that
across the products (01:21:19). Thank you.

A - Paul Evans

{BIO 20793138 <GO>}

If you can wait half an hour, after the break we'll exactly deal with that issue, because we
look at the retail business, the future of retail and cross-selling, up-selling will be one part
of that topic. But, Gaëlle (01:21:36), maybe for Asia. You have mentioned it for Hong Kong.
Maybe give some concrete color around it what it means to Hong Kong?

A - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}
Page 25 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

But to your point, as I have mentioned, ﬁrst, when you see Hong Kong, in one line of
business, the Life & Savings, as you can see here, we have 38% of the people having more
than one AXA product. When you see our ability to cross-sell and up-sell between line of
businesses, between P&C and Life & Savings, as you can see, we have only 2% of our
customers having both life and non-life products. All right.
So for us it will be the ﬁrst time that we're going to focus on these opportunities. We do
believe it's a massive one. It's an opportunity that will diﬀerentiate our customer from our
competitors, because as I did mentioned majority of them are focused on the one line of
business with both. So it's a great opportunity not only to increase the stickiness of our
customers, but also to increase the proﬁtability of our operations with the existing
customers we have.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Additional questions? Yes, one more.

Q - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

In all these numbers, I don't want to ask a number of questions too much, because I'll be
getting such later. But, Denis (01:22:46), in all these numbers, you said lots of business
models and assumptions and things. And how much redundancy have you built in your
assumptions? Which one of these could you miss and still achieve your targets?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So maybe each of you give an answer for their own business. Paul, do you want to start?

A - Paul Evans

{BIO 20793138 <GO>}

I'm blanked on named ﬁrst (01:23:11), but I will. So, look, if we look at the areas of growth
in mature markets, then we would be more dependent on growth in France, U.S. and
Japan. That's where our margins are highest and our growth expectations are greatest.
And there, you could see from the illustrations that Nick gave earlier, the substance of the
delivery of what we achieved in those markets. So we are conﬁdent because those
illustrations will be used and we're less reliant upon the growth in Germany and
Switzerland and in other markets in the world.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thanks, Paul, again.

A - Gaëlle Olivier
So on the P&C side, what I've tried to emphasize is really the geographic and business
diversiﬁcation because we believe that it's the key asset for us to oﬀset shocks, which will
happen in some of the countries over the next two years (01:24:03) of the plan. So if I look
at the commercial lines business, we are more or less for the (01:24:09) immature and
that's what Amanda highlight.

Page 26 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

Mature being France, UK, Switzerland, Germany, Italy, Spain, notably, and when serving
the high growth markets. If I look at the personal lines, we are roughly 50% mature, 20%
high growth and 30%, the Direct business.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

FINAL

Jean-Louis (01:24:40)?

A - Jean-Louis Laurent Josi

{BIO 16032698 <GO>}

Yeah, and I knew we're really calling a diﬀerent way what Natalie Gecewicz (01:24:41) said.
When you see, I would say, our strengths versus many of our competitors, and I will repeat
the fact that ﬁrst we are a composite insurer, which will help us to absorb potential shocks.
The P&C business is for us a business that we obviously much less correlate to the
evolution of the interest rate. So that is certainly one element. We are well diversiﬁed in
terms of geographies. You have seen it. We are active in eight countries. We are well
diversiﬁed in terms of our distribution channels.

Bloomberg Transcript

You see when you focus on certain of our competitors, they are very good in certain
distribution channels. We are very good in several distribution channels. If you take as a
whole and so we take an average, agents represent roughly for us 40% to 45% of our
distribution. You take bank assurance, it's 30% for Life & Savings to 20% for P&C. And
then, you have the broker business between 20% to 30% if you were in the Life & Savings
on the P&C side. And then, you start seeing what we call the alternative channels
emerging with direct digital oﬀering and so on. So I would say this is certainly another
element for which diversiﬁcation will help us.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thanks, Louis. Additional questions? Doug (01:26:06), next to you.

Q - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

In past, you had a growth target of earnings of, I think, 15%. So I'm just wondering, by
2020, what proportion of your earnings do you think will come from growth markets, or
do you not really make that diﬀerentiation now? So eﬀectively is that kind of odd
(01:26:28) growth?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

So can we keep this question for Gérald to start as he will make the diﬀerentiation.

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 21515144 <GO>}

Nick Holmes, Soc Gén again. Question for Gaëlle this time. The U.S. is conspicuously
absent from your commercial portfolio. Is that a concern? Is that an opportunity for
expansion or thoughts on the U.S. in commercial global platform?

A - Gaëlle Olivier
Page 27 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

Okay. So it's clearly an opportunity. We are looking into each. We don't see that the
solution is only acquisition. It can be partnership. And by the way, early April you may
have seen, we have communicated with Hartford (01:27:13) joint partnership, develop
commercial lines together in the U.S. market.
For us it's a key opportunity, because last part of what we have shown on SME and mid
goes into the international business. And when you see where (01:27:29) SME and midmarket companies are developing. Part of it is Europe, part of it is Asia, but part of it also
is the U.S. So we believe that with the partnership as one we are doing with Hartford
(01:27:40), we have the opportunity to provide U.S. solutions to those SME and midmarket players absolutely.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you. One last question maybe before the break. (01:27:56).

Q - Nicolas Mora

{BIO 5523743 <GO>}

Nicolas from Exane BNP Paribas. My question is on your view on the Insurance
Distribution Directive. I know it's been three years' time, but still during your plan. Do you
see this as pure cosmetics or do you actually see it as a cost and a real burden? And
thoughts on it, especially on the life side, I would say, and given the implication you may
have for pushing into products with less guarantees? Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Paul, do you want to take that question since it's life related?

A - Paul Evans

{BIO 20793138 <GO>}

Yeah. So it's certainly true that across Europe we will face a number of additional
regulations over the coming years (01:28:39). But fundamentally, these are very aligned
with how AXA would choose to do business. We would always choose to be transparent
with our customers. We would always choose to give our customers great advice. So
fundamentally what I expect – the burden of regulation to increase. I don't think it should
skew us between one product and other. It should drive us to deliver the right outcome
for our customers.
What it does mean is that particularly for our propriety agency, we have to have a more
control advice process so that we can be certain that every individual advisor always gives
the best advice according to the process. So you will see us invest in advice tools, advice
capabilities just as we have, for example, in France, to ensure that we are complying with
those standards. But I don't see those standards are themselves either knocking us of
course or causing us to change our business mix. It just requires us to invest harder in the
advice process and to be much more transparent with our customers.
Thank you, Paul. We are coming to the end of the ﬁrst Q&A session. Thank you very much
for your questions. We are now having a break of half-an-hour. And we'll reconvene here

Page 28 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

at 10 o'clock sharp to go to the next piece, which is around Transform. Thank you very
much.

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
FINAL

Unveriﬁed Participant
So thank you. I hope you enjoyed the break. And after having gone through some of the
examples of the selected growth, we're now going to enter into – take a break from Focus.
We'll be back on Focus, and we'll enter into the Transform part, which is more about
explaining you some of the examples about as I mentioned earlier, and as Thomas
mentioned, how we will transform the business model of the Group going forward.
And there are three ways we're going to do that. One is on future retail and Véronique
and others are going to explain to you some of the assets we already have in the Group
towards how we see the future of retail. Then we're going to talk about Health and Health
is an interesting one, because Health is a great example of payer to partner. And so, it's a
very good way for us to illustrate what we mean by that. And remember that's a business
that Thomas has been in-charge of for a few years.

Bloomberg Transcript

The second thing is Health is also something we could have put in the growth path and
we'll share that with you as well, because that's a growth source for the Group going
forward, and it's going to be interesting for you to see us as we split out the Health
business today and in the future in terms of how we report our numbers.
And then thirdly, of course, adapting capabilities and Karima is going to come and speak
to us about the workforce evaluation. So that's the transform part.
And without any further ado, I'm going to hand it over to Véronique and her team.
[Music] (01:31:36-01:31:52)

Véronique Weill
Good morning. I'm Véronique Weill, the Chief Customer Oﬃcer of the Group and
together with my partners, Xavier, Antoine and Jérôme we would present you our
strategy to unlock the growth of our retail business. What we want to do is three things.
This strategy would be based on three pillars. First one is enlarge our customer reach.
Second is increase our share in our customers' wallets, thanks to targeted product and
services. And three, we want to transform our customer interaction to improve our
customer satisfaction.
And what we can say is the following. We know that we want to grow the retail business
because the retail business is very important for us and I'm going to tell you why. What we
have right now in term of retail business is three numbers. First one is we have 60 million
of customers who are part of that retail client base. Second is we have two-third of our
Page 29 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

revenues were generated from this business. And three, we have only 1.7 contracted
(01:33:09) customers. And we believe that to grow our earnings we have fabulous
capabilities and we have fabulous opportunities.
Customer has an average four contracts (01:33:18). Let's look at the opportunity that this
one represents if you were able to regroup all these insurance contracts with us. This is
what we have to do. We have to seize these massive opportunities. At the same time, we
know that there is a changing world out there. Digital and data have commoditized our
products. And Thomas said it very clearly in his introduction, the gas price of this world
have (01:33:46) leveraged this technology and have changed profoundly the customers'
expectations.

Bloomberg Transcript

Customers want simple, transparent and relevant products. And this trend is even more
accelerated by the regulators. They want the same thing. They want simplicity,
transparency and personalization. And what we can say is that there is a shift in the
bargaining power. Customers are changing (01:34:19). Traditionally we were able to
choose our customers. Traditionally insurance company had the upper end. But what
traditionally is happening is no more true today. You've seen that on this slide, customers
are keeping the business. They choose us. They look at an aggregator to compare
product and services and select their insurers not only on brand, but also on price and
now their social community. We need to proactively increase the number of touch points
to reach out to the customers and increase interaction. Customers are deﬁnitely shaping
the business and this is this opportunity that together during the next 20 minutes we are
going to cover.
You may wonder why an incumbent like us could really tackle this challenging
environment and if we should invest in a retail. Our answer is crystal clear. We are and we
will. So together with my partners, I want to tell you that today transformation is already
underway. You have heard Thomas this morning speaking about the change of the
customers' expectations, that they would explain how we are dealing with these
customers who are searching online, buying oﬄine, and how we're bundling these two
words with two example in Spain and in France. Antoine would show you how we have
developed in AXA France, a 360 customer view which provides a uniﬁed view of the
customers.
You heard it before. We want to move from payer to partners. Jérôme with the new
company called AXA partner will explain how we go beyond traditional insurance
product. And last but not least, I would be very happy to unveil our new global
commitments that we have with our customers to see how we are delivering these day-in
and day-out.
Now Xavier, ﬂoor is yours.

Xavier Veyry

{BIO 19118322 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Véronique. I am Xavier Veyry. I am the CEO of AXA Global Direct.
And in the next few minutes, I am going to show you how we can leverage direct

Page 30 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

capability to transform our traditional business.

FINAL

But to start with, I would like to refresh the fact that we have a very strong franchise
indirect (01:36:49) at the AXA Group. Over the last few years, since 2009, we have
systematically over-performed the market by an average of ﬁve points. In the meantime,
we decreased our combined ratio by 6.5%, reaching a higher level of proﬁtability and this
has been achieved whilst improving our customer satisfaction.
And in 2015, direct originated business represent already 63% of the total retail new
business of the Group. But this did not happen by chance. This happened because we
have systematically deployed the strategic framework, a strategic framework, which is
based on ﬁve pillars. The ﬁrst one is about pricing sophistication. To give you an example,
a few years ago, we were using an average of 30 variables to 50 variables to make a tariﬀ.
Now in 2016, we reached up to 500 diﬀerent variables to make a tariﬀ.
So second element of our strategy is about claims management. We've tied and saved
claims management. We are systematically deploying our strategy of better orientation,
but also fraud detections and this allows us to improve our loss ratio, but also to improve
our customer satisfaction and in recent period, we improved it by seven points.

Bloomberg Transcript

The third element of the strategy is about low cost models, which is sustained by datadriven low cost model. So I'm going to use again here an example. We recalled and we
analyzed all the conversation that happened in our contact centers through a speech
analytics tool that's allows us to improve all our interactions with our customers,
improving our retention rate, improving our conversion rates.
The fourth element is about product simpliﬁcation. We need to have simple products,
easy to manage, easy to sell, easy to renew. Here an example about Korea. Today, we use
social networks and on those social networks, we have 500,000 of our customers, which
are interacting with us, and we generate over 100,000 customer interactions and policy
endorsements every month.
The ﬁfth element is about entrepreneurship and culture. At AXA Global Direct, every
manager act as if an investment was performed through their own money. This makes a
big diﬀerence, because we focus on what we believe makes a diﬀerence. Now, when we
apply those ﬁve elements to our traditional entities, this can also help us accelerated
growth. And I will show you two examples.
To start with AXA Spain. A year ago we decided with AXA Spain to join forces (01:39:36)
in order to operate the AXA brand on the digital world. Practically that mean that today,
whenever a customer sees an AXA brand on the digital world, deﬁne this product, if the
AXA Global Direct Spain sophistication, rise in sophistication, client sophistication, low
cost data driven model. And this basically over the last year has allowed us to multiply by
ﬁve the number of ﬂeets generated, but more importantly by multiplying by 10, the
number of new business we have been able to sell in Spain through the digital channel.
And this has been performed, but through the leverage of our pricing sophistication and
marketing sophistication, we have also managed to decrease our loss ratio of new
Page 31 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

business by 15 points. All this has been achieved as an incremental growth to our global
business in Spain.
If we now look at AXA France, AXA France in 2015 has generated over 400,000 diﬀerent
new contacts through the Internet. This represents 22% of the new customers, which are
joining AXA France today. Those in ﬁgures are increasing by 15% in 2016. So those 22% of
web-originated customers can ﬁnalize their product either on the face-to-face relation,
through the phone or online.
So as you can see, when we do deploy direct capabilities on the web, we can certainly
leverage and we can certainly help our traditional businesses accelerate their growth.
Thank you.

Véronique Weill
Thank you very much, Xavier. So this ﬁrst example is about transforming our retail
business, but leveraging (01:41:39) capabilities. The capabilities are as a trigger for retail
transformation. The second example that Antoine is going to give you is an illustration on
how we have invested in technology and in data and we are already seeing the beneﬁts.
Antoine, ﬂoor is yours.

Bloomberg Transcript

Antoine Denoix
Thank you, Veronique. My name is Antoine Denoix. I'm the Chief Digital and Data Oﬃcer
for AXA France. (01:42:11) generation meaning that it was born in this world. In 2009, I
started my own company called (01:42:19) specialized in digital data. Life was great. My
business was really successful, but I wanted to go to another scale. I wanted to tackle this
real world.
What could be better than AXA and its 7 million retailed customers. What did I discover
after joining AXA? I discovered this (01:42:43) model. It is a triangle. You add the
customer at the center and once (01:42:49) the call centers and a newcomer to digital. In
terms of data each stakeholder can see only a part of the complete picture. For example,
agents do not know what the customers are doing online. (01:43:09) target is to become
a learning organization oﬀset with customer data. There were two stages before achieving
this target.
Stage one, the building of a 360 degree customer view. Trust me. It's certainly critical. It
took us six months business (01:43:24) and a major ﬁnancial investment. We have already
integrated 80% of useful data. Stage two, the decision and expectation of data for
business.
Everything I told you so far was quite abstract investor meet (01:43:43). To be honest I'm
not really excited by concepts. Now I'm going to show you what the old quality means for
a speciﬁc customer named Brian. Do you want to know more about the life of Brian? Brain
(01:43:49) is 35 years old. He lives in Britain. He has been an AXA customer for 10 years
Page 32 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

and he has submitted a claim for his household insurance contract. Above all, he's going
to become a father soon, and he will need a bigger car, as you can imagine. When
(01:44:16) to look for a new car, he's really focused on his research. He didn't even notice
this generic AXA banner. Did you, by the way?
Brian (01:44:30) is also easily annoyed. He detests intrusive and evasive banners. Who
likes seeing the same ads for weeks after visiting a retailer's website? Nobody. At AXA, we
wanted not intrusive banners, but relevant banners. We took into account not only digital
signals, but oﬄine data, for example, claims and contracts information. The challenge was
huge. To put it simply, we wanted to be able to recognize Brian online. So what have we
done? Coming back to Brian, when he received an email for AXA regarding the status of
his claim, he explicitly agreed to receive a cookie because it's useful for him and because
he trusts AXA.
The cookie is not a biscuit, as you may know. It's a digital ID that allows us to do in real
time the matching between digital navigation and AXA databases. Finally, when Brian
goes on caradisiac.com to look for a car, he will see these highly personalized banners.
This banner includes the type of car he was looking for a few minutes ago on the website,
maybe a Renault, maybe a Fiat, no matter the car he will need a new seat for the baby.
The banner also includes a link to contact Paul Paoletti, his usual agent in Britain.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, let's go to the other side of the wall. Let's look at what Paul sees when Brian calls
him. No, not that one, it's the wrong slide. It's what it used to be. The new one. Paul
receives direct beneﬁt from the 360 degree customer view.
First, you will see that Brian is digitalized like 150,000 other customers in France, has
downloaded and activated MyAXA, the mobile application used to submit the claim last
week. Brian's claim was settled after mobile video conference with an AXA claim manager
in Morocco (01:46:30) only two days later. And ﬁnally Paul is elected through this booking
that Brian is going to change his vehicle. It may be the right time for him to promote a car
insurance contract. At the end of the day, Brian is a happy man now. He has a new baby
and one extra sticker on his car. He is a satisﬁed customer and he tells us so through one
click through a beautiful mobile application.
AXA was the ﬁrst company in Europe to use oﬄine data for online customization through
Google Tools. In terms of digital marketing, these are the beneﬁts we achieve. We are
able to improve the clicks rate of our banners by 35% and more globally in 2016 with the
same marketing budgets as last year. We are on track to improve the acquisition of new
clients online by 20%. This cost eﬀectiveness allows us to develop this more disruptive
innovation and at the same time to transform the way we do business.
To conclude, when I left my startup three years ago, people around me told me I was a bit
crazy. Today, I have no regrets at all. We're going to (01:47:50) the 360 customer view
across all mature countries by the end of next year. Thank you.

Véronique Weill
Page 33 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

Thank you very much, Antoine. I think that what you see there is our ability to invest in
digital and in data.

FINAL

So, as you can see, Brian is happy. He has a new car but Brian wants more. He wants more
services beyond traditional product and Jérôme will show us how AXA Partners is
delivering additional services and reaching out to new customers.

Jérôme Droesch
Thank you, Véronique. My name is Jérôme Droesch. I'm the CEO of AXA Partners, a new
worldwide entity created by the group, with three main mission. The ﬁrst one is to design
and rollout innovative oﬀers to our customers. The second one is to combine insurance
and services coming from our innovative entities like (01:48:37) but also from our partners,
in order to enlarge our range of oﬀers.
And the third one is to leverage those new oﬀers, in order to increase the number of
policy per customer, but also to attract new customer through third-party distribution.
Obviously, we'll take time to build all those new things, but we wanted to share with you
what we are building today to create those new services.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let me start ﬁrst, with the true story of Helena (01:49:09), one of our customer using the
BlaBlaCar one of our partner. Last summer, she had to go back urgently from London to
Soﬁa to reach her father who was ill. She decided to book a ride on BlaBlaCar. It's the
easiest way to go there or at least it should have been the easiest one.
Unfortunately, unexpected events always arrived at the worst moment. The car hit a rock
in the middle of the trip in Belgium. Nearly two weeks to repair the car, it was for sure too
long for her to wait. She was desperate when calling our platform.
First, we found an hotel for her and then, we found a ﬂight to reach Soﬁa and a
replacement car for the driver. She was just, so happy. That's just an example of the real
stories provided within each click on the internet.
Today, 25 million customers are using BlaBlaCar in various country and they do expect to
be well protected whatever could happen. So, motor insurance will remain key for us, but
it will never be enough anymore to satisfy our customer. We need to do more, we need to
innovate with new services. Some of them being built internally and some of them being
built thanks to partnership with innovative startups.
For instance, for all our motor insurance customer in Germany, they can now see in realtime the parking space available, thanks to a partnership with evopark. It is (01:50:45) and
increased dramatically the number of interaction with us. So, we are deﬁnitely moving
from motor insurance to ensuring mobility.
We can leverage those innovation to increase the number of partnerships and to
accelerate our growth. Our traditional partners like HSBC or Daimler value our capacity to
Page 34 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

innovate and a worldwide presence. We can leverage our past investments in digital, big
data and telematics to reinforce our current partnerships and also to attract new ones.

FINAL

Everybody talks about the exponential growth of digital player, but we can also beneﬁt
from it just by partnering with them and selling our product within the oﬀer. And we can
even go one step further accessing huge database of customers.
With Suez we have launched water meter allowing us to detect leakage in real-time and
avoid water damages. We have also started to sell bill protection to the customer of EDF,
the French energy provider. For a very low monthly amount of premium that customer will
not worry anymore on how to pay their bill in case of unemployment, disability or
hospitalization and EDF is sure to be paid. Every single week, they sell more than 1,500
policies and we do more than €5 million of premium just with one product after the ﬁrst
year. Now just imagine one second, that we sell it to all utilities, telco, retailers not only in
France, but all around the world, it will become massive.

Bloomberg Transcript

If there is one thing to remember today, it is the huge potential of third-party distribution.
According to market research, within the global insurance market worldwide it represents
today less than 10%, but in 2030 it will be around 25% to 30%. What is our ambition? We
want to create new solution for customers. It will give them more protection, more
services and increase the average premium. It will also increase dramatically the number
of interaction with us, reinforcing loyalty and retention. Being diﬀerent and innovate will
allow us to increase our distribution through partnership and we strongly believe that we
can grow fast with our dedicated entity, AXA Partners.

Véronique Weill
Thank you very much, Jérôme. As you can see the future of retail is happening now and
we've given you three example on how we leverage digital and data to address it. But our
core business remains unchanged. We need to be there when our customers are needing
us the most and to do that we are leveraging digital and data, but it's just a mean. It's a
mean to do constantly what we are here for our customer, which means to protect and
care about our customers. I'm very happy to announce today the ﬁve hallmarks that we
will be rolling out across the globe. Five hallmarks for unique and global AXA experience.
First, we want three commitments that we'll be rolling out and that we're rolling out as we
speak across geographies, across our segments of customers. Second it would be
valuable in the one mobile myAXA that Antoine referred to and three Amanda alluded to
that, we want to make sure that our customers are publicly rating us.
Let's go back to the three commitments; when you have a claim or when you have
something bad happening to you, like the ﬂood in Europe of the last day, we want to
make sure that you can go back to business and what we're doing is we're able to provide
early solution or advance payments before the claim is processed. Second, Brian spoke
about it. He wants to know where his claim is? He wants to know the status and this is
valuable on a day-to-day basis. Third, sometimes you complain about the fact that
insurance companies are not giving you the right information. With the next three steps,
we're able to give you and tell you what happens in the next days or weeks and how you
will be communicated to.
Page 35 of 72



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

The three global commitments are valuable in one mobile application, which is called
myAXA. MyAXA was born in France, but is now rolled out in all the countries. And what
we want is we want to make sure that customers have AXA at their ﬁngertip. We want to
make sure that we're available 24x7 that we can look at these commitments, but that we
can also monitor our saving plans or give additional contribution. The third part I think is
even more interesting. We want to make sure that we're totally transparent vis-à-vis our
customers and vis-à-vis our prospects. What does it mean? We're going to launch a new
publicly rated services, which mean that if you as a customer have an interaction with us,
you can rate us publicly. This would be available on our website and this will force us to
constantly improve our customer satisfaction. We're really going social because we want
to play that card. And last but not least, we have already launched it in (01:56:30), in the
UK, in Germany and it's in pilot in France. So, we're used to say internally that we're very
happy to be the ﬁrst insurance trip advisor.

Bloomberg Transcript

We want to do that for two reasons; one is because we believe that our customers want to
increase touch points. They want to make sure that in the new environments, we're able to
reach out to them and we're able to continue to foster this trust environments that we
want to exhibit. Now, we have had over the last months very good news about where AXA
is.
You have seen investments, they're paying oﬀ. At the same time, we always want to look
forward, we don't to be complacent. So, what we're doing now is really we want to make
sure that we have ambitious targets. We've developed an ecosystem. We have invested in
(01:57:26), which is our (01:57:27). We've invested in AXA Strategic Ventures to look at
what the market is about. (01:57:35) the price of being the ﬁrst global innovator in
insurance. We are very proud of that, but we're not complacent. We know that at the end
only customer satisfaction and customer feedback matters. So, what are we doing? Right
now, we are 52% of our entities which have an NPS score, a Net Promoter Score at or
above market average. This is where we are in 2015. We want to make sure that we have
100 of our entities are above market by 2020, ﬁrst point.
Second point, you heard us this morning and I know that some of you have asked that
question, are you going to able to cross-sell? Are you going to be able to retain? So, what
we want to do is we're making the commitment that we will increase by 50% the number
of contract per customer.
As a conclusion, let me convey this message. AXA is ready for the challenges. We don't
see the retail transformation. We look at it we embrace it because you know we know that
growth is going to come from there. At the same time, we want to make sure that we are
enlarging our customer reach thanks to digital and data, that we increase our share of
wallets by cross-sell, by retaining and cross-sell and up-sell our customers, thanks to
targeted product and services. And three, we are already transforming interaction to
improve customer satisfaction.
As you can see with my partner, we wanted to demonstrate that AXA is ready for the
change, we are already transforming the retail business. For us the future is now. Thank
you very much.

Page 36 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

I will now thank my partners and ask Damien to come on stage to speak about Health.

FINAL

Damien Vincent Marmion

{BIO 16064239 <GO>}

Thank you, Véronique. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Dr. Damien
Marmion. I am the Head of Health for AXA. I've spent 25 years in healthcare, and the last
20 years in health insurance, working in emerging markets, but also developed markets
around the world. I passionately believe that our most valuable asset actually is our health,
and that is why AXA is particularly focused on health now.
It's a huge market around the world, and if you look at the worldwide spend on
healthcare every year, it's €2.5 trillion. There are three things I want to concentrate on
today in this presentation. The ﬁrst thing is what is AXA doing in health. The second our
ability to transform from a payer to a partner. And thirdly, our ambition.
But before go into that, let me just remind you of the four key drivers in healthcare that we
focus on. First is health technology. There's a huge amount of investment that has gone
into healthcare technology in the last 20 or so years. And that will continue in the future,
but this is driving up, the ability to treat, and to cure, and to keep people alive for longer,
driving up healthcare costs into the future.

Bloomberg Transcript

The second key driver of healthcare is our disposable income. It's clear now that in
emerged markets and developed markets, disposable income is – expenditure on
healthcare has increased signiﬁcantly, but in emerging markets as well, what we have is an
increased out of pocket expenditure, and this is an opportunity for health insurance.
The third key driver is aging of population. By 2015, 20% of the European population will
be over the age of 60. This is going to signiﬁcantly drive up health expenditure due to
chronic disease. And lastly, if you look at the GDP expenditure around the world from
governments, it's now reached 10% of GDP, and is increasing at a continuing rate.
And as a result of this, some governments are looking at how they can get further access
into private expenditure and to convince people to use private systems rather than a
state/government systems for example in Hong Kong. This has driven us to look at three –
to look at our strategy in a diﬀerent way looking at how we can become a partner to our
customers.
And with this, we've got a focus around 36 geographies, 36 geographies where AXA has
capabilities in health insurance. With revenues of around about €12 billion, a 95%
combined operating ratio, and 13 million customers. And the key thing is here how we can
leverage our capabilities across those geographies to build further access to customers in
new markets and emerging markets in the evolving and the opportunity areas.
Our strategy is based, as I earlier, on our transformation from payer to partner. This is built
on the foundations we have in the health insurance basics around AXA' entities. We are
shifting our emphasis to two key areas in our strategy, that the care coordination and well-

Page 37 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

being. I'm going to cover these two areas in a bit more detail and give you some
examples like (02:03:17).
Firstly, let me focus on care coordination, I'm going to take you through a patient journey
here and how we are looking at providing services and how we do provide services for
our customers around orientation or in treatment choices they have, disease management
for them, and also targeted management. Let me go into a couple of examples here just
to bring this to life for you.
We do this for three reasons – care coordination for three reasons. The ﬁrst is to provide
better quality of care for our customers. The second is to provide a better customer
service experience. And the third is to get better value for money.
In the ﬁrst example, let me talk about our orientation in our UK business for our UK
customers. And Richard (02:04:05) here is a 49-year-old customer, who has his health
insurance through AXA, thanks to his employer. He is playing football at the weekend on
a Saturday afternoon with his son. And he twists and injures his knee, he struggles on like
a man would through the weekend and eventually Monday morning he gets to work and
he thinks my knee is very sore. So he takes advantage of the telephone consultation
service that AXA provides for his employer.

Bloomberg Transcript

He phones up, he speaks to a healthcare professional, the healthcare professional helps
him with a few questions, makes a presumptive diagnosis and then does a fast booking
appointment for Richard to a physiotherapist.
The physiotherapist is able to treat him the same day, to be able to provide him with
exercises and a recovery program. He is able to then return to work very quickly. We've
done that for 70,000 customers over the last year in the UK and giving access to that
integrated physiotherapy service has saved us £260 per customer.
Let me turn to the second example where we've got targeted management. And this is an
example where in our German business we have, through predictive health analytics,
been able to target 53,000 customers and from those customers we've been able to
engage with them and speciﬁcally talk to our customers about some of the lifestyle
choices they have and some of the history they have.
Emma (02:05:41) our customer in Germany was engaged with us. We talked to her about
her lifestyle, and some of her risks and we were able to identify that she was in need of
tests, like 3,200 of the other people that we had targeted. They went through some tests,
140 of those people were then treated for cancer. Emma, luckily wasn't one of those who
needs a treatment for cancer, but this allowed us to be able to give our customers better
access, faster access to treatments that was going to be able to cure them and given them
a longer life.
Let me now turn to a couple of examples, where we have – turning from payer to partner
in our well-being services. We developed two apps in-house within AXA. The ﬁrst is, the

Page 38 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

one called Gateway for our corporate customers in the UK. This is integrated into the
myAXA, which Véronique has just mentioned.

FINAL

Richard (02:06:41), that customer in UK through the employer have access to this service,
and he's able to do a health risk assessment online. That health risk assessment gave him
a predicted health age, remember he's 49. But actually it turned out that he was 53 years
on his health age.
So, we were able to engage with him through this app on his ﬁtness, his lifestyle, his
mindset, add back his nutrition to help with any future disease. He understood his health
risks. He was then able to modify it for his weight, for his diet, get better sleep, and that
allowed him to get return to work easier as a result – quicker as a result of the app, it
reduced his health age over time.

Bloomberg Transcript

In the second example, let me just touch on where we have it for our retail customers. In
Spain, we developed the same app internally through Health Keeper and this allows
customers to get – insured customers and non-insured customers to get access to a social
media platform, where there they can integrate their social media as well as their
recording tools such as Fitbits, et cetera, to be able to gather Fitpoints. These Fitpoints
can be used to be able to buy services, engage with services through AXA. This allows us
to better reach to a wider audience across Spanish business we have.
Turning thirdly to our ambition. Our ambition as I said, is to transform from a payer to a
true health partner for our customers. We're doing that through leveraging our
capabilities across our strongholds and using those to develop other countries and other
business capabilities around the footprint we have across those 36 geographies.
This will allow us to continue our growth and to deliver a growth through to 2020 of
between 3% and 5%. I'd just like to remind you of those three key takeaways from today.
Healthcare is increasing, it's a important part of the society feature. And we in AXA, have
got strong positions in a growing health economy. Our transformation from payer to
partner is going to help us to get the stronger foothold in that and grow our access across
our key geographies. Thank you.
And with that I'd like to introduce Karima, who's going to talk about adapting our
capabilities.

Karima Silvent

{BIO 19242190 <GO>}

Thank you, Damien. Good morning everyone. My name is Karima Silvent. Over the past
years, I have been within Group HR, leading our initiatives on workforce and cultural
transformation. Digital and multi-access, big data, changes in customer interactions. Since
this morning, you've heard numerous examples on how we see the world changing, what
we are doing to transform our business and accelerate growth. As we all know, human
capital is a critical asset to succeed. As we will be transforming our business, we will need
to reshape our workforce and back our employees and transform our skills too.

Page 39 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

During the next minutes, my goal is to share with you how we have built an in-depth
understanding of workforce evolution. And most importantly, what we'll be doing to
reshape our workforce and transform our skills. The strategy that I will be sharing with you
is about three core levers, upscaling, selective recruiting, fostering innovation for the
customer.
I will start with sharing with you how we have built an in-depth understanding of
workforce evolution. We just ﬁnished an analysis which we conducted, covering 12 of our
operating companies and more than half of our workforce. This analysis was both
quantitative and qualitative.
On the quantitative side, this was about checking the coherence between the evolution of
our workforce and our business strategy. On the qualitative side, we manage skills gap
assessment to measure the gaps in terms of skills between the current skills of our
employees and what will be the required skills in 2020.

Bloomberg Transcript

This means concretely that we have, for each category of job, as you can see here with the
example of P&C pricing, precisely deﬁned what will be the key activities to be performed
into 2020, but also the key technical and behavioral skills. We managed these skills gap
assessment covering high level 48,000 for our employees across the world. So what are
the key ﬁndings of this analysis? I would like to share with you four key ﬁndings.
The ﬁrst one, we have – we will face another reduction in workforce demand. The second
one, we have more ﬂexibility than expected to transform. The third one, we have room for
selective recruiting across all geographies. The last one, 50% of our job will face high
change in terms of required skill set.
I will come back very quickly to each and every of those ﬁndings. As I said, we will face
another reduction in workforce demand, due to three core elements; automation,
organizational changes, changes in our interactions with the customers as we saw this
morning with online sales and self-servicing.
As you can see here on the value chain, the decrease in workforce demand is more
pronounced where those three factors apply the most, here in sales, underwriting, back
oﬃce claims, IT and support functions. On the contrary, workforce demand is increasing
for marketing and big data.
Second ﬁnding, we have more ﬂexibility than anticipated to transform. Our global attrition
is 32% across the next ﬁve years. This high attrition rate is explained by our attrition rate in
high growth market as many companies, but also by the fact that in our mature countries,
the attrition rate is high, and especially in Europe, due to our age pyramids and
acceleration in retirement.
On top of the natural attrition rate, we have signed, in some European countries preretirement agreement with our unions, which means that in reality our attrition rate is
above 32%. This will give us ﬂexibility to transform as we will not be replacing everywhere
in the same way all those departures.
Page 40 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

Third ﬁnding, we have room for selective recruiting across all geography. From now on to
2020, 25% of our employees will be newly recruited. This is a great opportunity to recruit
new talents and embed new skills. At the same time of course, we will need to pay
attention to how we secure knowledge transfer.
Our real recruitment rate maybe above 25%, as we will have to manage additional
recruitment in high growth markets to foster our high growth market strategy as shared
this morning by Jean-Louis notably.
The fourth ﬁnding is that 50% of our jobs will face high change in required skill-set. What
you have in front of you is a very simpliﬁed version of our job analysis, where you can see
across the value chain how we have pictured the impact in terms of skills change of all the
trans-automation, digital, and data. What you see here, so we have removed some of the
name of the job clusters. Job cluster is the name that we give to our job families. We have
left some of them, in the boxes that you have highlighted in yellow.
In deep blue, you have the job families for which we consider that the intensity of change
will be the highest. What is the key learning here that will have 50% of jobs which will
surprise us but also it's really important that good jobs are located everywhere across the
value chain.

Bloomberg Transcript

So since we started, I have been sharing with you how we have been working to better
understand the future of skills in our industry. But the future is now – and we have already
started to work and transform the way our employees are working, integrating digital and
big data to recruit a new talents and to train our employees.
I'd like to share with you a few concrete examples with the voices of our employees in this
short video.
[Video presentation] (2:16:36-2:20:00)
So, you've just heard – they are the testimonials of our employees that change is already
underway in the areas of sales, underwriting, actuarial, big data. This gives me the perfect
transition to share with you what our action plan is about. And as I said in the introduction,
our action plan is about three clear rules: upskilling, selective recruiting, fostering
innovation for the customer.
Upskilling – what we mean by upskilling is to develop the skills of our employee to reach
and to target the future skills, what will be more and more needed in the future. We'll be
investing €143 million over the ﬁve coming years into upskilling which represents 23% of
increase of our learning budget.
Selective recruiting is our second lever. We have been very successful those past years
when recruiting, especially technology proﬁles, digital and data proﬁles, and I think that
(02:21:10) this morning, gave us the testimony on how he joined AXA.

Page 41 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

Myself, I have spent a lot of time and energy and with a lot of passion those past years as
many of my colleagues recruiting and hunting for those proﬁles. And we were able to
attract (2:21:28) in 2013, 700 digital and data experts. We will be accelerating this trend,
recruiting those people from the technology space, but also key segments in-house or
key experts to go and work in our high growth market.
The third lever is how we foster innovation for the customer. We have been very
consistent across the organization in encouraging and rewarding innovation. And as
mentioned this morning, you certainly saw that we were this year nominated by the BCG
among the top 50 Most Innovative Companies in the World and the only insurer in this
ranking.

Bloomberg Transcript

What we are doing here, we are leveraging the AXA Life that we have in Shanghai and in
San Francisco by leveraging the partnership that we have with the big Internet players or
smaller start-ups. By leveraging the new organization structure (2:22:35) that we have
mentioned this morning, partners (2:22:38) strategic ventures, we have opened doors to
bring more innovation inside. On top of that, across the organization, we are accelerating
the shift to more agile organizations to disseminate innovation across all our entities and
across the teams.
To ﬁnish with, I would like to share with you three key takeaways I wish you keep in mind
regarding our workforce strategy. The ﬁrst one, we have ﬂexibility to transform and
reshape our workforce. The second one, we are investing to build today the required
skills of tomorrow and we will have room for maneuver for selective recruiting and
integrating new expertise. And the third one, our key initiative on culture are focused on
fostering innovation for the customer.
With that, this concludes the Transform part. And I will hand over to Thomas for the Q&A.

Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you, Karima. So, we have now 15 minutes of Q&A and I would like to be
accompanied by a couple of people; Véronique, Paul, George Stansﬁeld, who is the Head
of HR and Jacques de Peretti, who is our CEO of the French business.

Unveriﬁed Participant
So, we'll start with the middle table here again.

Q&A
Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Jon Hocking, Morgan Stanley, two questions please. Firstly, how does AXA partners work
with the rest of the group. So how does it sit on top, is it using sort of product sets and
around the group? That's ﬁrst question.

Page 42 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

Then second question, you mentioned that the MyAXA App has been rolled out globally,
what product sets are available and what countries and what is...

Operator

FINAL

A - Véronique Weill
Your ﬁrst question on partners, when we decided to build partners, it was not to create an
extra layer, it was to be able to have one face to the market and make sure that our
partners, our current (2:25:00) manufacturers, our energy companies have one point of
entry. So we are deﬁnitely relying on the technology and on the sales force in the various
entities, and we are really working concretely and collectively to achieve that goal. We are
also working with AXA Global Direct in order to leverage the technology.
So, one thing to summarize, no additional cost, but twitching diﬀerent functions and
making sure that we have one sale to the market. That's for your ﬁrst question.

Bloomberg Transcript

The second question is MyAXA. So what we've is, we would be ruling out in – as a ﬁrst
step between September and I would say the end of the year in 15 countries, which
represent 85% of the earnings. And as you can see, we've spoken about the
commitments, so the claim factors, the next steps, the ability to follow-up on the claim,
follow-up on cash reimbursement, that would be valuable for MyAXA and also in the
savings, we are able to look at the performance and give additional contribution.
And among the years what we would do is, we'll continue to enrich – I think we've the
core capabilities available, but for (2:26:15) for connected device we targeted, marketing
would be able to continue to roll it out.

Q - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

Thank you Véronique. I go to this table.
Good morning. (2:26:30) one question maybe for you and for Véronique. As it is very
illustrative Investor Day, could you give us the way you think as you mentioned in an
interview, you could work with for instance, Apple, Amazon and you mentioned in the
interview what you didn't want to be only, I would say hidden partner, just lending your
balance sheet, but you wanted to be something more in the new way of targeting clients
with new partner. Can you give, just elaborate a little bit how you see things in the future,
in this transformation of distribution. Thank you.
Yes and I come back to the ﬁrst question on AXA Partners because that is exactly where
we have created AXA Partners. Traditionally, if you look the insurance business model, it
has always been built on how can I do it myself. We see now that the expertise going
forward is very special and that we need to partner with other people. And we love to
partner obviously with global ﬁrms because we are also global ﬁrm and therefore AXA
Partners is extremely important to have that interlink on a global level.

Page 43 of 72



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

We see that obviously many of other companies, if you take the GAFA's Véronique was
saying, are thinking about insurance, our thinking about how can we also get closer to
insurance. And that is for us, on the one hand the question are these GAFA's the
competitors of tomorrow or these not the partners of today. And I personally would like to
win and work with them as partners of today. And to give you a concrete example, one of
the GAFA's is very, very dominant in thinking how can we invest in health, how can be
build as an ecosystem to reduce the cost of chronic diseases, take diabetes for example.
Today, if you look all the machinery and the medicine you need for it is very expensive,
yet if you go with (2:28:52), you can reduce the average cost signiﬁcantly. That gives you
one part of the answer, how to reduce the cost on chronic diseases.
The other part of the answer lies with us, because we know how those illnesses go. We
know what to do against them, we know how to deal with the ﬂow of interactions and how
can you sustain and get better during these chronic diseases. So if you put the GAFA and
us together, we can rethink and rebuild the model in a way to say, can we not work in our
own space to reduce the amount of cost of chronic diseases or could we even go
together to a, for example, NHS to say – look, NHS will help you to reduce your cost of
chronic diseases. Then you come into a logic where you don't rent your balance sheet,
but where you put expertise together to really be at the client forefront together and to
help to reduce the costs as an example.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Oliver George Nigel Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank. Two questions. The ﬁrst is, the MyAXA seems to be sort of at
fairly early stages in terms of roll out, 150,000 customers in France, I think I saw it in one of
the slides and that's where it started I assume. So what are you doing apart from just
rolling it out to another 15 countries or whatever it was? What are you doing, what's the
process by which you actually get people to sign out voluntarily? That's question one.
Second question is, can you break down the 1.7 policies per customer a little bit more by
country, and I mean is that across the entire group including the bits (02:30:33) where
you don't have a composite oﬀering, or is that just the composite part? Where are the
opportunities in that?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Before I will let Véronique answer, there is one thing on myAXA and that's maybe a
philosophy change because myAXA has not just started yesterday, myAXA has been
there for a long time, but we have also learned our lesson in a way that if we position
myAXA as a digital policyholder and as a digital policy tool, it is not the right thing, you
need to position myAXA as a tool to engage for the customer. And maybe on that line
Véronique, do you want to elaborate a bit?

A - Véronique Weill
You said it very well. So I have nothing add to – I have nothing to add notes. What I
wanted to tell you is that the tool is nothing. So, what you need to remember is that what
we want to increase the Dutch point. What we have learned and I think that France was –
has started its adoption matters. So what we need and we learn it from the past that we

Page 44 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

will continue to update our rollout plan is that we need to convey that message across the
value chain. So, it's not only by requesting on the website, it's also being able to have it
demonstrated by the distributors. If you have the contact with your claim center or your
contact center, they can propose it to you.
So our challenge today is no more building sensi (02:31:57) tool. Our challenge is to make
sure that customers see the beneﬁt that we are doing it jointly with the various channel
which are this typical distribution, contact center, and through that, we can do more direct
marketing and more digital marketing. So I think it's really a big foundation and I am really
happy to be – to see really cascade it across the various countries, so that's your ﬁrst point.
On your 1.7 contractor customer, I'm not going to transfer it totally to Gérald, but what I
can tell you is an average – it's an average across the countries, taking also into account
the mono liners (02:32:35). So we believe that it's not where we want to be. We have
been there for a while. We believe that now by having an omni-channel distribution, we
can do better and we believe by assessing the risk of our customer, we are able to
provide additional product and services. And I can tell you that it's just not me on this
ﬂow, but my partners in the various entities are committed to that numbers also.

Q - Mark David Cathcart

{BIO 19783252 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Hi. It's Mark Cathcart from Jeﬀeries. This all sounds very innovative, but in reality like
insurance, digital is commodity. So where do you see yourselves relative to the
competition? I've got impression from (02:33:20) who was telling us that with the brands
in France, you're ahead of the curve, but I wonder about the other 15 countries, where are
you in the digital race?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

So if you look at the competitive landscape, and I'm not going onto any speciﬁc
competitor, you see two school of thoughts. The ﬁrst thought on digital is, I have a paper
from today, I have a screen tomorrow. This is one school of thought that is working on
digital, the other one, and that's where we belong to is digital is an opportunity to engage
with a customer, because we've seen battling for years and years, that a visit to a customer
or call to a customer is very, very expensive.
With digital, you have a much diﬀerent way of interacting and there we clearly say, we are
leading the pack, we have invested signiﬁcantly in digital. Véronique was mentioning a
strategic venture commits and maybe Jacques, you can say something about AXA France
again. In many countries, we are clearly ahead of the competition. But Jacques maybe
you want to add to France because that's where the example was related to.

A - Jacques de Peretti

{BIO 16202180 <GO>}

Concerning France, it's true that we're ahead of our competitors. We've invested much
money in the past and now we have with myAXA, a wonderful hallmark, which help us to
have more interaction with our customer to develop more personalized oﬀer. The next
step in France will be to convert on this myAXA, you know so the AXA bond grow
because we have a bank with insurance. So in order to increase again – to increase more
Page 45 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

the frequency of huge and to give to the customer a real advantage, and that is
something that will help us to have more interaction with the customer deﬁnitely, a new
journey with the customer, but also it will help distribution because digitalization and
distribution – physical distribution appropriately complementary.
And for example, with myAXA and with set scale that Véronique describing myAXA, for
example, in claims to put money on your life contract et cetera, et cetera. You free up
unproductive task from your distributors and they can now focus both on productive task,
which is giving advice for more personalized solution that to develop what Paul presented
in-depth, for example, allocation of asset et cetera, et cetera. So myAXA is not only
revolution in the customer journey, but also in the distribution model.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

So that the second point will be, Véronique maybe you want to add to it. This is the
second point that diﬀerentiate us. We do not believe direct against agents. We believe
direct with agent, One AXA is the way to go. Véronique?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Véronique Weill
So I think that if you look at the landscape, I think we've started earlier. We are the ﬁrst
number one brand insurance globally. We have been able to accelerate and to do the
right investment and we will continue to invest because we're going to invest €3 billion
for the transformation in the next ﬁve years and we have also this execution track record,
which is linked with our people. This is not just us as a management committee, which is
really cascading without the organization and we're able to embark our distributors, our
contact center, and our product manufacturers. So I think we believe that on top of the
ecosystem that we've been able to deal that we're really leading in that space and we
want to continue to keep that number one position and continue to roll out products and
services.

Q - Mark David Cathcart

{BIO 19783252 <GO>}

So you say that outside of France, in other European countries, you are ahead of the
market?

A - Véronique Weill
I think that what we have – I think what is important and maybe that was not the case in the
past. In the past, you had entities which we're very happy to reinvent the wheel and
thinking that they can conquer the world. Now, we are much more systematic and I think
maybe that culture is going to help us and position us ahead of the competition.
Reputation matters.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Maybe, we go to the next, we have time for one more question. I know there is many
more. We can use the lunch to discuss the other questions, but let's...

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 21515144 <GO>}
Page 46 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

Nick Holmes of SocGen. Just one question on health. I was a little bit surprised at 3% to
5% of your target, because I just thought you could probably achieve more than that,
couldn't you in terms of the growth potential with ageing populations. Wondered what
your assumptions are and whether you feel that that is a cautious target? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

So it's true that health is a growing space, and you also know that we are always on the
conservative side, but Paul will explain how we get to the number.

A - Paul Evans

{BIO 20793138 <GO>}

The second person, who said my target (02:38:36) ambition so that I'm not making many
friends today. So, look, I think, that if the market oﬀers us real opportunities, I think 3% to
5% compound growth over the plan period is something that we're conﬁdent that we can
achieve. Is there upside potential? I think there is probably more upside potential in the
Asian markets. If we calculate them, some of those markets today, about 80% of our
revenues and 80% of our earnings comes from France, Japan, UK and Germany. So there
is a big opportunity to shift that mix from an 80-20 moving out over the years. So there
could be more, but I think that we have a plan that's built on solid foundations and the
plan is built on a solid foundation of growth.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much. I know there is a few more questions. Please keep your questions
for the lunch. We have enough time then to discuss it. Thank you very much for the Q&A.
And I hand over to Andrew to introduce Focus II.
[Break] (02:39:38-02:39:52).

A - Andrew Wallace-Barnett

{BIO 18671460 <GO>}

So thank you, Thomas, and thank you to everybody. That was the transform little
(02:39:58), so very important in terms of future retail as an example of new customer
experience. Health is a great example not only of a growing business, but also of what we
mean by payer to partner and then of course interesting and that's unexpected news on
the workforce evolution which is very, very important and something that we've studied
and then analyzed in great detail.
Now, we shift back to focus, remember focus is about the things that we are doing
immediately to support our target for earnings growth and dividend growth. And before
we get to ﬁnance, I know everybody there is big build up for Gérald, he is looking
nervous over there in the corner. But Gérald is going to pull it all together, but what we
still we'd like to do in terms of some of the things we're doing on the area of technical
margin improvement, we'd like to talk to you about some of the fruits we have from smart
data, and how we expect that to impact our loss ratio during the plan period and also to
give you an update on the inforce management, and then Gérald will come and hope it
all come together with the ﬁnance section.

Page 47 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

So I'd like now to hand over to Benoît and Etienne to talk about smart data.

FINAL

A - Benoît Claveranne
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Our apologies to sit here (02:41:48) before
Gérald's session. Etienne, our Chief Financial Oﬃcer in Germany and myself Benoît, the
Chief Transformation Oﬃcer for the Group, are happy to share with you this morning how
at AXA smart data means more business. In the next 10 minutes, we will show you a very
concrete business results from our smart data initiatives and why and how, thanks to all
the initiatives and investments we have made we are going to industrialize those results.
I don't think I need to spend too much time on that slide. You've seen it a zillion times.
Everyone keep saying the same things, data is everywhere and it's growing exponentially.
Last estimate is that by 2020, the whole word data will be in the vicinities of 40-zetabytes.
Against that background, at AXA, we have decided to focus ﬁrst on our internal data,
which is basically a fantastic gold mine made of all the data that our clients have left and
are leaving with us every time they interact with us.

Bloomberg Transcript

So as I just said, lots of people talk a lot about smart data. At AXA not only do we talk
about it, but we walk the talk. And we have done a lot of things in the Group, notably in
the past couple of years under the leadership of Véronique and Philippe in this room. And
Etienne in a movement is going to share with you very tangible examples. But the most
fundamental thing is when you want to industrialize and because we want to do it, we
have organized ourselves, and we have invested to be ready to scale that up, and what
have we developed? Fundamentally, we have developed a comprehensive data
ecosystem.
On organization starting from scratch more than three years ago, we have developed
Data Innovation Labs in Paris and now in Singapore, which act as catalyst of our data
transformation by developing cutting edge approaches, big data capabilities and
providing technical expertise to our local operations. Thanks to our investment in
infrastructure on the three continents, our local entities can store, manage and process
very rich and diverse amount of data.
On people, we have recruited more than 300 data talents and we have 400 of them by
the end of the year. And those data talents are part of the data community we've been
developing, which is embedded in our local businesses along with our thousands of
actuaries.
And last and certainly not least, thanks to the ongoing 45 projects on smart data. We have
developed a very rich and deep knowledge of how to convert smart data into business.
Now, the question is, when we scale that, what can we expect in terms of results? And
here, our ambition is very clear and very straightforward. We are going to benchmark all
our smart data initiatives against business indicators such as the one that you can see on
the straight line behind me, and for some of them for which you have heard in
Véronique's presentation or in Jean-Louis' presentation very concrete examples in
geographies.
Page 48 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

This initiative will result in an increase of revenues and a lowering of our cost, which will
result in an improvement of our margin that we are ready to share and estimate with you
this morning. But before sharing that, let me hand over to Etienne, who is going to lead
you and take you through three very simple business examples to (02:46:08) this
concept.

A - Etienne Bouas - Laurent

{BIO 22169078 <GO>}

Good morning. As Benoît said, there are plenty of initiatives around the Group with smart
data, and I'm going to focus on three of them to give you a ﬂavor of what we want to
achieve and how.
I'm going to start with an example on fraud in Germany, which I as CFO follow very
carefully, because it's a big part of our savings program for 2020 in terms of claims.
We are actually moving from a very classical fraud detection process to a state-of-the-art
system, which allows us to see things, which we couldn't see before. On the left-hand
side, you see the kind of screen our claims handlers were facing until recently. So it's not a
practical standard information, limited information. And if you wanted to dig a little bit
more into the details, you have to open various ﬁles to get to a conclusion.

Bloomberg Transcript

So the talents, the experience, the motivation of the claims handler was really key. Our
new system automatically identiﬁes the suspicious elements of the claim. Those elements
being external data, internal data, being quantitative data or qualitative data. And today, I
want to show you how we are connecting the dots.
Let's take an example. There is a claim of €10,000, (02:48:05) an accident which
happened during the night. Is it suspicious? Yes. Because it's a big amount, it's during the
night. Is it enough to state that there is a fraud? No. Not at all. The probability is that we
cannot qualify the probability that there is the probability of the other fraud.
So let's go one step further. The system now identiﬁes the suspicious words used by the
clients in his declaration. And let's go further with the example. The client says all right. I
hit a guard rail or a safety barrier because I wanted to avoid a deer crossing the streets
while the visibility was limited. And there are some suspicious words in this statement. So
now, we know that the probability of the fraud is higher, much higher, but on top of this,
the external data show that at that moment, the weather was good and that the place, the
exact place where the accident took place was an urban area where the probability of
hitting a deer is quite limited. This looks exaggerated, but it's not the case, it's really the
reality. And so now we know that the probability is very high that we had a fraud. But our
analysis go even further, goes even further because the system identiﬁes similarities
between the cases, even if the client are diﬀerent.
In our example, the system identiﬁes that there were similar client description with the
deer and the safety barrier in the same region, but other time with diﬀerent clients. And
we were able to identify fraud network. We made a test in Hamburg in the beginning of
the year during two months and we have identiﬁed 10 fraud cases, organized fraud, and
this is not something we were expecting. So we understand that with that kind of system
Page 49 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

and new processes, we are going to increase our fraud detection rate by 50% and it
represents 0.8 point of loss ratio which is signiﬁcant.

FINAL

So you can imagine the increased motivation of our claims handler, who saves time, the
superior experience of the client who gets less investigations and who get payments in a
quicker way and of course, the absolute delight of the CFO is going to achieve his
objectives.
Let's move to the U.S. in an entirely diﬀerent choose of smart data. We are already
number one in the savings retirement market for teachers. And the question was can we
do more if we're already the leader and without of course increasing our marketing
spend. And the answer is yes. We think we can increase our revenues by 15% to 20%. And
how can we do that? With smart data, we have put in place an algorithm which identiﬁes
the one-third customers most likely to increase their contribution. Interestingly, those onethird customers are the already good customers, the ones with the higher contribution
and the regular payments. So by reallocating part of the marketing budget which was not
very eﬃciently used and reallocating it to the good customers, we are going to increase
mechanically our revenues.

Bloomberg Transcript

Diﬀerent situation in Spain. In Spain, we were suﬀering from anti-selection underwriting in
the direct motor retail segment. And the question was how can we become proﬁtable
because the market was very competitive, very tough market. We succeeded actually in
decreasing our new business sales ratio by eight points within two years.
So how did we do that? The smart data project enabled us to optimize the pricing
algorithm. We multiplied by three the number of variables used for this. We included a
demonstration a lot of client behavior data. For instance, the way a client browse on the
web, has an inﬂuence on his risk proﬁle.
Before handing over back to Benoît, I would like to highlight four success factors which
we experienced during this project. The ﬁrst one task force mode. Smart data, big data,
we are always speaking about big numbers, big stuﬀ. But actually for each project we are
managing very small teams, below 10 people. It's mixing business people and data
scientist, working in the time pressure.
Second factor, advanced engineering of data. Of course, we are managing our data leg
very eﬃciently, but this does not make the diﬀerence. The diﬀerence lies in the way we
engineer the data to make them work, to optimize, and to enrich the algorithm.
Third, self-learning system; this is very important. Once we have setup – determined an
algorithm, we need to enrich it on a daily basis with the business experience.
And lastly, end-to-end solutions. What is very important is to think about the way the end
user is going to use the algorithm and this is being developed in parallel and not at the
end of the project.

Page 50 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

So we are continuingly looking at business processes where smart data applications can
give us a competitive edge.

FINAL

A - Benoît Claveranne
Thank you, Etienne. So you've just seen three compelling examples of how a smart data
means more business. What does it mean? It means that in the new phase where we are
industrializing this, we are doing better and faster, things that we used to do in the past in
terms of technical excellence, but also in terms of customer experience and these paves
the way for new services for an innovation regarding the services that we provide to our
clients, which can help us to transform ourselves from being a payer today to being a
partner tomorrow as Thomas was saying this morning. And when we take all these things
together based on our experience, we estimate that we can put a number behind that
ambition and that we can reach a one-point of loss ratio improvement by 2020. Thank
you.
And now, I hand over to Matthieu and Todd for the Inforce.
[Music] (2:55:59-2:56:16)

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Matthieu André
Good morning to all. Good to see you again. I hope you're still with us after we're about
to start the last hour of the session and I'll promise you one thing, we are the last speaker
between you and the long-awaited Gérald presentation. So rest assure, we'll be to the
point and we'll be eﬃcient. My name is Matthieu André. I am Group Head of Inforce and
Life Reinsurance.

A - Todd Solash

{BIO 16937025 <GO>}

And I'm Todd Solash, I lead the Annuity business in the U.S.

A - Matthieu André
Somebody was reminding me earlier at the break that, if you remember two years ago,
there was a very good presentation made by Paul Evans and it was characterized as being
the gem of the IR Day two years ago. And I hope that you will remember that we
altogether concluded that the beauty of Life & Savings Inforce Management at AXA is that
the more we search, the more we ﬁnd.
What we will show you today is that we have built an ecosystem delivering tangible results
leading to a learning organization, which has changed its mindset that we have four key
levers delivering revenues, earnings, and capital, which is being performed in an
organized and systematic way. That we are always looking at our customers' interests and
I think it's important to remember one thing, as far as customers' interests is concerned, is
our ﬁrst priority is to be there when the customer most needs us and alternatively to
provide him with solution if and when his needs have changed. And last that we are
expanding our reach. So, we'll be able to demonstrate to you that indeed the more we
search, the more we ﬁnd.
Page 51 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

What do we mean by saying we have built an ecosystem delivering tangible results? Well,
Inforce Management is about improving shareholder return while catering for changing
customer needs and markets. It is a change in culture, a change in mindset and a focus on
change. This is relying on three principles. The ﬁrst principle is we are systematically
reviewing our portfolio as customer needs, time and markets are changing and are
passing. And every year that passes is giving us another occasion to look at it over-andover again. It is a virtuous cycle.
The second principle is about leveraging experience, culture and expertise. Over, the last
four years, we've recruited more than 200 people, focusing in managing and delivering
more than 300 projects across 13 countries, if not more, in Life, Savings and Health. And
the third principle is tangible results. And believe me, you need tangible results when
you're constantly trying to challenge status quo and the way things were done for the last
20 years. And I think here we are relying on tangible results.
Over the last four years, we have improved additional underlying earnings by more than
€500 million. We have freed up close to €3 billion of capital through Inforce related
action be it sale, reinsurance or transformation of our book. And maybe the most
important one is 20% of our contacted customers have actually elected to choose the
solution we were oﬀering them.

Bloomberg Transcript

What does it all mean? You know that AXA is one of the largest life insurer by reserve and
whatever metrics you're looking at we're talking about sizable numbers. What Inforce
Management is about is trying to ﬁnd 1 basis point or 2-basis point here or there that will
make a signiﬁcant diﬀerence.
We are driving our operations on four key levers; investment margin, customer
experience, technical margin and capital eﬃciency. They all contribute to earnings
improvement, revenue generation, capital liberation or a combination of any. It is quite a
holistic approach looking again, at both the shareholder return and the customer needs.
And I'm insisting on the customer because the one thing we've learned over the last two
years to three years is focusing on the customer needs is giving us new angle and is
brining balance in everything that we do.
So what does that mean driving our operation of four key levers? If you take investment
margin, we're looking at best practices in this example and it's not because Thomas is our
new CEO, its Germany, who has been the best practice for investment margin. We then
test it in a given portfolio and if it works, we're rolling out that mechanism to all portfolio
across all countries.
If you look over the last four years, investment margin improvements have driven
considerable beneﬁts to the program and crediting rate actions have yielded close to
€200 million of incremental earnings, which has enabled us to stabilize our investment
margin at around 80 basis points. Gérald will talk more about that later on. While we
believe that there is still room for improvement in countries like France, in counties like
Belgium or in counties like Switzerland on the group life business, our focus today is to
mitigate lower investment income through crediting rate action.

Page 52 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

On the contrary though, we believe that there is substantial beneﬁts that can be reached
through the other levers. Namely customer experience, cross-sell, up-sell, retention,
claims and maturity reinvestment, as Véronique and her team alluded to early on today.
Technical margin through the enforcement of non-guaranteed element, group repricing,
fraud prevention and customer well-being and obviously capital eﬃciency. Thomas
mentioned earlier that we are moving from being a passive payer into an active partner
and I think Inforce is contributing to that journey.
Now, we'll hand over to Todd, who will take us further into capital eﬃciency and customer
experience.

A - Todd Solash

{BIO 16937025 <GO>}

Thank you, Matthieu. As Matthieu said, capital eﬃciency is a key part of what we do at
Inforce. It's a critical part of driving dividend capacity and it really requires that we
segment the portfolio, so we can focus our eﬀorts in the right places.

Bloomberg Transcript

Now, perhaps because we're French, we think about segmentation, it'll be like wine. So
every vintage isn't the same at harvest. Every vintage doesn't age the same way in the
seller and let's be real. Some vintages are spectacular, others less so. So what you see on
the left side of the page is our current vintage chart and our eﬀorts are really on the
bottom two boxes quite clearly.
So we still have some legacy variable annuity liabilities that are certainly still challenged
and with rates such as they are around the world, we're very focused on capital intensive
GA blocks (3:03:51) around the world. But what do we do about it. Well, obviously the
technical levers come ﬁrst, where can we lower our crediting rates? What other options
do we have embedded in the products? But once we've pulled those, we have to move to
the right side of the page and start with the things like conversion and buyout.
Simply put as Paul said earlier, what can we oﬀer our customer that's good for them and
good for us. And we got a long history in places like Japan where we've done it for many,
many years; in France, we've looked to move general account liabilities to unit-linked, I'll
talk about the U.S. in a second and we continue to rollout these programs around the
world.
At the same time, we're always looking to optimize the balance sheet. So we've formed
the central risk carrier to minimize some (3:04:30) capital across Europe and we work with
our reinsurance partners where we can either ﬂop risks or reduce the capital burden by
laying oﬀ things to them.
And last but certainly not least, once we've done what we can, we've never afraid of
disposals. So Denis mentioned some of the earlier disposals in the last plan,
opportunistically we'll always look at that as an option, but it's not just an academic
exercise. So let me talk a little bit about what we've done in the U.S., which has really been
a three-phased journey. So if you start on the left side of the page, we started with the
technical levers; things like crediting rates, fee increases and other things that were
already embedded in the products have been tremendously powerful. So $150 million in
Page 53 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

underlying earnings generated through these actions, but they frankly have their limits. At
some point you reach the lowest crediting rate that you can oﬀer by the contract itself.
And then we move to the middle. What can we do at conversion with buyout, what can
we oﬀer a customer. And again, I can't stress enough, the customers often have products
that are incredibly valuable, but simply not what they need anymore, that seven years, 10
years, 15 years pass and while it's a very interesting product in the time it was sold, their
lives have changed, so what can we do for them.
In our case, it's been mostly around liquidity, right? A customer has to die or outlive their
money before they get money from us, and if we can oﬀer them liquidity now, they've
been quite interested (3:05:42) in it. Now, these aren't huge moneymakers, so they tend
to be about breakeven from an underlying earnings standpoint. But they do free up a lot
of capital, so you can see $800 million of economic capital released through these
actions.

Bloomberg Transcript

And last, but certainly not least, is how do we learn from all of this, to build the better
Inforce for tomorrow. So on the right side of the page, we've been very, very focused on
things like fee ﬂexibility, structured products, volatility managed funds, how do we build
the better Inforce of tomorrow. It's great at the point of sale, so $600 million reduction in
capital requirements, but it's also great through time. It gives us the tools that we need to
stabilize margins, no matter what economic environments occur.
Now, before I leave practical applications, I do want to spend one minute on the
customer. Simply put, if we can't create a win-win, we won't succeed with Inforce. Now,
what you've got here are two examples of where we're creating exactly that win-win. So
on the left side of the page is the disability business in France. Clearly in disability, you
have to get oﬀ the claim if you're going to make money. And we've been able to do that
by partnering with specialized providers to get people back to work. Now, you can see it's
good for us, the 4% reduction in claims, but it's clearly good for the employer, they're
getting their workers back, and it's good for the employees, they get healthy and they get
back to work. So the cycle works all together and it also helps us at the point of sale. If we
can show you that we can get your people back to work faster then we are a more
desirable partner to do business with even potentially at a slightly higher price.
And on the right is the customer relationship unit in the U.S. So we have a proprietary
agent system in the U.S. Like many proprietary agent systems, occasionally our agents
lose track of certain customers over time, it's the polite way (3:07:22) we think about it.
And what can we do to serve those customers? They still have needs, they still want
service, so we developed a specialized call center. It serves them well, it's serves them
cost-eﬀectively, and as you can see, it's been able to help us convert our service into
sales. It's a valuable network and we think we can serve roughly 15% to 20% of the
population over time through this call center.
So these are clearly evolutionary and not revolutionary ideas but they matter. They matter
because they drive bottom-line, so we've been able to make between a few million and
tens of millions of dollars from these types of initiatives. They matter because they drive

Page 54 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

mindset, they get the whole organization focused on Inforce; and they matter because
they can be extended around the world. So anywhere where we have a disability
business, we can look to ﬁnd a specialist network just as we have in France. Anywhere
where we have a proprietary agent network, we can look to add a specialized call center
just as we've done in the U.S.
And with that, I'll turn it back to Mathew who will talk about precisely how we extended
around the world and what you can expect.

A - Matthieu André
Thank you, Todd. So, as you have heard, there is a lot going on, we've achieved a lot. And
so, the obvious question you could ask to yourself or ask us, is have we harvested all the
low-hanging fruits, and is there anything left.

Bloomberg Transcript

Well, the answer is yes; but in fact no. Yes, we have harvested some low-hanging fruits,
even though some of those fruits were pretty high on the tree, I can tell you. But there's
still a lot we believe we can do. If you think about it, we are moving from a focus on three
countries to a focus on 13 countries. We are moving from a focus on 55% of reserve in
scope to a focus of 100% of reserve in scope by 2020. We're moving from a focus which
was predominately individual savings into all customer needs whether those customers
are retail customer or corporate customer.
So yes, we are of the belief that there is still substantial beneﬁts. And what do I mean by
substantial beneﬁt? Few examples. Recently, we were in Mexico, reviewing group life and
individual life business. I am not sure if you know where Mexico sits in the Life & Savings
segment of AXA, but you'll be surprised when I'll ﬁnish the story.
Or more recently during spring, we went to visit Jean-Louis' team in Thailand, reviewing
persistency rate, technical margin, or crediting rate. After having performed a systematic
portfolio screening in those two countries, we have identiﬁed action that once
implemented, and if successful, obviously, will yield more than €20 million of incremental
earnings by 2020. So, we're talking about potentially signiﬁcant numbers, and that is
making us quite conﬁdent in the development of the program.
This has led us to set ambitious and credible targets. Three targets; the ﬁrst one is we will
deliver additional underlying earnings of $350 million by 2020. The second target is we
will transform more than $12 billion of capital-intensive reserve by 2020. And we will
opportunistically sell or reinsure capital-intensive book of business, and if you see what
we have done recently whether it was in Hong Kong or more recently in the UK, you know
that there is real things behind those words.
So the key takeaway, we have taken you through the journey of what we're doing which is
we have build an ecosystem delivering tangible results. We have four key levers
delivering revenues, earnings and capital. We are always looking at our customers'
interest, and we are expanding our reach. So yes, we are of the belief that the more
research, the more we learn – and that's a very important point – and therefore the more
we ﬁnd, and the more we are contributing to the transformation of the group.
Page 55 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

Thank you very much for your attention. And I will now hand over for the long-awaited
Gérald's presentation about what it all means. Thank you.
[Music] (3:12:02-3:12:17)

FINAL

A - Gérald Harlin
So, it's now time for the wrap-up with ﬁgures. And this slide is about our key objectives,
and indeed we have four diﬀerent target KPIs. Starting ﬁrst with underlying earnings per
share, which we are expecting between 3% and 7% on average, between 15% and 20%.
Second adjusted return on equity between 12% and 14%, between 16% and 20%. Next is
the group operating free cash ﬂow, expected between €28 billion on a cumulative basis
and €32 billion and our Solvency II ratio in line with the objective we shared with you at
the beginning of December; i.e., between 170% and 230% range.

Bloomberg Transcript

So let's start with underlying earnings per share, which as you can imagine, are quite
dependent on the ﬁnancial markets. So as you can see, our interest rate base case is
conservative. This is the one you can see on the bold line, meaning on the left-hand side,
you have the German Bund. We're assuming a progressive increase to close to 0 today to
1% in 2019. In the middle, we have the U.S. Treasury rates and we are expecting it to be
less than 2% in 2020.
But we believe that it was important to run two alternative scenario, starting ﬁrst which
was very adverse one, that's the blue dotted line that you can see here, and this indeed
corresponds to a ﬂat rate in euro as well as in dollars. And we have a more favorable one,
which is the green dotted line and corresponding to 2% of the Bund and 4% of U.S.
Treasury bond.
You can see on the top right that we are assuming that equities reevaluation on average
will be ﬂat over the plan period. It doesn't mean that we are not positive on the long run
on the equities and we still believe that on the long run we should achieve a 6% per
annum growth. But here in this plan, we have assumed that it was 0.
So in the bottom of the graph you can see how it translates into our earnings
expectations. That means that in the unfavorable scenario we can expect to have on
average a growth of 3% on our earnings over the plan period, and in the favorable case,
7%, the base case being the middle, i.e., 5%.
Finally, we would expect earnings growth to be slower in the early years of the plan. So all
of this conﬁrms our strong resilience with upside thanks to initiatives present here today.
So the questions is, what are the main drivers of our underlying earnings per share
projected growth. And you can see it here on this slide and on this slide, on a simple way,
we – our objective was to present you the ﬁve drivers. On the left-hand side, you have the
environment, and we have no control on it. And the interest rate headwinds, between
minus 5%, corresponding to the unfavorable scenario, and 1%, corresponding to the
favorable scenario.

Page 56 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

And then we have the four drivers, which are under own management controls. Starting
ﬁrst with eﬃciency, plus 3%; growth, plus 2%; technical margin, plus 2%; M&A, plus 1%; as
a whole between 3% and 7% as I told you. So I propose to come back on each of these
drivers and I propose you to start with the interest rates.
As far as interest rates are concerned, we have been quite resilient over the last years for
two reasons. The ﬁrst one being the tight duration gap, around one year. The second, the
fact that we have been investing 85% of new ﬁxed income in single A and above. So as far
as this new plan is concerned, don't expect us to change. We'll keep exactly the same
philosophy, and we don't intend to decrease the asset quality.
So at the same time, assuming our main conservative scenario, i.e., a progression, an
increase of 10 years bonds to 1% in 2019, then you can see on the bottom left, what we can
expect from the investment margin. So the investment margin will move between 65 basis
points and 70 basis points. Presently, we had guidance of the last plan, which was 70 basis
points to 80 basis points, so taking into account these interest rate scenarios, we can
expect to be between 65 basis points and 75 basis points in 2016 and 2017. And from
2018 to 2020 to be between 55 basis points and 75 basis points.

Bloomberg Transcript

Two remarks, relative to these investment margins. First, no cliﬀ risk. Second, no risk with
guaranteed rates. As far as P&C dilution is concerned, starting from you have in mind
(3:18:28) that presently we have an investment yield of 3.6%, we should decrease between
10 basis points and 20 basis points per year over the next years.
So, let's move now to the ﬁrst driver under our own control, which is eﬃciency. So, look,
we started – it's been repeated this morning, but we started oﬀ 2011-2015 journey with €1.5
billion cost savings plan, and indeed, we achieved much better at €1.9 billion. Here, our
objectives for the next ﬁve years is to achieve €2.1 billion and this will be net of €3 billion
investment redirected to transformation initiatives, so it's €2.1 billion net.
How we will achieve this? First, with a reduction in admin expenses, with a reduction on
claims handling cost and also acquisition expenses. As a whole, we can expect from this
€2.1 billion cost savings to achieve on average 3% underlying earnings per share, which is
quite signiﬁcant because it upsets our conservative base case interest rate scenario.
Let's move now to the business growth. So, you had a lot of presentations this morning –
and they are on the top-left box – and that the selective growth examples from today,
roughly speaking, represented 55% of revenues. On the right-hand side you have what
was not presented today, 45% of revenues. So, let me start with what we presented today.
So, we started with savings in mature markets and Paul and Nick told us that they were
expecting 3% to 5% NBV growth between 15% and 20%.
Next, we had the P&C commercial lines and Gaëlle, Amanda and Dawn told us they were
expecting 3% to 5% revenue growth over the plan period. Then Jean-Louis told us for
Asia, he was expecting to have an increase by 10% to 12% of underlying earnings, of which
a signiﬁcant part would come from growth. Last on Health, Damien told that he was
expecting 3% to 5% revenues.
Page 57 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

On the part that was not presented today i.e., 45% of revenues, we can expect to be
between 2% and 3%. How does it translate? In term of underlying earnings per share, we
can expect to have a 2% underlying earnings per share growth with potential upside. Why
potential upside? Because this 2% underlying earnings growth is based on the low end of
growth records, as you noted it (3:21:31) for some of you before.
Let's move now to technical proﬁtability. We can expect to have continued improvement
during the plan period, starting ﬁrst with P&C on the left-hand side, and we expect to
have a current-year loss ratio moving down from 71.2% in 2015 to 70% at the end of the
plan. In term of all-years combined ratio, it would be a move down from 96.2% to 95% to
94%. Why a bracket? Because it depends on the level of prior-year reserve release
(3:22:07). As you know we are presently at 1% to 2% and it may move to 0% to 1% in the
later years of the plan.
As far as the Protection & Health is concerned, we expect to move down from 80.9%
current-year loss ratio to 80% with an all-year combined ratio moving down from 95.4% to
between 94% and 93%. As a whole, 2% underlying earnings per share are expected from
these technical improvement. And again, I insist on the fact that the 2% is based on the
low end of the combined brackets mentioned on the slide.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's move now to M&A. As far as M&A is concerned, so we have a – we are planning – we
plan roughly a €1 billion spending in M&A. It's not diﬀerent from what we told you over
the last month, and it will be balanced across mature and emerging markets. You can
expect us to be disciplined as we were over the last plan. As a whole we can expect to
have plus 1% underlying earnings per share growth coming from M&A.
All of that translates into strong cash ﬂows, and let's go now to the cash ﬂows. Group
operating free cash ﬂows are expecting between €28 billion and €32 billion; this
compares with the €25 billion achieved between 2011 and 2015.
Now, when moving to the cash remitted to the group, we are expecting to have a
remittance ratio between 75% and 85%, and you can notice here that we are on the high
end of the 75% to 85% because it includes some capital management actions. So, we can
expect to be between €24 billion and €27 billion. Holding costs minus €5 billion, stable
gearing at 26% is plus €2 billion.
Dividend, as you remember, we mentioned that going forward our dividend would be
between 45% and 55% of adjusted earnings net of undated debt charges. Assuming that
we would be on the middle of this range, i.e., 50%, then, it – the costs and there is a cash
grain (3:24:44), would be €16 billion.
As a whole, we have €5 billion to €8 billion cumulative cash at holding level available for
investment in M&A and this is pretty consistent with the €1 billion target that I shared with
you before.
Let's move to solvency now. As far as solvency is concerned, I remind you that we posted
a 25% solvency level at the end of 2015. The operating return is expected between 15
Page 58 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

points and 20 points of the plan period, dividends minus 49 points, and it's the same
assumption, we assume here that we would be in the middle of the payout range, i.e.,
50%, sub that minus 11 points, maybe, remember that we said that we could reﬁnance part
of the Tier 1 debt, i.e., €3 billion (3:25:48) Anyway, it's a drag of 10 points, but we have
ﬂexibility on that side.
As all, (3:25:54) we can expect to be at – 2016, in 2020, well within the 170% to 230%
range. This doesn't assume any change in UFR. But you remember that we said that the
100 basis points change in UFR would translate into 19 points. This should lead us to a
sustainable dividend growth. And I can say that the combination of the two factors, i.e.,
the resilience adjusted earnings per share growth between 3% and 7% growth target plus
a capital gain level between €300 million and €500 million and we can expect to be more
on the low end of this range over the plan period. This is combined with the ﬂexibility with
the payout ratio, because we were at 47 – we had a payout ratio of 47% at the end of 2015,
which means that we have ﬂexibility and this leaves room for the board to increase our
dividend.
And now, I hand over to Thomas.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thank you, Gérald. We are now coming to the ﬁnal Q&A session. Benoît will join us and I
hope there is a question on smart data and not everything is on ﬁnance, we will see.

Bloomberg Transcript

Who would like to start with the questions? Let's start again at the middle table.

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

Hello. It's Jon Hocking from Morgan Stanley. I've got two questions, please. Gérald, you
mentioned that the shape of the earnings growth was due to lower growth at the
beginning of the plan and high growth at the back end of the plan. Can you just talk a
little bit about how the interaction of the investment return environment and the cost
savings lead through to the ﬁve-year plan? It's a ﬁrst question.
The second question, just looking at going back to slide 114, where you've got so selective
growth penciled in for diﬀerent business units. Just looking at – it seems that the revenue
target is sort of north of 3% or so, but the earnings target is 2% up.
Is there implicitly a margin decline built into the plan, or is that actually just sort of the
margin of safety? Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Gérald, you take both questions.

A - Gérald Harlin

Page 59 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

Okay. So, let's start with the second one. I think that we have growth of 3% to – on average
3% let's say on page 114. You can notice that 2%, that's from the – we have 2% to 3% on
the other business that means that in the P&C business and the protection business. So in
the end, we have 2% underlying earnings per share growth. Keep in mind the fact that at
the same time, we have tax, which means that tax explains a signiﬁcant part of the
diﬀerence between the 3% (3:29:01) 2%. But again, I insist on the fact that, the way we
built 2% is really based on the low end of the bracket. Your ﬁrst question was...?

Q - Jon M. Hocking

{BIO 2163183 <GO>}

The shape of the earnings.

A - Gérald Harlin
The shape of the earnings curve. Yes, that means that taking into account the fact that we
have the headwind coming from this interest rate, and you know that we are in a declining
phase of the investment margin. We are assuming also that we don't have any growth in
the equity market. All this combines makes that there is a slower growth at the beginning
of the curve, that's it.

Bloomberg Transcript

And at the same time, all the initiatives that have been proposed to you, keep in mind that
we are staﬃng (3:29:54) as you know from a growth rate, which was much more modest
than the 1%. Many of you considered that as a whole, roughly 3% was modest, but
nevertheless we are not at this space to that, (3:30:05) so that means that it will take some
time, but you can count on us to do it as quick as possible.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Let's go to this table.

Q - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

Interest rates fell quite sharply over the past three weeks. So, I'm just wondering did you
have to change the 3% to 7%? Was it changed from say 4% to 8% three weeks ago? Is
really to check that, that curve where you've got the pessimistic outlook for earnings is
actually based on 0% interest rates in Germany. And the second question is based on the
slide 118. I think that when you ﬁrst gave out your projections for capital, there was this
number, and I may be wrong of, 11 points of capital generation pre dividend.
I just wonder what's happened to that 11 points, so was it 9 points, so I can't quite
remember, but what seems to be left over here after the dividend is about 4.5 points if we
include the sub debt. So again, is that because there was that rapid deceleration or
decline in interest rates? And then I guess alongside that, if you take the 82 points of
operating return on slide 118 and divide it by 5, you don't get to 17.5 points, you get to 16.4
points. So I just wondered what was behind that number of 82 points. Is it that we should
really think of that 15 points to 20 points skewed on the downside risk to 16.4 points?
Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}
Page 60 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

Thanks. So the ﬁrst question is easy. We will wait for you to vote in...

A - Gérald Harlin
(3:31:50)

FINAL

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

and so everything is right. (3:31:50)

A - Gérald Harlin
Let's start with your ﬁrst interesting...

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Yes.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gérald Harlin
...question about did we change or not the assumption. I believe that when you're
preparing such a plan in a very low interest rate environment, you cannot (3:32:03) but
you should be realistic. And that's what we did. That means that we wanted to have a
quite ﬂat scenario and we ended up with 3% which is indeed a good achievement
because it means that with zero interest rate growth, plus zero equity revaluation being at
3% means that taking into account the potential, we have a proﬁle of the call. (3:32:31) So
that's quite good and that's exactly what we have been doing. Remember, what we
discussed over the last years that's exactly the way we're being working during the
previous ﬁve years, so it would be same for this plan.
Your question about the margin, it was on the operating return of margin, so you were
surprised because it was not exactly the ﬁgures you had in mind. On page 118, for sure,
we said between 15 points and 20 points, and this highly depends from the interest rate.
So, that means that taking into account a diﬀerent interest rate environment makes that it
was much more favorable. That's exactly same for cash ﬂows, but maybe you will have
questions about cash ﬂows.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Your third question is answered?

Q - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

No, not, really.

A - Gérald Harlin
Okay. Okay, go.

Q - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}
Page 61 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

So the question was 82 divided by 5 gives me 16.4. And the second question was what
happened to the guidance of 9 points to 11 points of capital generation...

A - Gérald Harlin

FINAL

Okay.

Q - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

...which you gave us in December, because it's gone down to around 4 points on this
slide?

A - Gérald Harlin
Okay. The 16.4 points, we said that it's 15 points to 20 points, the objective was not to say
that it would be on the average, but it would be to mean that during the plan period, it
would evolve between 15 points and 20 points, that's what it means.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Okay. Let's move on the same table.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 21515144 <GO>}

Nick Holmes with Soc Gén. Two questions. The ﬁrst is, Gérald, I wondered if you could
update us on the expectations for impairments if any in H1, obviously, volatile markets,
diﬃcult markets recently. Just wondered if you could give us some comments on that
topic.
And secondly and perhaps more interestingly, longer term, I wondered if you could give
us your outlook for P&C pricing within the context of the targets. I'm thinking we all know
that there is a bit of a softening in P&C pricing in some markets, wondered what sort of
assumptions you're expecting within your targets. How severe is the pricing outlook
decline? Thank you.

A - Gérald Harlin
Okay. So as far as the impairments are concerned, every day, it can change, but we could
say that for the time being, no need for impairment. You remember that we said at the
end of last year that we had some capital gains, we had roughly 15% of annualized capital
gains. Of course, that means that we have still signiﬁcant capital gains, this is for equities.
But at the same time, keep in mind and that's I make the link (3:35:45) with the capital
gains that we will realize over time. I told you that will be between €300 million and €500
million, but will be more on the low end. Keep in mind that we have signiﬁcant unrealized
capital gains on real estate. So that means on the spot basis, no speciﬁc impairment, but it
can ﬂuctuate. But anyway, I don't – for the time being, I don't have any speciﬁc fear on that
side.

Page 62 of 72



FINAL

Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

The long-term outlook on the P&C and on the combined ratio, I would say that it's – there
is some ﬂexibility. Keep in mind ﬁrst and I would like to start with a remark. Don't consider
that for sure there are some pressure on prices, but in an extremely low rate environment,
do you believe that these rates would stay at 0% for a long period of time? Do you
believe that there would be signiﬁcant pressure on prices? We don't believe so.
Nevertheless, on the way we've built our plan, yes, we have some ﬂexibility. And keep in
mind, what was already said that means that we have one point coming from the big data
that has been said today, so it's minus one point compare starting from where we are
today.
We have at the same time some expense ratio and the €2.1 billion translate into an
expense ratio of 1 point. At the same time, claims handling cost will decrease in line with
the €2.1 billion plan. And we can expect mid 0.5 point. So what does it mean? That means
that any kind of additional improvement in the combined ratio coming from other areas
because we didn't present you all the areas of improvement of our combined ratio, any of
these will correspond to ﬂexibility in our pricing, meaning that with these two elements
you achieved already the 95% that I discussed before, and again the 95% that I presented
before assumed in the end 0% year-over-year reserve release in 2020.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Let's move to this table.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Oliver George Nigel Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

Oliver Steel, Deutsche Bank. I have three questions. The ﬁrst is, can you just explain a little
bit more about the €350 million of earnings coming from the Inforce sections, are those
recurring or are those sort of lump sum amounts? And if they are lump sum, when within
that period, do you expect them to be emerging?
Secondly, in your capital (3:38:47) in terms of capital releases from Inforce sections? And
then thirdly, the cost savings you've targeted, the €2.1 billion rechecked, it's about 30% of
your existing underlying earnings, but you're only talking about 3% per annum beneﬁt
from that. So where is the outlook?

A - Gérald Harlin
Okay. So the €350 million will be spread over the period. That means that we can expect
to actually €350 million. That means that when comparing 2020 with today with 2015,
then we'll get €350 million. The €350 million roughly speaking, I could tell you that it
should be one-third coming from the investment margin with all the measures that we
have explained and presented by Matthieu and the rest is on the technical summit.
And so you can consider that the rest is part of the technical improvements that I
presented today. The capital release on Inforce, we can consider – you see, you can make
your own math, that means that assuming that we would be just in the middle of 75% to
85%, it's roughly €1.5 billion.

Page 63 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

I believe I'm quite comfortable on our capacity to achieve it. Remember, what I said, it was
at the beginning of December, when we presented Solvency II. I said at that time, that we
were planning over the period to have capitalization of our subsidiaries, European
subsidiaries between 130% and 150%. So we are not there yet. It won't be done in one
year, but I'm quite conﬁdent in our capacity to achieve these remitted funds of the plan
period.
The last question is €2.1 billion, and let's be clear, the €2.1 billion, Oliver, this compares to
– yes, the €2.1 billion, the breakdown roughly speaking is €1.5 billion in earning expenses,
€0.2 billion in claims handling cost, €0.4 billion in acquisition expenses. Okay? And this
compares – second point, this compares to roughly €20 billion of global expenses
including the acquisition expenses.
Take into consideration as well that the way it's calculated, that means that we are starting
from the expenses in 2015, increased by inﬂation and increased also with growth and then
we apply the €2.1 billion just on the way we did it in the previous plan. Is it clear?

Q - Oliver George Nigel Steel

{BIO 6068696 <GO>}

So, the €2.1 billion doesn't include cost savings that will eﬀectively be for the beneﬁt of
policyholders or it's all shareholder savings?

A - Gérald Harlin

Bloomberg Transcript

Yes. It's shareholder savings. It's shareholder savings.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Okay. Let's move to the table just in front.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

Thank you. It's James Shuck from UBS. I have three questions, please. I'd like to return to
the operating capital generation, 15 points to 20 points because there is a slide you put
up relatively recently that was clearly 20 points and I appreciate interest rates are lower,
but you are doing a number of things around eﬃciency, et cetera you've outlined today.
So (3:42:38) see why that that 20 points guidance has been load (3:42:42) to 15 points to
20 points? That's my ﬁrst question.
Secondly, coming back to slide 117, the group operating free cash ﬂow generation, €28
billion to €32 billion, ﬁrst of (3:42:53) clarify, is that range driven by your upside downside
(3:42:57) scenario around interest rates or is that a base case assumption? And then I'd
just like to understand the bridge from the old guidance, because you had €24 billion as
being accumulative number as the target level up to 2015, you don't (3:43:14) have to
switch to Solvency II, which gave you an €0.5 billion beneﬁt. So, you multiply that by ﬁve,
you get kind of €2.5 billion and it gets you to kind of the lower end of the new target
range. So, again I appreciate those lower interest rates. But does that explain all of the
diﬀerence, because I'm just (3:43:30) see where the eﬃciency improvements comes
through into the actual capital generation?
Page 64 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

And my third question was around the target range for the capital position is 170% to
230% and you gave (3:43:44) very good Investor Day back in November, explaining those
moving parts. It's a very wide range. And by 2020 hopefully, now the world is looking a
little bit better and I wanted to understand your dividend ﬂexibility, because excluding or
if you take into account the reduction of the UFR then you're going to be sort of very
slightly towards the lower end of that range. So what is the scope to tighten it and lower
that target range, please?

A - Gérald Harlin
Okay. Starting with your ﬁrst question, I believe it's the same questions before, as the one
that has been raised before, that means we can – it's mostly linked to the interest rate
environment. And if you look – if you are making your assumptions, assuming that rates
would be at 2% or assuming that rates will be much, much lower, then it's completely
diﬀerent. But I believe I answered already this question. About the free cash ﬂow, and
your question is an interesting one. I'm sure that you're referring to what I said, and what I
presented in November for the Solvency II presentation.

Bloomberg Transcript

At that time, we said that it was – no, it was for the last earnings release, sorry. We said
€5.9 billion of free cash ﬂow for 2015, plus €0.4 billion corresponding to the new capital
and new Solvency II environment and the fact that we could use the future opportunity in
order to oﬀset our capital needs, so, it's €6.3 billion. And of course if you multiply $6.3
billion by ﬁve times, you're above the target, the middle of the range, which is €30 billion.
But again, there we have the interest rates, which explains minus €0.2 billion on average.
Next, you have the required capital and required capital because in P&C you have noticed
that we will grow much more than what we did last year. We were close to zero last year,
so it's minus €0.2 billion on top. And (3:45:52) Asia, it's €0.2 billion. So as a whole we
have €5.7 billion. And on top of this, we have growth and growth will bring us some
additional cash ﬂows €0.3 billion.
So, as a whole, what was €6.3 billion at the end of last year, moves to €6 billion. Roughly,
taking into account the growth, if you multiply €6 billion by 5, you're back to $30 billion
which is the center of the range. I hope it's been clear. But it's – don't decrease the
importance of interest rates. Your last question is about the target. I believe that we've
been clear many times saying that we have a target, which is between 170% and 230%, it
is a wide range for sure, it's a wide range, but it brings stability and in this environment,
it's quite important to keep some stability. Last but not least about dividend, it gives – the
fact that we are 47% in term of payout ratio means that we have a lot of ﬂexibility.

Q - James A. Shuck

{BIO 3680082 <GO>}

So, could I just clarify what the interest rate assumption is in the free cash guidance or
target that you can aﬀord, please?

A - Gérald Harlin
I said that interest rate, it was a drop by 0.2%, we can take this oﬄine if you want, but we
have – I said that the interest rates compared to last year because last year, we had
Page 65 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

interest rates environment, which was more favorable, which means that the cost of low
interest rate of the plan period decreased by 0.2% the expected free cash ﬂows.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

FINAL

Let's move to Blair, I think.

Q - Blair Stewart

{BIO 4191309 <GO>}

Thanks very much. Blair Stewart from BoA Merrill. Just on the interest rate scenarios,
you've got your base case, you've got your bear case, et cetera. What (3:47:59) do you
have if the bear case proves to be too optimistic in (3:48:03) worst interest rates as we've
seen for the last few years if disappointed (3:48:06) on the downside? So, what (3:48:08)
do you have if rates actually get worse from here?
And on the other side of the coin, you'll be glad to hear a more optimistic question, what
would be the impact of maybe a plus 5% growth in equity markets, given that AXA is a
heavily fee driven business, but we thought that was favorable. So, if we don't get foreign
equity markets and we get some growth, what would be the impact of that, please? And
ﬁnally, when you talk about M&A, does share buyback feature as an option within that and
if not, why not?

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Gérald Harlin
Okay. As far as the interest rates are concerned, the worst for me, when (3:48:53) if your
question is more on the U.S., on the U.S., it's relatively small. I would say that everything
equal, we can consider that in case in the United States, we would have a decline towards
1%, impact would be roughly, let's say, $100 million pre-tax, something around this. About
the 5% equity, you can see that we have, there would be an impact, but it's, we have an
average AUM in Unit Linked of $190 billion. And as you know and you can see it in our
appendices, you have an average margin and average fee of 145 basis point. So
depending on your assumption, you can make your math extremely easily.
Share buyback; look at what we said at the – in the previous meeting. So we intend to buy
back shares so long as we have some dilutive instruments, like share plan, like exercise of
stock options; that's what we did. We will do it. We'll walk the talk, nevertheless we
consider that in the present environment. We have, with our plan to invest €1 billion per
year in M&A, this combined with our capacity to do our organic growth, means that we
consider that it's better for the future to do this and we have no plan to do share buyback
beyond what we announced already.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Thanks, Gérald. Let's move to this table.

Q - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

Three questions. One which is a blunt (03:51:06) question, I suppose, is, what's the cost of
the ﬂoods. The second is you stressed you're very conservative on the revenue, you
assumed the lowest revenue from all your colleagues. What would be the ﬁgure on EPS if
Page 66 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

you assume the higher end? And the last question is where is the €3 billion; you
mentioned the €2.1 billion cost save is after the €3 billion. I'm not that – haven't followed
AXA continuously, so I just wondered where it is? Thank you.

FINAL

A - Gérald Harlin
Okay. So the ﬂoods, we can expect – and what we know today, it should be roughly €100
million after-tax. What would be the high end? It's not very sophisticated, but as a rule of
thumb, if I tell you that between €3 billion and €5 billion, we end up with €2 million, so
you can make the math and you – I don't believe that you debate on (03:53:08).
The last is the €3 billion investment, so it's, what we call, is a transformation plan and it's a
plan that of €3 billion that will be implemented over the next ﬁve years. So it's mostly
digital, but not only digital, and all what was presented this morning was – exactly reﬂects
this plan. It concerns customer experience, data transformation, digital assets, claims
underwriting and so on and so forth. So it's more than (03:52:40) purely digital, but it's
more or less what you saw this morning and we will follow it up.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Let's go to the back.

Q - Andrew J. Crean

{BIO 16513202 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Good morning, again. It's Andrew Crean. Three questions. Firstly, can you do the same
thing for the margin, if the margin was at the better end, the technical margin on the P&C
and the Health, what would that do to your earnings projection?
Secondly, in the ﬁrst quarter 2016, I think your revenues were only growing 1% and there is
reasons to believe margins will be under pressure this year particularly with lower market.
So could you talk a little bit about how 2016 will play into the overall growth targets?
And then, thirdly, could you talk more broadly about disruptive technologies, which you
see over the plan period and how they may aﬀect you? Which you see is the main
disruptive technologies including things like autonomous car?

A - Gérald Harlin
Okay. The margin; so, Andrew, your question is about the 1% ﬂexibility that I highlighted.
Roughly speaking, 1% is – for P&C should be €250 million net of tax and, for Protection a
bit less maybe €200 million; that gives you an idea. The overall growth target for 2016 just
wait one more month. That means that don't forget that quite soon we'll have another
meeting and we will present the half year earnings. So I believe that it will be the
opportunity to give you the precise ﬁgures. About the next point?

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Yeah. So that's the disruptive technologies, we see four things. One is clearly on the
Motor and Household piece in the P&C, and also on the commercial side we see the

Page 67 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

impact of connected devices and self-driving cars. You have this already in the B2B space
coming into the P&C retail space on connected house and clearly the question around
self-driving cars.
You see it on the investment side with robo-advice being more and more coming into this
space. You will see it on the health side with new devices being developed and the, I
would say, automation of the general practitioner, what Damien has presented. And then
there is a fourth trend which is around blockchain, how is the whole question of
transactions, because at the end of the day we are a transactional business, how is this
being revolutionalized. Those four trends are clearly there.
We are monitoring these trends. We are actively engaging with the companies that are
developing these trends. So if you take blockchain, which is probably the one that is
furthest away (03:55:49), we have invested in a start-up called Blockstream in order to
really understand what does it mean and how can we leverage this for our business. So
those four trends are not something we are anxious about, it's something that we are
excited about, and it's something that we are engaging with, these companies that are
developing these technologies in order to see what can we do together.

Q - Denis Pierre Marie Duverne

{BIO 1521138 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

(03:56:20) in the previous plan, Ambition 2015, you gave some targets regarding
proﬁtability by business. As far as I remember, it was around 12% for Life, 15% for P&C, and
20% for Asset Management. Could you give us some target for these businesses today
within the bucket of course, because you are a bit less precise now in your proﬁt target?
My second question is about divestment. Have you identiﬁed any divestment? Of course, I
don't ask about a precise answer, but in principle (03:57:04) do you think that you still
need to divest in some areas or some business line?
And the last question is about Asset Management; you didn't say a word this morning
regarding Asset Management and forecast about Asset Management. Are you conﬁdent –
after what we said regarding the macroeconomics and ﬁnancial assumptions, are you
conﬁdent with that business? And what do you see as growth in terms of revenues in the
coming years in the plan? Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Gérald, I'll take question three and you do one and two.

A - Gérald Harlin
Yeah. So your ﬁrst is about the plan by business. You can go back to my presentation, I
believe that we gave already a lot of detail. We believe that in this environment, it doesn't
bring you lot to give too many details. And what is important indeed it's a global growth.
What is important is its impact on the bottom line. And that's the time where, what
(03:58:18) we want to improve this year. The cross-sell of sale (03:58:24) to our clients, I
don't believe that it's so important.

Page 68 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

Next is divestment. Look when I said that we plan to invest €1 billion per year, it's €1 billion
net of course, net of divestment. And as you can imagine, we don't have any speciﬁc
divestments in mind and look we did it and we announced quite recently some
divestments, so that's what I can tell you about it.

FINAL

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

On the Asset Management, we have today two asset managers that are well positioned
AXA IM and AB (03:59:04). When we look what have we done in terms of changes of the
organization governance, we have clearly given the Asset Management a higher
signiﬁcance and higher importance within AXA Group. Because we believe – yes, the
Asset Management has to go through the same transformation that our business
insurance has to go through, but where we can leverage more is really the combination of
asset management and life insurance.
If you remember, what Paul and Nick were presenting this morning was exactly that. The
future of life insurance does not lie on the one hand in full guarantee or in full Unit-Linked,
it lies somewhere in the middle, Unit-Linked with guarantee. The asset manager plays a
big role and we have got two asset management with very dedicated capabilities where
we also have a lot of competitive advantage, but this is not represented yet where we are
in the life insurance sales and in the leverage of these capabilities in the new forms of life
insurance. And we are very dedicated to those asset management as you could see and
read over the last couple days. Growth is clearly on the agenda in their existing space by
growing with aﬃliate concerns. Last question.

Bloomberg Transcript

Q - Nick Holmes

{BIO 21515144 <GO>}

Thank you. Nick Holmes with SocGen again. Just a couple of questions on the U.S.
variable and USC (04:00:38) legacy book. Sorry, I know the accounting and everything on
this is incredibly complicated, but my two questions are: ﬁrstly, your equity growth
assumption of zero, does this really – are you really applying that to the legacy book? I
guess, I would be surprised if you were, because I think that would probably not – have a
negative eﬀect on that; secondly, I know you've been working very hard on this book and
you've done a lot of buyouts, I guess a question for Todd and Matthieu André, what are
the plans for further buyouts protecting the downside on this book? Thank you.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Gérald you do question one; and then Todd and Matthieu question two.

A - Gérald Harlin
Okay. Nick, on your ﬁrst question; yes, you are right. That means that – for sure as far as
the fees are concerned; yes, we're taking these assumption which is a conservative one.
As far as the DAC, because your question goes to the DAC, deferred acquisition costs;
deferred acquisition costs are calculated on the long-term assumptions, they're not done
in (04:01:53) ﬁve years. And remember what I said during my presentation, I said we still
consider that on the long-run we should have growth in equities.

Page 69 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Todd and Matthieu.

FINAL

A - Todd Solash

{BIO 16937025 <GO>}

Sure. So on buyouts, I think the short answer is we still see plenty of scope for activity. It
probably won't be the same things that we've done before (04:02:16) talking about the
direct business can tell you if you go back to the same people with the same oﬀer over
and over again, you tend to deteriorate to response rate, but we have quite a pipeline of
things that we're looking at as potential options to go to the book. You'll probably see
some stuﬀ rollout. First quarter of next year is the likely timing, because they do require
state ﬁlings. So there is some lag time between when we decide on what we want to do
and when we can actually implement it.

A - Thomas Buberl

{BIO 16182457 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

Thanks, Todd. So unfortunately, we have to close the Q&A session here. I've seen many
more hands going up. We have our lunch afterwards where everybody is present, so you
can – you have plenty of opportunity to still address your question. Thanks Gérald and
sorry Benoît that there was no question on smart data. There is still hope for the lunch
break.
So I would like to come to the conclusion now. We have had a long and intense day
behind us and I would really like to thank you, thank you for being here, thank you for
asking questions because those questions are extremely helpful not only for you when it
comes to good answers, but also for us because it inspires us what do we need to think
about, how do we need to develop.
I would also like to address a big thank you to all the speakers and the IR team that have
made this day a fantastic day. Thank you very much.
As you have seen during the whole day, we have a very clear strategy that is addressing
the key challenges of this environment: lower rate, lower growth and a diﬀerent customer
expectation. Focus and transform are the two pillars of our Ambition 2020. Focus is clearly
there to get to – to really implement how do we increase the existing performance to
overcompensate the negative eﬀects of low interest and low growth. You've seen it was
around selective growth, it was around eﬃciency and margins, and it was around capital
and cash. Transform is clearly the way into the future, how are we adapting, how are we
evolving our business model towards diﬀerent and new customer expectation.
That means clearly that we need to create a better customer experience at the front-end
by joining direct and agents and having a much smoother and more convenient customer
experience, but this also means that we are enlarging our business model beyond the
traditional inﬂuence be it with new services, but also be it in spaces where we haven't
been yet, but where we can create a customer relationship and change the dynamic
between the customer and us.

Page 70 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

FINAL

And thirdly, it is clearly about getting ourselves ready to this new world, up-skilling our
own people, ﬁnding the right talent in the market in order to be ready internally to
address those new changes. It is important that in these diﬃcult markets we are managing
over the period between 2016 and 2020 a underlying earnings per share growth of 3% to
7%.
This in an environment where we don't know how the markets will react, we have a tough
environment on interest rates, we have a tough environment on equities; therefore, we
wanted to be extremely transparent to say what is in our hands, what we can inﬂuence
ourselves, that is the 8% you've seen, but what is also not in our hands, and what does it
mean, how do we get to the 3% to 7% over the time period. This will materialize in a very
attractive cash ﬂow pattern between €28 billion and €32 billion given that we still have a
very good return on equity and a very strong solvency.

Bloomberg Transcript

If you look at this package together, focus and transform, plus those numbers, you can
clearly see that we are diﬀerentiating ourselves from the competition in a way that we are
going the way of transforming of changing our business model and that we are oﬀering
an attractive way to really go and attack the problems that are around us. And given what
we've heard today that we still have room on the payout, this should clearly be – give us a
position to increase the dividend.
I would like you to remember a couple takeaways from this day. The ﬁrst one is clearly
about where do we come from? We have a proven track record. We have implemented
Ambition AXA and we are starting now with a very resilient balance sheet and a good
earnings capabilities. We should never forget what we have and how we can build on this.
It's very diﬀerent position towards many of the competitors.
On growth, we have clearly said let's be selective, let's be selective on business and on
geographies and only focus on where we have implemented something, how can we
copy paste it somewhere else, and let's not reinvent the word.
Third point is around focus. Less is more, how do we ﬁnd clear priorities on the cost
saving side the €2.1 billion, but also on the margin improvement side, be it Protection, be
it P&C to really focus ourselves there and get the house in order in order to compensate
for the negative eﬀects in the market.
The third – the fourth topic is around transform. We want to go the journey of
transforming the business model, because we also want to serve our customers
tomorrow. If we have the Ambition, that we've clearly stated our Net Promoter Score
should be in 2020 at a 100% of all markets at the market average, we need to move, we
need to change the model, and we need to change the customer relationship that we
have with our customers.
A key determination there is how are we, what is our team, how are we committed. And I
hope you've seen it was very important for us to present the team to you today to show
the diversity of the team, to show the international character of the team that this

Page 71 of 72



Company Name: AXA SA
Company Ticker: CS FP Equity
Date: 2016-06-21

Ambition is not only carried on two shoulders, it's carried on many shoulders that are
working hand-in-hand.

FINAL

Deliver means we are fully committed now to deliver these earnings, to deliver this plan,
and to compensate against the headwinds that we have. This should oﬀer us an
opportunity to increase the dividend since we are at the low end of our payout ratio. All of
this and the transformation is in the spirit of a larger vision.
How can we really empower our people to live a better life? We are there to help people,
we are there to really support people in diﬃcult situations. This is where our focus is, not
on paying bills. We need to move in that direction, and we will to really make sure that we
are the insurer who moves from a payout to a partner.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you very much and we can continue the discussion now at launch. Thank you.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 72 of 72

