Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2016-11-09

Q3 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
FINAL

Francesco Caio, Chief Executive Oﬃcer, Director & General Manager
Luigi Ferraris, Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Unveriﬁed Participant

Other Participants
Fulin Liang, Analyst
Giovanni Razzoli, Analyst
Martin Leitgeb, Analyst
Michael van Wegen, Analyst

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

Good day, and welcome to the Poste Italiane 2016 Nine Months Conference Call. Today's
conference is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr. Luigi
Ferraris, CFO. Please go ahead, sir.

Luigi Ferraris

{BIO 7424315 <GO>}

Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. We are pleased to report a solid set of numbers for
the ﬁrst nine months of 2016. As you already know, these results have been impacted in
the ﬁrst half by the positive one-oﬀ related to the Visa Europe disposal for €121 million.
The expected underlying trends conﬁrm progress of execution as per our plans for each
of our businesses.
More speciﬁcally, revenues for the period were up 8% at €25.7 billion. EBIT has grown
29% to €1.2 billion. Net proﬁt has grown 30% to €807 million, consolidating the growth
already recorded in the ﬁrst half. More speciﬁcally, during Q3, we are starting to beneﬁt
from our key results, coming from managerial actions in terms of eﬃciencies and cost
savings and their implementation.
This solid set of ﬁgures have generated funds from operation of €134 million that I will
further detail in the following charts. Please bear in mind that we will account for our usual
accruals on voluntary personnel reduction incentives schemes only in the ﬁnal quarter of
the year.

Page 1 of 13



FINAL

Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2016-11-09

Moving on to slide number 3. Here you have an overview of our key numbers.
Consolidated revenues and proﬁts were up, respectively by about 8% and 30% over the
period. This is mainly due to the following: Financial Services operating proﬁt increased
by more than 5% from €670 million to €704 million. This is mainly attributable to higher
capital gains realized from active management of BancoPosta's asset portfolio of about
€43 million. The disposal to Visa Incorporated of our stake in Visa Europe for €121 million,
fully corresponding to the already indicated capital gain booked in the ﬁrst half of 2016.
Lower cost of goods sold by 11%. Furthermore all of this has been partially compensated
by higher management charges from the mail and parcels business unit of about €162
million as a direct consequence of the already commented revenues growth.
Insurance and asset management, revenues increased by more than 10% from €17 billion
to €18.7 billion and operating proﬁt maintained a robust 18% growth year-on-year. This is
mainly due to the ongoing positive performance of life gross written premium, asset
management products, as well as an initial contribution of non-life products.

Bloomberg Transcript

Mail and parcels, revenues were equal to €2.728 billion, down 3.6% from 2015. More
speciﬁcally, nine months revenues reduction is mainly due to lower traditional postal
revenues, partially oﬀset by higher contribution from parcels. EBIT has been positively
impacted by both higher recharges to the ﬁnancial division, and operating cost eﬃciency
with a remarkable impact in Q3, which I will further detail in the following charts.
Before moving in to each speciﬁc business units, let's have a look at our clients' asset
breakdown on slide number 4. Volumes increased by almost 4%, bringing total assets to
€493 billion versus €476 billion in full year 2015. The mix continues to remain well
balanced with a clear resilience of postal savings collection and containing (05:08) a
material increase for about €4 billion in our current account deposits. The strength and
thrust of our brands, the proximity to our customer base, as well as oﬀer range (05:22) of
simple and safe products continue to deliver an increasing asset base and proﬁtability for
the group.
Let's now move in to each speciﬁc business unit results, starting with our Financial
Services revenues evolution on slide number 5. Revenues have grown from €3.949 billion
to €4.107 billion. Excluding the Visa Europe eﬀect the increase is mainly a consequence of
the realized capital gains on the active portfolio management, as well as the remarkable
increase in ﬁnancing products distribution. This has been partially oﬀset by the lower
postal savings collection, registered in ﬁrst half and payment cards distribution fees. I can
conﬁrm that for the full year 2016, we expect to generate returns of current account
deposits in the region of €2 billion as a combination of capital gains and portfolio yield.
In more detail, slide number 6 provides you with a breakdown of the Financial Services
business units revenues. The major key points here are the following. First, returns on
current account deposits, higher revenues are mainly due to an improved active
management of BancoPosta asset portfolio. Second, fees from postal savings collection.
The reduction is attributable to lower fees as a consequence of lower recognized
communication marketing costs recorded in the ﬁrst half of 2016. For full year 2016, we
expect total postal savings collections slightly lower than €1.6 billion.

Page 2 of 13



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2016-11-09

FINAL

Third, fees from transaction banking, the 1.7% increase is attributable to higher revenues
from payment slips and tax return forms, despite the decrease posted in the ﬁrst half,
which was mainly related to the public broadcasters' decision to adopt a new payment
system for license fees.
Fourth, distribution fees. We continue to register a very strong growth in personal loans
and other personal ﬁnancing products. Let me underline that this represents an area of
strategic growth, which is mainly based on the recently renewed oﬀer range supported by
an important communication campaign.
Payment card fees, in Q3 revenues, are in line with last year, with a continued increase in
Postepay Evolution cards, compensated by lower subscription fees, applied to debt and
prepaid cards, due to accounting in the interchange fees decided by the European Union.

Bloomberg Transcript

Let's now move to slide number 7. Regarding our active portfolio management, let me
point out the following major items. Average deposits of BancoPosta accounts grow to
€49 billion from €45 billion in 2015, up almost 9%. Our realized gains amount to €4.3
billion, vis-à-vis €4.9 billion of the previous year, as a consequence of lower interest rates
despite higher vis-à-vis to booked (09:08) spreads recorded over the period.
Let's now move to BancoPosta's regulatory framework and capital position on slide
number 8. Inasmuch as BancoPosta capital adequacy is concerned, let me stress four
major key points. First, BancoPosta regulatory framework continues to be fully aligned to
European standards. Second, nine-month Tier 1 ratio closed to 16%, substantially doubling
the minimal regulatory requirements. Third, nine-month leverage ratio 3% as a
consequence of higher total assets. Should the growth of BancoPosta asset be conﬁrmed
in Q4, we are, in any case, prepared to recapitalize BancoPosta with no expected impact
on our dividend policy. Fourth, nine-month proﬁtability recorded a remarkable 34% return
on equity versus 30% for the full year 2015. Without considering the already mentioned
Visa eﬀect, the return on equity is 32%. All of this, coupled with a zero lending risk proﬁle,
makes BancoPosta a unique, superior returns fee-based revenues player in the Italian
ﬁnancial industry.
Let's now move to insurance and asset management on slide number 9. Gross written
premium increased by 6%, driven primarily by the continued increase of our life business,
as well as the successful launch in April of our unit-linked product, which recorded inﬂows
of about €200 million (10:59) in the period. Moreover, we have also beneﬁted from
double-digit growth, even if from a small base in our non-life premiums, whose results will
become more and more material going forward.
Inasmuch as asset management operations are concerned, let me underline that asset
under management increased by close to 30%, reaching €7 billion, conﬁrming this area as
one of our key strategic growth pillars. This also conﬁrms the success of cooperation with
(11:35), which delivers relevant material results in terms of asset management collection.
With regards to our investment portfolio breakdown, let me highlight the increase of
investment in multi-asset funds, which moved from 11% in 2015 to 13% in 2016, conﬁrming
Page 3 of 13



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2016-11-09

FINAL

our diversiﬁcation strategy towards a more adequate risk to return proﬁle. This continues
to be fully aligned with our capital requirements.
Let's now move to slide number 10, on the mail and parcel business units. From volumes,
let me highlight here, on the one hand, traditional mail volumes fell 10% year-on-year,
while revenues decreased about 4% as a consequence of the underlying positive pricing
eﬀect as a result of the new regulatory framework in place since October 1, 2015. Let me
also underline that from the beginning of this year Poste has decided to drop the services
for unaddressed mail, which is characterized by high volumes, but very low tariﬀs.
As a result of this, in order to correctly represent the structural decline in traditional mail
volumes unaddressed mail has to be neutralized. Net of these eﬀects 2016 volumes
showed an approximately 5% decline vis-à-vis 2015. On the other hand, parcels volumes
increased by 14% year-on-year, conﬁrming the positive momentum mainly driven by the
growing e-commerce penetration (13:18). Revenues increased about 7% mainly thanks to
the improvement of our oﬀering range, which partially counterbalanced the ongoing
pricing pressure within the industry.

Bloomberg Transcript

Moving to slide number 11, before talking about cost evolution, let me remind you once
again that the mail and parcel business unit also includes our distribution network
operations. Infrasegment revenues increased by approximately 5%, mainly due to higher
revenues driven by capital gains and the Visa disposal eﬀects recorded by the Financial
Service business unit as well as higher gross written premium collection.
At the same time, operating costs have decreased, thanks to our continued cost
management actions. Speciﬁcally, mail and parcel operating costs have been further
reduced by €108 million over the period, mainly as a result of lower cost of goods sold
which decreased almost 3%, primarily due to lower IT operational (14:23) expenses to
lower cost on vehicle and logistics.
I will comment on overall labor cost dynamics in the following charts. Let me now move to
slide number 12 to discuss group operating costs. Focusing on our cost structure and
consolidated level, overall group operating cost reduced by 1.3% over the period, as a
consequence of the already indicated eﬃciency actions, whose results became material
starting from Q3. Please note that this reduction takes into account higher D&A related
through previous year CapEx.
Moving to slide number 13, labor costs show a reduction close to 1%. As you are fully
aware of we've launched a voluntary pre-retirement plan, according to which about 4,800
people have already signed at the end of September vis-à-vis the original target of 5,000
expected for the full year. This conﬁrms the strong acceleration put in place speciﬁcally in
the third quarter. Please bear in mind also that we are in the process of ﬁnalizing the
renegotiation of our National Labor Conference (15:41).
Let's now run through our proﬁt and loss evolution before the EBIT line on slide number
14. Net income for the period equaled €807 million, recorded an increase of about 30%
from €622 million recorded in the nine months 2015. On top of the already commented
Page 4 of 13



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2016-11-09

FINAL

positive EBIT evolution, this performance is also related to net ﬁnancial income of €21
million. Taxes for a total consideration of €410 million corresponding to a tax rate of about
34% in further reduction versus 2015. For the full year 2016, we expect normalized tax rate
of around 40%.
Let's move on to slide number 15 commenting on CapEx. The majority of investment are
mainly related to information technology and digital platforms and the balance is related
to a selected upgrade of facilities, construction of data center buildings and postal logistic
operations.
Looking at net ﬁnancial position on slide number 16. First, let me highlight the positive
contribution of our funds from operation as a result of capital gain dynamics and the
commented performance of the mail and parcel business units. On the other hand, the
reduction in working capital is mainly due to a delay in the cash in (17:13) some regulatory
items, which we expect to be clear by yearend.
On the dividend and equity movement front, the €176 million inﬂow is the result of €620
million coming from our BancoPosta ring-fenced capital and dividends from participation,
partially compensated by the payment of the dividend to our shareholders for an amount
equal to €444 million.

Bloomberg Transcript

Thank you for your attention, and let me hand over to the CEO, Francesco Caio, for some
closing remarks.

Francesco Caio

{BIO 1516226 <GO>}

Thank you very much, Luigi. Good evening. Just a couple of comments in the last two
slides. I think it's a good discipline to go back to a year ago when we went to the market
with our IPO and go back to in a way the equity story, the convergence (18:06) of the
equity story, we had highlighted the notion of the creation of values through combination
of transformation and growth and I'm sure you remember we are keeping (18:19) deep
drivers of value for each of our businesses. And I think it's good opportunity, one year
after the listing to go back and see how the numbers are in a way, lining up based on
what we've had indicated as our priorities.
You remember that in Financial Services, we were highlighting our focus on proﬁtability
and superior returns and, as you can see, the return on equity in Financial Services for the
ﬁrst nine months of this year is well above 30% with 34%. But I think – and even more
interesting, we begin to see some growth coming from distribution products whilst the
active management of our portfolio continues to yield well in the direction of the €2
billion a year. So Financial Services return and yields.
On Insurance and Asset Managements, we highlighted growth as a driver of value, and I
am pleased to report that this growth was across the board here from the 6% nine months
in life insurance versus last year to much more robust 55% albeit oﬀ a smaller base, in non
life, is a testimony of our eﬀorts in broadening the portfolio of our services that we set to
our customers.
Page 5 of 13



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2016-11-09

FINAL

And very important, as you know, Asset Management moving from more traditional
instruments to fund, we recorded a 30% growth versus last year. Again it's a relatively
small base but very encouraging to see how the metric of our oﬃces is reacting very well
to the trading, the new systems, the new oﬀer we're deploying.
And ﬁnally, mail and parcels we really said that it was a combination of the turnaround in
mail and the growth in parcels. And again, you see from the numbers, we've begin to see
traction in the deployment of the alternate day deliveries where we have more than 400
centers that have adopted this new delivery process that are liberating resources and
freeing up resources that we are – either redeploying or let go through our early
retirement program.

Bloomberg Transcript

And interestingly on the rebalancing mix, we now see parcels representing about 17% of
our revenue versus 15.2% for the same period last year. So kind of we're ﬁring on all
cylinders here in terms of delivering the equity story that we say. And on that base, on
what we look at, as increasingly robust platform for organic growth, we have begun to
explore opportunity in the most strategic options that we have seen in the third quarter.
The acquisition, I'm now talking page 18, slide 18, the acquisition of about 15% stake in
SIA, which as you know is a (21:17) ﬁnancial Italian base but international player in digital
transaction and payment, for a cash-out of €278 million. It really consisted with our drive
to strengthen our position in payment, particularly digital payments. But also a ﬁrst step
towards a more international approach in areas where we think we can create value for
our shareholders. Obviously this is the beginning of a journey because there would be an
opportunity to elaborate in the coming quarters on how we see synergies evolving and
being captured in the relationship between SIA and BancoPosta
So ﬁrst nine months as Luigi said, very robust set of results, well geared to execute the
plan for the year and committed to continue to deliver against the promises of the plan
that we presented to you at the IPO.
With that, I think I would leave Luca (22:26) to handle the Q&A session.

Q&A
A - Operator
Thank you very much. We are now ready to start the Q&A and I understand that the ﬁrst
question in line, is coming from Mr. Michael van Wegen, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
So, please Michael, go ahead.
Thank you. Now, we'll take the question from Michael van Wegen from Bank of America.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Q - Michael van Wegen

{BIO 6435238 <GO>}

Page 6 of 13



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2016-11-09

FINAL

Okay. Thank you. Hi. Good evening, guys. So starting with the mail and parcel business. If
I look at the volumes development, H1 versus nine months, volume developments are
basically stable minus 10% from mail and plus 14% for parcels. However, if I look at the
revenues, there's a clear negative development in that it went from minus 2.5% to about
minus 3.6% which is just at the average price in Q3, deteriorated versus the ﬁrst half. Can
you talk a little bit about what's driving that and how you see that developing going
forward? That's question one.
Question two is, can you quantify the level of capital gains in Financial Services for either
nine months or Q3? And ﬁnally, Mr. Caio, at the end of the presentation, you referred to
inorganic growth and obviously, you're being associated with a particular asset manager.
Can you talk a little bit, about how you see your capacity to ﬁnance potential M&A going
forward without aﬀecting the dividend? That was the last question. Thank you.

A - Luigi Ferraris

{BIO 7424315 <GO>}

Bloomberg Transcript

So, let's start with the second question and then we go to the other. The second question,
I mean in the ﬁrst nine months, we have included a capital gain for a total consideration of
€473 million versus €426 million of last year. I'm talking about the capital gain of our
portfolio management. These are not taken into account, the other Visa capital gains that I
mentioned for a total consideration of €121 million.
When it comes to the dynamics for the third quarters, the comparison that you made in
terms of volumes and revenues – well, we had a slight decline in terms of unitary price in
particular in the parcel portion of the business, in which as you have seen, we have
registered an increase of about 14% in terms of volume. So, higher than the growth of the
markets but in terms of unitary price, we have seen a reduction. Of course, in the long
run, we are working in order to rebalance and to have an improvement also in the unitary
price by rediscuss, revisiting some long-term contract with big volumes that are on the
screening and under rediscussion now (26:03).
When it comes to the third question, Francesco, I don't know...

A - Francesco Caio

{BIO 1516226 <GO>}

I think in general terms, we have adopted and we will continue to adopt a very disciplined
approach to non-organic growth. And when you do that, obviously the (26:19) component
can be found. To the extent that I said that we'd keep very tight discipline on the hurdle
rate and the return (26:30) to shareholders.

Q - Michael van Wegen

{BIO 6435238 <GO>}

And can you remind us what the target hurdle rate for any M&A could be? And secondly, I
guess there are balance sheet constraints, if you don't want to aﬀect your dividend and
assuming that you wouldn't want to raise equity. Can you remind us what kind of balance
sheet constraints you see for yourself?

A - Luigi Ferraris

{BIO 7424315 <GO>}

Page 7 of 13



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2016-11-09

FINAL

Well, ﬁrst, as you know, we have just reported at the end of September a cash position.
So, we do not have debt, we are on a (27:09) cash side. Therefore, we have margin to
leverage our balance sheet. This is the ﬁrst consideration. (27:20) to where we increase in
that direction. We said also during the IPO process that we have margin (27:26) to fund
and to serve our growth through that.
When it comes to the expected return, what I can tell you that for the most recent
acquisition in the (27:42) the portion of equity that we bought in SIA, but generally
speaking, we normally look for (27:49) to 9% or something like that, which is higher 200
basis points, 300 basis points at least of our cost of capital.

Q - Michael van Wegen

{BIO 6435238 <GO>}

Okay. Thank you.

A - Luigi Ferraris

{BIO 7424315 <GO>}

...since we are present in diﬀerent business, we expect equity return could change
according to the diﬀerent business.

Q - Michael van Wegen

{BIO 6435238 <GO>}

Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Operator
Thank you very much. Thank you. Next question is coming from Martin Leitgeb of
Goldman Sachs.

Q - Martin Leitgeb

{BIO 17568539 <GO>}

Yes, hello, good afternoon. I have the two questions and actually both of them are
focused on the cost side, which at least seems to me coming as a bit of a surprise in this
Q3. So, if I calculate it correctly, the decline in the cost in Q3 was around 3.5% on the
people and 6.5% on the non-people cost. Can you elaborate a little bit more what has
changed, why is this such an acceleration in Q3, and whether or not should we assume –
let's say this type of declines are the new run rate, so to say.
And then secondly just a clariﬁcation, could you repeat again the number of people that
have signed up to the new retirement as of end of September and how much of the
increase since the last time we spoke so at the end of June? Thank you.

A - Luigi Ferraris

{BIO 7424315 <GO>}

Well. Martin, when it comes to the number of people that already signed at the end of
September, we are talking about 4,800 people.

Q - Martin Leitgeb

{BIO 17568539 <GO>}

Okay.
Page 8 of 13



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2016-11-09

A - Luigi Ferraris

{BIO 7424315 <GO>}

FINAL

We said that we have a target of about 5,000. I think we should be not only (29:22), but
probably doing some investment. Second, in Q3, I don't think we have a speciﬁc
acceleration in the quarter. I think we are running in a regular path (29:35), so we have
been able to basically increase the number in the third quarter for one-third or something
like that.
Let's talk a little bit about the cost structure now. Two (29:50) consideration. When it
comes to the personnel cost, to the cost of personnel speciﬁcally, we start seeing the
impact of the managerial action instigated the end of last year and beginning of this year.
We had net 1,000 people exit in terms of – let me put in this way – volumes therefore you
start seeing impact on our total cost of personnel. As we said at the beginning of the year
the vast majority of the positive impact on the cost of personnel will be next year. But in
the meantime, we also have to ﬁnalize a renegotiation with the – the negotiation of our
labor costs (30:35), so I don't think it will be prudent to assume that all that volume eﬀect
will fall into our proﬁt and loss. Anyway, I think, we are on track to start delivering
improvement on this area. And the same can be said when it comes to the other costs.
We have launched an internal project aimed at optimizing our external cost structure. We
start seeing the positive eﬀect and we do expect that next year will be even better. So this
year we have just some (31:12), next year it should grow better.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Francesco Caio

{BIO 1516226 <GO>}

I think more in general the way you want to think about this is that, as last year, we
engineered the transformation that we communicated to the market. This year we really
started the execution. And the deployment of the alternate day delivery is a key element.
It's obviously not just the only one, but as we get deeper into the rationalization of that
structure or infrastructure, we can see the opportunity to continue to go in that direction.
I also remind you that our P&L discounts every year, we're going to be doing that this year
as well as Luigi mentioned in Q4, a pretty material amount of money that goes to fund
between €300 million and €400 million year-over-year, going to fund the early retirement
programs.
So (32:14) for you to bear in mind because we're doing this cost reduction in the most
friendly and orderly manner to preserve quality of service and our relationship with key
constituencies (32:25) and yet we're pleased to see that we're now beginning to beneﬁt
from the initiatives we stated.

Q - Martin Leitgeb

{BIO 17568539 <GO>}

Okay. Yes, very clear. So the alternative day delivery started from Q2, right, if I'm not
mistaken? And so we're starting to see that impact as well?

A - Francesco Caio

{BIO 1516226 <GO>}

Yes. Correct.

Page 9 of 13



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2016-11-09

Q - Martin Leitgeb

{BIO 17568539 <GO>}

Yeah. Okay, okay. Thank you very much. Very clear.

A - Operator

FINAL

Thank you. The next question is coming from (32:54)
Yes. Hi, everybody. I have a few questions from my side. First one regarding the insurance
premiums. Will you give us a bit of color regarding the seasonality of the premiums
collection and is there reason behind that? Second question regards to the SIA
acquisition. Is it fair to assume that, if there is the occasion going forward that Poste is
willing to increase its stake in the company?
And ﬁnally regarding the real estate business, the real estate assets, we read some rumors
regarding your will to spin oﬀ the real estate assets that if I understand correctly has a
book value of around €1.7 billion and it would be useful to have a breakdown of these
assets between – the instrumentals ones and the ones that you think that are disposable
and if possible also, maybe, it would be useful to have the fair value of these assets?
Thank you.

Bloomberg Transcript

A - Francesco Caio

{BIO 1516226 <GO>}

Let me start from the SIA side, I guess, I think it is an important step into a real player at
European level. We are not commenting on any further development of us being there
(34:28), but what we can comment, and we commented that, we have not taken that as a
ﬁnancial participation for (34:38). We didn't that in the beginning of a journey to create a
viable, long-term, sustainable position of growing shares and inﬂuences the digital
payments that as you know is becoming more and more volume gain (34:51).
And we can bring policies to that party (34:55), because of our cost of acquisition,
because of our traditional payment (34:58) position. So a bit too early to say in terms of
development but we're working on a mid-term plan together with SIA to see how we can
build a stronger position in payment.

A - Luigi Ferraris

{BIO 7424315 <GO>}

When it comes to the ﬁrst question related to the seasonality of our gross written
premium work. First of all, let me stress once again that we are still performing better than
the market. And if you look at the dynamics of our premium collection in the diﬀerent
quarters, ﬁrst quarter €6 billion, second quarter €4.4 billion, third quarter €4.8 billion but I
think the fourth quarter should be slightly below the number but for sure we conﬁrm this
very positive trend.
When it comes to the real estates, potential spin-oﬀ, we have lost internally a fortune now
(35:53), and we are assuming to start working full time on this project at the beginning of
next year. And that of course is part of our long-term plan to optimize our space and to
value our assets in order also to improve our eﬃciency on one hand, on the other hand,
improve our ﬁnancial position should that be necessary.
Page 10 of 13



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2016-11-09

A - Operator
Thank you.
Thank you.

FINAL

The next question is coming from Giovanni Razzoli, Equita SIM.

Q - Giovanni Razzoli

{BIO 7269718 <GO>}

Good afternoon to everybody. A couple of questions. The ﬁrst one, can you provide us
with an up-to-date the value of the realized gains on your trading portfolio as of today. So
to understand what has been the sensitivity to the widening of sovereign spread after the
end of the Q3?
The second question with regard to the cost structure. I was wondering whether the
increased ﬂexibility on early retirement that is being discussed by the government may
provide you with additional tools to accelerate in the future, (37:04) compared with what
you have already planned in your business plan.

Bloomberg Transcript

And the last question regarding the strategic options on the asset management if any, I
was wondering, what is the rationale of buying or expanding in the asset management
business in terms of product factories. Is it the mission of (37:27) cost cutting of expanding
the product category to other asset classes, or what could be the rationale of these moves
if any? Thank you.

A - Luigi Ferraris

{BIO 7424315 <GO>}

Well, let me cover the ﬁrst two questions, then I leave to Francesco the last one. Updates
on our realized gains, at the end of October, we have realized gain in the region of €3
billion. So, we had a reduction of about €1.3 billion versus the end of September when the
spread was more less, I don't want to say like with today but not very far. So I think in the
proxy could be in that region.
When it comes to the change in the retirement regulatory timeframe, well, we are not
planning or we are not forecasting any signiﬁcant change, in our long term plan, on our
long-term pre-retirement program. So we're going to expect that this is going to impact
the next few years. It could be positive in the long run but not for now. Francesco, do you
want to just cover the last points, with regard to the...

A - Francesco Caio

{BIO 1516226 <GO>}

Well, in general, we certainly (38:49) we want to grow in Asset Management because we
see a fundamental traction (38:56) shift from traditional instrument of selling into (39:01)
fund and asset management.
Now we are strong and possible (39:08) distribution network, increasing the keen (39:10)
to control the quality of what we had on our shelves. And depending on the opportunities

Page 11 of 13



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2016-11-09

that come our way, to the extent that they are value accretive and they respond to the
criteria that we have, we might look at them.

Q - Giovanni Razzoli

{BIO 7269718 <GO>}

FINAL

Thank you.

A - Operator
Thank you. The next question coming comes from Fulin Liang, Morgan Stanley.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

Hello. I have two questions, please. The ﬁrst of all is also still the gross written premium. If
my calculation is right actually, I think, if on a year-on-year basis, your quarterly gross
written premium has been lower than the last year, the same quarter last year for two
consecutive quarters. So is that the same, as you are seeing across the markets? So
basically, the whole market is actually coming down? So that's my ﬁrst question.

Bloomberg Transcript

My second one is regarding your assets portfolio on the insurance side, where you are
from what I can see your multi-asset fund proportion has been increased while your
investments on the government bond has decreased. Is that because of the launch of the
new product where – because unit-linked presumably probably mostly invested in the
multi-asset fund. Is it because of your change of investment strategy where you're trying
to just shift the investment portfolio to kind of more higher yields asset? That's my two
questions. Thank you.

A - Luigi Ferraris

{BIO 7424315 <GO>}

Let me start with the ﬁrst one. Well, you're right. If we compare the performance of the
last two quarters in terms of premium collection versus last year, we are slightly below, I
would say. For instance, Q2 of this year €4.4 billion versus €4.5 billion last year. But we
had the ﬁrst quarter with €6.1 billion versus €4.9 billion.
All in all, we are exceeding the market evolution. So we are better than the market. We are
seeing a slight decrease versus last year, but I don't think it's too much, because bottom
line, we are fully in line or slightly better than our original margin (41:50). So there might
have been a diﬀerent distribution across the diﬀerent quarter. But for now, I think the
growth will continue to be there also in the third quarter. So, with respect to full year
better than the last year all-in-all, slightly better, but still better, which means conﬁrming
very, very relevant important (42:12) performance.
When it comes to the breakdown of the assets, and therefore to the asset portfolio
strategy in our insurance business, there are no major – ﬁrst I want to say that this change
is due to the speciﬁc launch of diﬀerent products. Here is the results of a diversiﬁcation
strategy, which they seem to account this during the interest (42:43) scenario. And frankly,
we continue to have more than 70% of our total portfolio related to Gavis (42:52). And
therefore, we have increased our allocation into corporate bonds and the multi-asset
funds. There is no speciﬁc product. There is more a diversiﬁcation product (43:05). And
Page 12 of 13



Company Name: Poste Italiane SpA
Company Ticker: PST IM Equity
Date: 2016-11-09

by the way, all-in-all by substantially maintaining stable or with a slight decrease above a
Solvency II ratio level.

Q - Fulin Liang

{BIO 21126177 <GO>}

FINAL

Okay. Thank you.

A - Unveriﬁed Participant
Thank you very much. I understand there are no more questions in the pipeline. So I think
the Investor Relations department will remain available for any further requirement and in
the mean time let me thank for (43:36) and have a good night. Thank you. Bye-bye.

Operator

Bloomberg Transcript

This will conclude today's conference. Thank you all for your participation. You may now
disconnect.

This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall have
no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost proﬁts, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the furnishing,
performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed
in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of securities or
commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily reﬂect the
views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights reserved. Any
reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Page 13 of 13

