Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-17

Deutsche Bank Depositary Receipts Virtual Investor
Conference

FINAL

Company Participants
Mark J. Gregory
Unverified Participant

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
[Abrupt Start]

Bloomberg Transcript

Welcome to the Deutsche Bank Depositary Receipts Virtual Investor Conference, DB VIC.
My name is Zafar Aziz, Head of DR Market Solutions at Deutsche Bank's Depositary
Receipts team. I'm pleased to announce our next presentation will be from Legal &
General from the UK.
Before I introduce our speaker, a few points to note. During the presentation, please
submit questions in the ask-a-question box along the bottom of your screen. There's no
need to wait until the end of the presentation to type in your questions. Please remember
that after the presentation and the Q&A session lasting around 30 minutes in total don't
log out. You'll automatically be transferred to Legal & General booth where you can
continue the conversation via the chat screen and access additional investor material. On
a final note, all of today's presentations will be recorded and can be accessed via the
Deutsche Bank website, adr.db.com.
At this point, I'm very pleased to welcome Mark Gregory, Chief Financial Officer from
Legal & General. Over to your, Mark.

Mark J. Gregory

{BIO 15486337 <GO>}

Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, from here in London, good morning to you all
stateside. Thank you for the opportunity to make this visual presentation about Legal &
General. Delighted to have the chance to connect this way with our various shareholders.
Here are the usual forward-looking statements.

Unverified Participant
Yeah.

Mark J. Gregory

{BIO 15486337 <GO>}

Page 1 of 11



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-17

FINAL

That's it. So on Tuesday, we announced another terrific set of results from L&G. Net cash
up 14% at £1.3 billion. Operating cash up 11% at £1.2 billion. Operating profit up 14% at £1.5
billion. Earnings per share up 11% at £0.185. And return on equity of 17.7% for the year and a
recommended full-year dividend of £0.134, which is up 19% year-on-year. So growth in the
teens across all our key financial metrics, it's a major success for our business.
We can deliver these results because we have two things, a clear and consistent strategy
as well as the ability to execute well.
Our five key growth drivers, aging populations, globalized asset markets, the need to
create new real assets, welfare reform and digitalization; these are long term, persistent
and operate across economic cycles.
We are a resilient growth business. We don't just float along passively waiting for the rise
and tide to lift your boats. We have positioned ourselves in a fast-moving water. And
here's how we've done it. In pension de-risking, we are winning mandates and becoming
a top UK lifetime mortgage provider. We're winning investment management mandates in
the UK, the U.S. and Asia, achieving further big scheme wins in open enrollment, moving
insurance towards a digital direct model and investing in long-term assets that capture a
liquidity premium and drive economic growth.

Bloomberg Transcript

The 2015 results are part of a consistent medium-term trend. Over four years, our
compound annual growth rate for net cash has been 10% while for EPS, it's been 11%, a
dividend per share of 20% and return on equity has grown to 17.7%. Total shareholder
return of three and five years has been 114% and 259% respectively.
We've accelerated the evolution of L&G from a divisional life office for an integrated asset
model, asset gathering, asset management and asset creation whilst retaining our market
leading expertise in insurance risk management. We've de-cluttered and refocused on
our core capabilities, exited the noncore and sub-scale and positioned ourselves in new
growth markets, including liability-driven investments, real assets, housing, urban
regeneration, workplace pensions and lifetime mortgages whilst retaining our consistent
focus on efficiency and unit cost reduction.
We have a strong balance sheet. The Solvency II basis for capital had just become live at
the start of 2016 and our Solvency II capital surplus at year-end was £5.5 billion, a
coverage ratio of 169%.
Our economic capital surplus at year-end was £7.6 billion, a coverage ratio of 230%. The
only new business effect for us in Solvency II is in L&G retirement in the UK which we had
in any case already move to, to be more capital-efficient and more risk-efficient.
About three quarters of our risk capital arises from market risk, both in the Solvency II and
on economic capital models, reflecting the fact the we are more of an asset company
than an insurance company. Solvency II has not materially changed our strategy. And
moreover, we believe there will be further helpful changes to Solvency II as the EU

Page 2 of 11



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-17

FINAL

reviews its post-credit crisis legislation, potentially including a reworking of the risk margin
for longevity within Solvency II.
It is our stock of business which drives our cash generation. And in terms of the stock of
business, there are two particular great areas to highlight in 2015. First, the 8% growth in
LGIM assets under management, now £746 billion and driven by almost £38 billion of
external net flows. A record year and a fantastic performance across all product areas,
geographies and client segments.
And the second is a 22% growth in direct investments, now at £7 billion across the group.
This growth reflects that the shares (5:30) we're having in originating and developing
assets on which we expect to enhance the risk-adjusted returns for shareholders.

Bloomberg Transcript

This line shows how our business stocks have progressed over the medium term, 11%
combined annual growth rate in LGIM assets under management. LGIM is now the 15th
largest global firm manager, but still represents only just under 1% of global market share,
so plenty of headroom to grow. Our insurance premiums have grown by compound
annual growth rate of 8%, now it's £3.1 billion. And bear in mind, we're the largest player in
the UK protection market with a retail market share of around 25%. And of course, our
growing annuity back book in L&G Retirement is expected to provide predictable releases
for very many years to come.
Turning now to our individual business divisions. And it's worth noting that today, L&G is
substantially an asset gatherer, asset manager and asset originator. The asset businesses,
LGIM, LGR and LGC collectively delivered operating profits of £1.227 billion in 2015, more
than 3 times the £376 million operating profit achieved by the insurance businesses in UK,
U.S. and Asia.
Expertise and scale in the insurance markets is an important component. It is a
combination of asset management and insurance risk expertise which gives us clear
leadership position in pensions de-risking.
Moving now to the business divisions, and I'll start with L&G Retirement. This is a growing
business. And operational cash generation was up 27% , £372 million in 2015. Net cash
generation benefited from a new business surplus of £45 million within which the
longevity reinsurance in respect of new business contributed £55 million post-tax, or £69
million pre-tax. And operating profit of £639 million was up 49%.
As UK individual annuities declined following the abolition of (07:33) and utilization two
years ago, we are moving into lifetime mortgages as an alternative means of funding
retirement. For an outstanding (7:41) start at the end of Q1, we wrote £201 million of
lifetime mortgages in 2015. Volumes continue to grow through the year with £99 million
being completed in Q4, very definitely, a growth business to L&G.
L&G Retirement has nine sources of profit, and we are pushing forward on all of them.
Optimizing the cash generation from the back book, internationalizing new business with
deals now completed in the U.S. and the Netherlands and setting a higher £500 million
Page 3 of 11



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-17

FINAL

target for lifetime mortgages business in 2016. Meanwhile, the back book generation will
remain a source of material (8:18) profits for many years. Our £1.2 billion Lucida transaction
in 2013 was a model of a back book acquisitions. No people, no systems, no property.
This is a market with further potential as players consolidate or exit.
Turning to LGIM, L&G Investment Management, 2015 was an outstanding year with
external net inflows of £37.7 billion. Revenues were up by 8% at £193 million, the cost
income ratio was a very competitive 48% and operating profit from our asset
management business was £359 million, up 7%.
In the UK, the National Grid Pension mandate delivered £12 billion of inflows. We're
expanding workplace savings, which now has £14.7 billion of assets under administration
and continue to win significant new mandates, including John Lewis and Tesco, which we
believe to be the largest corporate pension scheme in Europe by a number of members.
Total defined contribution assets, including investment only, rose 13% to £46 billion. Our
retail offering is also growing. 2015 was a record year for inflows, and we are now ranked
at number six for retail flows in the UK when we were outside the top 20 in 2014. And real
assets also performed well, with assets up 26% at £18.3 billion. And LGIM worked closely
with LGC and LGR to launch three urban regeneration schemes in the UK in Salford, Leeds
and Cardiff.

Bloomberg Transcript

Our assets under management has more than tripled in the last decade, a compound
annual growth rate of 14%. And scale has been accompanied by diversification with
growth across products and client segments as well as geographies.
We are now active in solutions, fixed income, real assets, work-based pensions and UK
retail, where we were largely invisible for several years, but where we have the benefit of
a strong brand and 10 million existing customers. 2015 saw a very strong inflows and
international mandate accounted for £9.5 billion of external inflows.
In Asia, LGIM won further mandates in China and new ones in Korea, Japan and Taiwan.
And the U.S. business continues to grow strongly. We're (10:35) as well as having a market
leading LDI proposition, we won our first multibillion dollar U.S. index mandate. Distribution
is working effectively. Our brand travels brilliantly, and our basic premise of scale, value
and customer service is winning mandates for us even where we have little or no
infrastructure.
Barriers to entry in local markets are coming down and we are on the way to becoming
genuinely global. Globalization for us means moving towards a three-hub manufacturing
model in the UK, U.S. and Asia. We're no longer a monoline asset manager providing
index products for UK defined benefit pensions. That was the old model.
International AUM inflows were strong in 2015. But what I think is really striking here is not
the 43% compound annual growth rate, but the amount of headroom for growth. As I
said, we're the 15th largest global asset manager but our global asset market share is
less than 1%. And we have the ambition to more than double that share.
Page 4 of 11



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-17

FINAL

L&G Capital delivered strong net cash, £187 million compared to £162 million in 2014.
Operating profit was up 15% to £233 million. LGC has been actively managing and
diversifying its portfolio with a particular focus on direct investments in housing, urban
regeneration, energy and alternative finance.
Direct investments in LGC now account for £867 million, not just using our balance sheet
size and duration to capture liquidity premium, but also driving synergy gains across the
business. LGC has four areas of focus for direct investment, urban regeneration, housing,
alternative finance and clean energy. These are marketplaces with a clear funding gap
where supply and demand are out of balance and where we can deploy our large longdated balance sheet effectively, often partnering with sector specialists.
We're already leading the way in building an impressive real estate portfolio. We have
momentum and are accelerating delivery and are always exploring ways to maximize
return which is our new investment in modular housing which allows us to access fast,
cost-efficient building. This is asset creation for the whole group. And today, LGC has
generated a terrific return on capital by creating assets to L&G Retirement and LGIM.

Bloomberg Transcript

This slide illustrates how we do it. I don't think we've communicated the multiple drivers of
value within LGC well enough. We invest as a principal using shareholder money, we invest
as a direct investor to back the annuity book and we invest as an agent through LGIM and
its institutional family and friends. The assets we create can be tailored in terms of
maturity, cash flow, index linking and so on, and we can choose between LGIM, LGR and
LGC to best deliver our strategy.
The synergies across LGC, LGR and LGIM enable us to enhance earnings per
shareholders directly, optimize cash flows and annuity back book and create new asset
classes for LGIM and its clients. This delivers economically and socially useful outcomes,
but is also a real win for L&G to have this capability. We've been leading this institutional
sector by doing this for three years now. The political world is catching up as they realized
the investment in real assets is the way to improve productivity and growth.
For our Insurance division, UK Protection gross written premiums were up by 3% to £1.442
billion in 2015, as a result of strong sales and good retention. Retail Protection premiums
were up by 5% with a particular emphasis on growing the direct sales channel, which now
accounts for 18% of new business sales. Protection purchases are frequently aligned with
mortgage and house buying. Our Mortgage Club last year facilitated over £46 billion of
mortgages, which is 20% of the entire UK mortgage market.
Insurance net cash was up by 6% to £348 million. Although operating profit was down to
£293 million from £370 million as a result of changes to our modeling of reinsurance for
our Protection business in the UK. The impact of these changes was to reduce operating
profit by £93 million in 2015 and change the shape of the potential margins which will have
the effect of deferring emergence of future cash.
The General Insurance business saw operating profit reduced by £8 million in 2015 to £51
million. This includes a £15 million impact from the UK floods in December. The combined
Page 5 of 11



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-17

FINAL

operating ratio for our UK GI business in 2015 was 89% compared to 87% in the prior year.
The digital disruption which we've seen across all industries; media, music, retail, and so
on, is coming to insurance. We've already seen the effect of regulatory change on
intermediated and advised sales in financial services. But the combination of big data,
digital communications and the Internet of Things will have an even bigger effect. Our
challenge is to ride that wave and we've made a decent start. The back office in our
Insurance business is already highly automated and digital and delivers competitive unit
costs.
The drive is now on to expand the front office digital direct channels. Direct customers
and sales grew at an impressive rate in 2015, and L&G Direct now accounts for 18% of
Insurance new business sales. We're investing in the direct channel, in the customer
journey, and experience in marketing direct, and in mobile optimization. This is vital for UK
markets and to internationalize in a high-value way.

Bloomberg Transcript

Belgium is a good digital model. $1 trillion assets under management, managed by 1,800
employees. Insurance and Savings are fast followers. IndiaFirst, our JV with Bank of Baroda
and Andhra Bank in India, has been a pathfinder, working closely with the Indian
government, which has a strong digital program to deliver basic mass market products to
improve financial resilience. We sold 2 million policies in just three months in 2015.
The next steps will be to take – will be to take experience and reimport it to the UK. We
intend to introduce a highly affordable, entry-level protection product which will be a
significant disruptor to the UK insurance market. Our aim at L&G is to be our own active
disruptor, not a passive disruptee.
Legal & General America had a good year in 2015. Net cash generation, that is their
dividend of the Group, was up by 9% at $83 million and operating profit increased by –
from $93 million to $125 million. The ordinary dividend for 2016 of $88 million has already
been paid. L&G America is moreover an important component of our expansion in the U.S.
We're using its balance sheet for U.S. bulk purchase annuity transactions and is also
providing back-office support to L&G Retirement and LGIM in America.
As well as Insurance, L&G America gives us a terrific base in the U.S. from which to write
pension risk transfer business and to support LGIM America.
The U.S. is our second most important market after the UK, and our strategy will mirror
what we do in the UK into the U.S. We have made good strides there, but we haven't
maximize our synergies yet. But we are focused intently on a market that is underpinned
by a strong economy and where our brand is really well received.
The strength of the business has enabled us to announce a full-year recommended
dividend for 2015 of £0.134, an increase of 19%. And this week, we also announced a new
dividend policy. Going forward, we will have a progressive dividend policy reflecting the
group's medium-term underlying business growth, including net cash generation and
operating earnings.
Page 6 of 11



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-17

FINAL

Legal & General has evolved rapidly over the last few years and we have come a long
way. 15 years ago, we were a traditional UK life office with a small investment
management business, dull but worthy. We have decluttered, aligned our strategy to five
macro drivers, set growth businesses in motion and are moving successfully towards a
more digital asset management business.
Our businesses today are focused on those areas where we can operate at industrial
scale, providing the best products, service and best value through tight cost control and
economies of scale. The five growth drivers create a world of opportunities for Legal &
General over the next decade. Aging populations and a rapid rise in population of over
60s means we can aspire the international leadership in pensions derisking.

Bloomberg Transcript

As an asset gatherer, we are operating in a $76 trillion global asset market, that is almost
borderless and becoming ever more global. It is realistic to double our sub 1% market
share. We will continue to use what I believe to be unique synergies to capture illiquidity
premium and grow our real asset portfolio. And Defined Contribution pension saving will
grow across the world over the next decade as it becomes a favorite solution in the U.S.,
Europe and Asia. We'll leverage our DC and Workplace experience to become
international leaders in providing private sector solutions by shrinking welfare states. And
we will continue to disrupt ourselves and our markets to drive the digital agenda going
forward.
Not at least (20:10) in insurance which on a medium or perhaps even short-term view will
change beyond recognition. L&G has come a long way in a few years but it is still work in
progress. We take a long view but we have already started to make the changes that will
drive us forward over the next 5 and 10 years. We'll make that change positive for our
customers, employees and our shareholders.
And with that, any questions? So, first question on my screen here is – it's come down,
one, so with pension reform, will annuity sales experience a sustained period of decline?
I just said we operate in two annuity market. We operate in the bulk market which is where
our corporate defined benefit pension scheme has passed their risks to us through both
bridges of transaction and in individual market where customers transfer their pension
pots into a guaranteed income for life through an annuity. And it's very much the latter
one has been impacted by the changes in the budget from George Osborne two years
ago where he removed the need essentially for compulsory annuitization of pension pots.
Now, I'd say probably that market has – we've seen the market reduce by about 75% from
what it was before those changes. I think probably – that's probably the end of that
decline. I don't think people will go much slower now (21:44). There still is a need and a
use for annuities in the retail market. And I would say with the advent, if one can believe,
of higher interest rates in the future, the apparent value of an annuity as a guaranteed
source of income will improve with that. So, I would take the view that if you can believe
the world (22:01) where interest rates could go higher then we might well see something
of a bounce back in the volume of annuity but not where they were before the changes

Page 7 of 11



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-17

FINAL

introduced two year ago, but nevertheless, higher than perhaps we see in the market as
of today.
Another question. What can the company do to increase capital buffers? Well, I would say,
first of all, we do have a very strong capital balance sheet in the first place. So, we are at
159% (22:23) of our Solvency II coverage ratio, which is £5.5 billion in excess of what the
regulatory says we need to hold. And I have to say regulators are not known to be racy.
They have a natural conservative mindset themselves. So, in fact, we hold £5.5 billion
more than they think we need to hold in itself (22:40) you we have a very, very robust
balance sheet.

Bloomberg Transcript

But I would say there was a lot of work went on (22:45) last year to make sure we had all
our applications for Solvency II approved entirely. And it's fair to say that in so doing, we
didn't really optimize all the features and, more importantly, to get the applications
approved then fine tune down to the last pounds. And there's definitely a list of things in
our to-do list during the course of this year and next year, just to make sure now we have
the rules all agreed, just to make sure we can more fully optimize at the sake of our
balance sheet going forward. We don't need to do that. Our balance sheet is perfectly
strong. It can deliver our strategy and growth going forward. But clearly, if we can improve
the balance sheet, we will definitely do so.
It's quite a long question. I'll read it out though. So, what would L&G's Solvency II ratio be
by excluding the benefit of matching adjustment, the volatility of the transitionals, some of
the various features of Solvency II, what is the outlook for the year-on-year change in the
pre-solvency surplus pre-dividends (23:48)? What is LGIM's measure of free cash flow?
What metrics are used in management incentive compensation? (23:56) Dave (23:56) will
be in here all day reading the question out.
So, on the question mark on what the ratio would be excluding the various features within
Solvency II, we haven't disclosed that number nor of any of our peers in the UK. I think the
reason we haven't done it is they actually (24:11), you have to take the Solvency II balance
sheet in and out. And I know it's kind of tempting to go and pick away various bits of it, but
it is a package of metrics and balance sheet operates as one feature, so we haven't
disclosed matching adjustments, all the benefit of transitionals.
Now – so today, we are not alone in doing that. All of our peers have done – taken out the
same approach. And the key thing to remember and I'll say is actually to (24:36) it is one
balance sheet and it's incorrect to think about picking up each bit in our installation. The
matching adjustment is a permanent feature of our Solvency II balance sheet. The
transitionals, the regulatory rates here in the UK, that transitionals are Tier 1 capital. Any
things like dividend debates could consider transitionals to be Tier 1 capital in that regard.
So, again, we don't see any great need to split out the individual components of the
Solvency II – of the solvency balance sheet.
The outlook for – sorry, a couple more other questions here. The outlook for the year-onyear change in the free surplus, Solvency II surplus, pre-dividends. I did actually disclose a

Page 8 of 11



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-17

FINAL

slide in my main presentation on (25:16) when we did the preliminary results
announcement, and that showed a growing free surplus generation year-on-year.
The key message here is that we had fully expected to be enough surplus generated
each year to fund, one, the amortization of our transitional benefits; two, to fund the
investment in new business; three, to fund the progressive dividend policy, and four, to
retain enough surplus to make sure the capital base is sizeable at the business itself and
the balance sheet grows. So we're very confident we have enough surplus emerging each
year to fund all the needs and all the mouths it needs to feed from one year to the next.

Bloomberg Transcript

I'm going to move on to one, two other question. Our lives are in danger just doing all
that. So I've got a question here. Are the net inflows in LGIM a result of the popularity of
passive investments? I think we are definitely seeing a move towards better – more of a
kind of apparent value-for-money mindset within asset management. I think more
generally not in the UK. And we are all seeing certainly attractive fund managers, quite a
lot of fee pressure. Therefore, I think the very obvious value for money of index passive
funds is going to the (26:26). That's been true for institutional investors for a very long
time.
We're definitely seeing that also begin to emerge more in the retail space here in the UK.
In the past, one would often see a bundled charge picking up both the product wrapper
at the cost of the platform, the advisory fee and the cost of the underlying fund or when
the implications of the retail distribution review which was two and a half years ago now.
And once you strip out each of those components in isolation, therefore, one can very
easily see the cost of the actual fund rather than just being lost in a bundled fund charge.
And therefore, we definitely are seeing a significant move in the UK from the retail space
more towards passive fund.
This clearly accounts for about 10% of all retail funds in the market here in the UK,
whereas institutional business is about 30% of all funds are invested in passive. So there's
still quite a big gap between institutional appetite for passive and where the retail market
is stuck to. Again, we do see there has been a big increase in trend going forward, and
clearly LGIM, as a big index fund manager, is very, very well placed to take advantage of
that trend.
So, what is your target for lifetime mortgages? We said we did just over £200 million of
lifetime mortgages in our first year. In fact, it wasn't really a year, it was only nine months in
2015. We set an initial target in 2016 to grow that to £500 million. It's a very, very good
asset class for us. In fact, our annuity business – because again, if people live longer, so
the lifetime mortgage is worth more to us. That's a very good hedge against any natural
longevity risk in our annuity book.
And we like the market a lot, which took a lot of years to decide (27:59) enter it or not,
given previous compliance. A conduct rate issues in that market. Nothing to do with that
(28:04) but it's not been – always been the very best market from a conduct point of view.
But that is now being sorted out. The FCA, the regulator over here, has ensured that the

Page 9 of 11



Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-17

FINAL

standards are way, way higher and we make sure there's a legal process involved in any
lifetime mortgage as well.
So we like that market. The market last year grew to about £1.6 billion in the UK. We're
going to see that market growing quite (28:28) going forward because – a lot of people
do regard their home is being part of their pension fund and the lifetime mortgage is a
very, very easy way of converting that value had held in equity into an income stream that
they can use.
So we like the market and we've entered it, we've very good value products, though our
headline product comes in at less than 5% which is very comparable to the more normal
retail mortgage market in the UK. So plenty of room for progress in that regard.
A question I've got, what are the drivers that likely increase in flows of asset into LGIM? I
think I've covered it quite a bit during my speech. But obviously, international was a big
part to that £38 billion of inflows last year which just over a quarter came from
international mandates. In the UK, we saw a decent increase across the board, both in
defined contribution pension assets, in retail funds as well in some big defined benefit
mandate wins such as the National Grid scheme which brought £12 billion of assets with it.

Bloomberg Transcript

So really could diversify growth across product sets, across geographies and across
segments. So we're very, very content with the progress that LGIM is making. That's
certainly an area we want to grow more into the future.
How is L&G gearing up to competition from online aggregators? What do you (29:53)
offer any competition. They're just providing a different marketplace for people to choose
insurance products. And again, I would say, now of course, we tend to operate at the
good value end of the market and we're very happy for that process to continue.
So as I said in my comments and for example, in our retail protection, our life insurance
business here in the UK, 18% of our business came in direct in 2015 and a lot of that did
come by the aggregator site. So again, I think we take the view that's an efficient
marketplace. And if people want to access our products and services through that sort of
medium, then we're very happy to do so, and we are sure that we can compete very
actively in that space.
Likewise for General Insurance, again we get a lot of General Insurance premium via the
aggregator site. So, again provided one has a clean proposition and a very evident good
value for money, then the bigger the marketplace, the better we feel about it. So no
concerns from our perspective.
Okay. So, with that, I'll say thanks for your time today and happy to take any further
questions. If you wish to do so, please contact the Investor Relations team here at L&G
and we'll answer your questions in due course. So thank you for listening and thank you for
your support.

Page 10 of 11



This transcript may not be 100 percent accurate and may contain misspellings and other
inaccuracies. This transcript is provided "as is", without express or implied warranties of
any kind. Bloomberg retains all rights to this transcript and provides it solely for your
personal, non-commercial use. Bloomberg, its suppliers and third-party agents shall
have no liability for errors in this transcript or for lost profits, losses, or direct, indirect,
incidental, consequential, special or punitive damages in connection with the
furnishing, performance or use of such transcript. Neither the information nor any
opinion expressed in this transcript constitutes a solicitation of the purchase or sale of
securities or commodities. Any opinion expressed in the transcript does not necessarily
reflect the views of Bloomberg LP. © COPYRIGHT 2022, BLOOMBERG LP. All rights
reserved. Any reproduction, redistribution or retransmission is expressly prohibited.

Bloomberg Transcript

FINAL

Company N ame: L egal & General Group PL C
Company Ticker: L GEN L N Equity
Date: 2016-03-17

Page 11 of 11

